This is beyond incredible. While the notion that a 59-year old man being unfamiliar with emails is completely conceivable, the same can't be said for a 59-year-old Senator - especially considering he is serving on four high-profile committees.

The idea that someone so influential could have such a huge disconnect with current mainstream technology is too troubling to contemplate.

But why would he lie about it and open himself to ridicule? [deleted] Executives can function differently.  I recently conducted a merger with a small company run by a man in his late 50s.  He was completely paper based.  His secretary and staff all used email, of course, but he had her print every email for him to read, and then he would write a reply for her to transcribe and reply.

Other than this somewhat baffling antiquated process, his little company was actually incredibly efficient and successful because he was excellent at managing people.  He personally pulled in almost $800K per year. If that works for an executive of a private company, then fine. but Graham is supposed to represent a wide swath of Americans, the VAST majority of them communicate by email / text etc. If he is simply avoiding new technology out of intellectual laziness, then he has no business representing the public or, what is more likely, he avoids email because he's a former lawyer and knows what can happen to it, then he's as guilty of the skullduggery he's accusing Clinton of.  "I have been a happy man ever since January 1, 1990, when I no longer had an email address. I'd used email since about 1975, and it seems to me that 15 years of email is plenty for one lifetime." -- Donald Knuth

http://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~uno/email.html Lindsay Graham was an old man by the time he was 39 and e-mail was widely used; one with a gently effeminate southern drawl that betrays *his* family is one of tradition.   I honestly can't imagine a 59 year old professional not sending e-mails. My father is 55 and he's constantly sending e-mails, using his smartphone, etc. So are all the people I know in their 50s. Any professional that age not using e-mail is incredible, but one at that level...it's ridiculous. My grandmother sends e-mails and uses skype and facetime and she's in her fucking 80s. What the hell is wrong with senator Graham?  I think it's simply a matter of having people do everything for you. IIRC, some politicians even forget how to drive. This is it exactly. The guy has been an elected official for over 20 years. 

Remember the whole thing where George Bush 1 didn't know how much a quart of milk cost? Because he hadn't been to a grocery store in over 20 years? Same shit.

These guys live in a parallel fucking universe to citizens they supposedly represent. Reminds me of the line from Arrested Development. 

"I mean it's one banana, Michael. What could it cost? 10 dollars?" https://waggadventure.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/bananas.jpg So for 13,98 you get like 5 bananas. Must be some good bananas...  Cyclone destroyed Australia's banana crop a few years back. Bananas were super expensive that season.  &gt; The guy has been an elected official for over 20 years.

And that should not be allowed. Unless it's one of my guys....then it's cool


I'm joking but that's exactly why it's the way it is.  People always wonder why the hell all these incumbents keep getting re-elected, and it's the same people come election time when they look at their district's Reps and Senators and go "yeah he seemed to do an alright job, haven't heard anything disastrous about what they've done, I guess i'll vote for him since I have no idea who this other candidate is". (assuming this candidate doesn't live in a close district or someone is opposed to the candidate's political party).

Granted, not all voters are like this, but a large portion, if not a large majority, are. So many representatives run unopposed in districts all over the country. The shit-hawks swarm when someone honest tries to come in to challenge their position. The political system in this country is a wreck. The screws have been turned on us so much that we're constantly playing catch-up to a carrot that isn't really there. Who, except pundits and politi-junkies, has enough time to do the research to find out what the people you vote for really do? I could ask everyone I know about their candidate and no one would be able to differentiate anything except red or blue. Polarization has fucked us all up and set us to fighting with each other instead of against bad policy. Gah. It just raises my hackles every time I spend a good minute thinking about it. So goes the routine; Time to get distracted and forget that everything out of my control sucks to shit. Doesn't even matter if you keep up, they straight up lie about positions.  I'm pro-internet (pro-comcast). The last election I spent days researching everyone on my ballet, I couldn't find enough info on 99% of the candidates to fill a post it note. It was like feeling my way through the dark in an unfamiliar place, it was really discouraging. I assume plenty of other feel the same Every election,  the League of Women Voters puts out a very unbiased, thorough pamphlet on major candidates and issues. You can order it for free on their website.  I can't remember which year it was but there was one election year in California where not one single seat changed. Not...one...seat.  

How's that for feeling helpless?  &gt; Who, except pundits and politi-junkies, has enough time to do the research to find out what the people you vote for really do?

You have a two Senators that you only vote for every six years.  You have a Representative that you vote for every two years.  Depending on what state you live in, you probably have another State Senator and State Representative.

Are you telling me that 'normal people' can't take 15 fucking minutes every couple years and google these people?  Look up their voting records and read a couple news articles about whatever despicable shit they've been up to lately? That's sounds like a whole lotta not American Idol. Huxley was pretty spot-on  In my last few local elections(michigan) I found nothing about anyone running for state rep or lower online. Nothing. More then half the people on the ballot didn't have a campaign website. I only know who my local state rep is because I happened to get pizza at the same time she was holding a rally for her volunteers at a pizza place. I still don't know what her policy and voting record is because that information doesn't exist online, seemingly.

It's easy to say "google these people" but have you ever tried doing just that? I haven't found shit after hours of searching, so I can't blame people for not knowing what may only be available in hardcopy from the state house clerk at a dollar a page. &gt; The political system in this country is a wreck.

It's the same everywhere else. New blood has no chance of getting into the established system unless they get the stamp of approval from the old guard, which usually means nothing will change either way. 

In systems where there are several political parties competing for votes, trying to establish a new one is nigh impossible. A new party will not have the funds for campaign, it will not be represented in media, and will have hard time reaching to general population. On top of that you have this constant idea being throw around that voting for an 'irrelevant' party is pretty much waste of your vote so there's added pressure to vote for the already established ones. 

Voter preferences might swing towards lesser known parties from time to time but usually that happens during times of economical struggle and gives votes to populist parties that feed on discontent offering no real solutions to problems  and focusing on blaming whatever feels like suitable targets (either large business, rich people, current establishment, immigrants or all together) entirely, which tends to speak to the, often largest, voters group - the poor/low-middle class, lacking education, living in rural areas. 

Then you also have the fact that young people are largely uninterested in the politics because all they see is the shit that's going on, resulting in young adults often ignoring elections, and not seeking career in politics. There's also a stigma associated with being politician, the fact that every attempt to get into politics will bring in hordes of opponents digging for any sign of dirt in your life, etc. which puts off the more reasonable people from even bothering so in the end you end up with what you see, a whole bunch of ignorant people happily sitting on their high profile positions, and you are thankful if all they do is nothing because the alternative is often them making things even worse.  
 I'll admit to not bothering learning about the challenger if I'm familiar and happy with the Incumbent.  "something...something... government we deserve." I once had a teacher tell me that come election time he empties his pockets and takes inventory: Do I still have my house keys? Do I still have my car keys? Do I have money enough to make it to my next payday? 

He said as long as the answer to these questions is yes he will always vote for the incumbent. 

At the time that seemed like wisdom to me (I was young) but these days not so much.  Not sure why I wouldn't vote for the sitting person instead of a newcomer on either side of the aisle if I feel I'm being properly represented by an honest-ish politician.  I think it's more that the new opponents are often worse choices or are successfully made to appear to be worse choices.  I live in Alabama, where I hear conservatives all the time talking about term limits, and their hatred of career politicians. However, Jeff Sessions, the junior senator from this "fair" state, has been in the Senate for 18 years. Richard Shelby has been in the Senate for 28 years, and was in the House for 8 years before that.

I've always said, everyone hates career politicians except for theirs, they want term limits for everyone except who they like, and they hate pork unless they get a taste. Why not? I see nothing wrong with that, as long as they're the best person for the job. That's not to say this guy is, but if someone that's been in office for 20 years continues to do a good job and serve the people, I don't see why a term limit should be imposed.  Term limits would NOT solve the problem. The same advisors and lobbyists that put people in office would be there -- and they'd have even MORE influence because nobody would have time to learn how to play the game without them.

The problem is not the length of time that a politician serves; it's that these elections require the kindness of the rich and connected and are not publicly funded, it's because bribery and profiting from your votes in office is legal, and it's because the FBI investigates environmentalists more than bankers.

We need election reform. My point exactly. Everyone wants to fuck the politicians who fuck them, but it's the system that needs to be removed and replaced. The American electoral system is a fucking joke.  especially if they regularly hold elections and they keep getting re-elected I'm from South Carolina and Graham represents his constituents in South Carolina perfectly. They're dumb as shit. He's dumb as shit. Although he is way better than the alternative which is a man who bankrupted a company then thought the next best move would be to go into politics.  Because politics is a civic duty. Imagine if after school people taught the fundamentals to their entering peers, entered their profession after learning how to lead, taught their profession for the end of their career, and then served terms in politics in their retirement. This is a how democracy is meant to function - teaching is learning, and politics is the civic duty of every citizen. The difference between democracy and every other form of governance is that in democracy being a politician ought to not be a "career". yup, absolutely no idea what real life is like. I don't know how much a quart of milk costs because I buy it by the gallon or half gallon (though I could estimate based on those prices). I don't think I've even seen a quart for sale.  I don't know what milk costs, because it's never so expensive that I remember the price. I just buy it when I need it and swipe my debit card. Well look at Richie Rich over here.  Shit, I have the same issue with gas. I don't know how much, I just know it's expensive, and I need it. Same with me and cocaine! no shit, I have no idea what Milk costs. Does that make me some out of touch dbag? I'm the same, almost embarrassed to admit but I have no idea. I have some kind of alternate value system where I base things on how cheap or expensive they are to *each other*.  I may not know how much the milk costs but I know which one is the cheap one.  I don't know what a quart of milk costs because I'm lactose intolerant and don't drink the stuff.  And he is on a Technology and Law committee!   It's true. Certain common skills, like driving or shopping, atrophy from disuse when you're a Senator. Assistants to whom you can delegate these tasks are always around. And these tasks, after all, are ancillary to the working life of a politician.

But one of the core tasks of a big-league politician is communication. He's in constant communication with his staff, his Senatorial colleagues, his donors, his media contacts, his constituents, and of course, his friends and family.

Senator Graham's skills in communicating by telephone haven't atrophied one bit, I've no doubt. He's still capable of picking up the phone to call and talk to a donor, or to a constituent, or to the media. He doesn't delegate *this* task to one of his staffers.

So it's surprising in the extreme that communication by email, for a man who's never expressed an *aversion* to technology, is something that he actively avoids and leaves to his assistants.

It must make for a very cumbersome daily routine, as nearly every one of the above groups directly uses email, where Senator Graham has to email through an intermediary.

EDIT: What record-keeping purpose is being avoided by Graham by this behavior? Under the law, if his assistants are sending email as Lindsey Graham, then those records are required to be kept for posterity.

And I can't imagine the Senator allowing each of his individual assistants to send email in their own name while claiming to speak for Graham. *That* would be a situation rife with potential for error and fraud. absolutely crushing the question. There's no way this can be excused, it's absolutely ridiculous.  How can one who needs the use of email as correspondence claim to have never used it?  It literally implies fraud as emails have been sent, unless every single one was underwritten: sent from administrative assistant.  If he completely refused to use email and never looked into his official one, then it's complete neglect within his working environment. Which is a great example of becoming disconnected from your constituency. How can someone who lives like that actually understand the needs and desires of the people who elected him?  He lives in a technological bubble. Every menial task can be delegated to someone else, so he has probably never needed to do things most citizens of the 21st would consider routine every-day digital tasks.  Can someone bankroll this life for me? I promise not to be a corrupt fucking asshole. Wait, would they even let me stay if i wasn't a corrupt fucking asshole? Being a corrupt asshole is pretty much a pre-requisite to keeping the job... Trust me, it's there. I work in medical records and one of our doctors just moved. All our first wave information is about how to get our release form from our website and you have no idea the number of voicemails from people ages 40 to 80 bitching about how they don't have a computer and can't be expected to blah blah blah blah. With all due respect though, medical records / charts / billing is one of the most complex IT clusterfucks in the world today.

I've heard doctors argue they are not hired to spend 80% of their time performing IT functions, and there is some truth to that. I used to work healthcare IT. Nurses were so anti-online charting in my company that they would actually sabotage the carts they were supposed to chart on. It's crazy. It's because of liability within healthcare.  I did a project in an office where they hired student workers (me) to transfer every paper filled out and transfer it to a digital format.  They were too scared of losing they physical form that they literally paid someone to put in the data manually so they could continue to take up space within the hospital to house every patient form.  No matter if they had been there or not, they had to fill out the same form.  I had to key their answers in every time.  I eventually worked on a project within the same clinic on digitizing their records.  Every doctor, CPN, LPN and MA was against it as a lost form puts them all in a liability hassle.  They want both forms and are severely against holding only digital.  A person's pen signature is much more important than a digital signature when it comes to medicine. My father is 68, and in his job he was sending emails back in the mid 90s.  I co-oped at the corporation in high school, and it had an internal email system.  It was an old DOS-based system, but it was normal email otherwise.  It was just sent by old UNIX mainframes.

The only person I know who doesn't use email and never has is my grandmother, and she's 96.

The man is either lying, or hasn't taken any responsibility for his own life in the last 10 years.
 Senators don't do anything themselves, that's why they have aides. Super aides.  My dad is completely computer retarded and he sends emails and texts all day long for work. Not sure how anyone could have not sent an email before in 2015. I remember reading that some of the older US Navy Admirals would have their sub-ordinates transcribe any emails sent to them, and hand it to them on paper. The admirals would then write a letter in response, and have another one of their subordinates type it up and send it back.

So I knew these type of people existed, and although it's shocking, it isn't necessarily THAT bad. However, considering one of the committees he is on is about technology, he should definitely be a lot more versed with it. then how the hell did he contact backpage? That is what the pages on the Senate floor are for. He has girlish minions to dictate to and send emails for plausible deniability.."he misunderstood me!" "Well, this simply will not stand. I'm getting the vapors just thinking about this misunderstanding. Jeffery, fetch me a South Carolina Sassafras and a delectable amuse bouche made from that gribenes we bought off that lovely mohel, before I take to bed. The South shall rise again! - L. Graham  "Now massage my buttocks the way only a handsome heterosexual man can! I have to be up early in the morning to make a speech about traditional marriage, and I don't want my buttocks looking out of sorts!" I straight up had a great aunt named Margie who was from this little town in AL.  She had this black guy named Charles who lived in a small house on her farm, worked on the farm, drove her everywhere, and helped cook and clean. In return she gave him the house to live in and payed for his college. He ended up working for her for around 20+ years until she passed away. What is, "The Netflix original film that tackles the slow decline of slavery in America and the unlikely friendship between a black man and an old white lady '20 Years a Slave to Miss Daisy: or the Unexpected Virtue of The Piggly Wiggly' ? Mint Juleps are more of a Kentucky drink than a South Carolina drink.  In college in SC a friend and I invented a drink made with sweet tea, gin, and limes (served in a pitcher). We called it the Seersucker Suit. I consider it the quintessential South Carolina drink. 

Edit: If anyone would like the recipe, basically brew a pot of tea strong - at least 4 bags. Sugar to taste and I always wing it on the gin. I pour enough that I can really taste the liquor. 4 limes cut in half and squeezed into the pitcher, then leave the limes to soak. The flavor actually improves if you let it sit for a day or two in the fridge, but it's great fresh, too. Incredibly refreshing and it will get you wrecked.  You made a mojitea &gt; You made a mojitea

Yeah but without the icky foreign name.  isnt that rum instead of gin? Change that gin to bourbon and youre onto something. "Could someone close that closet door?  It keeps opening up by itself."

/sam seder &gt; The idea that someone so influential could have such a huge disconnect with current mainstream technology is too troubling to contemplate.

This is the problem in a nutshell. The people who voted him in are not only equivalently out of touch, but they also consider being out of touch a virtue and something *that means he is even better of a candidate.* That's why he "admitted" to it, as he's not admitting to anything from his standpoint because he sees it as *bragging*. 

We don't get blithering idiots like this guy and senator snowball giving speeches about climate change without millions of other fucktards intentionally ~~voting~~ hiring them explicitly for the purpose of being such a spectacular waste of oxygen and voting in congress as their capitalist overlords will. Just so you know  Lindsey Graham opposes the Republican Party position on climate change and supports green legislation. In fact, he's actually had a pretty longstanding reputation as the "Democrats' favorite Republican".

Also, Graham in this quote isn't saying he doesn't know how email works. In fact, it's clear in the context that he does. He's just saying that he doesn't personally use it. &gt; But why would he lie about it and open himself to ridicule?

Same reason people proudly claim "I'm not good at math".  For some reason there's a stigma that being bad with math or technology is a good thing, or totally excusable as normal.  I'm not sure if it has to do with the whole "math is for nerds" thing, but it's incredible that not understanding a fundamental concept of our society is a good thing. Eh, maybe it is completely different where you live, but I've never heard such a "proud claim". Sure, people admit freely to being bad at math, because most people are and that means that there is no stigma *for being bad* at math involved. 

It is excusable, because it is normal case. 

Now there might be some people who give in to their envy, and dislike math geeks, but surely they are in the minority. There is the ever present rumor that George W. Bush is smart and better than average university student he was and that he only pretended to misremember and mispronounce words and phrases so the common person would relate to him and vote for him. He did go to Yale.  Then again, there's a thing called nepotism and general corruption, so I guess we'll never quite know. I've seen video footage of one of his Texas gubernatorial debates and he sounds like someone who was on debate team in college. The 'aww shucks' common speak he used later was totally an act.

Edit:
Found that video
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JvknGT8W5jA Then there's the conspiracy theory that all that alcohol imbibement caused his impaired speech later in life. :) I like that idea better than the thought of an idiot running the ~~country~~ world.  Of course a lot of the things he did as president cost the US dearly but benefited the Bush clan tremendously so there may be something to it.  This southern belle doesn't like to get his hands dirty with petty emails. He has bigger scandals to butter and fry. Speaking as a South Carolinian, it's batter. You meant fucking batter. Jesus. It's a bit like a priest giving a couple advice on marriage before the ceremony.  Well I do imagine priests get a different perspective on marriage in the confessional. Could be useful.  i'm an atheist who sat through catholic [pre-cana](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pre-Cana) classes and met individually with two priests leading up to my wedding (priest at my wife's church and then priest who officiated the ceremony). i feel a strange need to come to the defense of the catholic church here. the priests i interacted with had been doing it for years, and the focus of pre-cana was refreshingly practical.  my sense was that catholics are more concerned with marriage prep than wedding prep, which hit home with me.  just my experience. In his defense, I know a few successful old people who dont send their own emails. Their secretaries will sort through the spam and print off emails, often highlighting important facts or details. The recipient of those emails will write down their responses and the secretaries will formulate and send the emails. 

Checking email is also a lot more effective this way when you have your own secretary to do stuff like this.

(Not that I really want to defend him, I am just clarifying that this doesnt bother me too much. It does a bit, especially if his views are off the walls. The fact that he doesnt manage his own email account doesnt bother me since, as a senator, he probably receives thousands of emails a day.) He has never sent an email AND is on the Subcommittee on **Privacy, Technology and the Law**.  That's the problem.  Just having never sent an email is probably laughable for most redditors, but that's not what makes it a serious issue. While I agree that it's not problematic that hes successful and doesn't write emails, the implication that he doesn't understand technology is what is making the natives restless. How can he make laws on what packets get priority if he doesn't understand it. 

But maybe he is very keen on the state of the art, but has no need to get his hands dirty. &gt; the notion that a 59-year old man being unfamiliar with emails is completely conceivable

Not really. 59 is not as old as you think it is. That's like putting an Amish person in charge of the DMV.  What would be wrong with [that?](http://youtu.be/7PYIH4dnL3I) If that were the case, at least they'd be friendly! In my experience, Amish really aren't friendly though. This. Live by an Amish community and they're the biggest chodes I have ever encountered.  Really?  I grew up next to an Amish community, and they were great neighbors.  I guess it just depends on the family/community, just like any other neighborhood. Where are you from? The Amish here in NE Ohio are the biggest assholes on the road.

Lets forget about the road apples for a moment and focus on the fact that there are no blinkers on their wagons. Scary part is he seems proud of his ignorance.  Even scarier is the possibility that his pride-of-ignorance is a way of bonding with his electorate. My father was proud of his ignorance about computers until he lost his job and needed to learn to use one in order to find a new job. At this point, being "computer illiterate" is almost as bad as being regular illiterate.

A person who doesn't have these skills is effectively unable to function in the world. Even the most basic manual laborer is probably going to have to use some computerized device at some point. I remember reading a short story illustrating just this. The main character is afraid of ordering off a [electronic] menu, or suggesting a chess move in a public chess game [the interface is electronic] even though he's not too shabby a chess player himself, and so on.

Some kid realizes what's going on and privately outs the guy. "Hey, you can't use computers, can you? You ... never learned now, is that it?" type of thing. Do you happen to know where I might find this story? Sounds intriguing. A Perfect Fit by Isaac Asimov Just read it, really good. [Linky link link..](http://www.edn.com/electronics-news/4319939/A-perfect-fit) I work at a IT help desk and it baffles my mind almost everyday how proud (typically older) people are to not know how to use a computer.  I get calls everyday with something like "Uh I don't know how to open the internet....I'm just not a computer person.". Or maybe try and cute up their responds "technology doesn't work for me.".    You know, I realize computers might be intimidating but fucking shit lady its your god damn job to work on a computer everyday! Learn how to use the fucking start menu.  So we all know the Ted Stevens "series of tubes" comment - it was clearly Stevens trying to regurgitate what industry lobbyists had been feeding him.  I'm trying to imagine what similar lobbyists say to Graham... What bizarre version of various issues like net neutrality is he fed by professional manipulators? I find the host's reaction even worse. How do you hear something like that and just laugh it up?

Even though the clip is cut short I'd wager that he didn't even ask a follow-up to that. 

 The correct response to, "I've never sent an email in my life.  I don't know what that makes me" should have been, "It makes you unqualified to be on the Privacy, Technology, and Law subcommitee"

Instead, because Chuck Todd is a member of the US Media, we just get more laughter.  Awesome. It's sad because Chuck Todd *has* to be that way or no major DC politician will agree to come on his show again.  I guess I have to settle with the fact that he even asked the question, and now we can analyze the result ourselves. ~~Tragedy of the commons~~.  If all journalists called politicians on their nonsense, the country as a whole would greatly benefit.  But if only *some* of them do it, the only ones who benefit are the toadies who don't.  Thus the only stable state is the current one where everyone just grins and lets it all slide.

EDIT: Mis-applied the term.  It's absolutely a Nash equilibrium scenario That's not a tragedy of the commons. That's more of a Nash equilibrium.  Back home in Georgia my mama always said "computer's are the devils radio".  Both she and Lindsay are refined southern ladies so it is understandable they would agree. When my wife was very young, he great grandmother was still alive, she was born a slave just to give you an idea of how old she was. She used to say air conditioners were the devils creations and wouldn't allow one in her home while she was still alive. My wife says there's people who live in the Mississippi delta that still think that way.  I know it's off topic, but it blows my mind that there are people alive today who knew former American slaves. &gt;computer's are the devils radio

How'd that apostrophe get all the way over there? I blame the devil. Apostrophes are the devils comma I've seen that before. It's called *Wandering Apostrophe Syndrome*. 

The only cure is a lot of people clicking "Like" - unfortunately, this is not Facebook, so there is no "Like" button to click. I don't think that they're going to make it.  :(

 F [His momma.](https://media.licdn.com/mpr/mpr/p/5/005/08a/0bd/2e59226.jpg)

Also... Gaaaatoraaade... H 2 O! well class, looks like momma's wrong again! No, you're wrong, Colonel Sanders! so you work at 430 S Capitol St SE.  How do you like it? Actually I stole the premise of my joke from 733 11th Ave. The daily show [Jon Stewart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94VaLGzoPRo) &gt; 733 11th Ave.

Hell's Kitchen He's more of a snapchat kinda guy. I would have pegged him for a Grindr type of guy. Our politicians are more likely to go to jail than basically any other profession.  I live in Massachusetts where the last 3 fucking speakers of the house have found their way to a jail cell. Illinois has forgotten what it is like to have a governor that isn't a criminal.  Graham is so utterly out of touch, that he doesn't use e-mail.  My *grandmother*, who is one of the most technically illiterate people I know, uses e-mail.  Granted, she uses it to send me racist chain mail about Muslims typed in all caps, but she knows how to use e-mail.

So often, I look at our politicians and think, "any idiot would be better".  Personally, I am convinced.  I would rather pick a name out of a hat than have the people we have.  I would literally rather put it to a lottery because the average person is less stupid, criminal, and corrupt that the idiots that claw their way into positions of political power.  Democracy is a game, and the winner is selected based upon skill in governing, they are selected for their ability to be corrupt.  If you want to "win" the democracy game, you need to be the kind of person who can make promises to powerful people and convince them that you have delivered.  Basically, we select for people who can be bribed.  Often times, these bribes are legal, but let's not kid ourselves.  It might be legal for Comcast to give a chunk of money to a senator, but legal or not, it is still bribery.

I have come to the conclusion that the only real answer is to literally take any idiot off the street.  I want Demarchy.  Rule by random selection.  Throw all the names in a big hat, from the crack dealer to the brilliant scientist, pick at random, give them a limited term.  There are details and nitpicks, but in the end, it would be better than what we have.  The average American is smarter, less corruptible, and less of a piece of shit than the average politician.  I would prefer to live in a country where the legislators TRULY represent the people, rather than the corrupt pieces of shit we have now.  I want demarchy, fuck democracy. I can't think of any smart-ass joke that can make light of this. It is beyond fucked up that our government is (in general) run by rich, affluent, out-of-touch, old, white men and in spite of every single one of their transgressions that has and will come to light, we continue to appease them and their policies. What did Snowden change? Do any of you actually believe that Title II is going to prevent Comcast from bending you over and butt-fucking you? I hate to be such a pessimist, but this shit is honestly fucking ridiculous. The original congressional grampa, John McCain:

&gt; Im afraid that if I was emailing, given my solid, always calm temperament that I might email something that I might regret, he continued, adding that he prefers to use the phone and Twitter. 

ninja-edit:  Source [video](http://www.mediaite.com/tv/john-mccain-tells-msnbc-why-he-doesnt-use-email/) for the quote I can just about respect that though. The man knows he's a hothead. This way he can at least keep his business together without having a written record of calling a Congressional colleague an asshole. &gt;I can just about respect that though.

I could riiight up until the point where he listed Twitter as an alternative.  Why, an email is to an individual and one is more likely to go off on an individual, Twitter many can read, thus he is less likely to go off knowing that it is public As if by Twitter, he doesn't mean his PR ghost writers. I've met McCain recently, he actually writes his own tweets. It's one of the things I asked him.  Except that twitter is far worse for that aspect of temperament.   One click and thousands of people are reading your inane babel real time.

personal note:  Anything a politician says in 140 chars is probably not worth reading.   Twitter is explicitly public though, so he would be more inclined to reign himself in. Whereas email *feels* private, even though it isn't (for anyone, it turns out, but especially for government officials), so he might be more likely to slip up and say something he can't take back. Not to mention, you can bet the farm that he has a PR guy who reads his tweets before he clicks submit. You know why our government is run by these people? Because the younger generations don't vote. Old people vote and get their way.  [Hank Johnson thought](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNZczIgVXjg) that too many people on the island of Guam would cause it to capsize... 

Honestly, Congress seems to be filled with these people. Ive tried 5 different replies, but I'm just dumbfounded at that display. I can't believe that this isn't a joke. I just... how can he... where did he...  Wow.  I'm done Serious question: How do they end up on these committees? They don't get voted into a subcommittee by their constituents. Do they get nominated, or do they throw their name into a hat, or...? The party members appoint  individual Senators on communities based off of their requests and with seniority taken into account. The ratio of D - R Senators to committees is in proportion to the seats they hold. &gt; run by rich, affluent, out-of-touch, old, white men

I only have a problem with the "out-of-touch" part.

A rich, affluent old white man that's "in touch" with whatever he's working with is just as suited for the job as a poor destitute young black woman. Arguably more so considering age usually equates experience.

Assuming we're trying to give the position to the most qualified person, anyway. Sentence one: condemns congress based on gender, age, skin color, and socioeconomic status

Sentence two: reference to an NSA whistleblower who exposed their unchecked and abusive use of surveillance

Sentence three: doubts the efficacy of the FCC's net neutrality plans to classify ISPs as common carriers

Some mighty fine political analysis we got here

 Not so hard for me to believe. Emails are saved and archived. There is a record of who he calls, but not what he says. It wouldn't surprise me if advisors for government officials recommend avoiding email if possible. Being of a generation that got by just fine with phone calls alone, it's easier for him to follow this advice than the younger folks.  CAN'T WAIT TIL ALL THESE OLD PEOPLE DIE. Said every generation ever. its strange to think that the new old people were the ones that were the ones that sat in schools, buses and places of government and were gassed, shot, assaulted and arrested in the process, fighting for equality, of race and gender, for better education,  a safer world with out "police action" or nuclear weapons, that fought for the consumers act and EPA during their 20's and 30's are now the ones that are having people shot, gas, assault and arrested fighting for the same thing only 40-60 years latter. 

EDIT
clarifying: not talking about every single baby boomer, like every generation most of every generation doesn't care about politics... just the ones that care enough to well fucking vote and protest are the ones I am talking about...... Because they're mostly not the same people. While a portion of their generation were fighting for rights, another more conservative portion were "playing it by the book". The latter were the ones who made it to office. That is why I hate when people refer to generations as a whole. Talk about generalizing.  Yep, the odds that any occupy protesters, net nuetrality proponents, or climate change advocated become elected officials are pretty slim. Yet that's what future generations will associate with this current one. I guarantee you Lindsay Graham was never within ten miles of a civil right's protest, let alone shot at one. You have to remember that generations are made up of individuals. Labels persist, but they don't apply across the board.

It's pretty unlikely that those hippies who protested against Vietnam are serving as GOP officials today. Time goes by and suddenly you're in power. Your youth looks to you like how right now people in their twenties cringe over things they did as a kid in school. Perspective shifts and things change. We're going to be those people one day, and we won't realize the change has happened. Case in point: the author of _The Anarchist Cookbook_ has repudiated the book and has tried to have the original version destroyed.  You really should have realized what you were doing when you were compiling that sort of material.  Unless I tag this comment as "Never forget".   Boom. You're welcome 76 year old me. Can't wait to Reddit in the future    I truly do believe that our generation of people is different. Why? Because never in history has technology advanced so quickly as to create an entirely different paradigm of how people communicate and solve problems, and that the gap of technical knowledge between the old generation and the new is the largest it has ever been in the history of all humans. It's not like 600 years ago people were waiting for the old people to die so that the newer generation could make better use of advanced sheep farming methods. Yeah.... the problem with that attitude is they're being replaced by people just as ignorant. He is a liar. Are you telling my a field grade officer in the Air Force and a US Senator has never sent an email? BULLSHIT.

Edit: I could write pages on why I think this man is full of crap. I'll spare us all the waste of time by hitting on one point. He is a lawyer in the Air Force who deployed and provided legal advice to a combatant commander. When a commander asks for a lawyer's opinion they want it in writing. Email is the preferred since it is digitally signed and has the lawyer's name on it. A lawyer's opinion over the phone? No thank you. A email from a clerk or secretary? No thank you.

Source- BTDT [deleted] He has people do it for him. It's sad, but not that surprising. I can see that for a senator. But for a person who is an FGO in the Air Force....

I won't say it's impossible. I haven't been on reserve duty, and I haven't been a colonel. But it's often an administrative requirement in the military to check emails frequently. You really can't have people do it for you, either, because it's actually against regulations to give others your email account credentials. &gt; You really can't have people do it for you, either, because it's actually against regulations to give others your email account credentials.

You don't need to give them your credentials. Outlook has very good rights management. It's quite possible that a four-star General might delegate e-mail reading to his Aide-de-camp or other staffer but a JAG Colonel is not going to have that type of help, even if he also happens to be a U.S. Senator. My chaired, world renowned Professor in the field of engineering had never sent an email.  He dictated them to a secretary to send.   She printed them out for him to receive.  So I don't find this implausible at all.  This is plausible, but given the context that he advertised this in ("I'll send you all my e-mails, they don't exist!") it's completely misleading and disingenuous. If he dictates even generally the content of e-mails and authorizes somebody else to actually type the content on his account and hit the send button, and/or if he is receiving e-mails at his address but acquires the contents in some format other than reading them in an e-mail program, those are still "his" e-mails for any practical purpose.  Exactly.  He should just come out of the closet... about this issue.  [Relevant.](http://i.imgur.com/Qrkax10.jpg) If I had an office full of staffers I wouldn't have to send any alsoZ &gt;he

TIL Senator Lindsey Graham is a man. The fact that the people of South Carolina have elected an openly gay transgender person shows just how progressive they are. and one of the most obviously closeted nelly queens I've ever seen He's on the Subcomittee on PRIVACY folks. This Dapper Dan is not about to trust Email. He sounds smarter than most people. Yup, best way to avoid dick pics getting out is not to take dick pics!!! 

Politicians have a long/short and distinguished track record of proving that...  I have to declare horseshit. He's in the military, you're required to use email even if you're in the reserves. Maybe he's never sent an email from his congressional email address, but he is currently a Colonel in the Air Force Reserves. He'd be full of shit to say he's never sent an email in that capacity.
 I suspect he lists his business e-mail (i.e. Congressional e-mail) which an aide or three check daily, then print out and deliver items for his consideration (or just put them on his schedule, etc). He's pretty old, I think his active time was before much email was being used. 59 is not old. I consider myself moderately versed on technology (built my pc, but can't program or anything) but my dad (55 years old) shows me knew stuff in the field of technology/computer programs all the time. Al Gore jokes aside, it's those old fogey 50 and 60 year olds who actually built the internet. Tim Berners-Lee, the man who invented the world-wide web, is 60 years old this year (d.o.b. 8 June 1955). Robert Metcalfe, the inventor of the ethernet, is 69 years old (d.o.b, 7 April 1946). Yup, old fart Luddite here. Wanna see my Arch running in a VM inside Debian? How about my LFS box. Still, 61 isn't really "old"^!^!^!^!^!^! He's still in the reserves as a Colonel! He's a senior instructor for the USAF JAG Corps and an Air Force Reserve appellate judge.

Edit: don't see why this is downvoted, it's a fact that can easily be looked up. If you disagree with it feel free to downvote but I'd love to hear why.  Which means he has someone that sits outside his office at a desk that probably handles all his emailing for him. Probably prints out the important ones for him too. Former Army JAG checking in here. I got out in 08 and even at that time there was no way you could be functional at your job and not use email. He's bullshitting.  Not sure what's worse then, being in his position without ever having used email or lying about it for some reason. Maybe he saw what is happening to H. Clinton and thinks denial is a good idea. I mean, it seems like denial is something he's pretty familiar with.  lolwut. Why are there so many of these kinds of "Serves on X committee, has zero experience and knowledge of X" In this day and age, this is like somebody that has never read a book or done a phone call. How can people like that function in life? they are troglodytes I can't wait to see the Daily Show bit about this! Can we cross post this to /r/wtf ? Being computer illiterate, or internet illiterate isn't a cute thing anymore.  It's not something to laugh off.  It's the same as being actually illiterate in today's world.  Related:

My own Dad, who is now in his 70s, didn't want me to learn how to type in High School.  Typing was for secretaries, and if I was successful I'd just have one of those.

That was the best advice I ever ignored.   From a person in South Carolina: I am so sorry he is still in office.  Hey, my state gave us Boehner. We all have reason to feel ashamed. The Interviewer is like "I have struck gold! HAHAHAHAHA" Chuck Todd. He's got his own faults..  but ... yeaaaa. I caddied for this guy once. Talk about the weakest handshake ever, I couldn't believe he was a real politician  Is there anyway to make a FOIA request for his congressional records to see if this is true? True or false, this is ridiculous. Oddly, I am reminded of the late Senator Ted "[Tubes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Series_of_tubes)" Stevens. Steven's will have the last laugh, from the grave.  DARPA is developing optical fibers that actually **are** a [series of tubes](http://www.extremetech.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/darpa-hollow-core-fiber-640x499.jpg).  Light travels 30% faster in the hollow tubes than in solid glass fibers, thus lower ping times. That's really exciting news, thanks! Oh man, I forgot he died in a plane crash, and he was a pilot in WWII. That's an awful way to go. I always felt like that was tremendously overblown - obviously the Internet is not made of *literal* tubes but imagining it to be so is a perfectly fine analogy to help people intuit the concepts of bandwidth and throughput, and how you can end up with congestion in a network. It's commonly used in just about every basic networking textbook.

To be honest, in that case, it seemed more like people who knew even less about Internet infrastructure than Stevens trying to play "gotcha" when that part of his statement was basically fine.  People use "pipe" as a slang term for bandwidth all the time.

I never understood why "phat pipe" is acceptable and not ridiculed in the least while "tubes" gets mocked for being idiotic. It is practically the same metaphor. I would agree that when addressing the assemblage to which he was speaking, such an analogy might be appropriate. After all, with a gaggle of lobbyists waving checks and squawking orders at them, who could be expected to remember the speed at which electricity travels, or that real-time telephone conversations have finally become a reality. If you listen critically to [the context of his statement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f99PcP0aFNE), however, you will quickly realize that he just didn't know what he was talking about. Oh I definitely agree, the man is an idiot who should be nowhere near technology policy. It's just bizarre that one of the few parts of his speech that made sense is what gets picked on. Nerds don't like to access the level of cognitive activity required to interpret obvious metaphors or humor.  Oddly, indeed. Well, that would certainly help his privacy.  You'd probably be surprised how many people who determine the fate of the internet don't actually understand what the internet is. As you've probably already seen on reddit, this shit is all over the conservative newspaper and emails my dad gets

https://www.techdirt.com/blog/netneutrality/articles/20150306/16215930234/cartoonist-has-no-idea-how-net-neutrality-works.shtml Graham added, "Believe me, if you knew anything about our domestic spying programs, you wouldn't either!" News headline from 2051:    
    
&gt; "43 Year Old Senator Aiden Jones (R - WalMart Territories) Admits Publicly That He Has Never Sent A Telepathic Singing Pornogram In His Life."  There has to be some willful ignorance involved for a man in his position to have never used email, especially when you consider the position that he occupies, where he is apparently totally useless.

Of course, Sen. Inhofe, the senator who brought a snowball into the senate chamber to disprove climate change, is on the Senate's Environment and Public Works Committee, so Republicans seem to have a propensity of putting completely inappropriate people on senatorial committees.  &gt; so Republicans seem to have a propensity of putting completely inappropriate people on senatorial committees.

I'd bet that the Republicans don't own a monopoly on that. It's a bigger commentary of our government if anything. No, they probably don't own a monopoly on it, but the GOP seems to have a tendency to disdain for "egg headed" expertise, especially when it comes to scientific and tech-related issues. 

My father used to work in the FCC, and he talked about how, during the Reagan years, several decades ago, all these political flunkies were appointed to his department that knew next to nothing about communication.  &gt; consider the position that he occupies, where he is apparently totally useless.

That is the core of the WTF.

It's like that one member of the science committee who, IIRC, thinks that global warming is a hoax, and evolution is just a wild idea.

**2/3 of the population know more about the sublect than this committee member.** He has no business being on the committee. What really irks me about that generation is the fact that for many, there's this atmosphere of pride surrounding their ignorance. They think *not* knowing stuff makes them more humble. THIS is how you make Americans HATE government, by deploying incompetent leadership across the face of it. Lawmakers that have never taken a medical class write laws about medicine, lawmakers that have never changed their oil write laws about cars. 

They don't need to use it, they just need to understand it, preferably by researching it and surrounding themselves by people who are knowledgeable. 

The problem here is that he is instead surrounding himself with money and acting directly against public interest.  [deleted] Even more basic analogy: I don't want someone who doesn't use toilets to be my plumber. I don't want someone who doesn't use electricity to be my electrician.  I wouldn't trust a fat dietician I majored in education in college (work in IT now).  I had a class with a 400 lb dude that was going to be a PE teacher.  I always WTF'ed at that.  A morbidly obese person teaching kids how to be healthy.  Merica! Wait wait, you don't want him to be your emailer? So if someone spends years school learning about something and has years of experience and thousands of positive reviews, you don't think they're good enough?

And no, I'm not referring to the elected official here.  So you don't want to hire him to write your emails? Wtf point were you going for there? Well in a democracy, the publics view is what creates laws. Unfortunately the public has to understand the subject/be swayed and then vote. Does a congressman need to use email in order to understand what it is? 

I don't drive a car, I still know what it is and the impact it has on society.  You may understand it, but you may not necessarily be the best candidate to represent a group of drivers when it comes to giving feedback on driving-related matters. That's what politicians dothey represent. Wrong, it's the correct analogy. The subject matter expertise comes from their staff not their experiences. There's lots of smart, competent people rendering opinions on transportation who have never driven a car. I don't know this guy, I don't know if he's smart or competent, but it's silly to demand he use email personally before he's qualified to sit on this subcommittee. Maybe that's the way it SHOULD work, but it's not the way it currently works.
 &gt; They just cannot be so damn out of touch with very basic services in our country.

Do they use taxis? Public transport? Regular doctors in Bumfuck, Idaho? Can they drive?  &gt;No one is asking that senators have experience building an email application or workings as doctors or mechanical engineers who build cars.

Unsure why you bring this up because it's not remotely close to what I said. 

&gt;I don't want a guy who never has to use health insurance or even a hospital open to the public to write health care policy.

Which is why we need them to surround themselves with people who do understand the healthcare industry and give advice that helps to average person. 

&gt;I don't want a guy who never has to use a car to write transportation policy.

I ABSOLUTELY want a lawmaker who doesn't use a car to write transportation policy, because maybe they'll show more support for public transportation options. However, what we really need is for them to surround themselves with people who do understand transportation and give advice that helps to average person. 

&gt;And here he is sitting on an important committee to regulate it. He literally doesn't get it. Not just in terms of how it's built - rather, just in terms of what the hell it means to people.

Yes, and that's a bad thing. I didn't say it is a good thing, in fact I said the opposite. 

The problem is not that he doesn't use email, the problem is that he has not attempted to educate himself and that he surrounds himself with people who are acting against the public good. 

&gt;If a guy came along and said "you don't need any health care options" because he has access to private doctors and nurses because he's rich and powerful... We'd call him an ass who cannot represent the rest of us.

Also unsure why you bring this up, because it's not what I said. 

&gt;Why is it that different here?

Because once again, that's not what I said. I literally said he is not doing the right thing. 

 YOUR analogy is not good at all. Comparing delegating others to write emails, to never using public health facilities because he has access to private ones. 

And what are you talking about "...rather, just in terms of what the hell it means to people." Are you kidding me? You don't have to use email be able to understand what the internet "means to people."

Lastly, just because he doesn't send emails doesn't mean he avoids the internet. I have maybe sent 1 email my whole life, and that was to a teacher. I spend about 10 hours a day on the internet, does that mean I am behind the times?   You've sent one e-mail in your entire life? So you're what 12? 15 maybe? You may not be behind the times, but this would tell me you're clearly out of touch what life is like in the modern, adult world.  Nope, 20. I have an email and have received emails, just never had a need to email someone that I couldn't do over the phone or in person.  Precisely. It is actually a far more enjoyable experience to actually call people and hear their voices.  You guys are weird.  While I do use emails in cases where calling or a face-to-face meeting is not a convenient option, I like any other human social being prefers face-to-face over calls and calls over emails.

What would be weird, as in uncommon, is if someone genuinely dislikes face-to-face more than calls and dislikes calls more than emails.  &gt; While I do use emails in cases where calling or a face-to-face meeting is not a convenient option, I like any other human social being prefers face-to-face over calls and calls over emails.

That's wonderful.

But I wouldn't want you anywhere near any sort of position of power that may have influence over how the rest of the country uses email. So you don't want the grand majority of those in power currently to be in power. Since on average humans are very social creatures. Email isn't just another topic to be legislated.  Email is how every professional in the public and private sector has done their job over the past 15 years.  Email is at the center of our white-collar work culture.  

It's not okay for a Senator to be like this.  It isn't cute.  It isn't an unnecessary detail, the nitty-gritty of which can be farmed out to a staffer.  It's a man who is desperately out of touch and has no business doing the people's work.   &gt; Email isn't just another topic to be legislated. Email is how every professional in the public and private sector has done their job over the past 15 years. Email is at the center of our white-collar work culture.

I can assure you that i was very able to be happily working as a tax accountant in 2006 without emails. One doesn't *need* emails and it doesn't make anything go faster or anything. It's just more convenient to the reddit crowd that doesn't know anything else. Dear sir, that was almost a decade ago.  Your situation in 2006 as an accountant has absolutely no meaning at all concerning this senator in 2015 who brags that he has never sent an email in his life.  Good day. It does if you actualyl think for a second. Today i could work perfectly  find without any kind of internet access whatsoever. But you high-school kids will never understand that. I don't know why you would think I'm a high school kid.  I was born in 1973 and have worked in various white collar jobs since the early 90's.  I remember a time before email was as ubiquitous as it is now.  Faxes were the speediest way to transfer documents.  My point is that it was a different time and here, in 2015, I would expect a senator and someone who has expressed interest in being a presidential candidate for the republican party to be able to send and receive email.  (And at least not snicker and brag about his ignorance concerning email.)  Furthermore, I don't understand why you've spent a lot of time on this forum making comments to other users defending this man and ridiculing these redditors because of their age and for using email as a means of communication.  And the fuck you gif that you sent me?  Yeah, that was a really nice touch.   Or sometimes, they don't even have to have ANY knowledge on the subject: [James Inhofe - climate change denier](http://www.newrepublic.com/article/120134/climate-change-denier-james-inhofe-lead-environment-committee). [deleted] That is what I said he is doing, and you'll note I said it is the problem.  &gt; They don't need to use it, they just need to understand it, preferably by researching it and surrounding themselves by people who are knowledgeable.

From what we've heard from recent SCOTUS records this knowledge is transferred through analogies. Hundreds of analogies, one for each edge case Good point about Lawmakers making laws about medicine and cars. Just goes to show that the government is a terrible place to run things. It should just set basic rules protecting our rights and safety and then get out of the way. I agree that congress is a pretty bad owner of regulation given their lack of personal experience in the myriad sectors they regulate, but the companies in the private sector are equally bad at doing the "right thing." Looking through time beginning with the robber barons of the industrial revolution through to today with the mega-polluters in the oil industry, the misleading advertising of the tobacco industry and the welfare-dependent companies like Wal Mart and Target, companies will cover up and exploit their way to profits at nearly every turn, and consumers are getting worse and worse at voting with their dollar so these companies continue to grow and thrive. 

In my opinion, regulation should not be passed down from congress, but rather government departments filled with experts such as the EPA and FCC (which is the case in most instances.) The rub comes from the funding being cut for these organizations or congress overriding their regulations or recommendations based on the information provided to them by their campaign donors or special interest groups.

Until we can get congressmen to consistently defer decision making to experts, we'll continue to have the shit regulation that you allude to. Now that's what I call reasonable! &gt; In my opinion, regulation should not be passed down from congress, but rather government departments filled with experts such as the EPA and FCC (which is the case in most instances.)

In my opinion, making the executive branch ALSO the legislative branch is about the worst, most unhealthy structure possible. Luckily congress has already thought of that as well, which is why they passed the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946, which allows for judicial review of Executive agency regulation. That just determines of the rule is constitutional, not if it's a bad rule. True, but the matter still stands that people who are wholly unknowledgeable about subjects are legislating on them. You have climate change deniers sitting on environmental committees and someone who boasts about never having sent an email on the technology subcommittee. These are not the people I want shaping the laws of the areas they represent.

I would be curious to know your thoughts on how to get quality legislation passed. Personally I think removing money from politics, especially say the federal level, is an important first step. &gt; True, but the matter still stands that people who are wholly unknowledgeable about subjects are legislating on them.

Not really.  The whole reason they hold hearings is to get the opinions of experts.

Judges do the same thing.  Judges may have no pre-existing knowledge of the context of a case, but they learn it by listening to the testimony of experts.

Does Lindsey Graham not know how e-mail works?  Does he not know how it's used?  Of course not, he simply doesn't use it.

If a congressman doesn't use a gun, does it mean they can't pass legislation about guns?  If they've never had an abortion, can they pass laws on abortion?  If they've nevered viewed child pornography, can they pass laws on child pornography? I'd personaly trust someone who doesn't own a gun over someone that does to pass gun laws as there would be less bias. But that's just me. Except that only makes matters worse. If you give the gvt no power then the people behind it will be a mess. Compare the US gvt with Sweden's. I'm not even Swedish and I can see that their system is better. Government should be there to help citizens. But they should also have the money to employ decent employees. Governments us, so fuck you for failing us. You self centered American. This is like saying someone shouldn't have to be able to read to legislate books. It's more like the FCC chair not having ever placed a telephone call &gt;Lawmakers that have never taken a medical class write laws about medicine, lawmakers that have never changed their oil write laws about cars.

Not really. They write laws creating a federal agency to do it, and then doctors and engineers write regulations. 

Sorry man.  I bet he owns a car and goes to the doctor. He doesn't need to be an expert to write a law he needs to be familiar with what he's writing a law about.  it's the software cycle. 

1) New software emerges.  It is free, lightweight, and really excels at its intended use. 

2) Software becomes an "underground" hit with a modest but dedicated userbase.

3) Software userbase grows at exponential rate because all the alternatives suck or aren't free. 

4) Software implements shitty updates to try and monetize the large user base. 

5) Repeat step 1 with a new competitor.  Yep, the only one I can think of who has avoided this is VLC. VLC is open source. There will always be a free version. In this light, qBittorrent is a good choice then. Isn't transmission open source too? Yes, as is Deluge. Deluge so good!  MPC is still good too. God help us if that ever happens. It won't. If it does, someone will simply fork it, and we'll have FreeVLC or LibreVLC or something. 

The beauty of free software. 

edit : as always, free as in free speech, not in free beer. (even though it's both for VLC) If LibreVLC is anything like LibreOffice, your videos will be off centered and the audio will be out of sync. &gt; and the audio will be out of sync.

And in swedish What's wrong with LibreOffice? Winrar stopped before step 4.

Everyone have a drink in honor of those magnificent bastards. 7zip works perfectly as a replacement. It boggles my mind that 7-zip lacks a basic "open destination folder after extracting"-option. [Easy 7-Zip](http://www.e7z.org/) adds this feature. OMG this is fantastic! The point is, WinRAR does not really need a replacement and just stayed good over the years. I think that deserves some recognition. Except you usually avoid all the bullshit when the software is open-source. Especially a software for torrenting that doesn't have to be updated all the time. Shout out to [ninite.com/](https://ninite.com/) for replacing Torrent with qBittorrent in their installer. They are the shit. I've changed so many lives with that site. I can't even imagine how many IT hours that Ninite has saved.  Once I was introduced to it and I shared it to the rest of my coworkers it has become our normal process.

EDIT: I have since moved on from this position (graduated).  I was a student-employee for a State University.  At the time, the "higher-ups" couldn't even figure out how to setup their own domain correctly.  This has since been corrected as I'm good buddies with the guy in charge of the networking department now.  He's since overhauled the entire process and I'm 100% sure they don't use Ninite anymore in any capacity.

EDIT 2: Yeah, professional environment = a no-no.  Personal environments, heck yeah! Do you guys not image machines and push programs out through group policy? I believe that is the current process now.

It has been at least 5-6 years since I left that job however. When I think of software that "lost it's way" utorrent is up there. Followed closely by Nero Burning ROM. Does no one remember Azureus AKA Vuze? Decent torrent software with options for a minimalist and intrusive-less interface. At some point they recognized their own popularity and turned it into some weird sort of torrent-based social media monstrosity, involving autoplay videos and other heresies. 

EDIT: Like seriously. What genius thought that [this](http://i1-linux.softpedia-static.com/screenshots/Vuze_1.jpg) would work better than [this](http://screenshots.en.sftcdn.net/en/scrn/58000/58566/azureus-bittyrant-2.jpg) when all you want to do is illegally download some videos using a file you already got from MiniNova? Azureaus was he best. The switch to Vuze was nothing short of heartbreaking for me. It was a resource hog running in a JVM. If I recall correctly, Azereus was the reason Torrent became popular  - a 630KB installer and minimal footprint on the system. Jut out of curiosity, how big is the Torrent installer these days? I remember being woke up by my computer making very loud noises at 3am and it was Vuze playing an ad Not funny but I laughed very hard, sorry. Vuze was Azureus?! I used the two so far apart that I didn't know they were the same. Einhorn is Finkle? I miss my blue frog. don't forget about daemon tools I know right, even downloading it from their main site is frightning. What's your alternative?

Edit: Alright boys I've already uninstalled daemon tools and installed SlySoft Virtual CloneDrive, thank you. &gt; What's your alternative?

Windows 8. 

One of the nicest features of Windows 8 is built in ISO mounting after all these years...

For Windows 7 though, I was a big fan of Virtual CloneDrive. [SlySoft Virtual CloneDrive](http://www.slysoft.com/en/virtual-clonedrive.html) You forgot Winamp It really whips the llama's ass. I think Nero just had the problem of its features being built into Windows.  Why buy a program when I can burn to a disc with built in tools? Long before that. They jumped the shark with a weird-ass GUI and a bunch of different things nobody needs. Nero Image Viewer. Why do I need Nero to take over displaying JPGs on my PC when Windows does that just fine? Your job is to burn CDs... I once bought a kids' digital camera (640x480, super durable) for my son. It had games like tictactoe and memory on it.

Beancounters love to bundle crap together because they think it adds value. Artists know that there is value in absence.  I have a friend who's an artist, nice guy but he just goes on and on. Their certainly is value in his absence. [Ooooooooh](http://i.imgur.com/HsoZ8RK.jpg) You know what has also jumped the shark for me?  Avast.  The first time I got a pop up "shopping security advisor" or whatever it's called telling me I could buy a cheaper item on eBay than the one I was looking at on Amazon, I noped right out on that.

Bonus edit:  Avast always reminding me that I am watching porn over http instead of https. Really?  I uninstalled Avast about the third time a booming voice said over my PC "SCAN COMPLETE" or whatever it says and made me jump out of my seat.  I'm sure I could have just turned it off but it pissed me off it was on by default. AVAST DATABASE HAS BEEN UPDATED JESUS GOD aLMIGHY!

*sits straight up in bed with bloodshot eyes* Feature creep.

Sometimes, you start with a nice text editor and end with a fantastic development enviroment.

Other times you start with a tool for burning CDs and end up with a gigabyte version of that tool with 99 other functionalities you never use smashed in your face. And that's feature creep. There might be something better, but it's what I use - [CDBurnerXP](https://cdburnerxp.se/en/home).

Why did programs like Nero and Roxio have to make burning disks so fucking complicated? Drop the shit in the box and hit burn, that's all that needs to happen there. I use imgburn. It records images, it makes images, and it burns images. Everything you want burning software to do and nothing more. I remember that Nero was the thing because it would allow you to overburn CDs... that was like a big deal when you used to get MP3s off of Napster and burn audio CDs to play.  You could, depending on what burner you had, manage to get an entire extra song on to a 80 minute CD.

Nero would let you overburn into the lead-out area, where other programs wouldn't let you do this.

That was kinda a big deal back then. Also you needed it if you wanted to copy certain games, eg Commandos used an 80 minute CD as s form of copy protection. Nero could handle a few copy protection types (depending on the burner). It was amazingly powerful, back in the day. I loved it. Then it got all shit and wizardy and it was downhill from there. Don't forget skype -.- What happened? Bloat. BitTorrent bought it in 2006.  It's been downhill ever since. In case of it is down.

http://a.pomf.se/cfhnoc.png

edit: added archive.org link https://web.archive.org/web/20150306113124/http://forum.utorrent.com/topic/95041-warning-epicscale-riskware-silently-installed-with-latest-utorrent/

SEO:

Mirror webpage screenshot you are a visionary, looks like the utorrent forums are down now.


EDIT: it's intermittently up and down, not sure if they're just getting loads of traffic or something. "account has been suspended" so thank you for this mirror  This is the single thing that they could have done to make themselves look even worse.   Now not only did they do something stupid but now they are trying to cover it up.  As expected, Torrent took down the link from the forum. Furthermore, the account posting the thread was suspended. They were really caught red-handed. It's down for me. Thanks for the screenshot! I appreciate it! Fucking uTorrent. Basically malware at this point. And they just keep making it worse.

Edit: good alternatives are **qBittorent**, **Deluge**, and **Transmission**. 

I have no experience with **qBittorent**, but many many people love it.

**Transmission** is a very simple and easy torrent client, often described as "minimalist but not lacking", that I currently use.

I've used **Deluge** in the past for more detailed sorting of torrent rss feeds, which is quite simple with the YaRSS plugin. 

Edit2: or [version 2.2.1](http://www.oldapps.com/utorrent.php?old_utorrent=8134) of **uTorrent**, the last good one. Thanks to /u/fuckfinally for the link. 

Edit 2b: try [this link](http://www.filehorse.com/download-utorrent/7858/) if your browser says the above one is corrupt. Thanks to /u/alkaline810. 

Edit 2c: /u/LatinGeek points out that outdated software can be vulnerable. Just a warning. 

Edit 3: /u/KjoeLjan provided me with [this link](http://libcom.org/forums/news/utorrent-bought-mpaa). Apparently uTorrent also has associations with the MPAA, which is pretty disheartening. 

Edit 4: another client that is flooding my inbox is **Tixati** . I cannot personally vouch for it but honestly anything is better than uTorrent. 

Edit 4b: getting reports that Vuze has gone downhill. Sorry guys. 

Edit 4c: **Tribler** and **BitComet** are being suggested as well. 

Edit 4d: **I'm being told BitComet is a hated client and private trackers block it. No idea why but doesn't sound good. Also apparently Tribler has bad code. Again just what my inbox is being flooded with**.

Edit 5: for mobile clients, I can only recommend [Flud](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.delphicoder.flud) because that's all I've ever used. I know, how lame, but I've only torrented on mobile like 3 times. 

Edit 5b: apparently Torrex is good for WP users. 

Edit 6: just a friendly PSA, if you download content that could be construed as less than legal, I highly recommend you use a VPN that encrypts your traffic and **doesn't keep any logs**. [PIA](https://www.privateinternetaccess.com) is a pretty good provider with a lot of exit servers. [Mullvad](https://mullvad.net/en/) is also very anonymous, as they generate a random username for you and even accept cash in the mail as payment.

Edit 6b: [Here's](http://torrentfreak.com/anonymous-vpn-service-provider-review-2015-150228/) a good resource regarding VPNs. Thanks /u/turkoid.

Edit 7: I wouldn't use a torrent client with ads. There's just no need.  I'm surprised they did this actually.  Anyone familiar with the counter-strike scene probably knows that ESEA (A league that has their own anti-cheat) got caught doing the same thing. That anti-cheat program was mining bitcoins without anyone knowing.   There was a big class-action lawsuit that they lost, and they had to pay out to replace peoples video cards and such since the program was having them run at 100% for extended periods.  ESEA was[ fined in the state of New Jersey](http://www.vg247.com/2013/11/20/esea-fined-325000-over-bitcoin-farming-user-monitoring/) for a million dollars due to this act. Fuck ESEA. They've always been a league of power-tripping corrupt assholes.  And they still are to this day! (Looking at you, lpkane) Torbull was a cunt too. Was banned from their servers and service way back in the day for "cheating" after some kids got mad. Talked to Torbull on mIRC and his argument was essentially that they had irrefutable proof that was I was cheating, but they couldn't show me it.

Dick. I got a ban from BiGG over 6 years ago.  I moved across the country, and when I played a match my ip was different so he thought I was smurfing.  He wouldn't show me anything either despite me giving him proof of my address change.  I think him and Torbull spend their days docking each other. any indication how much money they made from the crypto mining though? Barely any. $3,713.55

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ESEA_League#Controversy It wasn't the entire org, it was one dude who worked for the league who added the code to the ESEA client. Qbittorrent hasn't skipped a beat yet. Light, fast, no unnecessary shit. Use it.  I use transmission and you can even set it up so that you can add torrents remotely from your phone much like utorrent.  My favorite alternative and super light weight.  Deluge is also awesome, but I prefer transmission.

Also, transmission comes preloaded on a lot of Linux distros, which is a good sign.

Slack master race checking in. I use the inbuilt torrent client in Ubuntu.. Transmission BitTorent Client. Simple to use Transmission is awesome. It does exactly what you need it to, and nothing else. Highly recommended. Another shout-out for Transmission, as well as the [Transmission-QT port for Windows](http://sourceforge.net/projects/trqtw/). I stopped using it around a year ago. What is a good alternative?

Edit : Thx to everyone for all the suggestions! I really appreciate it. I use qBittorrent That's what I switched to. It has everything uTorrent did and is SO much faster running. I just switched to qBittorent after a format, Is there a way to do the utorrent remote service with qBittorrent?  Only thing I'm missing. Yes, its the same setup I believe. I use it with android, not sure about ios [deleted] &gt; only to download un-copyrighted public domain files of course

Not sure if I understand this. Do you mean to hint at saying that some other people download files illegally? Outrageous Truly, truly, truly outrageous. &gt;only to download un-copyrighted public domain files of course

Of course.   Hey. I seed a couple Linux distros.  Doing God's work here. Had to download Ubuntu 12.04 the other day.  AND A THOUSAND HD MOVIES Home movies, of course. &gt; Qbittorrent

Is [BitTorrent](http://www.bittorrent.com/) bad? 

That's what I've been using for some time. BitTorrent is uTorrent but purple. Brb, moving to qBittorrent. Since it's not on the list here:

[Tixati](http://www.tixati.com/).

I've been using it for a couple years now. Really stable, you barely notice it's there, doesn't hog on resources and it's very customizable. May not be the prettiest gal, but she gets the job done flawlessly.

Or in their own words:

NO Spyware. NO Ads. NO Nonsense. Using Tixati as well, it has a bit of a learning curve but I love it =) Haha! Yeah, it can be a bit much at first glance; it certainly isn't the prettiest UI, but once you set it up, it just goes onto doing it's thing and it never bothers you again. [deleted] I call that the fishbowl effect.  I loved it in eMule and I picked Tixati for that reason. Another vote for Tixati. I've been using it for awhile now and I really like it. Switched to Tixati after learning about the shady stuff that uTorrent does. Never looked back.  Using Tixati too, can recommend. Looks like WinMX. Transmission.  Deluge or transmission Deluge is great. Simple interface, easy to set up. Would give it a install/10 Version 2.2.1. The last good version. utorrent.  v2.2.1 build 25302.

http://www.oldapps.com/utorrent.php  *(don't use this link, the files are flagged as suspicious.  probably for a good reason)*

edit:

Sorry, it was late when I posted that so I just pasted in the first link I found on google.  Try using this link:

http://www.oldversion.com/windows/download/utorrent-2-2-1-25302

I've downloaded the file from that site and compared hashes with the file I use to install.  They are identical.  I also found that you can find the file through the internet archive:

http://wayback.archive.org/web/20110501000000*/http://download.utorrent.com/2.2.1/utorrent.exe

If you go to that page and click a day like May 30 for 2011, it should let you download the file from there too.  I checked the hash on that file as well and they match. I've heard good things about qtorrent. Also Transmission. I should check one of those myself, as I'm fed up with utorrent :-/ Deluge or Tixati +1 for Tixati, it's fantastic Or tixati  Can anyone explain the problems with uTorrent? I have nothing to compare it to so I'm not sure what standard I'm supposed to expect. 1) It's closed-source, which isn't necessarily bad, just open-sourced is more trustworthy. 

2) ads 

3) included in the installation is adware / malware including a program that changed your default search to Delta Search and is a bit of a bitch to remove. 


And then of course there's really no reason to have done 2 and 3. They deliberately ran their software into the ground with shady practices that profit them and not the users. They used their fame to the disadvantage of their users. It's an all-around scummy thing to do. 


Edit: and now mining crypto-currencies on your machine without your consent. Thanks to /u/SchofieldSilver for reminding me why we're all here in the first place.  You forget the biggest travesty... Their association with the MPAA? The friggin title of the link were all commenting on. I thought that was implied. They're still in bed with the MPAA, though, so I figured that's what you were referring to. Just want to chime in: qBittorrent is the shit. It's basically classic uTorrent. Small, fast, and still a nice GUI. Switched to Deluge after some comment a few months ago. It's everything uTorrent was supposed to be. No non-sense functionality and nothing more. Have Transmission on my work laptop, and it's equally minimalistic in the right ways. Moreover, they lied in their response. I just installed this in a VM and did not see any option to avoid epicscale, or any mention of it, but it was installed nonetheless. What's worse is the rep from utorrent in that thread.  
That is exactly how you don't do customer service.  
When a customer says they are  experiencing something you don't say, "well we tested that so you must be lying", in so many words.  
And when multiple customers say the same thing and you still react that way, you have a big, big issue.  
Goodbye utorrent.   
***Edit - I uninstalled uTorrent and it during the uninstall process it asked if I wanted to fill out an "uninstall survey".  
I did, and made sure to include the reason why, being the inclusion of crypto-currency mining malware.  
I suggest you all do the same.*** reminds me of an old anecdote we were told on customer care course.

Man comes back down to hotel reception desk syaing "there's no bed in my room" to which the response should not be "well there should be one".... of course there should be but that does not help at all. Time to start checking the housekeeper's purse before she leaves after each shift  &gt; When a customer says they are experiencing something you don't say, "well we tested that so you must be lying", in so many words.

It's funny, that's exactly how they behaved when TvTorrents said that the latest version of uTorrent was screwing with all their trackers.  They basically said "well it's something wrong with your tracker then", even though older versions of utorrent worked just fine. Site is down. 

The response from uTorrent:

&gt; Thanks for bringing this to our attention. We design our software to ensure that partner software downloads don't occur without approval by the user. But given your report, weve also double-checked this particular offer, and have determined that it cannot be installed without user approval.
 
&gt;Epic Scale is a cryptocurrency miner that uses a portion of your CPU cycles to contribute to the mining effort. A portion of the proceeds from this effort go to philanthropic initiatives. Please visit http://www.epicscale.com/ for more information. Epic Scale is a great partner for us to continue to generate revenue for the company, while contributing funds to good causes. In the future, Epic Scale plans to contribute CPU cycles to other initiatives, such as Genome mapping and other academic studies that require a great deal of processing power.

&gt;As Groundrunner stated, it's easy to uninstall the software via Add/Remove Programs. Per the Epic Scale CEO's response in comments on the link you shared, the only data left in ProgramData\Epicscale is a simple UUID (Unique User ID). This remains so that in case the software is reinstalled, BitTorrent would still be associated with the user. Feel free to delete this folder. You certainly won't see any persistent auto-reinstalls of the software, it will be gone from your machine for good.

Archived thread: https://web.archive.org/web/20150306113124/http://forum.utorrent.com/topic/95041-warning-epicscale-riskware-silently-installed-with-latest-utorrent/ Looks like uTorrent is working hard to polish that turd! (Just like Lenovo after the Bigfish debacle a few weeks ago!) Whenever I see "a portion of the proceeds go to [*insert whatever here*]" my bullshit meter goes off the charts. "Philanthropic initiatives" sounds like corporation-speak for "our bank accounts." They could give $1 to the beggar they use as a door mat and call it " a portion" and are covered.  
  
I also like their statement "In the future, Epic Scale plans to contribute CPU cycles to other initiatives, such as Genome mapping and other academic studies", because they don't make money, they are not going to do them NOW, but some time in the future they will look at their plans for it. TL;DR: It's pretty obvious we fucked up, but *you*'re wrong and a greedy asshole for not supporting Epic Scale. Yeah, the guilt trip was not a classy move.

I suppose I can see it from their perspective, why should they care about the people who don't opt into the things that make them money? Of course, if that's not enough of a reason to uninstall their crap nothing is. Thats why we changed to qBittorrent. just did DO U LIKE ASIANS/RUSSIANS?

&lt;.jpg of photoshopped stock model&gt;

- uTorrent in 2015. I switched to deluge cause of this. People thought I was using the app to download porn. I was but still... I cant have people knowing that. Upvote for honesty. You pervert. BEST FREE WEB GAME 

Come play, my lord. 

&lt;jpg of heavily photoshopped stock model&gt; I use [Transmission](http://www.transmissionbt.com/download/) on my work Mac, and [Transmission-QT](http://sourceforge.net/projects/trqtw/) (the windows port) on my computer at home. It's a simple, easy to use interface without any ads or bs.  Oh sweet, I loved transmission in Linux, I didn't know there was a Windows port. Added bonus: if you're running Transmission as a daemon on a Linux box, the Windows client can be made to act as a nice frontend for that server rather than running locally. Transmission is preinstalled on many Linux distributions, because what computer is complete without a torrent client?

^((also because torrenting is an efficient and encouraged way to obtain copies of Linux distros)) Watching uTorrent is like watching a dear old friend become incontinent, start shitting the bed and randomly shouting expletives. Ugh.  Further down the drain it swirls

I hear ~~qTorrent~~ qBittorrent is an open-source replacement.  Anyone have any experience with it?  How is it? That's what I switched to a couple of weeks ago. I was tired of being presented "willing asian brides". Haven't looked back since. Does exactly what you want without any extra fluff (like uTorrent used to be) But would you recommend it to a person in search of a willing Asian bride? I'm sure there are better options than a torrenting program for you. You never know.  I was looking for a pay2win mobile game with boobs strewn across it, so I downloaded a geocaching app, and now I found the perfect game for me! "Come play with us m'lord." Why would anyone need that Jewell00? Comeon. That's what I use. Haven't used uTorrent in years.  One of the main problems I had when I was still using uTorrent was the download speed crashing to zero after a while when more than one large file was being downloaded, and I had the same problem with qBittrorent for a while. I fixed it by running the program as administrator, now I can download 23 MB/s without any problems.  "Disc overload 100%" Uninstalled UTorrent


Asked me to fill out survey  


(sure. I'll be the voice of the Internet)


Finished survey!!!  


Redirected to an ad page to make money from filling out surveys......


Are you f-kin kidding me?  Getting me on the way out too? It seems to be run by those type of people who know nothing except running things into the ground in order to squeeze maximum short term profit out of it. The forum post is down.  Now it just takes you to a page that says: "This Account Has Been Suspended"

I took a PDF of the "Warning: EpicScale "riskware" silently installed with latest uTorrent" thread that I still had open, and uploaded that PDF as images to imgur: http://imgur.com/a/QGrgi Does anyone know if there's a way to migrate my ~1500 torrents and their download locations from uTorrent to qBittorrent?  [deleted] &gt; If you don't end up finding something let me know and I'll see if I can write a script to do it for you.

\* writes script to install epicscale \* But for philanthropic initiatives, so its all cool I use tixati, it feels pretty light and has zero ads.  Ugly as fuck, but I love it. I like it. Has much more cool statistics and "crap is going on" screens that the other clients.

Who cares about a pretty window when nothing useful is showing up? If its just downloading its minimized anyway... Seriously. It's jam packed with useful statistics and tools. 

I didn't get a computer or choose its software to sit around staring at my pretty empty windows full of whitespace and curves. I got one to get shit done, and Tixati does that in spades. I think it's prettier than any other torrent client out there, but that might just be because I find form that *actually follows function* appealing for some strange reason. I googled it...

Holy crap is it ugly! You weren't kidding  Wow, had to check myself. [Definitely not pretty](http://screenshots.en.sftcdn.net/en/scrn/84000/84822/tixati-07-700x531.png), but I'll try it anyway. Haven't seen software this ugly since 1995. That screenshot reminds me of the WinMX.

I miss WinMX :( Me too, for a couple years now. Ever since I've started using it, I've never needed anything else:

Gets the job done, integrates well with the system, very customizable, and doesn't bog down your connection or computer.

Highly recommended. Deluge made an awesome replacement when uTorrent went full retard. Deluge is nice indeed but seems a bit more heavyweight to me. [qBittorrent](http://www.qbittorrent.org/) is more lightweight like the original uTorrent. First the malware, now this? Fuck utorrent  uTorrent has been shit for a year or so. Switch to Deluge, it's what uTorrent used to be. Light, stable and very functional.  For those looking for alternatives and are looking at qBittorrent, wanted to let you all know that Ninite gave Torrent the boot long ago and added qBittorrent.


http://ninite.com So how would I find out if uTorrent (now uninstalled) installed the miner on my computer, I don't see EpicScale in my program list, or on my processes.  C:\Program Data\Epicscale

Not program files, program data.

If you see it, delete it. Also, [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2y4lar/popular_torrenting_software_torrent_has_included/cp685vx) I have utorrent current version, I've searched everywhere for EpicScale and I can't find it anywhere, not in programs, command search or anything. Huh? From TorrentFreak:

&gt;Update: The silent install appears to happen selectively, and not on all machines. TF had confirmation from various sides and with screenshots of every step of the install process where no Epic Scale screen appeared. In one case, the opt-out screen was eventually shown after several re-installs.

http://i.imgur.com/6oY2bLh.png That's a fuck up on an *epic scale*. Uhm... so, this is bad? I have no idea what that means. ELI5 pls It's using your cpu power to mine bitcoins for themselves ugh.. what a douche move It's not even just that. Your CPU has a LOT of power saving features to basically run on a very low wattage when not in use.

To do a quick calculation for cost of energy: 

KWatts * Hours * Cost of KWh = Total cost.

Let's say on average your computer runs your CPU at say... Let's say 30 watts. Nothing amazing; it's probably higher.

0.03 KW * (24 * 30) * 0.1 C/KWh = 2.16$ a month just running your CPU. This is ridiculously low especially considering 30 watts is pretty nominal, you're probably looking at 50-70 watts average on a modern CPU but I choose 30 watts because it can drastically vary from CPU to CPU and laptops would run really low wattage, desktops higher.

Anyway, if you run the calculation again and assuming your CPU has a max output at 100 watts, a bittorrent program might cause your computer to run at say 90 watts. That might only be 6.48$ in electricity BUT THAT'S STILL MONEY YOU SHOULDN'T OF HAD TO SPEND. It worse assuming if you have multiple computers and never shut them off. It's also worse if you assume they might even be using your GPU to do calculations(They probably aren't, to complicated/easy to see if they are) and GPUs use around 3 to 4 times the wattage of your CPU.

This is VERY fucking horrible because they actually sell uTorrent. They might sell it for 10$(I dunno who buys uTorrent) so they can effectively charge you about 4$ a month without you knowing. Of course they might not get 4$ a month in selling the coins they get your computer to mine; but they still get a return by selling coins they mined. The last bit is one of the huge fuck yous about this. Cryptocoins can easily be underwater compared to the electrical cost of generating them. So they may end up leaning on you for $4-5 a month of real costs just so they can make a fraction of that.  Correct me if I am mistaken, but for a end-user with a normal CPU, mining bitcoins isn't even profitable due to the cost of electricity, right? Pretty much. Though to be fair if you can install a mining software on a million CPUs that aren't yours you can make a decent profit due to no cost for electricity on your part.

Like uTorrent did. Though uTorrent would be pretty dumb to mine bitcoins on CPUs. It'd probably be more profitable to mine Litecoin(Still doubt it) and even more profitable to have a person knowledgeable go on forums and mine the most hyped upcoming coin/early coin. If it blows up they make a killer profit, if it stays neutral they still make profit, if it tanks they lose nothing. 

Some coins for example within the fist week or more people can create huge and I mean huge amounts of generation. Mining works normally by giving more coins earlier and then decreasing with time.

So within first month it may generate 1/3rd of all coins to be mined period. Then next 6 months generate another 1/3rd, then years to generate the last 1/3rd though it entirely depends. 

Since it goes by if you solve a block you get X reward in coins, if say the total hash rate is 5 K/Hash on the coin in question at the beginning, and you are giving it 2 k/Hash of the 5 k/Hash you're getting basically 1/8th of the total coins in the first month. Of course if it's popular it'll increase within first month, but in general some bigger names/smarter people who get in REALLY early(most profitable time) can make a huge amount of bank.

A typical coin if it has any support is guaranteed to hit at least 100,000$, if you can sell it at 1 month in you made 10k. Some people wait and if coin fails it tanks from 100k to like 1k after a month, BUT if it gains popularity can increase to millions. So do you decide to sell at 100k? Or wait till 1 to 3 million with your 1/10th of the coins?

I used to be into it pretty hard core; and actually made 36k off of mining, but it's just not really worth it. I sold my first batch early(Dogecoin) and hated myself because I got 16k for my coins could have got probably close to 100k or more. Then I got 3k here, 4k there and gave up after I got to far engrossed and never made profit for like 8 months at one point.

Anyone who used to or still does mine dogecoin; I sold 100 million dogecoin for 16k. Even now that dogecoin is basically tanked 100 million is still 17K CAD where I live. At it's peak it would of been roughly 240 satoshi~(I sold roughly when it hit 40ish satoshi after the first initial drop from 100 satoshi to 40 before it skyrocketed.

You live and learn, market is extremely volatile and it's hard to gauge what's going to be the next best thing really. &gt; SHOULDN'T OF

SHOULDN'T HAVE I don't even get it. They're gonna make very, very little money CPU mining BTC. Those days are long over. On one hand, BTC isn't very valuable now. On the other hand, they have access to a huge number of computers, and it costs them nothing (except the goodwill of the users, but any users who care about shitty software have already abandoned them). So it may not be much money but it's free money. Installing Utorrent will also install another program (without your permission) that uses your computer to generate them money. alright I just unistalled utorrent. How do I uninstall that other program? I haven't used Utorrent in years, but from memory it used to be one of the preferred clients of my main torrent site, speed.cd.  

Anyway, I used Deluge for a bit recently and its good.  Currently using Tixati and am also happy with that. Additional news post in Dutch: http://tweakers.net/nieuws/101750/nieuwe-versie-utorrent-levert-cryptocoin-miner-mee.html

Same article run through Google Translate: https://translate.google.com/translate?sl=nl&amp;tl=en&amp;js=y&amp;prev=_t&amp;hl=nl&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;u=http%3A%2F%2Ftweakers.net%2Fnieuws%2F101750%2Fnieuwe-versie-utorrent-levert-cryptocoin-miner-mee.html&amp;edit-text= English news source: http://www.trustedreviews.com/news/utorrent-silently-installing-bundled-bitcoin-mining-software Can someone settle this argument? 

Is the name pronounced as "you torrent" or "micro torrent?"

Not trolling, I've just only ever seen the name written and have wondered how people say its name.   Right now it's pronounced "fuck you" torrent. I believe the founder wanted it to be pronounced "mu" as in the greek letter -torrent. But everyone calls it "You torrent". 

Thankfully it no longer matters because this software is dead now. Man, so glad I've been incredibly lazy about upgrading from the 2010 version (v2.02 or something)... Doesn't even need an installer, just the bare, 314k executable stashed somewhere. :) How does this apply to the Android app side of things?  They don't really have a good track record so I'd just switch to something else if I were you. Something like [Flud](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.delphicoder.flud) +1 for Flud, the Android version of utorrent has always been shit and crashes my Xperia Z3 Tablet Compact (running CM12 nightly). Flud runs so well and doesn't kill my tablet.  Thank you, their apps are really clunky and ad-pushing. Uninstalling both (they're both the same with minor UI changes lol) and installing that. Flud corrupts video files though and that got old pretty quickly for me.

Instead of downvoting me...maybe share tips on fixing it. Any video I get and transfer to a PC shows as corrupt... Use flud my man Thanks for the tip! I'll check it out.  Probably already using your 4g to query for Asian teen brides for pro users.  Phew! Good thing I have unlimited!  That EpicScale is the biggest load of bullshit I've ever seen.

"Your computer can help the world solve problems"

Translation:

"We will use every fucking ounce of power we can get from your computer to mine money for ourselves, and we'll give just enough to charity so we can say we're giving to charity."

uTorrent probably owns it - doesn't look like it's a popular site and it makes no sense for it to be a partner unless they're paying per install.

That admin trying to talk it up was fucking unbelievable. No no you fuck, what you/your program did was install something to steal resources. Doesn't matter if 100% of it was given to charity - you cannot sugar coat it in any way - you were caught STEALING. EVERYONE, LISTEN !!! Do you remember what uTorrent was before all the bullshit ? The super lightweight, userfriendly p2p client ? That's qBittorent now, go get it !

edit: by lightweight I meant pc resourcefulness \&gt;super lightweight

\&gt;10 mb

top kek bro That's mostly because of the QT-libraries.  \&gt;the year is 2015

\&gt;still don't measure software weight by disk space occupancy

\&gt;nothing has changed Exactly, everyone keeps saying ultra super mega giga lightweight, yet its 10MB! WTH! uTorrent was less than 1 MB.

I'll just install the old version of uTorrent (2.2.1), seems to be perfectly fine, with no ads and no malware. 2.2.1 is where it's at. It was 82kb when I first heard of it  uTorrent is a joke. I think it's pretty silly to consider downloading older versions of the software when there are great, up-to-date alternatives. Deluge is really good on windows and linux, transmission is good on linux too, they're both lightweight and able to be daemonized. If you're looking for something similar to uTorrent without all this bs, get qBittorent. What's silly about using a piece of software that has worked perfectly for several years and still works perfectly? Bit-Torrent is open source. The code is free for anyone to use and modify. You don't need to use the proprietary utorrent software from a company when there are free alternatives which are arguably better.  Well, you have to use *something*, and I would argue that utorrent 2.x is the "best" (small, easy to configure, widely allowed on private trackers).  utorrent 2.x has security issues, stability issues, and lack features that other updated open-source have. I don't know why you'd choose to use outdated software when there are better open-source alternatives that are actively supported. Well, you do it your way and I'll do it mine. Just be aware that private tracker admins and seed boxes pretty much across the board use utorrent 2.x. Most private trackers have a smallish list of allowed clients, and non listed clients will not work with that tracker. Buggy clients are banned universally. Utorrent 2 is far and away the most used client.  To me it's not really worth it, I'm not going out of my way to find and download a version of software that is years old when a better community developed alternative is available. Also, there are likely unfixed bugs that are only fixed in later versions. qBittorrent &lt;3 qbittorent is best. Yup, i figured long time ago. I switched back when the ads started showing up. 

I noticed that only one or two of the trackers shows as active in qbittorrent at a time. Way to get your software uninstalled uTorrent. You had one job. uTorrent was incredible back in the day. Now it's nothing but a money scamming bot. Fuck them.

I have no problem if you're trying to make some cash of you're product, but damn, uTorrent brings it to next level shit.

qBittorent works very nicely. I highly recommend switching. Been on deluge for years. Ever since utorrent went full retard with the bloatware and toolbar installers. Who remembers when it was like 100 KB? Deluge is where it's at.  Amen Brother! I use transmission-cli on my Linux powered NAS box, and I have Transmission GUI on all my various devices ( both Mac and Windows). With this setup, my NAS is always powered on and online, so I am constantly seeding any of my completed torrents. An additional bonus is that I can start a new torrent from anywhere in the world via Transmission GUI, and it'll be downloaded to my NAS by the time I get back home.

If you partner that with Plex Media Server, you can instantly transcode and stream that file (assuming it's audio or video) to pretty much any device once the torrent is finished downloading. Its kinda like my own personal video on demand service... Look up Flexget. It makes the circle complete. [deleted] I've been wondering this, too.  I have 40+ files that I want to keep for my tracker, but I also want to move to a new program without losing the old files' progress. Possible, if the new torrent program you use has the option to check the files integrity and see what is already downloaded. I switched to Qbitorrent and then to Deluge..I prefer Deluge but both are excellent alternatives The scale of today's uTorrent uninstalls is truly epic. I was thinking that as I uninstalled it! Been using it pretty much since the limewire/kazaa days. Emotional times. 

On the flip side, qbitorrent guys must be having the best day ever!  Good thing I switched to Deluge ages ago.  What a bunch of wankers. Well then. Guess that's the final straw for me, time to switch BT client. From reading this post, I think I'll try qBittorrent. People still use that piece of malware? We have qBittorrent and many other great alternatives... Greasier than Randy's cheesburgers. So did the rules officially go into effect then? Are ISPs supposed to not cap or throttle data anymore? And do the new FCC rules cover mobile as well? It was my understanding that the rules don't go into effect until 60 days after it was passed. Don't think it's been 60 days yet  No. AFAIK, they are not allowed to throttle based on content. The ability to cut you off or throttle you based on cumulative usage is not affected.

I pay for a mobile plan that says very specifically when I will be throttled and what to. You guys that are complaining about mobile ... does your plan state differently? Some of the older plans did not have that stipulation in them, one of my friends is on AT&amp;T and his contract just says unlimited. No where does it state that after X amount you'll be dropped to 2G speeds. Same with my Verizon unlimited data plan, no where does it state that after X amount you'll be throttled. AT&amp;T added that clause shortly before discontinuing their unlimited plan. Guy that works for At&amp;t here. When we introduced throttling the terms of all contracts were "legally modified" to include the slow down. What's on paper means little as the contract tends to have verbiage in there that says we can change terms when we chose. There is a crack team of evil lawyers who keep that in check.  &gt;There is a crack team of evil lawyers who keep that in check. 


Wolfram &amp; Hart? 
 And that has been challenged when the guy took AT&amp;T to arbitration and they still found in his favor because when the contracts are changed you get no notice whatsoever most of the time. If this ever went to court it would most likely be scrutinized highly and possibly even thrown out. Yeah. I wasn't sure if any of those were still around. I know sometimes they put it in the fine print. That stuff was shitty and probably violates some existing law even without the new FCC regulations.

Meanwhile, though, I'm getting very cheap service from an MVNO that I probably wouldn't be able to get if they weren't charging basically by the GB. There are still a shitload of us with unlimited plans still around on Verizon and I'd imagine there are even more on AT&amp;T thanks to phones being easier to get for a cheap price on AT&amp;T since there are more GSM phones. AT&amp;T has a crapload of unlimited folks that they've been aggressively trying to dump for a couple years now using the flimsiest of pretexts. My brother and I were still on a $20 unlimited data plan from the old days when it was at&amp;t, before it was Cingular, before it became new at&amp;t. My brother got booted from his plan for allowing his Google Glass to "tether" over Bluetooth, *one time* for about three minutes to check functionality. The worst part is, they have so many because it's *it's their own fault*. They forced early iPhone folks to buy the expensive unlimited plan because it seemed like the easiest way to screw a lot of people out of the most money possible. Now that everyone is using Mobile data though, they want to reverse it to screw them *again*. If I wasn't on such a cheap plan, is switch. They also flat out lie to customers to encourage them to switch. They told my mother the standard, "you don't even use that much data and it's a little cheaper to get a limited plan" line without showing her any number at all when I know for a fact we all use more than the 5gb they offer and she fell for it.  So you're purchasing new phones on retail price to avoid changing your grandfathered in plan? No, you do not have to pay retail. I upgraded to an iPhone 6 last week and was able to keep my grandfathered AT&amp;T unlimited data plan. I paid the normal (subsidized) price by re-upping for 2 more years. And paying a shitty $40 device transfer fee. That's only true on AT&amp;T. Verizon will not allow you to subsidize an  upgrade without losing your unlimited anymore. The last major phone they allowed that on was the S3. Same here. I've been on an unlimited plan since the original iphone and have upgraded 2-3 times and have been able to keep my original plan. I'll be getting the 6+ later this month since it'll be upgrade time again. Yes. You can also purchase them  from anywhere, like eBay, and avoid losing your plan as well. These are people grandfathered from At&amp;t's "truly unlimited" plan. At&amp;t actually sold unlimited plans that were actually unlimited and when they wanted to fuck everyone in the name of money they switched to tiered plans. The people getting throttled are in a contract that says they flat out get unlimited Internet but At&amp;t started to throttle them anyways to encourage them to switch to their more expensive plans. The issue is with customers on older plans that didn't state that. AT&amp;T is retroactively attempting to apply abusive rules against the terms of those contracts. Not sure when but yes they do affect mobile internet as well. To reinforce what you said: Wheeler specifically said when addressing this issue, before they passed ruling, that this would not be limited to just ground based communications, that this would include wireless carriers too. 60 days from the ruling No, 60 days from publishing in the Federal Register. In other words this is a made up story, wonder who is shorting AT&amp;T. This really pushes publicity for AT&amp;T in a negative way. For those who didn't know their data was being throttled, will definitely be aware of it now.  [Oh trust me, we can tell](http://i.imgur.com/PXTBrvb.png)

My billing cycles the 10th of every month. The speed at the lowest is the throttled one.

EDIT: To everyone saying how ISPs fake results and shouldn't trust them, I contacted ATT about the shit speeds I was getting and they told me that they throttled my speeds because I exceeded the limit(?) to my UNLIMITED plan. (I went over 5GB whoop de fucking doo). Also everything was loading very very slow. 

Also take into account this is a ATT Note 4 with full 4G LTE service at the time in a not too big city. This was also done after a full shutdown, restart with all Samsung and ATT bloatware fully removed using certain tools which you can find on XDA. I am by no means a amateur with dealing with ISPs and electronics.  the worst part was when i called them about this they said "you shouldn't notice it at all"....... "Please stop noticing." konichiwa senpai please notice me Kyyyyaaaahh!  ISP-chan, please don't throttle me there! [You know you like it.](http://38.media.tumblr.com/8de114fb6a8e03f329d99b2bbe01b1c9/tumblr_n4mx734ABZ1s0sk8ho1_400.gif)

NSFWish &gt; konichiwa senpai

I...I...don't know what I expected. "Now that you noticed, we're going to have to slow down your noticing speeds." Did they try telling you it wasn't cold in your place today? 

"Na man, you shouldn't even notice we cut your power, it's warm today, you're good."

Did they try and tell you that you didn't have to pee as well? 

"Na dude that's just normal sit back down, you're good."

**"You shouldn't notice"??** Well guess what buddy? I noticed and that's why I'm fucking calling! exactly. they said i wouldn't notice it. and if i did, only maybe a little when streaming video.

Nope. Gmail didn't work because connection would time out. Snapchat too. Chrome too. Youtube too.

Basically my phone didn't work on LTE at all for most of the month, thats why I switched to tmobile.... But guys, it's the nation's strongest 4G LTE network! Believe everything you hear on TV! I like the commercial that says they optimized their network by putting their antennas at the top of their towers. WTF did they do before? Just set them on the ground? Brilliant: "Guys, instead of burying our cell towers, how about we put them, like, UP?" &gt;we put them, like, UP?

With balloons and my dead wife? Sorry, [google is way ahead of you man](http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/06/googles-balloon-based-wireless-networks-may-not-be-a-crazy-idea/):

&gt; Google is reportedly developing wireless networks for sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast Asia that would combine a technology well established for such purposes (TV White Spaces) with one that's a bit more exoticballoons that transmit wireless signals.

  "Hey you should get really great service now! We learned that not putting a Faraday cage on our antennas improves reception. We are going to have to charge you a small fee to remove the cages, but you're ok with that right?" Weren't they all in a warehouse in Nebraska? Maybe its strong because they prevent people from using more than 5gb of data....

 Exactly why I hate data caps. Every carrier uses them to scare consumers from using the network, that way when consumers dare to use the network, it is "super duper fast!" Well sure. For the few minutes of streaming you're allowed to do each month, it's fast.

It's like a highway you're allowed to do 150mph on, but you're only allowed to go 5 miles a month. Sure, the highway is empty, when this is the fucking case.

I get there's only so much bandwidth to go around. I feel like this is all build up. All the carriers are fighting for the "fastest" network. The first carrier to fight to be "most unlimited" instead is going to turn the whole market around. They're going to find a very strong market of consumers who don't mind slower speeds if it means they can use their internet whenever they'd like. &gt;who don't mind slower speeds if it means they can use their internet whenever they'd like.

There is no technological barrier to keep these mutually exclusive, not only that but the federal gov't subsidized a shitload of infrastructure for telecomm companies to provide us with fast reliable internet and they all just took the money, built some network, restricted us from using it and laughed straight to the bank This is why I gave in and switched from unlimited to 30gb with tethering. It doesn't get throttled, whereas before I would get .5mbps after 5gb, which is some medieval shit.  They cant make you pay for tethering.. it's a capability the phone naturally has. If you're "paying" for that as a bonus you're getting tricked Tell that to verizon who charged 24.99 a month for years when my users were tethering over blackberries.  Oh yes they can. Where do you live? In the U.S. it's standard to be charged for tethering. That's the main reason I jailbreak; to get around this stupid, greedy policy of AT&amp;T and Verizon. Haha. Yes, it's like that in the UK. Just tether up and go. But then, in the UK we have some decent competition.  "We know the bridge is strong because we set a 100lb weight limit!" Translation: Strongest profit for our shareholders.  Yeah, i'd rather live with sprint who is actually honest about their unlimited data. Although their connections are slow it's not really their fault, well it is and it isn't.


They invested all their money rolling out 4G before everyone else, but they backed the wrong technology and have just recently started switching from Wimax to LTE in the past few years, it's been brutal but eh.  I can download a terrabyte of data if I wanted to and not spend an extra cent.


Plus the only place I have connection issues is my parents, but ATT and verizon phones suck there too. It was a good thing here. What I mean is, Sprint left Hawaii at 3G and never rolled out 4G. Now, they are installing LTE and we went from 3G to LTE overnight. Everyone I know here in Honolulu with Sprint is really happy right now! "Here is the McLaren F1 you paid for, and your gallon of fuel*. Enjoy the raw speed and power!" 

*Fuel composition is proprietary and cannot be bought anywhere. Monthly allotment of fuel is 1 gallon, refreshed every month at the begging if your billing cycle.  I'm on Verizon. Pretty much every day around 4-6 p.m. my mobile connection gets shut off, even though it says it's on. Can't send texts, get on the internet, but I can still make calls. So aggravating. SMS doesn't use the Data connection unless you're using a 3rd party messaging app, Group SMS, or MMS.

EDIT: You need to contact Verizon or change providers. SMS uses the same connection your calls do, if you can call but not SMS you haved a different problem. Source: Large Telco Tech Support. So stop giving them money.  Stuff like this happened to me with TWC and they were literally the only ISP in the entire area despite it being a 300,000 population city. If you dropped it you just didn't have internet.  That sounds like a commercial for antidepressants.  I would love a series of cell phone commercials like that. Yeah. AT&amp;T is slitting their own throats here. T-Mobile can just keep getting new customers. It just means more money for more towers and better coverage for us in the long run.  "You won't notice that kidney missing; we'll just take the one." "What's in here?"  
"It's my kidney"  
"This isn't a kidney, just looks like a pork chop..with a bone." Don't touch that bone, that's my kidney bone. I need that to keep my kidney in place. They told me "you will still have a good experience on the net" and then I got errors loading Facebook and even STREAMING PANDORA on regular quality. Seriously, if I can't stream audio thrn the connection is unacceptably slow.  Yep exactly. They didn't seem to understand that the connection would just time out when loading big stuff  File complaints everyone! - http://www.fcc.gov/guides/filing-informal-complaint

Let's hit AT&amp;T in the pocketbook.
 The problem is if you call in the guy on the phone cant do anything for you.  Its an att thing and the poor guy you talk to is just trying to make $10 an hour.  Oh I know. I tried calling several times to remove the "flag on my account" for throttling. Each time I was as polite as possible. Until they started lying about tmobiles services to try and dissuade me from switching....

They said the "tech team" put it there and only the tech team could remove it.

Then I called them 3 separate times to give me a discount on my bill or restore the service or I would be switching to tmobile. Each and every time they told me there was nothing they could do at all.

When I tried to change my plan to save money they only offered to put me on a more expensive plan.... The only thing they did was give me free credit for text messages that I don't use anyway....

They even lied about T-Mobile and told me Id be limited to 2gb and the network sucks. The 2gb limit thing was sort of true several years ago. But not anymore. I switched a few days later and now I enjoy effectively unlimited data (20gb and up) aside from torrenting.

 Whenever my home internet goes out because I need to reset the router I just turn on the WiFi ap on my phone instead of fixing it..... Uhh they are wrong about t-mobile. I've been pushing 30gb a month of data for a while now with no slow down. tmobile is best mobile for data I know they are wrong. I found out by calling T-Mobile and asking. And then doing the tmobile test drive, and switching T-Mobile.... And realizing att is full of shit welcome to the data side News flash!  Company representatives are not paid to give you information that favors the competition. Research everything!! and by research I mean look on Reddit to have others research for you! The line that I got over and over again from them is that "every carrier does it." So naturally it must be okay. Why, they practically don't have a choice. I ditched ATT a long time ago and went back to T-Mobile. Luckily in my area I get excellent speeds most of the time. Haven't ran into a cap issue as of yet, however it is supposed to be unlimited so there is that. Obligatory rubbing it in post:  http://imgur.com/hrZwMu5 I'm on T-Mobile also. Great speeds and sane data plans. Only complaint: leaving the LTE coverage area drops me to speeds ranging somewhere between cans on a string and injured carrier pigeons. Then I just tether to my work phone on AT&amp;T and get on with my life. Yep. I love my speeds and pricing/flexibility on T-Mobile, and you're totally right about getting outside their LTE coverage. Thing is, whenever I'm outside of that coverage area, I'm always doing something fun where I don't care what kind of data coverage I have. So it really doesn't bother me at all. I still have plenty good service for calls and texts in those areas, and that's all I really need. Yep. If I'm out at the lake or camping I might want to get a text in or out every now and then. If the wind blows just right they'll get out. I'm fine with not having coverage outside of the area. I'm lucky to have another phone for that when I'm out for work. Having a TMobile persoanl phone w/ unlimited data and an AT&amp;T work phone with 2gb has be living in the best of both worlds. Anytime I'm at home or at work or pretty much any place while not traveling, freaking fast LTE TMobile. As soon as I travel and my Tmobile drops to pigeon speed, AT&amp;T.  The internet on your cell phone, even on your worst day, is faster than the fastest wired internet available that I can get at my house. #Fuck

I'm impressed with 13 down... I think I get around 6-7 down at my house. Two more months and I can flee this place On a good day I get 3 down at 40$ a month 11 miles from a small city in Texas. $70 a month for 2 mbps. That was an upgrade from 1 mbps that I had from 2005-2013.

You don't know pain. Just to keep it reasonable, you do live 11 miles from a small city in Texas. That's not exactly a developed area, at least on paper. Same boat. I feel you. People complaining about 10 down have no idea what we go through. I'm in the same boat brother.

Fuck rural internet. http://imgur.com/lkT8HJE
 Same with me. I've never ran into throttling or data cap issues with T-Mobile. I've had them for going on 12 years. Mine cycles on the 10th of the month too. I recently hit a new low of .08 Mbps down, meaning my phone is literally a brick. It takes me 5 minutes to watch a vine.  Welcome to Australia, where its faster to kill and barbeque a kangaroo than to load a youtube video in 720p I've jokingly talked with friends that are inter-state to download and send me games on a HDD sometimes because of results like [this](http://www.speedtest.net/my-result/2895240488). Although my [best](http://www.speedtest.net/my-result/3302698378) isn't exactly that great either. ["Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes hurtling down the highway."](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sneakernet) Oh that reminds me of when Guild Wars 2 launched, a generous redditor (/u/zidanerick I think it was) was giving away the install of the game on dvds for free to people with shitty internet. I was really grateful for that. And I wouldn't hesitate to do it again if the need arose ;) Still got a handful of those CD mailers floating around actually lol &gt;["Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes hurtling down the highway."](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sneakernet)

I'm personally a fan of IPoAC. It has absolutely massive bandwidth (albeit the packet loss is pretty bad).

Hopefully there will be an extension of it to fully support drones soon. if you buy a new SSD, load games on it, ship it and throw the drive away each time, it might still be cheaper than overage fees per gigabyte. Trucks/boats/planes full of hard drives. Incredible bandwidth, terrible latency.  That is sprints standard speed, so there is always that. yep.  I love seeing my speeds go from 20mb down to barely 2mb.  Fuck at&amp;t.

Edit: [Here is my pic of results as well](http://i.imgur.com/2K615zT.png).  AT&amp;T can suck a fat one.  The shitty part is that some times my wifi is just as terrible (thanks time warner) as my phone service. We can tell indeed. http://i.imgur.com/AcMKdml.jpg I've got MetroPCS. The speeds are fantastic. As soon as you hit the 4G data limit, it throttles to 15KBps. That's 56k x3. Its 2015. I can't even stream YouTube in 144p.

Fuck throttling. That sounds horrible, but 56kbps is 7kBps. You're still doubling the theoretical maximum speed of dial-up, frighteningly enough. [Ye fuck at&amp;t its so obvious.](http://imgur.com/a/Cl4JY) Once HTML5 versions of gifs don't load smoothly, I know the monthly throttling has begun. Yeah! Take that paying customers! Go fuck yourselves! What difference will it make to AT&amp;T? Clearly negative publicity hasn't stopped them (or any of the other shitty telecoms to stop). And what is the FCC going to do about it? Fine them a little money? I think everyone who visits mobilecomputingtoday or reddit is already quite aware. Not necessarily. Remember Reddit represents a vocal minority not a majority. Needs to be on actual news reports if you want the majority to know. They're forcing the FCC to take the first step, they're hoping. 

I don't know if the consumers can join a class action in the state the rules are.  According to the contract, no. But you can arbitrate individually, or find a judge that does not respect the arbitration clause. In either case, you will win (and people have, even in arbitration). It's a clear contract violation.

It'll be interesting to see how this plays out. A contract can not be legally binding if it takes you outside the letter of the law, no? But do these rules constitute law, or guidelines?  You'd have to petition a judge to rule that the contract is unenforceable. Contract law is complex.  Part of the contract could be nullified if it's illegal. I really don't see this being a violation of net neutrality per se (once it's signed into law). It could fall under the network management practices guidelines, and that's all kind of vague, so the FCC would have to decide if this flies. It would depend on if it's otherwise legal, and if the FCC decided it to be reasonable for them to do this. But, it will probably stay with the FTC and I'm sure no matter what happens people will be unhappy, and nothing will change for quite a while.  That's how we get a precedent set According to the business law class I just took (not a lawyer, etc.), if you have an issue with a contract that has an arbitration clause, then you are legally bound to the arbitration clause unless you are specifically challenging the arbitration clause. Generally speaking, Rules and regulations propagated through notice and comment by federal agencies are *laws*.  The process is called "notice and comment rulemaking," and under the APA (the Administrative Practice Act, a federal law) is used by federal agencies to inform the public/industries about upcoming rule changes.  Once these rules/regs have been through the notice/comment process (and depending on the agency's specific mandate), they enter the CFR (the Code of Federal Regulations) and become "laws."  

Agency rules/regs are generally weaker than statutes passed by a legislature, simply because they are more open to challenge - courts have a bit more leeway to strike down agency action or rulemaking, but really hesitate to meddle with the actions of the legislature.  So functionally, the new FCC rules will be "law" once they go into effect - but if and when they get challenged, there's always a possibility (however slim) that they won't survive. Verizon Fios has changed immediately.  Imgur and Reddit Comment pages and YouTube were noticeably slow all the time, but worse during peak hours. Now, all of it loads instantly like I would expect. Fucking years of paying for high speed Internet and now I finally feel like I'm getting what I'm paying for.  I have Time Warner.  They're still definitely throttling Netflix.  Guess I have to wait to see how it plays out. My Netflix would always play before, but the quality was atrocious any time after dinner. I'll have to test that out tonight to see.  I'm at your house right now. Want me to check it real quick? What house?  I live in a van down by the river.  Ugh. I still have a connection barely above '99 and I supposedly get 300mbps with TWC. I hate them with a passion. Unfortunately I live in the only fiberhood in Austin to not qualify for Google fiber. I will be moving. Eh, dozens of things could play into that. Not all slowness is throttling.  True, but I've moved from Florida to Maryland and had exactly the same experience until the other day when this went into effect. It's night and day. YouTube used to take 30 seconds to consider loading a video. Now, it's 1-2 seconds every time. Imgur was horrendous randomly.  Now, all pictures load instantly.  Sure it could be something else, but the timing is right for me to hope it's a win for Net Neutrality.  I've always found YouTube to be random in terms of its speeds, but Imgur sounds like a serious issue somewhere along the line. 

The only thing that Verizon throttled in a potentially unfair manner was Netflix, and that wasn't throttling per se (they let the interconnections between them and Cogent, Netflix's backbone provider, saturate without upgrading as part of a peering dispute).  This is probably why Comcast, TWC and AT&amp;T doesnt want to abide by the rules until theyve exhausted all options to avoid doing so. If their users were to experience actual unthrottled internet they might get used to it and fight to keep it.  FiOS user.  Can confirm. I don't think the ruling has actually taken effect, has it? Could swear the new regulations don't actually kick in until April, in which case, this behavior is unfortunately still fair game.  If we can join in if something like this were to happen, it would definitely not be the first with AT&amp;T, so the chances are higher than some might think. Probably not a class action, but you file a complaint with the FCC.

Wait until the new rules actually go into effect though. Just cause they've been publishes doesn't mean they're in effect yet. I can't remember the time lag on that.

Once they do go into effect, you definitely should file a complaint with the FCC if they are still throttling. No contract can prevent you from doing that, AFAIK. IANAL. So besides warnings 1-3 and fines AT&amp;T will probably scoff at, what are the actions taken to ensure net neutrality? AT&amp;T and Comcast are doing everything they can to shit all over their customers. Yet, I have no doubt that they'll blame the government when people leave for new/better options as they [finally] become available. Don't forget time warner. They are throttling too Am I able to legally demand recourse by calling and threatening them? I know they throttle when I play League of Legends because my ping magically sky rockets each and every time I play. They also frequently throttle Xbox connection. I have 1.5 mb/s tops. Throttling makes everything unplayable. I can't stand their business practices and would love to call them out. They will simply claim they are not. Unless you can build a legitimate case against them with a bunch of data, and find a lawyer who will agree to help you, you're pretty much SOL until a class-action lawsuit is threatened upon them forcing policy changes.  We need a Snowden-style person from ATT and Comcast to step up and say something.

Or just government oversight like there is in the electricity sector, where everything is a regulated monopoly and the internet becomes classified as a utility. Whistleblowers are punished in this country, not the people they blow the whistle on.   Reporting crimes being committed by big entities is considered the crime now.    You aren't going to find a high ISP level infrastructure/design engineer to jump ship, they pay too well :0 I can still threaten the customer service rep right? I have the speedtest data from 2 different sites over the last 3 months, is that enough to at least call them out on their shit? I mean, regardless of if you call out the customer service rep, I do not think they will ever admit to it. Especially now that it is against the FCC's ruling. I guarantee they will spew some BS about how your service speed can be affected by time of day, and your network usage and such.
I'm actually going to start logging my speeds hourly to a spreadsheet, and see when they actually throttle me/what my average speeds are. I was so mad the other day. 3 in the morning Monday night just wanted to play leauge. Ping of 456 and then a speed of .12 mb/s down. Bullshit that somehow people are using that much data near me that late.  All your neighbors were torrenting terabytes of data overnight. To be fair, it's *possible*.  My scheduler actually switches to unlimited once I go to bed.  =p I've discovered that time to be "Netflix" hour where all the internet at my school grinds to a halt The only way to really prove they are throttling would be to build a case. Do the following. 
 1. Do speed tests, show what your average speed is 
2. Do latency tests
3. Record your latency and discrepancies when playing a game. 
4. Purchase a month of a private vpn service. 
5. Do speed tests and latency again
 - speed should be similar to baseline, latency will be higher. 
6. Play your game, record speed and latency. 

Even better, do this with a LEGAL torrent, Linux or similar 

Basically, if speed through vpn is higher than direct, you are likely being throttled. If it's slower, then you have a shit connection that is unable to cope with the speed being sent (dsl will give lots of issues if assigned a speed it can't use, packet drops and whatnot) 

Call and make your case. 
* 
Why legal torrent? Cause you have to have a legitimate usage of this controversial software, and not, I can't download the latest episode of glee or whatever terrible shown you watch.  Make sure you don't have "Pando Media Booster" installed. League in the past has included that software, and it is a P2P based program that was used in the past for allowing people to receive patches faster... at the expense of other's upload (and ping). I can't understand why they would throttle League of Legends traffic - it is barely a blip in total bandwidth.

You need to call and complain about your speeds, and not mention a word about gaming. Call simply complaining that you are never able to download anywhere close to your purchased speed and they WILL get a technician out there, testing your line, testing your modem, running speed tests on-site.

Do you guys just not ever try calling customer service? The fact is, coaxial cables are SHIT, and they degrade fast. 'High Rainfall' is enough to degrade the cable connection to your house, but all you have to do is call Time Warner and get a technician out there - they will run a BRAND NEW LINE to your house.

I just don't understand the TWC complaints. I personally have not had a problem with Time Warner, in the Nebraska area.  I uh, might do a 'small' amount of torrenting too.  My speeds are always 16 down and 1 up, which is what i pay $35 a month for.  Even right before my billing cycle turns over.  

I probably download 100+ GB a week, minimum.  
 It's obviously regulation crippling the free market.  I have the grandfathered "Unlimited" plan and for the past 3 months they've been saying I've gone over my limit. I think they have been overstating my usage. In no way have I increased my data use. I've filed FCC complaints each month. I'm getting really tired of AT&amp;T's bullshit, they're almost as bad as Verizon these days.

TLDR: I've filed an FCC complaint each of the last 3 months against AT&amp;T. At&amp;t has been caught data fluffing before. Am I just reading this wrong?

"Last years FTC suit against AT&amp;T was filed because it was alleged that nearly 3.5 million customers broadband speeds were throttled to speeds as low as 90 percent of what was promised to them in their plans."

I think the writer meant throttling them by as much as 90%, or to speeds as low as 10%. Bitching about throttling to 90% would be stupid.  You are correct, it was worded badly. I thought there a 60 day grace period before the rules took effect It's 60 days after being publish in the Federal Register.~~, which I'm not sure if that has happened yet.~~

Edit: It hasn't been published yet, according to the[ FR's website](https://www.federalregister.gov/agencies/federal-communications-commission). they were published 4 days ago to the fcc's official webpage but not the Federal Register yet and are available to download as a pdf

edit: i should have read that closer, no it hasn't been published in the federal register but a part of it was published here (https://federalregister.gov/a/2015-05180) concerning local franchising of cable companies.  Effective April 6, 2015

edit2: clarification  This isn't about Net Neutrality. This was an earlier lawsuit against AT&amp;T. They're probably still sore over the whole Bell thing. Or just greedy. No, the current AT&amp;T Wireless has nothing to do with that AT&amp;T. Current AT&amp;T used to be Cingular wireless who "merged" with AT&amp;T (bought their customer list and name, really) and rebranded as AT&amp;T Wireless. Can confirm. The last week or so of my month is terrible. Can't even use Siri it's so slow. (Before anyone asks, Siri is really useful when your phone is in your pocket while driving) Does this pertain to mobile data as well? Yes. Remember the top 5% of users being throttled down to 2G? Then the next month, the top 5% are users of even less data, and so on. It was total bullshit. I remember that, I just didn't realize that the net neutrality ruling also pertained to the mobile side of the data If my understanding is correct, the recent FCC actions *will* pertain to mobile data, but won't apply to throttling which does not distinguish between the source of data.  The companies can throttle your connection, based on your contract, if you go beyond a certain point, but they won't be able to throttle your connection to *Netflix*.  Basically, as long as they treat all your data the same it won't violate the new rules. This is only about mobile data  My Uverse is never at the actual speed I pay for. It's usually 1/4th that speed or slower.


Occasionally I can call and a customer service rep will "check the lines" then "restart my connection" and then I'll actually be at the quoted speeds for a day or two before it drops down drastically again.

It's appalling. I don't know how they can't just provide the speed I pay for. I have a 100mbit cable connection, an AT&amp;T rep called me trying to sell me Uverse and actually stated that their 20mbit dsl connection is faster because it's not shared. I died laughing.

PS: They also keep calling even after you've told them a thousand times you don't want their service. It's funny because what they told you was "technically" true, but only one metric and that is latency since it really is a dedicated connection to your home vs a shared node with cable latency will usually be better than cable over a dsl line although dsl cannot support the same bandwidth or distance cable can. that's because they're legally still allowed to if you just say no. you have to ask to be put on the do-not-call list. AT&amp;T customers should call customer service, en masse, and read this entire article to them, thus throttling their human resources.  Yea like they give a shit if your on hold for hours.  Doesn't make "David" work any harder if he's constantly on the phone anyway.   Switch carriers en masse and they will
Care.   Uh, wasn't that kinda the issue in the first place? I remember the word "Monopoly" being thrown around a lot. as low as 90% of the speed they paid for?  Maybe I'm reading that wrong but that doesn't sound that bad.

I'm curious how this couldn't still be legal.  If I promised you 5mbps for the first 2gig and then 4.5mbps from then on, wouldn't that still be allowed with the new legislation?  This is treating data equal and data caps and throttling are still allowed, just not source/content driven data throttling.  The only problem here for AT&amp;T is that they might not be putting this on the contract in which case they might be in trouble.  BUT, with wireless coverage being what it is, I imagine they have a buffet of excuses why this could occur. I would also like to know the answer to this. Do you think they just really badly worded it and meant that speeds were 10% of that promised (in someone's mind, maybe throttling 90% means removing 90% therefore leaving you with 10%?) I thought this might be bad writing, i.e. what they really meant was 10 percent.    So, when do we get to see at t take a good old punch of karma for this? Probably will take 18-24 months for all of the investigation, and then another 18 months for a decision. Probably 24 months to implement decision. So I'd say about never. And then 3 years of court challenges... It still hasn't been 60 days yet. The amount of misunderstanding on this topic is absurd.  The "throttling" that the FCC specifically addressed is that based on content and devices, NOT based on data usage (i.e. data caps).  The practice of data caps would be up to the FCC to rule on a case-by-case basis under the "no unreasonable interference/disadvantage" order:

&gt; Any person engaged in the provision of broadband Internet access service, insofar as
such person is so engaged, shall not unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably
disadvantage (i) end users ability to select, access, and use broadband Internet access
service or the lawful Internet content, applications, services, or devices of their choice, or
(ii) edge providers ability to make lawful content, applications, services, or devices
available to end users. Reasonable network management shall not be considered a
violation of this rule

"Unlimited data" is not a principle of net neutrality and never will be. From what I understand you are correct. The FTC lawsuit (which is ongoing) is what challenged the data caps for "unlimited" users. That along with other lawsuits is what will change this practice not the new net neutrality regulations.  And AT&amp;T calls 6 mbps "High Speed". lmao. Go to hell At&amp;t. I'm going out on my own soon and really want to know, are there any internet services that I can guarantee that I will get high speeds if I pay for high speeds? I don't plan on getting cable/satellite and have money to spend on good internet but don't want to throw money down a rathole.  I'm seriously considering ditching AT&amp;T and going to Sprint. Any thoughts? I ditched AT&amp;T and am on Sprint.  I recommend T-Mobile if it's good in your area, but Sprint is still &gt; AT&amp;T. &gt; ..an unlimited plan user could still enjoy faster broadband speeds, even after reaching his monthly limit..

Unlimited: adjective - Not limited or restricted in terms of number, quantity, or extent

"You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you think it means." I pay for 30gigs a month and when I was trying to stream video it was stuttering after a while.  I tried speedtest.net and I was getting like 1mb down.  I thought your data didn't get throttled anyway if you have a package with a certain limit? Wireless data speed is hard to predict.  It's impact by all sorts of environmental conditions between your phone and the tower before it even hits the network.

When you buy "30gig" you buy 30GB of total data.  Your speed (measured in Gbps or Mbps) is a completely different metric. Just got off the phone with AT&amp;T earlier to cancel my plan. I'm getting 12mbps down while paying for 18mbps down. First they transferred me to DirectTV, where in that DirectTV rep hung up on me. Called back to AT&amp;T only to have them explain there $135 cancellation fee and that there is a 48hr "restriction" on my account barring AT&amp;T rep from making changes. This "restriction" only came about after I said I wanted to reduce my TV package down to just the most basic cable on 1 box (instead of HD/Movie on multiple boxes)....So now I have to call them back after their self imposed restriction expires just to give them the finger and pay their criminal fee.

Side bar: I questioned the rep about Comcast offering internet only at 50mbps down for the same price, her answer was, "You won't get 50mbps down." To which I replied, "You mean kind of like how I'm paying for 18mbps down but only get 12mbps?" She promptly added an $85 credit to my account. FYI, AT&amp;T's "internet only" packed for "18mbps" is $75!! Comcast advertises 50mbps down internet only for $40/mo. It's like trading evil for evil...there's no winning as a consumer.

TL/DR: Rabble rabble rabble rabble Time for the Baby Bells again! I wish I was getting throttled, it would mean I'd actually have days with a decent connection from ATT. I swear my normal speed looks like most of you guys throttled speeds. They've been throttling my data for what seems like years now. I hate them with a passion.  I want to hear from the people who said throttling never happened, and how the market will work itself out in the consumers best interest? Fucking greedy pigs. [It's not like they are trying to hide it either.](http://i.imgur.com/iDixCR0.png)

Got that on Saturday... fun stuff. FCCs new net neutrality rules that were released in a 400 page document also contains a rule against throttling and says that, A person engaged in the provision of broadband Internet access service, insofar as such person is so engaged, shall not impair or degrade **lawful Internet traffic** on the basis of Internet content, application, or service, or use of a non-harmful device, subject to reasonable network management.

Does that mean they can throttle if you torrent as it is not lawful? Torrenting is always lawful even if the content is not.
 &gt;3.5 million customers broadband speeds were throttled to speeds as low as 90 percent of what was promised to them in their plans.

oh no, how terrible. i wish i got 90% of what i was promised. I think this statistic is worded poorly. Does that mean 9Mbps instead of 10Mbps? I interpreted it as 1Mbps instead of 10Mbps, as in a 90% decrease.  I read it to as getting 1Mbps instead of 10Mbps, but now that I keep rereading it, I think it's supposed to be 9Mbps. Yeah, same boat as me then. Statistics are weird.  It's not performing at 90%, it's performing at 10% (90% less than what it should be).  https://torrentfreak.com/u-s-net-neutrality-has-a-massive-copyright-loophole-150315/

US citizens got played again by the man... When will we learn? AT&amp;T, through its wholly owned subsidiary, the United States of America, annonced today that.... So glad I dropped this shitty company as my phone provider. How does an Unlimited Plan have a Monthly Limit? Time for AT&amp;T to get a $25 FCC fine I hear those wrist slaps are no joke. They'll probably opt for a class action lawsuit. I haven't been an AT&amp;T customer for a couple years but I still get class action lawsuit letters every few months about something new they did. I'm confused. What rule says they can't throttle internet based on usage or whatever other arbitrary criteria?

They simply aren't allowed to throttle based on the type of network usage. This is rather poorly written.

&gt;...speeds were throttled to speeds as low as 90 percent of what was promised to them in their plans...

They must mean 90 percent *lower than* what was promised to them. I was throttled once and was clearly limited to 1Mbps down, when I usually got around 15x that speed according to speedtest.net.

Also:

&gt;Although throttling is something that every major carrier does, yet AT&amp;T did throttling differently from others.

...what? Anytime I called about my slow internet I was either told there were just too many people on my node and at peak times it will run slow... or that they couldn't figure out what was wrong and tough luck. *throttled to speeds as low as 90 percent of what was promised to them in their plans.*

Is there a typo/brainfart there? Should it say **BY** instead of **TO**? ...and fix few other words while at it?

So uhm... you're being sold a 10Mb/s connection but you'll actually get 9Mb/s? That doesn't sound so bad. More like the reality. Arrest their CEO and throw him in prison. Aww nvm who am I kidding Are we going to have to break this frigging company up AGAIN ?  atet is basically an angry 13 y old kid yelling at his parents and breaking random things, obviously it's not gonna work and obviously they'll kick your ass, but you're just too stupid to realize it LOL amazing analogy  http://i.imgur.com/PN4bM1m.jpg Fine them on what grounds? The FCC rules have not gone into effect yet, there would be no legal basis to fine them.

The FTC's legal battle with AT&amp;T has not progressed far enough through the courts for a fine to be imposed yet. Every time I see these threads about AT&amp;T, Comcast and Verizon (see, I even know them all) I think that american cell phone and internet providers must have such a huge problem with their image. It seems like every american hate their cell phone and internet provider. These topics are so common, it's some shit that goes down with an american cell phone/internet provider on a weekly basis.

Oh by the way, I hate to rub it in but I really can't resist here. Greetings from Sweden, I haven't been offline since probably the early 00s and had a fiber lan connection before this millenia began. Currently my router is the bottleneck, it only allows 100 mbit/s. My smartphone has faster and more reliable internet connection than most americans have on their cable. Please forgive me. If I had that I don't know if I could resist bragging as well, I forgive you, and envy you. Holy shit, have you guys read this bill? It's too good to be true (there might be some faults like not repealing certain provisions in some amendments). Check this out:

&gt;4  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no  
5 information relating to a United States person may be ac-  
6 quired pursuant to this Act without a valid warrant based  
7 on probable cause..

&gt;16 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Fed-  
17 eral Government shall not mandate that the manufacturer  
18 of an electronic device or software for an electronic device  
19 build into such device or software a mechanism that allows  
20 the Federal Government to bypass the encryption or pri-  
21 vacy technology of such device or software. Only [9 pages long](https://www.congress.gov/114/bills/hr1466/BILLS-114hr1466ih.pdf).  Worth the read. 9 pages ... in type 20 font, with 2 inch margins on both sides. I copy and pasted it to word and it's less than 3 pages. I heard that in the voice of the high school english teacher. Do teachers still assign page counts? That's so easy to get around. Word count is where it's at. Teachers are smarter now. They check margins, standardize font sizes, etc. Do they check for gibberish words in white font? This is actually genius. If you use an early draft of your conclusion paragraph you can talk your way out of being caught by saying something like "I re-wrote it a few times and just hid the older version to see how it all flowed and must have forgotten." So your early draft was just "I wish this teacher would drink a bucket of anal leakage" 3500 times? If so, this is solid C+ level work.  Dammit you kids are getting to smart Do they check periods? My friend used to change all his periods to 18 or something. To do a word type count can and would just lead to a lot of quite possibly short useless junk sentences. Or even worse, the long winded convoluted rant of nothing which brings about nothing of sustenance. Which may or may not be meaningful to the overall topic of the paper in discussion.

Please, teachers grade based off content. Is that a sarcastic please followed by the statement "teachers grade based off content." or are you missing a comma?

&gt;Please, teachers, grade based off content. It's so all of those old bastards can actually see it clearly enough to read it.  you mean they actually read bills? it's only 9 pages because it was written by actual congressmen. The bills lobbyists write are usually hundreds of pages long to deter people from reading them. Yes!  This is a [write your representative](http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/) moment if there ever was one.  It won't matter that this is a small bill introduced by a couple of people if their phone lines and email keep lighting up about this over the next few days.  They'll have to do something, and if 99% of the calls and letters they get say to vote yes, they'll have a harder time finding a reason to vote no, *especially* if they know lots of people are watching them on this.

Seriously, [contact your rep](http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/) today. It's almost like we have rights again or something crazyyyy like that!!
 Not until it passes.  A bill is just wishful thinking until it passes. [I'm just a bill. Yes I'm only a bill, and I'm sitting here on Capitol Hill.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyeJ55o3El0)  Might*

But I sincerely hope our privacy/freedom does become better through this. I am all for this passing.  One thing comes to mind though.  In the end, how will we be sure the spying has stopped? We won't. But there are also whistleblowing protections under this bill. The hope would be any illegal activity is revealed and you can press charges against the people who authorized it or even target the agency itself (looking to defund it or break it apart).

If you can get rid of the "legal support" that this spying relies on, there will be less ambiguity as to what is legal and what is illegal when it comes to domestic spying. I also thing there's some wording that prevents the prosecution of future whistleblowers which would be amazing. Someone please correct me if I'm wrong; I don't really know how to parse bills very well. &gt;Reps. Mark Pocan (D-Wis.) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky) 

Hey look its actually bipartisan made! 

Edit: Wow one simple comment and Its my most upvoted! Thanks ~~Obama~~ Bipartisanship!

Edit: Wow bipartisanship does wonders! Thanks for the gold!  A lot of bills that go nowhere are. It's just 1 on each side which means little. Alright Negative Nancy.  Where's bipartisan bill when you need him?  Getting ground up in Grumpy Gridlock. Feeling fatigued from Filibuster Freddy Laying low with Lobbyist Lisa Bow-chicka-bowow Alright everyone, listen up.
 
 
You are coming in here with a defeatist attitude. It has been a grim decade for American politics. That can all change. Get excited.
 

Call your representatives. Tell them you are an active voter. Tell them that you will support any candidate that backs Reps. Pocan and Massie in this effort.   Tell them that you believe the PATRIOT Act is over-reaching and it is passed time for a repeal.
 

I know it can be hard but you do have power. You do have the ability to create a change. http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/

Just enter your zip code to find your representative, folks. A quick email or phone call can and will be noticed.  So thanks to this I just realized I was in a ridiculously Gerrymandered district.... Like its pretty nuts.  Look at a congressional map in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and then look at the voting history of these districts before and after the 2003 redistricting.  This shit should be shown in every government class in America; I know when my teacher went over it she talked about it like it was something that happened 100 years ago but has certainly never happened recently. You should see Austin.  It's crazy. Doesn't it extend like 2 hours north to cancel out the blue in the city? Indeed it does. I didn't fully understand gerrymandering until I saw the Austin council districts. If I'm not mistaken of the five districts covering Austin, only one has a Democrat representative. For such a liberal town, that's definitely not right.  I live in a Houston suburb and my district extends into Austin.  That's pretty fucked up. Hah I just googled the congressional map of Texas, almost all of it follows county lines, and then you can immediately tell where a big city lays, because it gets all fucked up. Impressive. Yeah. Salt Lake City is the same way. Make it so that the one place that's left leaning includes huge swaths of the republican rural areas.

I live in provo, I expect my representative to be republican based on the demographics. But to not allow the one region that COULD have a democrat representative to not do so is absurd. If it was districted appropriately, SLC could go either way. As it stands now, though, there isn't even a chance. I had the same experience. Mine is absurd. I think most are absurd if you're familiar with the local demographic. My area fits perfectly to the borders of what I would have expected respective parties to want to draw out.

edit: like specifically down to opposite sides of a street. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2014/05/15/americas-most-gerrymandered-congressional-districts/

That's crazy Can you imagine a bizarro world where in like five years congress starts responding to constituent requests and actually becomes liked and respected?  Congress does respond to constituent requests. If anything that is a big part of the problem. You are a constituent of 3 Congressmen. That means there are 532 who do not have you as a constituent. They are listening to theirs. When 3 do what you want and 532 don't it seems like no one is listening but your own Congressmen typically are.

Doesn't mean you'll get everything you want because there are other constituents in your area who have different opinions but it means you'll dislike and disrespect Congress even if your Congressmen did everything you asked. As a voter in a district with a heavy net neutrality opponent, sometimes they just don't care. Money is still bigger than emails. 

I'll keep trying though.  Try writing physical letters and giving their office calls. Apparently that works better than emails. Not that I expect it to help much in your case The real problem is the gerrymandering. It creates completely safe districts and the congressmen don't have to really listen to people, they just have to placate their base and they'll get re-elected. While part of the issue the bigger fucking issue is that people don't vote. That's the point of gerrymandering. Even if everyone voted, tons of districts are overwhelmingly one party or the other so the only risk is a primary challenger which means candidates tend to move father to the extremes. Gerrymandering is much more of a problem than lack of voter turnout. Fixing gerrymandering would probably go some way toward fixing voter turnout. Honestly disagree here. I think the majority of the problem with voter turnout is that people just don't understand how voting works. If someone votes and their side doesn't win, they think "well my voice doesn't matter." They pass this on to others like a disease of pessimism. Look at my state of CA: we have other things to vote on besides representatives, like ballot initiatives, and we're still lucky if we get 50%. These things can't be gerrymandered, it's a simple yes or no statewide vote. This is an area where people can take direct control over the government, on issues that affect them way more personally and immediately than voting on a rep, and they still don't do it. America isn't going to change until people realize that they're part of the problem, and stop coming up with excuses like money or gerrymandering. Try living in Utah where the few democrats are split amongst all the district. Seriously. Look at the map. It's retarded. Dangerouslyunstable has hit the nail on the proverbial head and anyone with a serious understanding of history and politics understand this. its simple math and an age old trick to insulate officials from being accountable and having to do their job!

the proof is that the Repubs have won seats in the last two elections DESPITE losing the Popular (i.e., overall) Vote.

Explanation here:

http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2012/11/09/democratic-house-candidates-winning-the-popular-vote-despite-big-gop-majority/

http://www.thenation.com/article/188801/republicans-only-got-52-percent-vote-house-races#

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-03-19/republicans-win-congress-as-democrats-get-most-votes

http://www.politifact.com/wisconsin/statements/2012/dec/05/sandy-pasch/pasch-says-democrats-outpolled-republicans-statewi/

http://billmoyers.com/2014/11/05/gerrymandering-rigged-2014-elections-republican-advantage/ The popular vote not matching proportions of victories or actual seats won is an intentional consequence of the electorate and other aspects of the election process. Gerrymandering doesn't improve the situation, but it's far from the sole cause of it either.

Say you have two districts, one urban and overwhelmingly blue, the other rural and split red/blue 50/50. District A goes to the blue candidate with 80% of the vote or something. District B goes to red with 53%. But A has three times the population and voter turnout of B. Averaging the two districts, blue got 72% of the popular vote, but only 50% of the representation. Extrapolate that across the country, and there's your discrepancy. It's supposed to work that way to help prevent 'tyranny of the majority' and such things. People don't vote because they feel like their opinion doesn't matter. Take away private funding to politicians and gerrymandering and people will notice that their voice does matter.  This solves the two most popular reasons people give for not voting. Politicians will be less partisan and less corporate if the parties and corporations can't tell which way they voted. And voting will actually be important in districts because they'll be more competitive. Yup, my district in Texas went to the Democrats for 32 years, then the lines were redrawn in 2003 and my old representative got put into a new district that went 54% Republican and my now redrawn district went 64% Republican.  It's fucking disgusting.

And people will respond with the blanket "get out and vote" but when my district is gerrymandered so horribly, it doesn't really matter at all (that being said, I still vote because I have nothing better to do on election days). Perhaps the Democrats had gerrymandered it before the Republicans, which would explain part of the big shift. This doesn't compute when time and again, there's been massive overwhelming public support for one course of action and yet Congress does the exact opposite.  The problem is that overwhelming public support doesn't spill over to getting off the couch and voting. Conservatives typically vote more often than any other ideology so their candidate gets elected while everyone else complains that their voices aren't heard. &gt;Conservatives typically vote more often than any other ideology so their candidate gets elected while everyone else complains that their voices aren't heard.

This flies in the fact of the fact that incumbents of either party have like an 80% re-election rate, even when they do things that bend the legal or ethical rules of office.  The other problem is that people view *Reddit's* prevailing opinion as "overwhelming public support". Reddit is an echo chamber. Just because it seems like everyone online agrees with you doesn't mean that the public at large does. Only if we change campaign finance. Right now we have the "right" to vote whether we want Adelson empoyee a or b, or if we like Google employees better and then which one. But the fact still is that they are employees or Adelson, the Koch brothers, Google, Microsoft, Comcast or whomever.  Adelson isn't paying his employees well enough then - his anti-online-gaming bill didn't even manage to get through at the end of the lame duck session. No but he successfully defeated the medical marijuana amendment in Florida.  State politics vs national politics are very different playing fields.  I'd be very surprised if that didn't come up again in a few years - fighting against medical/legal marijuana at this point just seems to be fighting a losing battle (and this is a great thing). Campaign finance reform won't fix it. Here's what will:

 - Anonymous voting in Congress. If you don't know how a person voted you can't buy their vote, or bully them into voting a certain way. We do it for normal people, so we should do it for Congress, too
 - [Shortest splitline redistricting](http://rangevoting.org/GerryExamples.html). This means that instead of a bunch of politicians deciding what district you live in it's given to a simple computer algorithm. The population of a state is divided in half using the shortest line, and then those regions are re-divided until they get to a small enough population. How do you hold your elected representative accountable for their actions if you don't know what those actions are? Yeah, anonymous voting is important for the people, but our elected representative must have a public voting record. You know those "secret holds" that were such a problem a few years ago? That's what an unaccountable representative does. anonymous voting makes it impossible for people to hold their officials accountable I apologize if it looked like that campaign finance reform is the solves all problems solution, Far from it.

I acknowledge both of your points. Both are valid and help. Getting this country back on course will need an all encompassing solution. Your suggestions are valid, finance reform is another and I am sure there are still others that need to be implemented. Most importantly though we would need to start somewhere. and start to implement something into the right direction. Just a quick clarification.  Shortest splitline redistricting is an algorithm that can be run on a computer.  It's not something special about what computer you run it on as the algorithm is just a set of rules.  It doesn't matter if you do it by hand or on a pentagon super computer:  If both have the same rules and time to do it, you will get identical results. I'm not sure how I fee about anonymous voting. Wouldn't it cause issues with congressmen voting against what they publicly announce they voted for? Or do you mean hide their vote, but still show that they voted anonymously? I'm unfortunately "represented" by the ~~gerrymanndering~~honorable Mr. Lamar Smith. (of Sopa/pipa fame)

:( I'll call and write to him, but... :( This is the e-mail I sent my rep. Feel free to copy and paste, people.

&gt;Hi, my name is Mike. I am an active voter within my community and I encourage others to vote for their chosen representatives as well. I am writing to you to let you know that I will support any candidate that backs Reps. Pocan and Massie in this effort to succeed in their Surveillance State Repeal Act. You can read more about this here. 

&gt;http://pocan.house.gov/sites/pocan.house.gov/files/wysiwyg_uploaded/Surveillance%20State%20Repeal%20Act%20114th.pdf

&gt;The bill would completely repeal the Patriot Act, the sweeping national security law passed in the days after Sept. 11, 2001, as well as the 2008 FISA Amendments Act, another spying law that the NSA has used to justify collecting vast swaths of people's communications through the Internet.

&gt;It would also reform the secretive court that oversees the nations spying powers, prevent the government from forcing tech companies to create backdoors into their devices and create additional protections for whistleblowers.

&gt;I believe the PATRIOT Act is over-reaching and it is past time for a repeal. Please consider this message and I hope you get many more from other like minded voters, planning on putting their vote where it counts in the next election.

&gt;Thank you and have a great day. &gt; passed time for a repeal. 

Do you mean "past time?" The one time I decide to email my congressman, turns out he resigned January 5th....

Now what? Run for Congressman....der. Why stop there.  Let's just call every single one of them, tell them we're voters in their district, then tell them to back Pocan and Massie. I wrote my Representative, here's hoping. Just called my representative! Democracy! Thanks for that.  It takes all of 5 minutes to say something. This may be a dumb question, but when I call my representative, should I call his/her local office or Washington, D.C. office? Does it make a difference as far as the likelihood that the message will actual reach them? Thanks. I'm mobile right now and couldn't pull up a link. If you want to send an email, I just wrote this up for anyone that needs a boilerplate message.

Good morning,

I am an active voter and I want you to know that I will support any candidate that backs Reps. Pocan and Massie in their effort to repeal the Patriot Act. I believe the PATRIOT Act is over-reaching and it is past time for a repeal. This will help restore freedoms to Americans like you and me and reduce the power of big government and the NSA spy programs that target innocent Americans without the need for a warrant. 

Please support Reps. Pocan and Massie in their effort to repeal the Patriot Act. Thank you.

Edit: Grammar - Thanks u/Hachiiiko I'm not a native speaker, but I'm pretty sure it should read "*past* time for a repeal", instead of "*passed* time". 

But thanks for making it (even) easier for people to act on this! Done and Done. Thanks for the help! Thanks for the template! Now that I've emailed my representative, where do I find out how they vote on the issue? www.opencongress.org

www.govtrack.us This deserves more up votes. Wouldn't have emailed if the wasn't here. 

Yes, I'm lazy... Same.  Thanks! Thank you! Writing right now.  Hey man I'm not American but I appreciate your optimism!  [I'm afraid of Americans](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u7APmRkatEU) stop that David Bowie

oh god that was 1997. my how the years sneak up on you. http://youtu.be/1v_nqG83TMg God is an American. [The messiah.](http://i3.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/original/000/900/746/e93.png) What's with all the red? It looks like a dirty communist propaganda poster. "At the time, I was misquoted. I never said that Superman exists and he's American. What I said was, 'God exists...and he's American.' [Now if you begin to feel an intense and crushing feeling of religious terror at the concept, don't be alarmed. That indicates only that you are still sane."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_n_okV8xRU) Trent's hair, man... &gt; Hey man I'm not American but I appreciate your optimism! 

The former explains the latter. I gotta deal with bloody Abbott... I'll take any optimistic sliver of news I can get. I just emailed my congressman. If any would would like a template or some language feel free to copy/pasta

Congressman [Name]

I am writing you to express my concern as an active voter. Normally I support neither Democrat or Republican candidates as I view myself as more of an independent, recently however, legislation concerning the repeal of the PATRIOT ACT, has been introduced in Washington. 

As an American citizen who strongly believes in the protection of civil and individual rights, I must express my concern and willingness to support any candidate that will vote to repeal the PATRIOT act with the legislation introduced by Congressional Representatives Mark Pocan (D-Wis.) and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.) in this effort and vote "Yes" to enact the Surveillance State Repeal Act. I, as well as many other ***[STATE]*** and Americans believe that PATRIOT Act is allowing an over-reaching and intruding approach to how the Federal government conducts official investigations and it is passed time for a repeal. 

I understand that I am only one voice in the state of ***[STATE]*** and that is why I would like to invite you to look at what more Americans are saying about this topic in the URL provided below: 

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/308m3y/house_effort_would_completely_dismantle_patriot/ 


I thank you for your time and for the service that you currently provide to our District and I hope that you will make Civil rights and the defense of the constitution your number one priority as you swore you would when you took your oath to office. 

Regards,

[Name] If not me then who, and if not now then when?

Fuck pessimism. Fuck people who do nothing. Sit at your keyboards all day, and bitch and moan about things not going your way.  Do something about it.

I appreciate your optimism and do something attitude. Kudos to you.  Ill be writing/calling/emailing my legislators. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy.  
 
1. The people sit back and do nothing thinking, "Psh, this will never pass ... why bother?" 
2. The only calls and letters the congressmen receive are letters opposing the legislation.  
3. Congressmen think, "Eh, we proposed the bill but it didn't seem to get any support from anyone."  What's the word from the EFF/ACLU on this? given a green light from them, I say we push these fuckers out of their complacent slumber. The Patriot act was one of the most insidious, totalitarian pieces of law ever passed in the US, They exploited fear, anger and nationalism after 9-11 in a cynical display of political opportunism from those attacks. If Edward Snowden showed anything it's that these powers were not so much used to fight terrorism, as they were to target political reform activists and progress political/corporate objectives at the expense of the democratic process and fair competition in the market place that benefits consumers. &gt; The Patriot act was **one of the most insidious, totalitarian pieces of law ever passed in the US.**  
  
  Reminds me of the Alien and Sedition acts of 1798. Anyone who disagreed with the Federalist party got jail time and a monetary fine, including congressional representatives.  Again,  sad but true. i just called my representative!  woo! Not sure where my rep stands in this issue as he was not in when I called but I did leave a message with his staffer about supporting this act. John Lewis is my rep, so it's probably foregone that he will support this bill... But I'm calling anyway. Thank you.



If you believe in freedom you can at least send an email.


I did it, and I'm lazy.  What's your excuse? As someone with crippling social anxiety, can you tell me what actually happens when you 'call your congressman'? Do I talk to a receptionist who has no idea what I'm talking about, and makes a vague promise to pass along the message, or..? 

Like, what does it entail to 'call your congressman' anyway?  You'll talk to a clerk that'll take down your info, and will pass your concerns along to your congressman. The specific wording probably won't make it to him, but the numbers of folks in support of the thing you called about will. Yeah, I did it, it was pretty easy and okay!  You aren't wrong, we're just frustrated. 

Nevertheless, I just sent my congressman an email. Because somebody has to do something. This country is fucking great.  Voter apathy is one of the worst issues we face today in America, and it's rarely talked about. Corporate ownership of Congress has been made possible in large part to an extremely low voter turnout. 
 
It's easier to point to malevolent force that we can't overcome and say "well this sucks," than it is to actually realize our own failings in even trying to overcome it.  Oh lord, ok, I just did it. It was shockingly easy, they said they would pass along the message and were very courteous. Heart racing, but it's done. *sweats bullets* It's nice to see comments on a very conservative site like the one linked be very similar to reddit comments. Both sides very much want this gone. Exactly! Tell your friends and family!  Really? Actually gives me hope that I didn't waste 20 minutes emailing my rep. If a fellow Texan who is more politically aware than I could help me in finding out how to support this measure, I would be extremely grateful. 

Do I call up my local representative and ask for them to support it? What kind of information should I include or consider when I call or write? Are there any other resources I could call upon to show my support?

Edit: Googling around, finding some things:
[freedomworks.org letter](http://www.freedomworks.org/content/letter-support-surveillance-state-repeal-act)

Will keep updating.

It is HR 1466

[Congress.gov page for HR 1466](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/1466)

[Texas Senators and Representatives](https://www.govtrack.us/congress/members/TX)

Another online form that you can use (I don't care about site names right now, just trying to get info out there): [defendingdissent.org letter](http://www.defendingdissent.org/now/news/repeal-the-patriot-act/).

(see [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/308m3y/house_effort_would_completely_dismantle_patriot/cpqiz0m), thanks /u/0311 )

Anyone in the ~~Dallas area~~ Plano to northeast McKinney area, here is your Rep's information:
Rep. Sam Johnson

District: TX03

Phone:(202) 225-4201

Fax:(202) 225-1485

A very nice sounding lady will answer, and just kindly let her know that you would like to urge your Rep to support HR 1466. Confirm your name and address, and thank the nice lady for passing on your message.  Yes. You should write to your rep saying that you want this bill to pass. Just talk about some basic stuff like how you don't like how it invades your privacy and stuff.  Is there a specific Bill number I should use? I have been looking for it but the only HB # I can find is one from 2013. Thank your for the help!

Nevermind, I finally found it: [HR 1466](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/1466)

edit to add link HR 1466 (that it mentions in that letter) appears to be a bill to support social work, not spying related?

EDIT: TIL the bill number is specific to the congressional session, ignore that comment  #Listen up guys.

Contacting your representatives is not a waste of time. Take the 15 minutes to make sure *they* hear your voice, not just Reddit.

If you want it to make it to the House floor for a vote, here are some of the particular people that matter (congress is big, so there's a lot of them!) I've listed all the members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and I've listed chairmen/vice chairmen/ranking members of the other committees that the bill has been sent to. I've also listed certain people that serve on multiple committees that are involved. Committees have to put the bill on a calendar, discuss it, and vote on if they want to send it to the house floor. [Find out who your representative is here.](http://whoismyrepresentative.com/) When you write or call your representative, FIND OUT WHAT COMMITTEES THEY ARE ON. Be sure to mention to them that the bill may go to their committee, so they know to look for it.

NB that in addition to the two representatives listed in the article, Alan Grayson, James McGovern, and Lloyd Doggett have co-sponsored this bill.

#US HPSCI - they deal with "Intelligence" bills

* David Nunes (R-CA-22) **CHAIRMAN - REALLY IMPORTANT**
* Adam Schiff (D-CA-28) **Ranking member - important - supports intelligence reform**
* Jackie Speier (D-CA-14) *HPSCI, Armed Services* **also on Oversight and Government reform committee**
* Eric Swalwell (D-CA-15)
* Luis Gutierrez (D-IL-4) *HPSCI, Financial Services, Judiciary*
* Mike Quigley (D-IL-5) *HPSCI, Armed Services*
* Jim Himes (D-CT-4) *HPSCI, Financial Services; **voted against defunding NSA phone metadata spying program**
* Terri Sewell (D-AL-7)
* Andre Carson (D-IN-7) *HPSCI, Armed Services, Transportation and Infrastructure*
* Jeff Miller (R-FL-1) *HPSCI, Armed Services*
* Tom Rooney (R-FL-17) *HPSCI, Armed Services*
* Patrick Murphy (R-FL-18) *HPSCI, Financial Services*
* Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) **voted to make the PATRIOT act permanent**
* Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) *HPSCI, Armed Services*
* Peter King (R-NY-2) *HPSCI, Financial Services* **supports prosecuting Edward Snowden, Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras; may run for POTUS in 2016**
* Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ-2) *HPSCI, Armed Services, Transportation and Infrastructure*
* Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA-3) - *HPSCI, Financial Services*
* Joe Heck (R-NV-3) *HPSCI, Armed Services, Education and Workforce*
* Mike Pompeo (R-KA-4) **supports NSA surveillance programs**
* Michael Turner (R-OH-10) *HPSCI, Armed Services* **Also on Oversight and Government Reform Committee**
* Brad Wenstrup (R-OH-2) *HPSCI, Armed Services*
* Chris Stewart (R-UT-2)

US Financial Services Committee - [list of members here](http://financialservices.house.gov/about/members.htm)

* Jeb Hensarling - Chairman **voted in support of PATRIOT act**
* Patrick McHenry - Vice chairman **also on Oversight and Government Reform Committee**
* Maxine Waters - Ranking member **supported limiting NSA domestic surveillance**

US House Judiciary Committee - [list of members here](http://judiciary.house.gov/index.cfm/committee-members)

* Bob Goodlatte - Chairman **sponsored SOPA**
* John Conyers - Ranking member **strongly supported Wikileaks**

US Foreign Affairs Committee - [list of members here](http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/about/membership)

* Edward Royce - Chairman *Foreign Affairs, Financial Services* **voted to make PATRIOT act permanent**
* Eliot Engel - Ranking member *Foreign Affairs, Energy and Commerce* **opposed PATRIOT act**

US Energy and Commerce - [list of members here](http://energycommerce.house.gov/about/membership)

* Fred Upton - Chairman **voted to make PATRIOT act permanent**
* Marsha Blackburn - Vice Chairman **voted to make PATRIOT act permanent**
* Frank Pallone, Jr - Ranking Member **opposed PATRIOT act**

US Education and the Workforce Committee - [list of members here](http://edworkforce.house.gov/ourteam/meetthemembers.htm)

* John Kline - Chairman *Education and Workforce, Armed Services* **supported PATRIOT act**
* Bobby Scott - Ranking Member **opposed PATRIOT act**

US Transportation and Infrastructure Committee - [list of members here](http://transportation.house.gov/about/membership.htm)

* Bill Shuster - Chairman *Transportation and Infrastructure, Armed Services* **supported PATRIOT act**
* Peter DeFazio - Ranking member **opposed PATRIOT act**

US Armed Services Committee - [list of members here](http://armedservices.house.gov/index.cfm/members)

* Mac Thornberry - Chairman **supported PATRIOT act**
* Adam Smith - Ranking member **supported PATRIOT act, CISPA**

.

I spent ~90 minutes compiling this info for y'all, so take a few minutes to make a call and send an email, k? Thanks. Glad to see this is a bipartisan push.  The Patriot act is fucking ridiculous. The patriot act is dated. I'm pretty sure there is a whole bunch of new legislation that violates our rights to greater extremes hidden in various bills. I mean our legislators don't even read them! Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety. - Big Ben *Franklin*

This is the entire premiss of the Patriot Act.

*edited* corrected the quote after going to no less than 20 sites for verification. Amazing how few sites have it "correct" . Now added Franklin because people keep thinking clocks are talking, wow... I didn't know clock towers could write. I didn't know NFL quarterbacks could write.  I didn't know Steelers could write.  If they're anything like their fans they can't. At most they can just share steelers photos on Facebook.  YINZ DON'T EVEN KNOW. STAIRWAY TO SEVEN BABY.

And then there's something about gian-iggle and the Bucs and "you can't get there from here."

I don't love where I live, but it's cheap as shit.

Edit: Hate was the wrong word. I don't hate it, I just don't love it. As an eastern Tennessee resident I can relate. 

Edit : can As a Steelers fan, I wholeheartedly appreciate this.
As a Pittsburgher, I would like you to know that our city is actually much more progressive than most would think, and unlike /u/minasmorath I love it here. I would write if I had space on my desk, but it's all been taken up by these 6 Lombardi trophies! But NFL linebackers can do math. No , but bells can (the bell is called Big Ben, not the tower) Bell writes in morse code  *There's Big Ben...there's the Parliament!* Mr Franklin was more succinct, but I always liked the weight of Samuel Adams' similar verse:

"If ye love wealth better than liberty, the tranquility of servitude better than the animating contest of freedom, go home from us in peace. We ask not your counsels or arms. Crouch down and lick the hands which feed you. May your chains set lightly upon you, and may posterity forget that ye were our countrymen." I like Samuel Jackson's version a little better, but we all seem to agree in principle:

"If my answers frighten you, Vincent, then you should cease asking scary questions." "A man who'll trade his liberty for a safe and dreamless sleep, doesn't deserve the both of them, and neither shall he keep." -Frank Turner Ben was referring to the Penn family in a land and tax dispute when he wrote that. I like it in the context that it is commonly used today, but I just thought I would mention that is not the original meaning of what he said. It's actually kind of interesting how the meaning of the statement has morphed over the last couple decades considering he was basically calling out the governor of Pennsylvania and the Penn family over money and now is used as a saying to champion various causes such as the dismantling of the Patriot Act and CISPA.  This needs to be higher. The Penns were willing to finance security troops on the wilder parts of Pennsylvania in return for essentially no taxation. Franklin was arguing that the State's liberty to tax was not worth trading for defense of the outskirts. "The constitution is not a suicide pact" -Jefferson If there was ever something worth rallying around,this is it.

It's our time to stand the fuck up Reddit,let's do this!! How about everyone show these guys some love on twitter as well. Not a substitute for calling your rep but public display of support can't hurt.  too bad reddit spent all its activism on net neutrality a couple months ago Yeah I'm waiting for the multiple admin posts on this one.  I guess it's too bipartisan. &gt; It's our time to stand the fuck up Reddit

It's that time of the week again? It should be everyday. Lol  Haven't stood in months, not sure I'm physically capable anymore. Can you crawl?  *le sigh.* [brushes doritos crumbs off my little pony t-shirt] *m'people need me.* Lol no but for real this time Meanwhile, here in Canada we are looking to *enact* our own Patriot Act. As an American to my northerly neighbors-

You need to stop this sort of thing before it starts.  It is MUCH easier to build bureaucracy and increase government power than it is to dismantle bureaucracy and reduce government power.  Your best chance of getting rid of such things is to stop them before they begin.
 Contacted my Rep.

"I am writing to ask that you consider supporting the Surveillance State Repeal Act.  I appreciate the bipartisan nature of the bill and believe that it is the correct step to better align the actions of our intelligence agencies with the rights afforded citizens under the Constitution of the United States.

As a respected member of the House, I believe that your support would make a significant difference in bringing this particular bill to a broader audience and provide a platform to open a broader discussion regarding the appropriateness and extent to which the surveillance of US citizens is justified.

I think it speaks volumes that I am genuinely concerned about my privacy simply by sending this e-mail to you.  I should be able to express my opinion and engage in an open dialogue without fear of reprisal or additional scrutiny simply because I want the rights afforded me under the constitution to remain intact.  

I consider myself an informed voter and align my support based on if representatives take steps that are in my best interest.  I have weighed the risk of reducing the surveillance abilities of the security community against forgoing my constitutional rights and have concluded that it is in my best interest to work to retain my rights and the rights of all citizens.  I would appreciate you also working to that end and would bear that in mind as I make my decisions on Election Day.

Thank you for taking the time to seriously consider this e-mail and the Surveillance State Repeal Act.  If you have the time and are willing to share, I would appreciate your take on the bill and what steps you plan on taking in seeing that the bill is moved forward to the floor of the House."
 I don't expect much, but I went with a different strategy.

Told mine that if he doesn't support it I will give money to his opponents in the primary and general election, as well as vote against him myself and let my friends know that he didn't support the bill. Way too long GOOD. i hope they just repeal it and drop the TSA while they're at it. "dismantle" sounds like they want to keep it in spirit, just remove some teeth.
 No shit, I think we've all seen what happens on plans nowadays when people try to get uppity, they get smacked the fuck up by other passengers. lol there's probably enough of a percentage of passengers(like me) that almost/kinda/a little bit wish they had the opportunity to beat the fuck out of someone that misbehaves in that manner.
 This is a good thing, right? I can be excited about this, right?

 I emailed my congressman:

Dear XX,

I am writing to urge you to support the Surveillance State Repeal Act (H.R. 1466).  The Patriot Act was passed at a time of national fervor and panic.  It was both reactionary and opportunistic.  It was meant to give our executive branch the authority it needed to protect our nation.  But we do not protect our nation by fundamentally altering its core beliefs.  We should restore meaning to the fourth amendment by rescinding the Patriot Act and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008.  Our citizens deserve privacy, due process, and transparency in our system of law.  I hope that you agree.

Respectfully,

mrcmnstr I emailed my congressmen, and my senators too for good measure. This bill won't even make it to the house floor, but it's a good mechanism to bring some national attention to the Patriot act renewal's June deadline. It's a good time to set out a bargaining position, and state the goals we hope to achieve. Could we be waking up? Nearly 1.5 decades after this passed.  Or is this another trick to take us further into the rabbit hole?  

I would love if we could just reset all laws passed after terrorist attacks where we put security over freedom. We really should limit all laws passed to 5 years that are passed after a terrorist attack in relation to security.  The actual attack on our freedom was from our own lawmakers.  

We shouldn't fear a terror attack but the attack on our hard fought liberties that happens internally after, you don't easily get freedoms back so don't give them away if you didn't fight for them. HELL YEAH BURN THAT FUCKER DOWN I bet if the american public got to vote on this, it would pass.  But there's no way in hell our representatives will push it through. Which brings up a good point.  Are they really representative then? Yeah they should make a law... oh wait. 

Corporations are people. 

Money is free speech. 

Wealth = people, more wealth you have the more people you "represent".  Like it was when slave owners got votes based on how many slaves they owned. 

Edit= When I say "slave owners got votes" I'm talking about 3/5rds compromise where slaves counted as 3/5ths of a person to allow more pro-slave member of the house.  Thus more federal congressional votes. Thus my point.  People in power will always do things to maintain it regardless of what the people say. There could be a poll that says 90% of the public want the PATRIOT ACT repealed.  They'd still keep it, and morons will keep voting for those who do because they constantly vote against someone else rather than for someone they want.  Thus the 2-party system is broken.  Anyway.... You might be surprised, this is actually the rare point where even extreme liberals and conservatives would vote together. It'll be the party core members who are against it. Tea partiers are batshit but they aren't Patriot Act fans. This is very true. I don't see any way this would pass in a general vote. People may not like the Patriot Act but it gives them a feeling of security so they put up with it. When the patriot act was signed I thought, well if terrorist hate us for our freedom, it's got to be a mild dislike by now I think that many political topics belong here, but really why was *this* one posted in /r/technology 

This isn't tech related politics. What the hell, I'm on /r/technology? I didn't even realize.

WHY IS THIS HERE?

EDIT: This is now the top post of /r/all, and it's in the wrong damn place. This is /r/mildlyinfuriating WTH?? I thought I was on /r/politics or /r/news or something... Possibly because:

"The bill would completely repeal the Patriot Act...as well as the 2008 FISA Amendments Act, another spying law that the NSA has used to justify collecting vast swaths of people's communications through the Internet." If you read the bill, it is:

&gt;16 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Fed-    
17 eral Government shall not mandate that the manufacturer  
18 of an electronic device or software for an electronic device  
19 build into such device or software a mechanism that allows  
20 the Federal Government to bypass the encryption or pri-  
21 vacy technology of such device or software. There is a specific provision to disallow the (government mandating) of backdoors into hardware/software. It took 1 minute of my time to Google my representative and call his office. I told them I was a constituent and I would like to vocalize my support for a bill authored by Mark Pocan and Thomas Massie called the Surveillance State Repeal Act. I then told them I was an active voter. That easy.

Somehow SOPA PIPA got stopped. Once again, I'm happy that I supported Rep. Massie's campaign.  That's not to say that I expect this legislation to have any effect, since we know that the NSA, CIA and FBI routinely violated the fourth and fifth amendments even before they had this unconstitutional fig leaf to help them pretend that they're not breaking the law. Sponsored by a Dem and a Rep.  
What a shocker, based on everyone on Reddit believing that the GOP is staffed entirely by Gestapo rejects. What's the point of a democracy if everyone has a defeatist attitude and jerk each other off about how awful everything is without putting any effort into it?

Jesus, all you Americans say "Democracy this n that" but it's clear that most of you guys don't want any part of it. A bipartisan initiative that's against the grain? Mark Pocan and Thomas Massie deserve props on that alone. Contacting my Congressmen today. This needs to get passed. Everybody should do the same. I think the bigger question is: why didn't the constitution dismantle the Patriot Act already? This would be nice... =/ Patriot act, lol making the perversion of privacy sound american since 2001 Contact your congressman: https://secure.freedomworks.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&amp;page=UserAction&amp;id=1711 Here is what I sent to my rep:

"Dear Congresswoman XX,

As your constituent, I ask that you support the recent effort by Reps Pocan and Massie to repeal the USA PATRIOT Act.  Like many Americans, I feel that the PATRIOT act was a poorly thought out, hastily passed piece of legislation which has done more harm than good.  

Like most Americans, I understand the need to ensure our safety and security as a nation, but I don't feel that this should be done at the cost of the very liberties which make us who we are.  

Thank you for your time.

Sincerely,  
L.G. Motarded" Basically was a jobs program for useless bureaucrats, abusing the law to punish innocent people. Fuck 'em. This is wonderful. The U.S. has violated peoples privacy for too long. Inefficiency is the price we pay for our privacy and I am elated about that, as the individuals of persons trumps the peoples of america. The first ten amendments to the U.S. constitutions were a guarantied set of rights to all persons and the only reason privacy was left off  IMO is the fact the spying on you population would have been ridiculously difficult. Just sent an e-mail to my Rep. While one voice may not be heard by any given Representative, thousands of voices from potential voters are a little harder to ignore. Get on it, Reddit! Since most people never bother, one letter actually carries a surprising amount of weight. This is too good to be true. It is....They could repeal the Patriot Act completely, and still retain the powers as provisioned in the unanimously passed UN Resolution 2178. I hope they pass it. It would be the best signal for "America land of the free" in the world, in more than a decade. well "Completely dismantle" might be a tad overstated.  I mean they are not going to defund and fold in the TSA,  Other provisions might remain as well.   This is just the best effort yet to control NSA spying.  

What I find interesting, (Although Patriot Act must go) is that it turns out the NSA was doing this prior to the act.  They have been doing this for a very long time   Not to sound negative, but a truthful question stems from "will this stop the activity? Or just tell us it has stopped?"
 US is a UN member, right?  UN Resolution 2178 would practically take over where the Patriot Act left off anyways...what would be the difference? Here is the entire bill:

**114TH CONGRESS**
**1ST SESSION**

**H. R. 1466**

To repeal the USA PATRIOT Act and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, and for other purposes.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MARCH 19, 2015 

Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. GRAYSON, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. DOGGETT) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Select Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select), Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, Energy and Commerce, Education and the Workforce, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

**A BILL To repeal the USA PATRIOT Act and the FISA**
**Amendments Act of 2008, and for other purposes.**

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

**SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.**

This Act may be cited as the Surveillance State Repeal Act.

**SEC. 2. REPEAL OF USA PATRIOT ACT.**

**(a) REPEAL.**The USA PATRIOT Act (Public Law 10756) is repealed, and the provisions of law amended or repealed 
by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not been enacted.

**(b) DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.**The Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General 
shall destroy any information collected under the USA PATRIOT Act (Public Law 10756) and the amendments
made by such Act, as in effect the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, concerning a United States 
person that is not related to an investigation that is actively ongoing on such date.

**SEC. 3. REPEAL OF THE FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008.**

**(a) REPEAL.**The FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110261; 122 Stat. 2477) is repealed, and
the provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not been enacted.

**(b) EXCEPTION.**Subsection (a) of this Act shall not apply to sections 103 and 110 of the FISA Amendments Act of 
2008 (Public Law 110261; 122 Stat. 2477).

**(c) DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.**The Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General shall 
destroy any information collected under section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1881a), as in effect the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, concerning a United States person that is not related to an investigation that is actively ongoing on such date.

**SEC. 4. TERMS OF JUDGES ON FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT; REAPPOINTMENT; SPECIAL MASTERS.**

**(a) TERMS; REAPPOINTMENT.**Section 103(d) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1803(d)) 
is amended

**(1) **by striking maximum of seven and inserting maximum of ten; and

**(2)** by striking and shall not be eligible for redesignation.

**(b) SPECIAL MASTERS.**Section 103(f) of such Act, as amended by section 3 of this Act, is further amended
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

**(4) SPECIAL MASTERS.**(A) The courts established pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) may appoint one 
or more Special Masters to advise the courts on technical issues raised during proceedings before the courts.

**(B)** In this paragraph, the term Special Master means an individual who has technological expertise in 
the subject matter of a proceeding before a court established pursuant to subsection (a) or (b)..

**SEC. 5. ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OF SPECIFIED PERSONS** **WITHOUT REGARD TO SPECIFIC DEVICE.**

Section 105(c)(2)(B) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1805(c)(2)(B)) is amended 
to read as follows:

**(B)** that, upon the request of the applicant, any person or entity shall furnish the applicant forthwith 
all information, facilities, or technical assistance necessary to accomplish the electronic surveillance 
in such a manner as will protect its secrecy and produce a minimum of interference with the services that 
such carrier, landlord, custodian, or other person is providing that target of electronic surveillance;.

**SEC. 6. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR COLLECTIONS UNDER** **THE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT OF 1978.**

**(a) IN GENERAL.**Title VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.),
as amended by section 3 of this Act, is further amended to read as follows:

**TITLE VIIADDITIONAL PROVISIONS**

**SEC. 701. WARRANT REQUIREMENT.**

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no information relating to a United States person may 
be acquired pursuant to this Act without a valid warrant based on probable cause..

**(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS AMENDMENTS.**The table of contents in the first section of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), as amended by section 3 of this Act, is further amended by
striking the items relating to title VII and section 701 and inserting the following new items:

**TITLE VIIADDITIONAL PROVISIONS**

**701. Warrant requirement..**
 **SEC. 7. ENCRYPTION AND PRIVACY TECHNOLOGY OF ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND SOFTWARE.**

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal Government shall not mandate that the manufacturer
of an electronic device or software for an electronic device build into such device or software a mechanism 
that allows the Federal Government to bypass the encryption or privacy technology of such device or software.

**SEC. 8. GAO COMPLIANCE EVALUATIONS.**

**(a) IN GENERAL.**The Comptroller General of the United States shall annually evaluate compliance by the
Federal Government with the provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 
1801 et seq.).

**(b) REPORT.**The Comptroller General shall annually submit to Congress a report containing the results of 
the evaluation conducted under subsection (a).

**SEC. 9. WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINTS.**

**(a) AUTHORIZATION TO REPORT COMPLAINTS OR INFORMATION.**An employee of or contractor to an element of the 
intelligence community that has knowledge of the programs and activities authorized by the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) may submit a covered complaint

**(1)** to the Comptroller General of the United States;

**(2)** to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives;

**(3)** to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; or

**(4)** in accordance with the process established under section 103H(k)(5) of the National Security
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3033(k)(5)).

**(b) INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS TO CONGRESS.**The Comptroller General shall investigate a covered complaint 
submitted pursuant to subsection (b)(1) and shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the 
investigation.

**(c) COVERED COMPLAINT DEFINED.**In this section, the term covered complaint means a complaint or
information concerning programs and activities authorized by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50
U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) that an employee or contractor reasonably believes is evidence of

**(1)** a violation of any law, rule, or regulation;

or

**(2)** gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific 
danger to public health or safety.

**SEC. 10. PROHIBITION ON INTERFERENCE WITH REPORTING OF WASTE, FRAUD, ABUSE, OR CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR.**

**(a) IN GENERAL.**Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no officer or employee of an element of the
intelligence community shall take any retaliatory action against an employee of or contractor to an element of the
intelligence community who seeks to disclose or discloses covered information to

**(1)** the Comptroller General;

**(2)** the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives;

**(3)** the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; or

**(4)** the Office of the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.

**(b) ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS.**An officer or employee of an element of the intelligence community who
violates subsection (a) shall be subject to administrative sanctions, up to and including termination.

**(c) DEFINITIONS.**In this section:

**(1) COVERED INFORMATION.**The term covered information means any information (including classified 
or sensitive information) that an employee or contractor reasonably believes is evidence of

**(A)** a violation of any law, rule, or regulation; or

**(B)** gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific 
danger to public health or safety.

**(2) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.**The term intelligence community has the meaning given the term in 
section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).

**SEC. 11. PROHIBITION OF TARGETING UNITED STATES PERSONS UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER 12333 WITHOUT A WARRANT.**

**(a) PROHIBITION ON TARGETING OF UNITED STATES PERSONS WITHOUT A WARRANT.**Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no United States person may be the target of an acquisition under Executive Order 
12333 without a valid warrant based on probable cause. 

**(b) AUDIT OF COMPLIANCE WITH PROHIBITION.** 

**(1) AUDIT.**The Comptroller General of the United States shall annually conduct an audit of intelligence 
collection under Executive Order 12333 to ensure compliance with the requirement under subsection (a).

**(2) REPORT.**The Comptroller General shall annually submit to Congress a report containing the results 
of each audit conducted under paragraph (1).

**(c) DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.**The Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General
shall destroy any information collected under Executive Order 12333 without a valid warrant based on probable
cause concerning a United States person that is not related to an investigation that is actively ongoing on the
date of the enactment of this Act.  ill take things thatll never happen for 1350, alex THAT IS NOT A NUMBER ON THE JEOPARDY BOARD. "I'd like to buy a vowel, Alex" "Suck it, Trebek" "What is the dirtiest thing you touch with your hands every day?" OP's mother. They should do a reddit themed episode of Jeopardy. The game wouldn't go anywhere, but it would be hilarious to watch. twitchplaysjeopardy "Moo" ~your mother "Suck it, Sajak" I'm going to phone a friend, Alex.  Next time on Who Wants To Be A Wheel of Jeopardy WHEEL....OF....FISH!!! "You So Stupid!" Ah, ah, the vowel...2. big money no whammies! STOP! Doubleee Whammyyyy Nope, but it's enough IP for some champs. Well sure, if you're complacent with bitching instead of writing to your congressmen.  For all we know, the "we're powerless" mentality that has infected the reddit community could very well be the result of NSA astroturfing. We do know they're doing that sort of thing, and it's not like they've got anything better to do.

Just as a precaution, let's all start assuming that anyone who says we can't make a change is part of the NSA's PR department. Someone told me recently that thinking you can make a difference in politics these days without money is like cheering for the WWE - sure it might make you feel good and if it happens to work out in your favor you'll think that you had an impact but in reality nothing you did affected the outcome It's why I love WWE I'm sure republican constituents had the same "we can do it" attitude each time a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act was introduced as political theater. You people are too gullible.  That's the attitude! I don't think it'll happen either, but I emailed my rep anyway. All you have to lose is your time. And we're all on Reddit anyways in the first place, so... Daily Double! Thanks for your support. If it doesn't pass you and people like you are the reason it doesn't. Pessimists accomplish nothing.   Neither do peasants. Saddening. It is like a light shines only when you realize a cloud will move over it I'll take self-fulfilling prophecy for 1000, Alex Just like that cable shill Tom Wheeler doing something about Net Neutrality, right?

The cynicism in this place can be nauseating. Have you called your local rep? Written to the editor of a major newspaper? Spoken to friends to do the same? If nothing happens, our government is as much to blame as people whose entire political contribution is clacking out defeatist posts on Reddit. not with that attitude! This is a $100 tier answer. Cash or credit?  Can we get rid of the DHS too? Please?  I wish. The latest from my Congresswoman:
http://mccollum.house.gov/press-release/mccollum-statement-passage-clean-dhs-funding-bill

:( I don't understand the purpose at all. largest. union. 

youngest. bureaucracy.

no. it's NEVER going away... sadly.
 On the off chance this happens, the mass surveillance and unconstitutional spying will just move further into the shadows and dark corners of these agencies.

I'm sorry if you think a simple law being passed will change anything. The government was granted this awesome power, and it will never let go. Exactly. The gov and their agencies have not proven to be loyal or trustworthy. Why should we think this would fix our problems and they will keep their word? I'm ok with that actually. If you realllly need to break the law than you can face the music when you get caught. Our foreign service isn't any different. You can't have billy Bob bible thumper moral police Jack Bauer wantabe doing in en mass with no repercussions though.  Also of interest, Paraguay has been 100% renewable for some years now, thanks to the enormous generating capacity of their shared hydro project with Brazil, [the Itaipu Dam](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Itaipu_Dam). The thing is enormous and currently generates more power than any other power station (except 3 Gorges Dam) in the world!

The problem in Paraguay, which Costa Rica doesn't suffer as much from, is power distribution. Paraguay is often subject to rolling blackouts because of grid mismanagement, but it's still an incredible system. 

**TL;DR: Paraguay: 100% renewable electricity since ~1984** This is fantastic about Paraguay.  I looked at the [international energy statistics](http://knoema.com/EIAIES2014/international-energy-statistics-2014?tsId=1058790) (not sure how reliable so lets just take them at face value for now), and noticed that Paraguay took a tremendous amount of energy per dollar of their GDP.  If I remember from my weekly seminars in graduate school, this can be a measure of efficiency of a country.  Paraguay was a whopping 50k BTU per $ GDP (scaled in 2005 USD for some reason), while Cost Rica, Brazil, and the US were more along the lines of 10k BTU per $ GDP.  Paraguay seems to be a bit inefficient and/or the numbers are totally wrong.  Anyone else have any insight that can link energy and the economy? Thats because our politicians got some money under the table so Brazil gets the most energy out of it.
We shouldnt even pay for energy yet energy prices are rising and our electrical grid system is collapsing.
Shame what corruption can do to a developing country. Seems like Paraguay's entire history is full of great potential squandered by a few assholes. Exactly, I'm Paraguayan but we have everything handed to us, we don't have earthquakes, have tons of water (here is almost free) and electricity but we are rotten in corruption and the security sucks, but the people here are the nicest yet laziest of the world. I am moving to paraguay! &gt; laziest

I'm waiting for Paraguay to move to me! I love my country, the people are really nice and always try to help the foreigners! We do not discriminate people for their religion nor their color and I think that's awesome considering that most people of the countryside are really catholic! They welcome everyone and invite you over to lunch or dinner. Also the culture is amazing and food delicious! I highly recommend it :)  You've inspired me to take a holiday there. What places areas would you recommend I see?  I'll probably be traveling solo and light. Would it be a good country to back pack in? I know I can google a lot of this but I like hearing from locals.  Yes! I just reply a similar question :) I recommend a MUST in my country that is the fish soup of a restaurant called Lido Bar (is in the most famous street called Palma). This place is so famous that even when you start talking about my country people ask you if you tried the dish haha. Also the Panteon of heroes is in front of Lido and is famous place full of history. For backpacking I ask you to please read what I answer just now to another person. We have the Jesuit ruins that are really pretty! The Mud Museum (personal favorite), Laguna Blanca (google it! This is beautiful), tons of natural reserves and if you can you should visit Itaipu (the hydroelectric) the place is sooo huge and actually inspiring if you like engineering and stuff! Ask me anything is you want to learn more about my country :)
ALSO: we have a second official language that is Guarani, most people talk at least the basic besides Spanish and is the biggest cultural legacy from the people who lived here before us :) I really sucks how corrupt many South American countries are, I think South America could be really awesome if those issues were resolved. Isnt that mankinds history? Among those assholes is Britain who funded the war of the Triple Alliance and sent the country back to the stone age.  That's south america's modern history in a nutshell. Why shouldn't we pay for energy? If you can create sustainable energy source out of renewables, built  and sustained by the state (so everyone pays a
 fair fraction), why pay?  Think of the savings for everyone.  Or you can privatize it, an oligarch makes a shit ton of profits and puts a premium on it so everyone pays out the ass.  Then the status-quo appreciating oligarchs will use their money and influence to thwart cleaner and alternative sources of energy. 
. Some payment is required. Paying based on usage is very good way to reduce waste.

Privatization is good as long as there is enough real competition. Private competition means less waste and more efficiency. Of course worst possible form is private monopoly and those should never be allowed to exist. Oh okay, I agree then It makes sense that enough essentially-free-at-the-production-point energy from the Itaipu dam would lead to cheap or subsidized energy, which would lead to Paraguayans using it less efficiently (cf. Ukraine's long-time energy subsidies). I haven't studied the details. Paraguay also exports some of their share of the dam's electricity back to Brazil; I'm not sure how that plays into the statistic you cited. What kind of environmental impact did/does the dam have though?

Edit: I'm not suggesting that the dam is a bad thing, I was just genuinely curious. Thanks for the responses. :) &gt; What kind of environmental impact did/does the dam have though?

Less than the half million barrels of oil a day, or tens of thousands of tonnes of coal they'd have to burn to make up for it.

I'm well aware of the impact of creating a man made lake, but river and lake topography is one of the _most_ unstable facets of our planet's surface. A lake is there, and then it's not. A forest is there, a thousand years later its a lake because a river was diverted by erosion. The Great Lakes didn't even exist 15,000 years ago, and that's next to nothing in geologic time. In the overall picture, the earth is well able to adapt to a change like that. It's taking carbon that has been out of the cycle for millions of years and putting it back in the atmosphere quickly that is the real issue. +1. There is literally no way to generate enough power to support a modern society with the technology available that will have an unnoticeable impact on the ecosystem. Humans are energy gluttons. And it's the height of hypocrisy to shoot down potential energy solutions because they're imperfect if the alternative is to keep using fossil fuels. Look at what happened in Germany - the government was lobbied to stop nuclear power generation. The upshot of this is they're now dependent on coal and Russian gas, which is something of an ecological *and* geopolitical disaster.

It's all about finding an acceptable compromise on energy, because accepting only completely ideal solutions or just staying on burning hydrocarbons will keep us on hydrocarbons until the day they run out. I live in New Brunswick, Canada. It's a small province, but we are fortunate in that we make most of out power using hydroelectric generation and we also have a nuclear plant. Our biggest dam is up for replacing within about 20 years and there are people who want to replace it with natural gas and I just shake my head. The same people want to close the nuke plant. They claim to be environmentalists. Yeah, I would say that the fearmongering surrounding nuclear power is one of the most globally dangerous attitudes around. It's kept a lot of places burning fossil fuels which could very easily and safely switch.

Radiation-wise, it's safer to live next to a nuclear plant than a coal plant. Nuclear is one of the safest and most effective ways of generating electricity.  I will never, *never* understand the pushback against nuclear energy. It boggles my mind. If you say you're for lessening the impact of fossil fuels on the ecology of this planet and then turn around and spout nonsense about nuclear energy then you are either a liar or a fool. People against nuclear plants just know that nuclear things cause radiation, and radiation is bad bad bad.  Throw in a Cold War that threatened nuclear annihilation, high profile accidents like Three Mile Island and Chernobyl (one harmless, the other a true disaster), and the fact that people are generally too busy or apathetic to truly research things before forming an opinion on them, and it's perfectly *understandable* where the pushback comes from.

It's not really *excusable*, but it's eminently understandable. The reactions you get when it's pointed out that coal plants release more radiation than nuke plants is pretty funny. Inside a nuke plant is immensely cleaner too. Just overall better. Maybe the answer lies in not calling it a "NUCLEAR POWER PLANT".

Call it... "PATRIOTIC AND FREEDOM SUSTAINABLE POWER PLANT" Freedom Splitty Power freedom plant is actually a good idea. But you'd think if they had formed such a strong opinion on it, that they would at least care enough to find out more than just cursory factoids. But then again it's not exactly a new phenomenon so I can see your point.  When you equate "nuclear" to weapons and war, you already lost. It's important to understand people want to feel right and justified, even you, and me.  We have to be vigilant of this The other thing that people fail to recognise is that Chernobyl and Fukushima Daiichi were old plants, using 1970s/1960s designs respectively. Those were first/second generation plants, where we were literally learning how to build nuclear reactors properly by experimentation and iterative learning. We only found certain problems once reactors had been up and running for months or even years.

More modern plants, especially those designed post-Chernobyl, have significantly stepped up their safety mechanisms. Clever little no-fail solutions like wax coolant plugs, which melt if the reactor gets too hot, litter modern plant designs. The safety margin difference between a 20 year old plants and a 40 year old plant is an order of magnitude.

Yet so many people just spout utter nonsense about Chernobyl and Fukushima, without understanding what caused the disasters, or understanding the differences in plant design between modern and old. And to add on to this, Fukushima had its accident after an earthquake and a tsunami.  Chernobyl was only as huge an accident as it was because the Soviet leaders in charge refused to lose face and declare an emergency, or evacuate the area until after it was largely too late for a lot of people.  They're both pretty much freak accidents. A little bit of knowledge is a dangerous thing. Everybody can name the three big scary accidents of nuclear power (chernobyl, three mile island, and fukishima). But most people dont read the actual histories of the events.
 3 mile island was the best worst case scenario. And that is to be expected from a properly maintained plant. No deaths, no ailments, all completely contained within the facility. I think that they calculated the small amount of radiation that did leak from Three Mile Island would cause an estimated 1-3 cancers over the next 50 years. That sucks for those unlucky 1-3 people, but it's honestly a statistical blip. I don't get why we just don't build an ass load of reactors right around Yucca Moutain with rail lines running straight into the cave to immediately dispose of the spent fuel. Around the reactors build a military base, with the best AA capabilities in the world.

All the danger is protected by a bunch of danger, nice and far away in the desert.  Three Mile Island was a hiccup in terms of environmental effects, as well.  Heck, Deepwater Horizon was much more harmful, and I don't see any reduction in oil use. hiccup? something like a chest xray's worth of radiation got outside the shield reactor area, and none outside the plant

it seems more a paperwork disaster than anything meaningful. It's human nature to assume the worst possible scenario though. And like another commented wrote, the worst scenarios are pretty fucking disastrous. The solution is to educate people, and also to enact stricter and safer laws concerning nuclear energy, but that's tough to do. While nuclear energy is a really good solution to meet energy demands, its understandable why people would be against it, especially when your entire perspective and societal views have been influenced by those disasters (Japan, Eastern Europe). I think it stems mostly from the fact that there haven't been any high profile news stories on coal plants leaking and killing people.  There is nothing wrong with nuclear power... There is something wrong with not maintaining a nuclear power plant.  Plus once tidal generation gets more popular and efficient you guys have more than enough coastline. There's some really interesting systems out there that stay entirely below the surface of the water and you just have to lay a simple cable to grid connect them. We have the highest tides in the world in the Bay of Fundy. A _hundred billion tons_ of water flow in and out of the bay twice a day, as much as flows through every river on the planet in 24 hours. We've experimented, but why our tidal industry is not more developed is a mystery to me. Nobody is willing to put up the Fundy for it. 

Maybe try opening a goFundy account...... It's not as simple as people make it seem. I work with a guy who used to work at a start-up that installed water turbines in rivers and such. His company went out to NB to try and install a turbine but the problem is that when a hundred billion tons of waters swings in towards the shore, it brings detritus with it.

Every attempt at harnessing tidal energy in that area that I've heard of has always had huge problems with rocks or whatever coming along and destroying the turbines. The problem isn't turbine efficiency or really anything related to hydrodynamics or the transmission of the extracted energy... we have all the necessary technology. The problem is finding a cost-effective way to protect the underwater equipment from constant damage. The frequency of debris sweeping away turbines combined with the incredible installation costs has made it untenable from an engineering perspective. This is not to say that it's not being worked on, but it's why it's not more developed.

Not all of our energy extraction problems are related to politics or incompetence :) There are more ways of generating tidal and wave energy than simple water turbines. and that's what they're working on One thing that will be interesting to see is what Ontario will end up doing with its nuclear plants, as it isn't blessed with the same hydro potential as Quebec or BC.

Quebec is currently decommisionning it's only nuclear plant, but they are also building a large hydro complex at the same time. It's just not worth the money to refurbish it as we don't need the energy from it. Quebec usually has a surplus anyway.  At this point they don't really need a Nuke, but they actually have the hydro. I think Ontario is pretty committed to nuclear though. They had been planning to mothball and close a bunch of their nukes, but after they committed to getting rid of all their coal they realized they would need the nukes and invested to get them modernized once already. 

They seem to have a practical view. They also seem to tend to have an exportable surplus of power.  Nuclear can support a modern society, have you reviewed the energy potential of fission and fusion?  Fusion is not a viable energy-generation solution right now. 

Fission requires mining a lot of fuel materials, building a big-ass concrete power station, possibly also situating your power station adjacent to large bodies of water or within major natural structures for safety purposes, disposing of radioactive waste, and so on.

I'm a big proponent of nuclear power but it's not environment-neutral. It doesn't need to be environment neutral, just not environmentally catastrophic. Fossil fuels are directly and rapidly destroying the environment, but nuclear could support us for a good [200 years at current consumption rates and near 60,000 with some technological advances](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-long-will-global-uranium-deposits-last/). The fear with nuclear isn't global either. It is entirely local. Which is part of why people are so scared of it. If a local reactor leaks radiation, your neighboring state won't have to worry that much but you do. With fossil fuels, local impact isn't nearly as direct and because the pollutant released is a gas, it disperses to the neighboring states as well. Fossil fuels spread impact over a wider area so we don't see the threat as clearly. I think it's the second-greenest after renewables, third greenest if you break out hydro as its own category. It doesn't require much mining for the amount of energy produced, concrete isn't scary, and neither are buildings near water. The radioactive waste we need to figure out, but on a global scale there's very very little of it, and technologies exist to refine some of it into additional fuel. There's no real problem with the waste, water is an amazing radiation shield so its stored in underground pools. Actually concrete emits unbelievable amounts of CO2. The two biggest contributors to emissions are agriculture and construction. &gt; Fission requires mining a lot of fuel materials

no, it doesn't. Dig up a ton of dirt and you get enough thorium to last a year. There is nuclear power. Keep in mind there are huge coal mines, and surrounding industry in Germany. And they keep burning coal instead of nuclear power.

That is just some idiotic policy to protect local coal industry. Anybody who cares about energy or environment conservation picks nuclear over coal power any day. &gt;  the government was lobbied to stop nuclear power generation

The government acting on what the majority of the population actually wants is now lobbying? &gt; And it's the height of hypocrisy to shoot down potential energy solutions because they're imperfect if the alternative is to keep using fossil fuels.

And you're met with a resounding "But the lesser of two evils is still evil!" from /r/politics &gt; There is literally no way to generate enough power

uhhhhhhhhhhh yeah. have you looked into safe nuclear lately? We're a capitalist society. Create an *economically* enticing alternate energy source that's viable on a national scale in the US or Europe and everyone will flock to it. That includes big energy companies knee-deep in fossil fuels right now. Yes, they love the fossil fuels, but they are companies with investors. If there's a cheaper, abundant energy source with similar reliability for a modern country that doesn't even need to be imported, you can bet they'd be the *first* to try and monopolize it. Especially given the -- rightfully earned -- horrible public image fossil fuels retains.

Tl;dr: If the money *and* the PR point to a different solution, a company will change.

PS - Nobody *likes* going to the pump and smelling like gasoline. Not that your entire premise is wrobg but: 

Forming giant lakes in one of the most densely forested areas of the world does indeed have significant implications for the carbon cycle. Especially since the country only accounts for 6 million people so powering the whole thing isn't exactly a monumental feat. In the case of migratory fish that spawn up rivers, damming rivers is a huge deal.  The construction of the dam's reservoir wiped away one of the larger waterfalls in the world, [Guara Falls](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gua%C3%ADra_Falls).  This is probably the greatest loss, I visited the falls in the 70s and it was an incredible sight of natural wonder. Mostly the area flooded. The [wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Itaipu_Dam#Social_and_environmental_impacts) in english has a tl;dr on Itaipu's social problems.

For context here in Brazil we have big time headache with the [Belo Monte dam](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belo_Monte_Dam) project because we live in a time where you can't simply flood a bunch of forest like that because fauna, flora and the indigenous people are important as well.

An engineering teacher told me last week that Itaipu's reservoir has water to produte at 100% capacity for many months with or without rain while any new dam to be constructed will have a reservoir for a couple of weeks on 100% in order to reduce this flooded area impact. That means that in rainy season they'll be 100% and as rain stops thermoeletrics (coal) will have to be turned on.

Which is better? Flood nothing and use thermo all year or flooding x and use thermo for half a year or flood a bunch more than x and no thermo? Up to each one to decide, all have drawbacks. Right on! No energy production, renewable or otherwise, is free of environmental, social, or economic impact. But if we want energy (and lots of it apparently), we have to decide which of those costs are the most manageable. 
  One impact the dams in Quebec had was that trapping a lot of vegetation under water released mercury that was "captured" by the plants. The mercury eventually got into the fish, and then it got into the aboriginal people that used to live nearby and eat a lot of fish.

  Keep in mind that we have a huge territory and a small population of 7M, so the environmental impact is huge but relatively small. The biggest dam, the James Bay Project, flooded an area of 11 000 km^2 (over 4000 square miles). A shit ton less than a oil/coal thermoelectric station running for 31 years with that sort of capacity. Dams can also be beneficial for the down stream habitat if managed correctly. You can keep water levels more stable. Who says they want it stable? I'm also pretty sure dams result in chilly water downstream. I'm sure they're not stoked about that. [Wrong, actually.](http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn7046-hydroelectric-powers-dirty-secret-revealed.html)

&gt;In a study to be published in Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global Change, Fearnside estimates that in 1990 the greenhouse effect of emissions from the Curu-Una dam in Par, Brazil, was more than three-and-a-half times what would have been produced by generating the same amount of electricity from oil.

Methane is released in great quantities by hydroelectric dam reservoirs.  

It would literally be better to burn oil for fuel than to create a dam. That conclusion has one major fatal flaw, in that biogenic GHG matter the same as ones from long sequestered in fossil fuels. releasing the C long sequestered and removed from the normal carbon cycle is much more disastrous than stuff still a part of the normal carbon cycle. Vegetation is only momentarily storing C and will release it eventually, not so much with oil and coal.  It's not a major flaw because the short cycle methane released won't be reabsorbed, since the are previously covered by vegetation is now flooded.  Hydroelectric reservoirs emit a large amount of GHGs: http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn7046-hydroelectric-powers-dirty-secret-revealed.html

Methane is released by the anaerobic decomposition of plant matter in the reservoir.

&gt;In a study to be published in Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global Change, Fearnside estimates that in 1990 the greenhouse effect of emissions from the Curu-Una dam in Par, Brazil, was more than three-and-a-half times what would have been produced by generating the same amount of electricity from oil. goddamn IS THERE NO WINNING There sure is.  Nuclear, solar, wind, tidal. Surely that's only a short time problem. A reservoir is no different to a lake when the original plant matter has decomposed, right? FTA:

&gt;Seasonal changes in water depth mean there is a continuous supply of decaying material. In the dry season plants colonise the banks of the reservoir only to be engulfed when the water level rises. For shallow-shelving reservoirs these "drawdown" regions can account for several thousand square kilometres.

So they continually produce more methane.  

But yes, there is a large amount of emissions in the first decade after a reservoir is created, which winds down to a smaller, yet still quite large annual release.

New dams should probably not be built, particularly in warmer climates. Also of interest, Norway has been running on 96% renewable energy (electricity) for several years. The reason for not 100% is the norpool agreement, where several Scandinavian nations (and UK?) share power grid. This means that when Norway needs more energy then we produce, we buy the energy from other nations. This power can not be guaranteed that it is made from renewable energy. Over 99% of electrical energy produced in Norway is renewable. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electricity_sector_in_Norway
 off topic but one of my favorite artists Philip Glass has a whole album surrounding the environment of the damn. [Here's the piece on the Dam itself](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BI-LL0ghOA0) same with norway, since the 60's or 70's. 

But not 100% but 95-97 i think Well Depending on the the season. There are sometimes rolling black outs in costa rica. But the last few years have been relatively stable.

Unfortunately taxes are retarded and the government is either corrupt or fucking stupid.

Every turn they try to curb actual progress in the country. The roads are shit, and all the big private corporations are in bed with the government fucking the people up the ass.

But if you talk to people who stay in costa rica for a week they will vomit all the propaganda the government spews. Green country with some of the most polluted rivers and high use of chemicals in their farming.

It's all a load of shit. First off I love CR. Been there twice &amp; I'd totally move down there if I can ever get a work from home job (and somehow figure out how to get a stable high speed connection down there). 

But, yeah you hit the nail on the head. There's some joke in Spanish that goes something like *if he's not a rich politician, he must not be very good*... basically they kind of expect politicians to be on the take. The roads is probably the best example in my mind. It's really hard to develop as a nation when you don't even have decent roads to get from city A to city B. 

The politicians down there put down a very very thin layer of resurfacing material and say they've repaved a set of highway. Then they keep the money, then they go to jail (hopefully), then next year or so the roads wash out and they've got to start over again. 

Central America has some really great people but I wish they had higher expectations from their leaders. Their low expectations coupled with really limited access to tech (by the common man) is just the perfect recipe for those people to get robbed over and over again. 

Still, all things considered I'd rather be living in CR. [You can totally street view across it](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Itaipu+Dam,+State+of+Paran%C3%A1,+Brazil/@-25.408106,-54.58855,3a,75y,282.32h,82.78t/data=!3m4!1e1!3m2!1sngwi2j6rJpfZ73Aa-cgAtQ!2e0!4m2!3m1!1s0x94f69cbde7774e7f:0x4ff7c63d6c101856). i worked there :\^) Costa Rican here. It's amazing how this article and the comments are out of context. Costa Rica is actually suffering from an energy crisis and many manufacturing companies (national and multinational like Intel) are getting out of the country because of the high electricity costs. 

Sure, we are happy, but not the happiest in the world, specially when the money that we save from not having an army is spent in making politicians' wallets even bigger....  Power bill this month in jaco was $500

These comments are hilarious  Really? How many companies have left? As far as I know Costa Rica is one of the best countries in the world in terms of reliable electricity to companies. [#46](http://www.doingbusiness.org/rankings) That can be directly ascribed to electricity costs?  
One, it is a food company named Jacks, they moved half their operations to other central american countries.  
We Costa Ricans like to panic for everything, so we tend to blow things out of proportion and play the blame game with the immigrants and the government.  
Newspapers and TV news don't help either, they just sell fear and uncertainty.  
If you go to the street and start asking people how they see the national situation they will start saying exaggerated claims (i.e. "We're almost as bad as Venezuela/Mexico/The rest of central America", "In not so many years we will look like the middle east", "In a couple of years, no one will be able to get a job", "In a couple of years all the companies will have left the country because of the unbelievable high energy costs" etc.)     
We're a bit of a paranoiac bunch, specially with economic issues, but I like to think that we aren't in a really bad spot, but we can improve. If someone wants to read about Jacks owner, and reads spanish, [this is interesting](http://www.semanariouniversidad.ucr.cr/noticias/pais/15229-andres-ignacio-pozuelo-de-alimentos-jacks-lo-hicimos-publico-por-insistencia-de-otras-companias.html) Spoiler alert: he doesn't believe that climate change is man made.  That measure is for bureaucratic ease, not cost. So 'getting electricity' is a measure of having wiring laid to a new facility or initiating a contract. Yeah, not exactly an "energy crisis". In terms of cost though, it's the cheapest in Central America if that's worth anything. I haven't found statistics that compare of all the Americas though Thank you **very** much for this comment. Renewable is great, but straight out propaganda like this is not helpful! To be fair though the average consumer is does pretty darned well on electricity costs.  My electric bill has never been more than 16 dollars.  Last month water and electric combined were about 20 bucks.  Costa Rican here, I feel that the growing leftist political parties also helped scaring away big co's.  The climate has a lot to do with the reduced need for electricity too. I was there for 2 years and never needed AC or heat. San Jose and the central valley is right at 1200 meters/4000 feet so even though it is in the tropics, the elevation keeps the temperatures moderate year round. Go down to the beaches though and it is hot and sweltering just as you would expect the tropics to be. Yeah, I was gonna say, when we were in CR, we had the AC on so high in some places that condensation formed on the outside of our door ;P This is really awesome - and they're not even using nuclear. Can't imagine anyone but oil concerns seeing a problem here. The coal guys are probably pretty concerned also. Here in Kentucky coal comes up in any election. Im for renewable energy though.  There's no threat to conventional power here. Hydro regimes are not something you can build or buy. Either you live near a hydro regime or you don't. Most of America doesn't and never will. Most if Canada does and does well by it.  I'm curious in the US how much we could power simply off hydro, solar or wind power. Obviously you can't utilize hydro power in Iowa but who says you can't load up on wind and solar in places like these low population density (92 people/km2 vs 400 pople/km2 in the uk), and tourist industry rather than actual production. (people come and visit giving them money, and they can use that money to buy things made by other fossil fuel users)

just because one country manages it, doesn't mean everyone can. I am living in Costa Rica, and if they can make it to March without tapping into non-renewable resources, we should be gold, as the rainy season is coming.

However... I came to say that the assertion that power here is "affordable" is total BS.  It is four or five TIMES what I would pay for power in Canada... which I don't necessarily consider to be all that affordable... especially in a developing nation.

Which is why most locals have barely more than light bulbs and a fridge powered by electricity - it's a challenge to run much more.

FYI - before anyone says it, I am not complaining about the cost of power - just that ICE's assertion that it is somehow affordable is laughable.  For reference the cost of power here is about 40 cents/kWh. Well, after the first 200kwh, yeah. Before then it's about twice what we pay in Canada. And most places in the world use under that level of usage per person, it's U.S. and Canada households that use so much more. Basically you're being punished for using it at industrial levels at the typical standards of the country you're living in.    It's cheaper than elsewhere in Central America, and much of Latin America as well. Remember that the smaller a country is, the more expensive it's electric costs tend to be. Also, "Which is why most locals have barely more than light bulbs and a fridge powered by electricity - it's a challenge to run much more." is just a BLATANT lie.  What about the cars? Good catch. The headline is incorrect. Only the country's *electric supply* is included here. A side note, when I lived there in the early 90s the cars still used leaded gas - it wasn't banned until 1996. My apartment was on a bus line and the windows would be black with the pollution from the bus and car fumes. Pollution is fucking insane still. So many more cars now. Sometimes a truck will pass by and all you see is fucking smoke. It's supposed to be illegal but they're not getting caught Yeah, it's scary that everyone driving cars were coating the planet with a neurotoxin for decades. And it seems there are still factories that keep producing that fuel illegally. They also rank 1st in happiness in the world as per 2012. Not sure if there's a connection but definitely helps to be happy when you pay less for your household utilities. 

Sauce: http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_Planet_Index I live in the US but I'm from Costa Rica and, while I agree Costa Ricans are generally happier than other peoples, I disagree with the notion that we're the happiest. The reason why we're #1 in the happy planet index is because we enjoy a low ecological footprint and this index assumes that ecological footprint is a big component of well being. As a result countries like El Salvador also rank extremely high (top 10) routinely even though the average Salvadoran is pretty fucking unhappy with the poverty, inequality, corruption, and crime Yep, two factors contribute to the high ranking: ecology and no military spending. The index assumes that you you spend money on army or you are involved in war (like US) you are less happy. Which makes sense to some point but people in US with no connection to the army are pretty happy, you'd not know that there were two wars going on...  That's how it works in Civilization... I need to download this game. Hearing so many great things about it. You'll innocently download Civ on a Friday afternoon and start as a little settler and warrior in the middle of a field. At some point you will have discovered a new side of yourself as a bloodthirsty ruler that has dominated half the planet. It will be Monday, you'll be late for work and you will not have slept yet.  I've been playing it since the boardgame in the early 90s.  It is literally the best game to learn history from while burning cities to the ground. What does Civ have to do with history? You re-write history every time you play.

Unless you're talking about historical things and not the events surrounding them. It depends.  Unlike most strategy games, it's more about building up a civilization rather than tearing one down, but as a result games can take FOREVER.  Games get SUPER interesting though, like one game where my peaceful civilization somehow became allies with Genghis Khan and Napoleon Bonaparte.  To make matters even more amusing, the peace-loving countries began to hate me and eventually declared war on me simply out of association with Khan and Bonaparte.  Then I was wiped off the map.  lol Hello there fellow costa rican or however is spelled in english :D, totally agree you know you all are happy and such but then you go out driving, then the freaking streets reminds you of how much you hate MOPT for example xD Yeah. But you can drive with a beer in the center console. So there's that.  Depends on if you run into a transit cop or not. Transito's are not very tolerant of that. If it is like any other developing country that I have been too it likely depends on how much cash you're carrying and the amount of time you're willing to waste. 

Unless it is an exception to the rule of poor countries?  Well, it also depends on if it is truly legal or not. I don't believe drinking while driving is truly legal in Costa, it is simply tolerated in most areas unless you take it too far or run into a transito. 

The municipal police could care less.  Jesus. No wonder why it was a fucking nightmare to drive there. Excluding the Mario Kart-esque roads.  True until you get caught then you have to bribe the officer and all that trouble god! with that bribe it would have been enough to buy my 2 more beers... xD

**EDIT:** God why there is not a sarcasm font yet... of course you can't do that legally and i freaking despite drunk driver... yeeezz &gt; and this index assumes that ecological footprint is a big component of well being.

That seems like a pretty sketchy way of pushing their agenda. I don't think they have a huge number of people saying "Yeah, I didn't burn any oil today or produce a significant amount of waste so I guess I am really happy!" If you have never been to Costa Rica it won't make sense. People there are happy pretty much happy all the time, they live much simpler lives. Just got back for my second time, it is a wonderful country. Pura Vida is the biggest saying there and it means "pure life" And hello. And goodbye. And cheers. And no problem. And calm down. And that is excellent news. And wow. And I agree. And that's ok with me. And it is very nice out. And oh well but it could be worse. And I'm having a good day. And things are well with me. And good for you. And you are my kind of person. And I am enjoying this very much. And I can't believe it. And that is very aesthetically pleasing. And that is not my concern. And I remember that well. And you are correct. And life is beautiful. And what a goal. And you are welcome. And see you later. And I'm sorry but I can't help you with that. And please stop the vehicle here. And good luck with that you crazy gringo, that's not going to work so I am getting the hell out of dodge. And what do you mean by a street address. And you should probably relax about the lack of bacon available. And it is not going to stop raining for the next three months. those happiness indexes are worth bullshit, don't give too much thought into it This is an index of environmental progressiveness, not personal happiness. "Happy Planet Index". Don't you even read at least the beginning of the articles you link?

&gt; The Happy Planet Index (HPI) is an index of human well-being and environmental impact that was introduced by the New Economics Foundation (NEF) in July 2006. The index is weighted to give progressively higher scores to nations with lower ecological footprints.

&gt;mmentators incorrectly understanding it to be a measure of personal happiness, when it is in fact a measure of the "happiness" of the planet, in other words of the ecological efficiency I think that index is being misunderstood here. It doesn't mean the people are the happiest in the world, it's a measure of a country's ecological footprint. It is funny how many people are not making that connection and just commenting on the comment and not actually reading anything. Non-mobile: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_Planet_Index

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) Pura vida, mae! I spent the summer in CR a few years back, and it was hands down the best time of my life and very eye-opening. I stayed with a family in San Luis de Monteverde, a town of about 400 people. Coming from a large American city to a farming community in a country like CR was life-changing. 

When you basically take money out of the equation by living off of the land, the focus becomes solely on friends and family. This leads to incredibly humble, sincere, and all-around kind people. 

Also, few things are better than waking up to homemade empanadas. And the coffee. Oh man, the coffee. And fresh milk. And the mangos and pineapples... I'm drooling now. 

And prostitution is legal, if you're into that sort of thing. 

TL;dr go to Costa Rica. Good times, good people, perfect weather, beautiful country.  That sounds more like the difference between a city and a small town than US vs Costa Rica.  It also sounds like someone on a vacation. Going somewhere and living there are completely different experiences.  That index is skewed to disadvantage industrial nations, the top of the list includes countries like Cuba and Indonesia. In Indonesia over 25 million people live on less than 1.5$ a days and about a third of children are malnourished. This is at the same time as 95% of their electricity generation is fossil fuels and they cut down 8000+ sqkm of forest every year.

This NGO ranks a country with 25 million people living in abject poverty above countries like Iceland and Norway which have 100% renewable energy and nearly no poverty and much higher happiness and life expectancy.

An utterly absurd index with no value to anyone, it neither manages to rank countries accurately in happiness or ecological footprint. Costa Rican here. Nothing to do. Most people here are conservative, very religious, politically oblivious and raised to think we live in Central American god's chosen land because we're mostly white.  Politically oblivious is the key as I'm tico myself. And also to the comment saying we pay little for utilities. How mistaken is that!  Really?  I live in the Hatillo district and pay around 270 for rent, 15 bucks for electricity, and around 8 dollars for water each month. Super cheap if you ask me. That and the government misrepresents exactly how ecologically friendly they are by declaring virtually any patch of undeveloped land to be national park. There's a lot of smoke and mirrors used to disguise the countries real struggles (which are common to every country) in the interest of maintaining their ecotourist image. Meanwhile, all sorts of sensitive coastal habitat gets more and more developed each year. Its not *bad* but there does seem to be a lot of willful blindness/hiding of the real problems. We also have a ton of rivers for such a small country, we have geotermical plants but the goverment doesn't like using them since they have to pay semi-private companies for it. Even if it is less than they spend, they want to charge for their services only, so all the money goes to them (that means a "bit" extra for electricity than it could be).

Food is freaking expensive here and electricity could be waaayyy more cheap along with fuel, but don't get fooled this is not such a great news energy institutions on this country are good yeah, we have electricity almost all the time yeah, but they are not doing their best effort or having the best of intentions is just a side effect of how easy is to harvest energy in here. 

Oh by the happiest country in the world thing? who is happier a starving human or a starving dog? yep happiness sometimes means ignorance... we have lots of severe problems with corruption in this country, current government in my opinion seems to be trying to fix it after 15 years of shitty presidents and governments, but is not all rainbows and happiness like people make it to be. 

Best thing for me in here tho, delicious food, awesome beaches and no army :)^^^beautiful^women^everywhere

**EDIT:** Im so sorry costarrican fellows if you think you live in disneyland go ahead I open my eyes to what I think is relevant and the gap between rich and poor widening more and more is not something to have on the "happiest country" if you don't like it there is the downvote arrow go ahead... 

BTW I'm on a position I can live very comfortable but that doesn't mean everyone is so well placed therefore I feel everything should improve... specially education and law related stuff. For everyone to know we can't have in vitro fertilization (and the central american court decided it was against human right to denied it)  or gay marriage in here, I bet those couples trying to have a baby and those gay couple are really "happy" living here along with the poor side of the population paying almost 1/3 of their salary in electricity... I can keep going all day btw (_) Zambia has a life expectancy of 49 years old yet they're happier than America. I don't understand this list. I've been there and every person I talked to was so good spirited. They are all about enjoying life and just being happy. They all greet each other with puda vida or buena vida witch means good life. It's Just an over all great place  Small correction, it's "pura vida", not "puda vida." My girlfriend is a Tica. But you're absolutely right, it's a great country. I'd kill for some gallo pinto right about now. I spent a couple weeks there in January and it was far and away the most calm, pleasant, and fulfilling experience.  I'm not well traveled, but I can't imagine there being many places in the world that are much better.   Went over summer. Some of the nicest people I have ever met. It probably doesn't hurt that most of their economy is built off of the wallets of tourists, so they seem to go out of their way to be nice to them haha! It's interesting how Cuba is #12 That is seriously impressive. Unfortunately, if there's a dry season that's too dry this might have to be less than 100%. But you see, we have so many things to FALL BACK ON, which is what burning fossil fuels and coal should be, back ups. It is a remarkable accomplishment, but the country has a major problem with private companies attempting to build hydroelectric dams on vital rivers. If this topic interests you please visit www.RioPacuareCostaRica.org to view a documentary I spent 3 years on.  I live in Costa Rica and news like this astounds me. The country is incredibly polluted, there is next to no recycling going on, crops are grown with huge amounts of chemicals, people still think it is ok to throw trash out their car windows when driving or to drop it when walking, and generally people have no regard for the environment or the consequences of their actions (turtle eggs can still be openly ordered in restaurants) despite the pride that everyone is brainwashed in to having because of headlines like this. I hope I am just pessimistic and seeing the worst side of it but I feel like there is a sad truth to this country laying very hidden.  I used to live there and visit every now and then. I think you're definitely right, especially about the pollution and people just dropping garbage anywhere. Seeing this in the news surprised me. /r/ticos front page maes! Its a shame to see so many ticos taking advantage of this, to belittle Costa Rica, it the typical serrucha-pisos attitude that its so common here. I mean, it's good to be self-critical and all, but I feel that we ticos take it to a whole new level.  
We're serrucha pisos even with ourselves, astonishing.  /r/costa_rica Love the comments about CR's "amazing" achievements in clean energy and education while linking the  lack of military. 

Instead of reading the article or posting an obligatory "Pura vida," how about taking a moment to glance at posts made by locals. Anyone who has lived there can tell you that the situation is a lot more complex and that the renewable energy accolade borders on propaganda. Rolling blackouts, hollow promises on becoming C02 neutral and cleaner overall, a crumbling infrastructure with zero plans for improvement, a history of foreign "investment" in public projects, etc. 

I love my country but I always find it arrogant when people draw their own conclusions with cutesy "see what happens when you don't have a military to finance" comments without any real connection outside of their cup of coffee.  Costa rica supplements their green power with jet-fuel powered peaker plants.  The high rate of dependency on variable rate power without a method to handle the sudden additions or drops of power are proving problematic.  I am a huge fan of green energy and the missing link is solving distribution and transmission problems.  The article doesnt mention the times that CR has had months of no green benefit whatsoever when the peaker plants were used heavily It's not hard to power an entire country using renewable energy, when you remember that "renewable" doesn't just mean solar and wind, but also includes hydroelectric dams.

After all, the biggest, highest-producing power plants in the world aren't coal, or gas, or nuclear, they're hydroelectric. So? Does that decrease their accomplishment that they used hydroelectric power? Not at all, just something that many people forget to consider when they think of "renewable energy".  I'd wager that most people reading this title would be thinking of solar or wind power. Well, it sorta does, considering the fact that hydro is not "green" per se, which is really the whole point of renewables. Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/RrdqFOx.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Well they need to Power the Jurassic Park facility somehow.  What is the definition of renewable energy? What if we could power society with more energy dense materials? I dont even know if thats the correct term. But lets take nuclear power for example. Perhaps the fuel being used is not renewable, wtf is renewable energy? but there is an abundance of it as far as i know. It says that most of the energy came from hydro including pumped storage.  Doesn't pumped storage take energy to store, where did that energy come from?   Great, the whole country of Canada creates roughly 64% of their power with renewable energy.

And over 80% with methods that produce no Carbon emissions.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electricity_sector_in_Canada

We just burn a lot of fossil fuels trying to transport goods and people across the second largest country in the world. When I read stuff like this it makes me ill. Its proof, we can do it, and just choose not to. Just to clarify, hydroelectric power is renewable, but it is far from green. In some places like California, only small hydroelectric projects are considered renewable (for the purposes of meeting state renewable portfolio standards). And Solar and Wind do not cause a good amount of environmental damage in their own right ?

 From what I understand solar has problems with the manufacturing process, and wind can kill birds. Everything has a price. I'm a big proponent of nuclear energy but we also have to figure out what to do with the waste (where the biggest obstacle is political, not feasability). Solar, has a problem all the way from the toxic minerals that are required to create them to the acres of land that must be clear cut to install them (specifically in Countries like canada).

Wind, is the least in that yes it kills bird and if you place enough of them in one location you can affect weather patterns (though a lot is required).

My point is that your comment is misleading as your changing the definition of green energy to suit what you think is a more ethical form. Care to explain? Maybe I'm misunderstanding what "green" means? Costa Rica has a lot of biodiversity in its lakes and rivers and dams tend to negatively affect wildlife. In the Western US this is why dams have complicated systems for allowing salmon migration. Additionally, dams flood a large area upstream which destroys natural habitat. Probably more important is that it cuts off sediment to areas downstream. In the context of deltas worldwide this exasperates relative sea level rise (deltas naturally compensate for subsidence through sedimentation) which destroys wetland habitats and makes human settlements prone to storms and hurricanes. They redefine it only mean solar and wind, despite the ecological damage those do as well, because of environmentalists historical opposition to nuclear and hydroelectric power. I actually live near a wind farm in Costa Rica! Well, it's on the top of a mountain and I can see it from there, and actually travelling there takes about half an hour in car, but I always check how is the wind doing when I leave home. Possibly near Arenal? I was staying in Monteverde for a little while and they were putting these up! Nope, Santa Ana! article disclaims that Costa Rica has population of 4.8 million and is only half geographic the size of Kentucky. Kentucky population is 4.4 million! Good job!

FYI, Iceland's been there for a while. That's what you can do when you have a ton of volcanoes/geothermal sources in addition to rivers. On a related note, in Norway we use 99% Hydroelectric power (Rest is wind and Thermal Power), and have one of (If not the) cheapest electricity in the world. Not much of a tech story...

It rains fucking gobs here at elevation, and we use 100yr old technology to generate loads of power from it!! Not one person, place or building ran a gas powered generator for electricity?   Switzerland powers 57% or 190 days every year with renewable energy, i guess earlier (like 10 years ago) it was even more. So who ranks first here? Quebec (population ~8.2 million) has been powered by something like 98% renewable energy for decades. Fools, why are they not following Australia and going with the future of energy production..........coal California: "We'd like some of that "rain"" Costa Rica is my go to place after awkwardly grabbing the receptionist's leg.  I live in the UK - it's an island.  The tide rolls in/out daily, on schedule.  I know, let's build a bunch of ugly windmills! It's amazing what this country has accomplished by minimizing military expenditures.  &gt;It's amazing what this country has accomplished by minimizing military expenditures. 

Yeah, amazing that a country can minimize its military expenditures when it can stand under the umbrella of protection provided by the militaries of other countries. Haha, well this argument is thrown around a lot when talking about CR or any other non-military countries. But I don't know, who says other militaries will step in and sacrifice their citizens for us? The mere possibility that the other countries would come to your defense is a huge deterrent.

Do you seriously think a country like the US could just eliminate its military?

Would Costa Rica have come to our rescue when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor?

Would Costa Rica have kept Russia in check during the Cold War? Your comment is correct, the answer is no to all of your questions. What I am saying is that one shouldn't think its all fine living under a big army's supposed protection(there is no defense treaty with the US).

If something bad happens to us(e.g. Ukraine maybe?) we are not of sufficient geopolitical importance to worth risking any of other countries' lives. Tell me, where's this agreement of staying "under the umbrella of protection provided by the militaries of other countries."?  
When was it signed, and by who?  
We don't have any serious threat around us, we don't need a military nor we need any help from any self-appointed world police.   You don't need any signed agreement to take advantage of these things. You benefit from the simple fact that they exist.

People that choose not to vaccinate themselves benefit from those that do vaccinate themselves. They enjoy these benefits despite a lack of any signed agreement or contract. That would explain why power went out at my vacation resort twice a day   Its all part of the experience! :) I encourage all redditors to move to Costa Rica. They also have no enemies. I could see that changing rapidly if a socialist party ever gets elected. Read this as "They have no enimas". Tenemos gallo pinto y mejengas..y chifrijo... Tenemos gallo pinto y mejengas..y chifrijo... Big energy is absolutely scared of this. They have been trying to prevent clean energy in the US (Solar power). I cannot believe this kind of practice is actually allowed. they want people to STAY on their power grids at any cost. I am very excited about a new world with clean energy and hopefully (and this may be pushing it) a clean government without the stains of corruption. Did you forget to read the part about using 'biomass' which essentially means burning wood. Also hydro isn't any threat to traditional energy sources, and ecologically a disaster in some places (eg. Three rivers dam in China). Wind power is regularly opposed by locals on environmental grounds, and large solar is making Kentucky fried chicken out of local bird life. The article states that 97% of their energy production came from hydro and geothermal, neither of which are solutions being proposed in the US. This would be much much more difficult based on solar and wind, the current popular renewable solutions in the US.  It's about half the size of Kentucky, and it's primary export is tourism.

It's commendable, but it's not like really that hard to do in a country that size with no manufacturing.

Their power needs just aren't that high. &gt; Their power needs just aren't that high.

If we map their power system onto California, there's no way they could power the state. Costa Rica has 5 million people, that's less than ~~the city~~ (edit for the pedants) greater Los Angeles. However, even if California had 30% of it's power from renewables it would be helpful. Seeing that it can be done is important -- especially to naysayers. Except California is far more prosperous and really has no excuse why they can't at least make a concerted effort to. ummmm how about a completely broken electricity distribution regulatory structure that makes it more profitable to sell their electricity to Nevada? We have a lot of wind farms. But most people here only care about their damn property taxes and could not give less shits about renewable expansion. Can you believe that some people are opposed to wind farms because they ruin their view? Oh and coal power plants are so attractive.

Practical considerations aside, I personally think wind turbines are beautiful.
 LA has 3.8 million people, I don't know where you're getting over 5 million people. Well LA metro area has 12 million people... ^

People in LA don't consider the proper city of Los Angeles 'LA'. If you did that, you'd have to exclude Hollywood, the Santa Monica Beaches, the Venice Boardwalk, Culver City's movie studies and Universal Studios -- some things most people think about when they think 'LA'. He's referring to the Greater Los Angeles Metropolitan Area. Just like when people say New York they don't mean just Manhattan, they mean Manhattan, The Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn and.... and that 5th borough no one ever remembers. Rikers?  Most people just prefer to forget about Staten Island Why are you making this about the United States? It's a news story to commendate a county's commitment to environmental sustainability. If it's not about the US, it's not for interest on reddit. So is half of any state in the union run off of renewables? Let me reduce: "it's totally better than anything we've done..." Hey Washington is powered almost completely by renewable energy. All energy is renewable if you are patient enough. I guess that's technically true, what I meant is that WA runs almost entirely off of hydro and wind with a little solar. We actually export a lot of energy because we have an over abundance even though we have heavy industry. Shit, that's actually kinda somberly depressing. True though. Yes, they do. 

According to [this](http://www.tradingeconomics.com/costa-rica/electric-power-consumption-kwh-wb-data.html) source, Costa Rica consumed 8.7 TWh in 2011. The US consumed 25,484 TWh. Only 2,929 times as much. 

[US Renewable Energy Production Source](http://energy.gov/maps/renewable-energy-production-state)

According to this source, Washington State is 92.25% renewable right now. Producing 242.2 TWh. That is 28 times as much as Costa Rica is producing. The LOWEST any state is currently producing in renewables is Utah with 5 TWh which has a population of only 2.9m. And there are only 3 states in the entire US that produce less renewable energy than Costa Rica.

So in terms of the amount of renewable energy we produce, the US is kicking Costa Ricas butt all over the map.

Oh, and I almost forgot:

    Deleware: 100%
    Idaho: 100%
    Hawaii: 100%
    Maine: 100%
    Rhode Island: 100%
    Washington DC: 100%
    Oregon: 99.8%
    Nevada: 94.7% 
    South Dakota: 93.87%
    Iowa: 91.69%
 Costa Rica is also not a world superpower, so this is still a lot more impressive to me at least Costa Rica also doesn't have central air in every house and a host of power hungry electronics. The Hoover Dam could easily power California if we lived like them.  Are you implying that Delaware is a world superpower? The United States. Did you not know that Delaware is a state in the US? Yes but it makes more sense to compare similar sized regions with similar populations. That allows for a more fair comparison. The US as a whole has such varied landscapes and climates that all effect electricity use, not to mention the US as a whole uses thousands of times more power.  They're two incredibly different situations. Saying one is more impressive then the other is silly.  Looking at that map, I'm surprised they are so varied. Why so much in Washington State and so little comparatively in California? Why isn't this a federal thing? The lion's share of "renewables" is essentially hydroelectric -- so it really depends on what is available for rivers. However, you should also take into account the size of Costa Rica So that's pretty much good news or great news, no matter which way you want to print it. Some states have a very high nuclear component.  &gt;no manufacturing.

There is plenty of manufacturing in Costa Rica, especially when you consider the size of the country. Hell, up until just recently they had an Intel chip assembly plant which is now a Lululemon factory. 


 right, its meaningless to consider one entity in isolation when it trades. if they get an income from tourism and use that to buy things made by other fossil fuel users, they are still a fossil fuel user.
also their population density is low, we know life on renewables is possible if you have vastly fewer people. The real question is can 7billion people live that way: I assert global-warming denial would indicate people can't face life minus fossil fuel When you don't waste money on a military and instead invest in schools and clean energy, this is what you get.  And New York did fine when the police went on strike. (serious) Costa Rica has the highest literacy rate in the Western Hemisphere. Apparently education benefits when you have no army.  &gt;Apparently education benefits when you have no army. 

Which is only possible because you get to stand under the umbrella provided by the militaries of other countries.

 That's not true. Cuba has a higher literacy rate. [CIA](https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/fields/print_2103.html) Well shut my mouth. I stand corrected. Or you became smart enough through quality education to abolish the army... Google's business expansions kind of remind me of how I used to do school projects with assigned groups. 

&gt; Okay, you handle this part of the research, I'll do this part, we'll come together and make an outline, then... Oh, you actually suck at all those things. Fuck it, I'll just do it myself.  Nail on the head. Google has all these grandiose ideas and big projects which, in the mid 2000s, looked like things wed have the network infrastructure for, and so they invested megabucks into it. However, instead of innovating and getting better the ISPs and carriers have fucked the competition out of the market and sat around doing nothing while they slowly raise prices.

This, Google Fiber, etc are all Google going "fuck it" and taking over. They're a little more than just taking over, they're also encouraging the competition to step up their game. Basically, they're breaking the monopoly so that even if google isn't the one providing the connection to the internet, the infrastructure will be good enough that they can do what they wanted to While renting Google hardlines to other, independent, companies. Just like western bell did with it's long distance phone lines in the eighties. It's kind of cool to see capitalism actually working. Welllll, yeaaaah, but it's only really working now because it was horribly broken to begin with. It's more like it's recovering from it's own self induced alcoholism Love having people like you in my groups.  Damn you, O cause of my misanthropy. I used to do it all anyways and try to guide others to the answers, then one time the other person backstabbed me with the prof (college) and claimed I forced them to do all the work by themselves and then stole/destroyed it. So the teacher proceeded to chew me out in front of the small class (12 or so). That's when I proceeded to turn in the self-completed version while staring at them with a rather extreme glare. Refused to acknowledge backstabbers 'written apology' the next day. Aced the class, Don't know if they passed or not, and don't care Sounds like your classmate was made for middle management. Not skilled enough to do the actual work, not savvy enough to pull off the bullshit required to get into upper management. Will eventually get shoved into a management position with enough people answering to him to cover his ass but not enough power to really advance. He'll make more money than you. Then he'll wind up having a mid-life crisis at 35, buy a yacht, divorce his wife, spend the next 15 years trying to convince sorority girls he isn't $80k in debt by buying them jewelry and vacations to the carribean, all before getting hit with a tax evasion suit just as he's about to "retire." The girls all stop flirting back as he loses all his hair and gains 50lbs seemingly overnight. Usually he's too drunk to notice, until he runs into his estranged daughter at a club one night and tries to take her home. Twice. that's an oddly specific scenario. Autobiographical Started out so general and relatable tho.  If 35 is mid life, you've made me feel a bit sick as a 36 year old. To be fair, a lot of times these are just people who want everything done their way. I saw that plenty of times when it came to people just plain not knowing how to work well with others. Then they'd claim they had to do it all by themselves when in reality they were the ones excluding the group.

Or maybe they were all lazy twats. Fuck if I know.

Point is, no one is the villain of their own story and there's usually more going on than people notice or are willing to admit. Try owning a business...  Except it's different because when you try to do all the work they call it "micromanaging", and all of a sudden it's a bad thing. The difference is for a business you *can't* do it all yourself.

Micromanaging comes from a lack of leadership skill/experience. People in a subordinate position need to be left to their own devices from time to time. When the boss is around they revert to follower mode and defer all decision making and action taking to the boss out of a concern that making any decision for themselves will be the wrong one. [deleted] I also want to add that if you HAVE to micromanage as a business owner, you need to hire better people.   Or be a better leader and realize that other people can do a good job and do it slightly differently than you.  Sounds interesting. Competition is always good, and I'd imagine Google's services would be reasonably priced. Agreed - Competition is good. I'm out of a 2 year contract soon and I anticipate better options. I'm sure this would take a couple of years before it took off Which is perfect for me since I just got a new contract.  T-mobile - no contract. I love not being chained. Fuck those contracts, I couldn't be happier after switching to an MVNO.  My issue is Google's obsessive stance on collecting as much on you as physically possible. I love Google's services, but I can dictate right now to some extent what they have on me. That all changes if they hold the keys to the internet. And you think telecom companies don't already do this? The point is telecom's actually can't do as much as Google can with the data. Yet somehow I'm more okay with trusting Google with it than the telecoms. To each their own.

Edit: Okay, maybe trust isn't the right word - I'm more okay with *giving* google that data. That's just my personal view. I acknowledge they're just a company but track records and services compared, that's my current stance.

EDIT Again:  
From my reply to another comment:  
Perhaps the issue we should really be focusing on is more specific to abuse of data mining rather than the practice of it. Google is that cool aunt that gives you things when you're young, will listen to your party stories and relationship adventures, but will tell your parents if you start smoking meth or something. What does Google actually tell though? Also, if you don't want your aunt ratting you out, you could always talk to your father who was never there for you as a kid, but who allows everything in hopes you'll see him as a cool guy (Bing). My father chose the "smack the shit out of me" route. This simile is losing it's value. Ah, you mean you use Internet Explorer... gotcha His dad was a shitty parent got a lot of shit for it. Now some people claim he's reformed, and has become a better person but I don't blame him for not finding out. That one hit close to home Everyone trust skynet What makes you more okay with it besides public image and their reputation? Honestly curious. We have no reason to trust them any more than other telecom companies, but I too agree they just *feel* more trustworthy. Nothing in particular. I *personally* just don't mind the concept of data mining in exchange for services. In fact, I - again *personally* - prefer it to ads or premium services. I acknowledge my info might get sold off somewhere but to date I've never seen a direct effect of that. I don't mind targeted ads, but if I started getting junkmail in my postal mailbox based on what I searched, I might start getting bothered by it. I get why a lot of people don't, and that's fine. It just doesn't bother *me.* The thing is you shouldn't be ok with it, regardless of who does it.


If Google has your info, it's fine. If Comcast has it, it's suddenly terrible and a bad thing. If the NSA does it, it's time to protest.


I think people should separate their emotions and feelings from their rationing. Thinking with a cold head is always good. Because google uses it to alert me of discounts on Kraft Mac n Cheese. I can see why people would give away their rights and privacy for a bowl of hot nachos with cheese. Yeah... because they know Men in their 30s who email their mother at least 2 times a week, regularly drive the I-5 and are into scat porn LOVE the cheesy taste of Kraft.

That is just the outward facing portion. Google knows more about you than your best friends. Combine your search history, contacts, location history, email.... imagine all they know about you.  According to Google I'm a 32 year old African man who recently moved to Calgary, who looks up diapers constantly.

A lot of the information Google has about you is wrong surprisingly enough. Well all you have to do is do everything in incognito then you can't be tracked duh... You got it all wrong. Google is doing Science's Work. They're gathering every bit of data on us so they can recreate our personalities come the Singularity. I have to agree with this, google is one of very few companies that seems to have an actual reason for taking my data They all have a reason.  Google just gives you something in return.
 Google makes my life 10x more convenient with that data.  Comcast would just sell it and the NSA would probably anal probe me if I said ISIS is cool. ... Based on a conversation you had with your grandmother while your phone was in your pocket. This sounds a bit tinfoil hat to me. I'm going to need some sort of verification of practices like this before I'll believe they're that invasive.  If any US company has your data, expect that the NSA does, too. Because.....

Google has my info? Ok, I'll be the target of ads for things I browse. Plus, I do get gmail, gdrive, and all their other awesome services for free on all my devices which is a valid trade-off. 

Comcast has my info? Ok, well they aren't giving me any deals, and they are actually selling it to marketing companies for a profit. And then they keep raising their prices. And their service is shit. Fuck off, I pay you $150 month for cable/tv/internet. That is what I should get. 

NSA has my info? Yea, you are big brother, snooping on my shit, under the guise of national security. I could be put on a list. I could not. We will never know. This data being collected is purely to try and find something illegal, not help me in anyway. Fuck off NSA. 

 you're assuming one doesn't work with the other.  Here is some food for thought - 

https://wikileaks.org/Op-ed-Google-and-the-NSA-Who-s.html

https://medium.com/@NafeezAhmed/how-the-cia-made-google-e836451a959e If my brother has a key to my house, it's fine, but if a stranger has a key to my house, it's time to call the cops.

There's a thing called context.  I think a locksmith would be better.  I think the biggest difference is the consent. You give permission to Google when signing up for services, but you haven't given explicit permission to the NSA. That's the only difference I can see.  I understand that with Google, my information is the price for the service. Anything I don't want to give to Google, I either don't give it to them, or take precautions to make sure it isn't directly connected to me. 

With Comcast, I pay a price for a service.. Then they sell my information for more money.

And, obviously, NSA gives me no opportunity to consent, or opt out.

That is the difference, for me. Why shouldn't you be OK with it? There is NOTHING wrong with giving out your information (assuming you consented to it) when you are getting services in return. 

Collecting information is only an issue when you force it upon consumers and give them no option and/or use that information in a malicious way. 

 I agree with this. The calculus is the same for all of these entities: personal info is worth something, and something of value needs to be provided for access. I think Comcast and the NSA haven't proven their value, where Google uses your information to provide daily value. Whether you agree it's worth the exchange is up to you.  why shouldn't I be ok with it Vertical integration, baby! They can sell it, which is arguably worse. They can sell it, to Google. I'm not agreeing the telecoms can't do that. My point is they are making so much money they are most likely selling a very limited amount of data.

Google doesn't want to sell raw data to anyone. They want everything themselves. My point is it would be easier for them to sift through the billions of GBs of data with their algorithms that have been perfectly refined and THEN sell it.

Google can and always will be better at sifting through data efficiently than the telecoms. It's their entire business. (over 90% of their profits.) Its not 'if', it's when, and how much. [deleted] &gt;Am i entirely private? No. Can any one company build a comprehensive profile on me? Also no.

As someone who really doesn't mind if they do, I've gotta ask: what makes this worth it to you?

It *sounds* like you are going through a not insignificant amount of hassle just to move the meter from "someone can build a comprehensive profile of me" to "many places can build a partial profile of me," so what do you see as making that change worth the hassle?

Is it just a lot less hassle than it sounds like once you get into the habits, or do you see Google having the ability to build a comprehensive profile on you as a large risk/negative? If it's the latter, could you explain a bit why you see it as such a big deal? [deleted] By not using social networks, sharing your life/images with everyone and  and shit like that... you already raise your privacy level by 500%.  Mattrix2 wakes up.

Mattrix2 plays Eminem "I'm not Afraid."

Mattrix2 goes to work.

Mattrix2 browsing Reddit at work.

Mattrix2 heading to Gym After Work.

Mattrix2 playing Eminem "Till I Collapse"

Mattrix2 heads home.

Mattrix2 is watching Netflix.

No activity.

Mattrix2 must be sleeping.

What will Google do with my boring info?! bombard you with Sweat fitness, Eminem and Netflix ads.

Also, open up the possibility of anyone who wants to know about you to search your Reddit browsing history. As well as know when you're asleep so they can come nab you if whatever org feels it's needed. I already use so many Google apps on my phone it wouldn't make much difference at this point. I've been meaning to start moving off to try and reclaim some amount of privacy but it's so hard.  Just download the Google SIM app today to start your service! If they are charging reasonable prices, they can stick a microchip in my butt to track every time i take a shit. And that's how much you value your privacy.

TBH, the recent flap over the ATnT deal for cheaper internet if you allow them to track you is interesting.  For a discount of $30, it just makes the tracking explicit--they're going to to it anyways, and now I save $30 a month.

Also, what the actual fuck?  So what if I get more ads tailored to my interests.  That's not anywhere near as concerning, and it might actually be a value, compared to the Government tracking which could result in my arrest and imprisonment.
 It sounds like you're reading the AT&amp;T policy exactly how they want it: $30 "discount" to be tracked, not the $30 more you have to pay not to be tracked. Marketing!  Google wants to run the fucking world I'm starting to get a BnL kind of vibe. It's getting a bit too big. &gt; BnL

For anyone who, like me, was not sure what BnL referred to:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Pixar_film_references#Buy_n_Large_.28BnL.29
 I thought he referred to Barenaked Ladies. [Oh they're BNL now? We need a shorthand for the Barenaked Ladies?!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKBmd_Mo-mI) Wow, Community has been kinda popular on Reddit recently. Recently?? Oh so the barenaked ladies deserves an acrynim now? The Barenaked Ladies are triple platinum! Are *you*? THIS. IS A FIGHT.  

WE. ARE FIGHTING. Why does everyone leap to defend that band so aggressively?  Well maybe BNL have two Billboard Awards to your zero! They're THAT fundamental now.  Maybe You're Right, but If I had a Million Dollars, I'd say Easy that the Odds Are he was referring to Some Fantastic little Pixar flick I Know. But they are Canadian superstars... Oh really?  We're shortening it to BNL now?? They're that fundamental.  The Barenaked ladies are triple platinum, are you? Maybe we all need some space, to pull the knife out of the most celebrated Canadian alt-rock band of the mid-90's you selfish jaded ass! And I honestly wouldn't mind. But I thought /r/technology was against privacy snooping and selling personal information? They are when it's the NSA doing it, but if it's Google they welcome it with open arms. I think the difference is that you make a conscious decision to let Google have your information or not (by using or not using their services), but with the NSA it just happens whether you want it to or not. Google is so ubiquitous and omnipresent on the web even when you don't think they're collecting data they are.  You make it sound like it's that easy to differentiate. Google has infiltrated themselves into society. You can't live without using their services SOMEHOW unless you unplug from the grid. You can totally live without their services. Need to find something on the net? Well ask jeeves! Need to send an email? Login in to yahoo.com and you're good to go! Need directions? Mapquest that bitch! 



^^I ^^don't ^^use ^^any ^^of ^^those ^^services. Microsoft has decent competitors in every category. I don't think it's a monopoly at all. And if you think Microsoft doesn't collect your info either, you're mistaken. I think the point is to diversify the information on you out there.  If you use Gmail, Search, Docs, Android, and Maps all at once, Google knows damn near everything there is to know about you.

That said, I don't really understand why I'm supposed to care.  I have nothing to hide (I know, I know), but if I did I'd just start using DuckDuckGo, Opera, CyanogenMod, and other non-mega-corporation products.  It's really not hard to switch most of Google's services out for a less intrusive alternative.

I'm open to changing my mind though, it's just that so far /r/technology hasn't convinced me that this is something I really need to be concerned about. But the websites you visit do, so they still gather some data on you. Ghostery and adblock. Yup, fuck facebook. Time to dust off the ol' AOL account. I get some of the best services available when I use Google and they get my data for it. When the NSA compromises us hardware manufacturers, forces software developers to make back doors and take user data, and destroy US tech companies credibility then they get my data. Who would you rather use your data? I don't recall google ever causing me any harm with my data.  no they don't. I don't think anyone reasonable want's Google to rule our digital life not because their "evil" but what happens if whoever takes over (new ceo's or being forced by the NSA) ends up being evil?  you say that but then there are fucktards all over the place saying how they dont care if google does. It's just ironic how because google it's suddenly OK. If you're legit concerned over privacy or things of that nature it shouldn't matter who, or what, or why. Privacy is privacy.  Oh yeah, I totally forgot that the data collection by Google and the NSA were equivalent Here is some food for thought on Google and their intelligence links - 

https://wikileaks.org/Op-ed-Google-and-the-NSA-Who-s.html

&gt;It was revealed last week, thanks to Edward Snowden, that Google and other US tech companies received millions of dollars from the NSA for their compliance with the PRISM mass surveillance system.

https://medium.com/@NafeezAhmed/how-the-cia-made-google-e836451a959e They don't have to be equivalent to be bad. I love how this sub claims to hate corporations who disrespect privacy, then circlejerks over Google  I don't understand it. Google is one of the biggest violators, Facebook too. 

I mean cmon forcing users to use real names? Both of them have done this! 

Google has some love from me still, but mostly my opinion of them has diminished so much... Pretty much since the purchase of youtube it's been a very slow but incremental shift. I'm just skeptical of them and wish they would take a more user centric focus in regard to privacy and security.  Reddit forced me to use my legal name too.  You tell them, wide.  Sign into your Google plus to connect to the internet? No thanks  No, they want to organize the world. 

Source: [Google](http://www.google.com/about/company/) - so we know it's honest and pure.  This doesn't sound any different than what Walmart is doing with Straight Talk already. It piggy backs on other companies' networks and is a little bit cheaper. It's called an MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) and is essentially the wireless equivalent to how dial-up internet services operate over lines owned and maintained by another service.

They have said in the past that they want to offload users' services to WiFi when connected (calls, texts, and data) to a wireless network.  Republic Wireless already does this very well and uses Sprint's network when you are not on a wireless network. Yea for republic wireless! $27 a month unlimited everything!  I'm on the $10 plan because the data network is kinda slow in my area. Luckily I have great wireless at work and home so I don't feel like I'm missing much. Paired with a standalone GPS app and I have everything I need. &gt; a standalone GPS app

What does that mean exactly? Does initial navigation still require wifi as with google maps when data is turned off? Standalone GPS apps work the same as a dedicated GPS device, they do not require any internet access. Are you using the Here app?  It works pretty good for me, so I'm just wondering if there's a better one available. Republic has been really good for me. Though I get e-mails every few months letting me know that I use more mobile data than my average peers. I don't know if its a shaming thing or what. Well their business is based on users being on wifi as much as possible, the less users use the mobile data service the less they have to pay to Sprint basically. So you're allowed to use as much as you want but they want to encourage everyone to be on wifi when possible so they can save money and keep having cheap plans. [deleted] Lucky.  PA has some great double taxation on cell phones so my bill is $31. I suppose it would be a net win for (googles) android. Many carrier lock downs and tweaks to the OS could be eliminated. This is actually a really good way to start. They can start their service with nation wide coverage without building a single tower. If it's a success maybe they will buy out another network or start building their own. The difference is that Google can create a custom baseband for the Nexus 5 and 6 and connect to Sprint and T-Mobile's networks seamlessly without switching SIM cards or restarting your phone. Also they could provide a deeply discounted/free plan (and possibly a subsidized phone) with less data or slower speeds like they do with Fiber. "Google confirms that it intends to be all knowing and all powerful" **2115: Google is now Sentient** Really? 100 years? I'd expect that a whole lot faster gryzzl phones coming soon! Wouldn't it be tight if everyone was chill to each other?  I have no idea wtf you just said.  You're really harshing our hype brosef.  oh it's 4:17, you've got about 3 minutes Yeah. I'm getting a gun to shoot down their drones.  Those drones where fairly large and metal and plastic are harder than birds are. I suggest at least #4 shot, though I wouldn't be opposed to something larger. https://media.giphy.com/media/RFM7e9lHhRFHG/giphy.gif Hah. Same thing I thought, and probably more accurate than we even know.  Come to Canada please. We need you. Soon please. And if it's not too much to ask, could you bring some of your fiber with you?
edit* missed an if Google Fibre While I love additional competition, Google doesn't do stuff like this out of idealism. It's to collect customer data for its core revenue stream - advertising. One of the biggest "secrets" in the advertising world the last few years has been Google's lack of dominance with mobile ads. It seemed like a slam dunk, but they've never really figured out mobile advertising. Entering the wireless world is a way for them to collect extensive customer data to increase the efficiency of their mobile advertising platform. A lot of consumers probably don't know or notice that Google is an advertising company as much as a tech company.  From a revenue point of view they aren't a tech company at all.  And from my point of view the Jedi are evil. Thank you for that. Well, they are. Good. Cause they are,  the freedom hating bastards.   Which is fine with me and many consumers I'm sure. At least Google gives you shit back (services) in return for having your information.  Carriers on the other hand shaft you and collect/sell your information; and you get shit all in return. At least not anything for free.  As opposed to all other current wireless carriers who don't collect any data? I always find it strange why Google is singled out for data collection when literally every other large tech company does the same thing. Microsoft, yahoo, at&amp;t, Verizon, etc.... it would be silly to think that they don't collect your data to use in some way. Google loooks amazing right now because they are promoting competition which is something Americans are starving for. Also, they seem to have good business ethics. I'm just worried about what is going to happen in the future when the current CEO's are gone and replaced with new ones. Will they turn into the next Verizon, Comcast, AT&amp;T? I just can't shake the feeling something bad will happen when everyone starts dumping all their money and information into Google.  I'm more scared of our government infiltrating Google more than they already have. Their business is an ad business. They benefit from having more people go through their system. That means fast browsing and more users. They need to be affordable and good in order to keep the flow of their ad business going. 

In turn, the other companies have to do something to compete. It's no surprise that once Fiber arrived the other companies had to compete a bit more.  This situations excites, and scares me.  My main excitement is for the short term.  Anything that google does they do well (I'm using well comparatively - no one can argue that they aren't better than their competition (Comcast and Verizon to name a few)).  So in the short term they would be so much better than being stuck with Verizon.  Their massive size gives them the ability to pull a wal-mart though...  Short term it's amazing.  I don't think that can be argued against.  
Long term is what is scary.  They are in so many fields that they can have their prices ridiculously low in one sector (and lose money for a while) in order to put all of the competition out of business (pulling a Wal-Mart).  Then they have full control....  That is my long term fear.
Right now they are being extremely honorable about everything, and are such a great example for the country of how a power-house company should act.  If that continues to be the case then a monopoly wouldn't really be a bad thing...  The corruptive nature of power is super scary though.  I guess we'll see. Dear Google,

skip this piggy-back shit and finish rolling out Google Fiber nationwide. Then you could provide carrier service thru that (wifi). You get that a wifi umbrella isn't a suitable alternative to LTE right?  It has too short a range to economically provide enough coverage.   802.2 is 50+ miles range. You get that?  Apparently a lot of people here don't. Times like this really show the actual technical knowledge (or lack of in this case) of the average /r/technology subscriber. Yup, nothing like 3 people telling 1 person that they are wrong to help us figure out what the average user of this subreddit knows.

I'm doing averages right.....right? 97 percent of the calls I make occur entirely within wifi range. If wifi calling was ubiquitous it would take huge percentages of traffic off the LTE network.  Thats fine, but you can't replace cell towers with WiFi completely. You still need the coverage. Yeah let me just connect to the abundant highway-side wifi in bumfuck, Illinois so I can make a phone call while I'm driving. Seriously they obviously need to piggyback on a strong network's towers, even if they do utilize wifi for calling when at home like t-mobile and republic do.  I tend to agree.  Creating an MVNO isn't realistically going to change the wireless market much because when you aren't running your own network most of the differences you are going to have are going to be customer service and pricing.  I could see Google improving customer service standards for the wireless industry, but a lot of MVNOs that outsource enough support to the cheapest Indian call center probably couldn't get much cheaper. I wonder if they will get access to the iPhone. Not that they care; I wonder if they would even pursue it They probably will. They could use the user data. Unless you have a Windows Phone. Google seems to be trying to shut that down at every opportunity. Honestly, I'm surprised that the windows phone hasn't died yet considering I've never seen someone use one in real life.  Someone downvoted you... but it's true.

I've seen literally one Windows phone in real life. Just once. Sorry, but that was Stamper's phone on House of Cards. I know it *seems* like real life. The only people I've ever seen with a Windows Phone device are in television shows.  So much product placement. Right, I've seen plenty on TV where they focus on the phone for a few seconds while the main character slowly opens their contacts to call someone. Super obvious product placement, but whatever. It's not like product placement is anything new.  half the characters in house of cards got rid of their iphones and replaced them with windows phones this season If they're using GSM, which IMO they'd be stupid not to, then they'd have a really hard time blocking iPhone.  And why would they?  Money in their pockets. &gt;If they're using GSM, which IMO they'd be stupid not to

I would think VoLTE would be the only way to go as far as being a new network. Instead of deploying a shitty first gen network for voice, and then a more advanced network for data, why not used the advanced network for both?

However building a new network is almost an impossibility, it would seem. There isn't enough spectrum just laying about for them to use to cover the amount of people that would consider moving over. They'd either have to buy a smaller carrier (T-Mobile, Sprint or multiple regional carriers), or operate an MVNO like everyone else has tried.

Either that or this is a *very* long game they're playing, and they hope new auctions will take place, or break of up of currently held spectrum from the big carriers so they can get a chunk. I found a [picture](http://assets.nydailynews.com/polopoly_fs/1.1949551!/img/httpImage/image.jpg_gen/derivatives/article_970/kingsman-secret-service.jpg) of the Google exec behind this desire to be a wireless carrier. Free internet from our communication network! All you need is one of our SIM cards. Can Google be my everything? If they're just going to be an MVNO then they can't offer the kind of exciting infrastructure improvements like with Google Fiber. It will be no faster than your current data plans and if they go with Sprint or T-Mobile it will be even slower than Verizon or ATT. I would much rather see them compete on cell tower technology because that's what needs to be improved. I'm perfectly happy with my Tmobile customer service, I wouldn't jump ship just to deal with Google's CS instead. While MVNO's do often undersell the company's they are buying their network from, the service is often worse as well. I'd rather see Google outright buy T-Mobile and invest in its infrastructure.  I hereby welcome our new mobile network overlords, all hail Google!! I'll be interested to see how much they charge. Since they will have to pay sprint and T-Mobile for the use of their towers. They also will probably block roaming onto att and Verizon towers (something sprint and T-Mobile customers do now) so coverage is probably going to be spotty. And so continues Google's plan for world domination. Now if only community-based wireless carriers could be a thing... Skynet is coming.  Shut up and take my... most private and personal communications, break down their content like gmail, produce a consumer behavioral profile to be sold at advertising auctions, and ultimately forfeit this information to the government in the name of national security.   

TLDR; I want to have my cake and eat it without groups using that info for their own agenda.  Sign me up right now. If you're interested in something like this now, check out www.ting.com /r/ting

They've just started supporting GSM and I'm saving a lot of money. TING DOES GSM NOW?!?!?! This changes everything Google will prove to be the Standard Oil of the information technology age. ["America's Bogus Skilled Labor Shortage"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zo7GOsXpDtQ) Google is becoming an all-powerful tyrant and i'm totally okay with that. "Google will be treating the experiment as an experience" 

Does this sound weird to anyone else? Polite way to say: MOVE THE FUCK OVER! We're here to fuck up your thieving ways.  Good news for a small handful of people located in  2 or 3 cities.  The Gogol Empire begins, now we just need a Dandy in Space.  Great, another service I'll have to wait +10 years to get into my country. Please in Canada pleasepleasepleasepleaseplease Dear goggle,  
Come to canada.  
Be fair.  
Take my firstborn.  
-rauul Google takes one look at state of technology, says fuck it, monopolizes future Yeah, too bad it's going to just be as another MVNO.  Being an MVNO does not in any way, shape or form make you a "wireless carrier".  You're just another reseller, same as Wal-Mart and the rest.  I think it give them an easy starting point.   Otherwise it would basically take forever to get into the market.   They can then add their own infrastructure over time. Google for president. Headline should be "Tel-co Providers Shit Collective Brick as they Realize They're About to be Forced to Stop Sucking So Hard" So according to the Reddit hive mind, Google vertically integrating services through ISPs or wireless carriers is good however if Verizon tries such a move it is anticompetitive.  Got it.

When Google is tracking its non-customers via cell phone towers don't come back to Reddit and complain.  Doesn't Google already track android users and non customers who use Google maps? If someone uses Google Maps, doesn't that make them a customer of Google's? The blind love for anything Google in this comment thread is bordering on creepy. There are actually highly-upvoted comments like "Google will never have a reason to be evil".

And "somehow I'm more okay with trusting Google with [as much data on me as physically possible] than the telecoms. To each their own" gets Gold. Seriously. Verizon has a history of trying to fuck me. Google doesn't. I trust my friend to give me a haircut, but not my bitter ex. That's context, not contradiction.  I get a feeling since google manipulates the web, they also manipulate reviews/ratings about them over the internet.  NSA BAD, GOOGLE GOOD.   &gt; When Google is tracking its non-customers via cell phone towers don't come back to Reddit and complain. 

And to anybody who thinks Google wouldn't do that, they were the ones who were bypassing Safari's privacy mode through an exploit to continue tracking people. Or when they were using Google Maps cars to go into unlocked wifi networks. They can be dirtbags when it means getting more data. To be fair on that latter point there, they weren't getting into the networks, they were just recording GPS location and MAC address for geoIP lookups, not actually accessing and data about the users. &gt;to be fair

No, they were actually collecting payload data. 

http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2010/05/wifi-data-collection-update.html

&gt;But its now clear that we have been mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open (i.e. non-password-protected) WiFi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products.  I can't believe you just said Verizon is a good company. How much did they pay you to say that? Huh? Nowhere did he say Verizon is a good company. He simply posted one of the only comments in this entire comment thread which isn't expressing unconditional devotion toward a major corporation whose entire revenue stream relies on mining your personal data. First Apple wants to make cars and now Google wants to be a wireless carrier. The next 5 years will be very interesting for those already established companies and may even change the way we interact with them.  At least we'll always have Taco Bell. I imagine a car produced by Apple would cost as much as a high end Mercedes To be fair, Google is also building self-driving cars. Though they'd be more likely to work with existing auto manufacturers than Apple would. You're not being fair, at all. How so? They worked with existing phone manufacturers for Android. Apple does not, and builds their own hardware instead. Why would it be unreasonable to assume the same may happen in the auto industry?

It's not an indictment of either, just an observation of the way both tend to do business. Google will dominate everything if you give it enough time. Whether or not this is a good thing? I am not sure. It is scary to think about if Google were to take advantage of it's users once it obtained a complete monopoly. I actually don't think Google would ever raise prices because that's not their business strategy.

My fear is them forcing highly targeted ads down your throat 24/7 after it gains your total internet history regardless of what browser or network you use. Is there any way to block them from getting your internet history? Sorry I don't know much about this kinda stuff, but was astonished when ads on my Facebook were exactly what I had searched on Amazon moments earlier.  You should clear your cookies more frequently  I like to blacklist the site google gets it's adds from.  A good VPN (Virtual Private Network) will help out. I'm not sure to what extent and I know it can't hide everything.

If you don't know how a VPN works, picture your internet connection like a water pipe. Your service provider (AT&amp;T Uverse, Comcast, etc.) has sensors, cameras, whatever on the inside of the pipe that can see all the traffic you are sending and receiving. A VPN builds a slightly smaller pipe for you, within the bigger pipe. Your ISP can't see into the smaller pipe and it routes your traffic to a different location in the world so it is pretty anonymous.

Any good VPN doesn't save any logs of your traffic, so if for some reason the government subpoenas them they can comply but they won't have anything to give.  Yeah. And not just with money though. It is just a scary thought to have to trust one person. Would you mind elaborating on the part about targeted ads? I don't see what's wrong with them. My understanding of it is that based on my browsing history Google suggests x product. If anything that makes my life a little easier by not having to search for that product. Would I prefer if they didn't collect my data? Sure would, but I agreed to the Ts and Cs to use their services so I can't complain. Wouldn't it be cool if the phone service ran off data? So VoLTE? This exists. Could Google do it by attaching wireless carrier technology to its fiber? I hope this doesn't just end up dying. It already has, see Jewel v NSA. &gt; Judge Jeffrey White found that state secrets can trump the judicial process and held that EFFs clients could not prove they have standing.

That's a real fucking bummer. That's almost verbatim what the lawsuit **is**, and they're dismissing the lawsuit by... describing it.

The whole point of the lawsuit is that you can't just fucking spy on people and claim terrorist threat. They (basically) dismissed the case by saying "state secrets!". I saw this on the EFF web site and it appears to still be proceeding [link](https://www.eff.org/cases/jewel):

In July 2013, the court rejected the governments state secrets argument, ruling that any properly classified details can be litigated under the procedures of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). The court did dismiss some of our statutory claims, but the other claims, including that the program violates the First and Fourth Amendments of the Constitution, continue. So, yay!? Here is an updated story: [link](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/jewel-v-nsa-making-sense-disappointing-decision-over-mass-surveillance)

 A piece of paper told us to reform our government, by force if necessary, once the government becomes authoritarian and dismisses or outright forfeits democratic practices.

Authoritarianism seems to be happening regularly at both the State and Central government levels.

I bet the majority of Americans could care less! We live roughly 80 years and then we die. Sometimes living a life focused on enjoying yourself is more appetizing than fighting for governmental reform. It's not that people don't care, it's that they don't care enough. It's just not bad enough yet, we all still have really good lives compared to the majority of the world. When enough of our freedoms get taken, and the benefits outweigh the risks, then we will see some revolutions kick up. Not saying we SHOULD wait that long, but that's how it's going down. Good point. So let's just wait until the super-rich are holed up in their impenetrenable mansions with robot police protecting them from all the unemployed starving masses who've long given up their weapons because that pesky 2nd amendment was stupid and outdated anyway The only thing about comments like this is most people get on the internet, voice their opinion, then go to sleep feeling fulfilled. Talking about it is useless.  Then let us Sing...

DO YOU HEAR THE PEOPLE SING
SINGING THE SONGS OF ANGRY MEN
IT IS THE SINGING OF A PEOPLE WHO WILL NOT BE SLAVES AGAIN
 Even just idle talking can be the fabric of someone else's action. So what you're telling me is.. become super-rich. Bread and circuses. when the dollar collapses is when shit will get real. I don't wish or having any contention towards America but when the dollar collapses it'll teach most Americans some humility. Imagine if the Yuan became more valued than the dollar. How would that affect day to day life in America? Because I doubt for a long time that it would, and even then, I struggle to see how the american dollar not being number 1 would do anything. Can I just point out this train of thought is getting very animal farm? Specifically the Boxer-Benjamin dynamic.  

Benjamin understood in advance the changes that were happening and did nothing, resulting in the farm becoming corrupt and ultimately a sad death. Yes, people should actually do things when they think something is wrong, but we just don't usually think it could end that badly.  Revolutions don't happen on full stomachs. Fine, fuck them. This is the country we deserve! It only takes a few of us to get the ball rolling. Lets start getting our shit done, you guys By getting our shit done you mean writing angry posts on reddit, right? If so, I'm down. Rabblerabblerabblerabble! No we needed break up the problems we see into accomplishable steps. 1. Rabble.
2. Rabble.
3. Rabble.

It's not a complete plan but it's a solid start I think. This kind of comment is (strictly memetically) funny and always easy karma, but fuck me is it counterproductive. If people need posts on the internet in order to get themselves hyped up for revolution, I say let it slide for chrissake. They're trying to get the ball rolling, not change the world with a reddit post.

The American Revolution started with a bunch of farmers in a barn bitching about redcoats. That's fundamentally no different from rabble-rousing on reddit. Eh, the American revolution started with the colonial aristocratic elite. They got pissed over taxes and lack of autonomy, and they had the social and economic capital to do something about it. You think a regular colonist gave a shit about which authority figure he paid his taxes to?

Which is to say, as long as the government is good to the rich and powerful, a new American-style revolution won't happen. American rebels also had France, who went to war with Britain. Without France's influence, America would still be a colony. There is no world power who can challenge or would be willing to challenge the American military.

Change will arrive at the voting booth, from a great national disaster that leads to the breakdown of law and order, or not at all. Internet posts for revolution are just hot air. The media will just spin any violent action as that of a lone wolf right wing gun loving hillbilly who hates the gubmint. It's an interesting look into insurgency and politics for how to make change. Without public support for such a thing it will never work. &gt; The media will just spin any violent action

Accidents have been know to happen! Yeah this guy accidentally fell onto somebullets ehhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh The connective and organizational power of the internet is wasted if we don't utilize it like our opponents do. Unfortunately I'm not american so I'm (to the best of my knowledge) limited in what I can do, but I agree completely (:

I was half joking by making fun of the attitude a lot of people do have, but in all seriousness people really do need to do the small things that can help - switching to programs that encrypt traffic in (believed to be) safe ways is a good example of that. Even if you think that it's pointless because the NSA can somehow decrypt it anyway, it still raises the bar for getting to your traffic and forces them to either target their attacks or rely on flaws in the system to be able to decrypt it cheaply enough to do en masse

The same argument applies for "well it doesn't matter, they just get it from service providers anyway" - there are always alternatives that raise the bar without requiring you to significantly inconvenience yourself.

If someone can link to one of the posts on what americans can do in terms of voting and calling people and what not or if they could write another, that would be great I assume you mean "couldn't care less"? &gt;A piece of paper told us to reform our government, by force if necessary, once the government becomes authoritarian and dismisses or outright forfeits democratic practices.

&gt;Authoritarianism seems to be happening regularly at both the State and Central government levels.

&gt;I bet the majority of Americans could care less!

"In July 2013, the court rejected the governments state secrets argument, ruling that any properly classified details can be litigated under the procedures of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA)." [(source)](https://www.eff.org/cases/jewel)

A little less kneejerk reaction and a little more googling the thing you're talking about goes a pretty long way.

 &gt; A little less kneejerk reaction and a little more googling the thing you're talking about goes a pretty long way.

Plus the assumption that the people bringing this new lawsuit are too stupid to read up on the existing state of the law is pretty silly. Because the majority of Americans are well fed, entertained and too busy with their day to day lives to give anything else much thought. 

The same can be said about Canadians with our surveillance bills.  Our lives are comfortable but busy.  What down time we have is spent on sports / family / tv.

These same bills are ideal for stamping out dissent before it has any chance to take hold or be noticed by the public.  Wasn't this why you have guns? Tyrannical Government and all that? Well, it's at least why some of us have them. It'll do fuck-all against a plane or a tank, but my hope is that the national guard and military would have a real hard time shooting up their own citizens.

Actually, my real hope is that it never comes to that, but I'm a realist. I think everybody hopes that, but history, ranging from the Whiskey Rebellion all the way up to the Kent State shootings say otherwise.
 They have a better army ready to shoot citizens than the National Guard...our police. They are being trained for this fight as we speak and they've proven to shoot Americans left and right without recourse or even an apology. &gt; military would have a real hard time shooting up their own citizens

It's a hope easily shared but how realistic is it really? The armed forces of other (formerly) democratic nations don't appear to have had many qualms about gunning down their own countrymen when ordered to do so.

In what way is the US different? For all the bluster of armed citizenry, I think if push came to shove, the same thing would happen in the US as everywhere else which would be a complete clusterfuck of factions consisting of military, ex-military, para-military, wannabe-military and people just pissed that the local sports team just lost. Civil wars are messy as hell and nobody really wins.

In reality, I think the current US populace is partially in a gilded cage and partially given their cathartic two-minute hate whenever there is a public hysteria about some drummed up cause. There won't be any real civil unrest unless Facebook is down, people are starving and the media is unable to come up with a credible scapegoat. I only know a quick informal poll amongst current coworkers who are reservists as well as former military members.

"Would you defect if you were ordered to attack American Citizens on US Soil?"

Every last one of them said they absolutely would walk away. 

Far from anything concrete, but heartening
 But they wouldn't be asked to shoot fellow citizens in their own homeland, they would be asked to shoot *dangerous insurgents*, *violent traitors* and *domestic terrorists*. If the pill comes in the right package, most will swallow it.

But it's never going to happen anyways. I hope it never comes to pass. Everyone loses in a civil war.

Using your phrasing doesn't seem to matter to my office mates. Certainly *some* members of the military would shoot, but most would not.... Again, based on my small polling of colleagues. (warning: Sample size of 8 people. 6 of which are now lurking. 4 now know my Reddit name. Fuck) Heartening until you realize the gov't would never classify the targets as "American Citizens" but rather as "dissidents and terrorists".  

Now ask these questions: "Would you defect if you were ordered to attack American dissidents and home-grown terrorists on US Soil?" and "How much trust would you put into the US gov't classification of such targets as dissidents or terrorists?"


I think the answers will give a less rosy outlook as to a realistic outcome given the hypothetical situation of the US armed forces attacking it's own citizens. Unfortunately, my sample pool is now too aware of the discussion.

I'll have to find a new source of sucker...er... I mean... survey participants.

Seriously though, I had this discussion the other way, and brought up "New Hope" from the Star Wars series.  During the Ferguson riots we had live ammunition and orders to shoot if we were in danger. The national guard is from your local state and unless they sympathize with you they probably wont listen to anything but what their orders are. There's a difference between criminal looting and removing politicians from office with the threat of force In today's world that's unpatriotic terrorism right there. We're on such a wonderful path... Regarding standing... that case isn't necessarily applicable because Wikipedia have NSA slides showing that the NSA had attacked them.

So the whole point of this case is to deal with Jewel v NSA by choosing an organisation (Wikipedia) who have evidence of involvement. also standing. You have to prove that you've been personally effected by something before you have standing to sue. Lots of these types of cases NSA/CIA are thrown out because the plaintiffs don't have publicly available means of proving harm. That case isn't necessarily applicable because Wikipedia have NSA slides showing that the NSA had attacked them.

So the whole point of this case is to deal with Jewel v NSA by choosing an organisation (Wikipedia) who have evidence of involvement.

It could be thrown out but they couldn't use that Jewel v NSA argument - they'd have to use another one. If they would have* said my donation might have been for a lawsuit against the NSA, I would have been more inclined to donate.

Edit: grammar per /u/maddabattacola you can still donate now https://donate.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:FundraiserLandingPage&amp;country=US&amp;uselang=en&amp;utm_medium=sidebar&amp;utm_source=donate&amp;utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org Whelp. That's the first time I ever donated to Wikipedia. I'm glad they have a $3 and $5 option cause any number bigger than that makes me fell like I want to die hahaahah!^my^bank^account^is^a^joke Have you tried like, just having more money? Seems like an easy fix. I've always wondered that about people, too. Especially, like, poor Africans. I don't get why they don't just make more money if they're so hungry. Seriously, and what about cancer patients? Why dont you just get better? Its all in your diet. I let out a defeated laugh at this one because my dad literally believes this. They just need to cut down on Gluten. They don't have the Fed.  (OK so this is actually more a joke about the airline industry, but...)

Hey! Want to know how to become a millionaire? Start out as a billionaire, and then buy an airline. How do you make a small fortune gambling? 
Start with a large fortune. Money creates more money.  So just stop spending money and you'll be a millionaire!  Dummies. i'm in the unemployed line and I agree. You and me both. $5 because I'm poor as fuck lol Don't worry, Mr. Emptybags. At different points, I've donated $100 and $50 to Wikipedia. Yeah, but you're over here looking after everyone's burdens.  You're good. My first time too... It went quicker than I expected. Only took like a minute. I just changed my amazon smile to them Nice. $25 from me, plus $25 from my company because we have a donation matching program. Get it done, Reddit! We should just send this guy all our money to donate and bankrupt his company trying to sue the NSA What if you donate to the Illinois Nazis?  Does your company match that as well? We need to crowdfund /u/mcampo84 's donations to the Illinois Nazis so that he can make 44 donations of $88 and have them matched Do you mean 14 donations of $88? u/M'Kampf84 Who doesn't?
 And I just donated... I wish more people would really donate to Wikipedia. Obviously its not the type of resource you'll be citing in your Masters thesis but its perhaps the most helpful website on the web. There's $10 from me! Well this sucks. http://i.imgur.com/feT5G4I.png How much were you planning on donating? I'll donate the amount you wanted to give, in addition to a second donation from me. Thank you so much! I was about to donate 20 euros but as you can see I couldn't. That is very nice of you, supporting me in supporting Wikipedia!


 Doing it when I get home soon. -[alex](http://twitter.com/alexkehr) well, humanity has its moments. Use a proxy/Vpn to spoof an ip from another (eligible) country and use a paypal account to deal with different currencies? Uhh, I'm not an expert on VPN/Proxies, but I don't think its a good idea to be sending payments/using personal information through VPNs. You're just giving all that information right to a 3rd party. well when you sign up for a good VPN, they encrypt the data end to end, and with SSL on top of that, there is little someone can do to steal it.

It's really no more dangerous then using your standard connection.  I mean, if you think about it, every time you send anything to your ISP your sending it to a third party.  Also when you ISP goes to someone like level 3, its going to another third party...again and again and again. And then it gets sent to the NSA! If I were NSA, I would have just started a free/cheap VPN service.  A MITM attack that people willingly sign up for... Not to mention that the data being sent to/returned from the vpn or proxy could be unencrypted in the first place and easily viewed if you're not careful (and somebody is sharing your connection). Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure this is the case.  You do know vpns send encrypted data, right? No they don't!

* VPNs receive whatever you send them, then relay it to another point where they resend it. 

* They **may** encrypt to people outside their network (they probably do), but unless you are encrypting your data prior to sending it to them (e.g using https) they can read your data as it passes through their network\*

* If it's a free service they probably do read your data

* Even if it's not free/cheep, it depends how much  you trust the provider

\* for tor only the entry &amp; exit nodes can, so your ok if you never enter/exit I am sure, the donation would be over https and no one, except the certificate holders, can read that data. This is the point of https or end-to-end encryption in general. To have a trusted connection in an untrusted message delivery.  Proxies maybe, but I use vpns precisely so I can send personal data, as it is encrypted. Especially if in a publicly available wifi network like starbucks.  It's the thought that counts You can't pay the electric bill with thoughts. Not yet anyway I've just recently gotten in to Finnish as my girlfriend is Finnish and I have plans to move to Finland. I was pretty excited to see you were Finnish. Do you mind me asking a few questions? :) Just made my first donation to Wikipedia.  You can always donate Or you could just donate because it's useful as fuck. I probably learned as much from Wiki as the totality of my college degree. Well worth the $10 dollar donation.

If you are a student or broke, that's fine, but if you have any kind of income - you can't spare $10 to Wiki for all that you've used it? That's the whole purpose of this lawsuit anyway...  *would have

*would have

*might have

edit: so close, /u/ovo_speck! Keep going!  If only he would of changed it, I'd of upvoted him. They did. Head on back and give /u/ovo_speck  an internet point! I love giving! woulda coulda shoulda I realized I had 3 of the same type of mistakes in that comment....only after I fixed 1. Took 2 edits :) [deleted] Wikipedia always provides a great service, and donating when you can is always a good idea, but they're about to go into a particularly expensive legal battle that we really want them to win. So for people who normally can't afford to donate (like myself, a lowly uni student), this is a good time to bite the bullet, dig deep and offer even a little bit. I think it's more that there's the question of what they were going to do with all of this money they were getting. http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Financial_reports This was my first time donating, $3 a month :) Yep. In recent years I haven't donated because I know that government edits out (forces WP to remove?) certain content. I assumed WP were going along with it. But now I have a renewed respect for their cause. i'd love to see other major 'good' internet firms jump in on this.

Google, Reddit, etc jumping behind this could bring many more in and bring the legal weight to actually scare them - they'd never see it coming. Yeah, they could turn it into a class action lawsuit with enough supporters. hell yeah, then the entire American Internet userbase can get a 15 cent payout each! The payout isn't what is important. Even at only $0.15 that will cost the NSA 32 million.  I'd be more interested in NSA higher-ups fired and/or jailed for what they did rather than a monetary payout.  [deleted] If they are found to have broken any laws, they will either be pardoned and then given a job at Fox or given retroactive immunity in a bill that is meant to tighten restrictions about what they can do. Even that isn't important. What's important is that they *knock it off*. CIA handed out duffle bags with tens of millions of dollars at a time in Iraq.  They give no fucks about money. Spend all you like... they'll print more.
 [deleted] One of the creators of reddit (his name escapes me) actually debated against the NSA's mass collection of metadata alongside Glenn Greenwald. Pretty interesting topic.

Edit: Alexis Ohanian is who I was thinking of. Ohanian/Greenwald vs Hayden/Dershowitz. Here's the [debate](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_d1tw3mEOoE) Google datamines hard as fuck. Knowing them, they're probably better at it than the NSA According to Snowden, those two have quite the relationship. Shit its hard to believe the government doesn't have both hands on Google's goodies, they probably own it if anything There's a "coalition of organizations from across the ideological spectrum" who have join the Wikimedia Foundation:

* The National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers,
* Human Rights Watch, 
* Amnesty International USA, 
* Pen American Center,
* Global Fund for Women, 
* The Nation Magazine, 
* The Rutherford Institute, and 
* Washington Office on Latin America. 

[source](https://blog.wikimedia.org/2015/03/10/wikimedia-v-nsa/#cite_note-2) Really interesting. I am happy they are standing up, but it remains to be seen how effective it will be IMO given WP's feelings about the privacy of reader data, being explicitly listed in a leaked NSA slide would be enough to move me to sue.  What type of [legal standing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standing_%28law%29) could they possibly have for a suit like this?

*"In the United States, the current doctrine is that a person cannot bring a suit challenging the constitutionality of a law unless the plaintiff can demonstrate that he/she/it is or will "imminently" be harmed by the law. Otherwise, the court will rule that the plaintiff "lacks standing" to bring the suit, and will dismiss the case without considering the merits of the claim of unconstitutionality. To have a court declare a law unconstitutional, there must be a valid reason for the lawsuit. The party suing must have something to lose in order to sue unless it has automatic standing by action of law."*

In other words, Wikipedia would have to prove that they are being harmed in a SPECIFIC way - financially typically, but physically or whatever can work.  They can't use vague concepts like the NSA "threatens freedom of speech" and expect the high courts to hear the case.  
 &gt;In 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed a previous challenge to the FAA, Amnesty v. Clapper, because the parties in that case were found to lack standing. Standing is an important legal concept that requires a party to show that theyve suffered some kind of harm in order to file a lawsuit. The 2013 mass surveillance disclosures included a slide from a classified NSA presentation that made explicit reference to Wikipedia, using our global trademark. Because these disclosures revealed that the government specifically targeted Wikipedia and its users, we believe we have more than sufficient evidence to establish standing.

I mean there's [that](http://blog.wikimedia.org/2015/03/10/wikimedia-v-nsa/). It's listed in the complaint as well.  Its something, but it still doesn't show actual harm.  

The criteria for constitutional standing is a very difficult bar to clear.  That is why we don't see many constitutional cases on issues of privacy.  It isn't sufficient to show that the government could abuse their rights - you have to show that they DID abuse their rights and they hurt something. Wait, all I get from that is that breaking someone's rights can only be punishable if harm was done? That doesn't seem right to me... It can only be compensated for if harm was done, technically it's still breaking the law and theoretically could be punished legally, instead of civilly like they're trying  So, in theory a company like Cisco, or other group who has suffered worldwide reputation damage as a result of all of this would be in a better position than a group like Wikipedia? Yes... But it's still very difficult to prove you lost revenue specifically due to NSA activity. I think you understand it correctly.  I'm not sure what the history of the rule is, but it is basic constitutional law that is consistently applied. That's the distinction between the civil and criminal court systems. The civil courts exist to correct *torts*, which are harms done by one party to another. The criminal courts exist to punish *crimes*. The law can define both torts and crimes, and not everything illegal is a crime (or a tort).

You can't sue somebody over a tort in civil court without proving that an actual harm has been done (usually in some measurable sense). I.e., the court does not hear hypothetical or theoretical cases. And it is the executive's job to bring criminal cases to court.

This, of course, is a bit of a loophole. You can't take the NSA to civil court since you can't show that you've been harmed, and you can't take the NSA to criminal court since only the government is allowed to do that. (Historically there was the possibility of private prosecution, but the US supreme court outlawed private prosecutions in 1973 (Linda R.S. v Richard D., Leeke v. Timmerman).

The counterpoint would be that notions such as "damaging the democratic foundations of our society" addresses vague and abstract notions, about which nothing can be adequately proven. Thus, these are not suitable issues to bring to a court and the correct redress is instead the ballot box. I'm just spit-balling here:  

 Wikipedia may be able to successfully argue that the quality of many of its articles, especially those of a political or otherwise controversial nature, rely on its editors' ability to work in relative anonymity.  If the NSAs 4th Amendment violations are discouraging contributions, that is affecting the site's overall quality. &gt; It isn't sufficient to show that the government could abuse their rights - you have to show that they DID abuse their rights and they hurt something.

All you have to do to prove standing is that you were forced to change behavior, which costs money, which is harm. If Wikipedia was forced, for example, to pay for additional VPN services or train their employees on cryptography, since they knew for a fact that the NSA was spying on them thanks to the NSA's own PowerPoint, that is harm and they should win standing. In the previous case, the court basically said that the companies that sued didn't have sufficient reason to be certain they were spied on, even though they spent a lot of money mitigating the potential harm. Wikipedia does. *CAUSES OF ACTION
119.
Upstream surveillance exceeds the authority granted by 50 U.S.C.  1881a, and
therefore violates 5 U.S.C.  706
.
120.
Upstream surveillance violates the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution.
121.
Upstream surveillance violates the First
Amendment to the Constitution.
122.
Upstream surveillance violates Article III
of the Constitution
.*

[Here is the actual complaint - warning pdf](https://www.aclu.org/files/assets/wikimedia_v2c_nsa_-_complaint.pdf)

The actual damages part, they are looking for fees and cost pursuant to 28 U.S.C.  2412 which is  *THE SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT FAIRNESS ACT* I think they make a solid argument in their case about the illegality of the government action.  But they do not make a solid defense of standing.  I think this will be tossed about.  And I think their lawyers know it. 

They have to prove some kind of damage, and they don't seem to even be trying.   I would be very surprised if this were "tossed out" at a preliminary stage. Paragraph 55 alleges that the Plaintiffs have had to engage in "burdensome and sometimes costly measures" because of the surveillance. There's your harm. I suspect you didn't read the complaint thoroughly enough.  If what you say is true, then maybe it's just a publicity act to help get more donations.  That's the reason I donated today yeah i don't even care if that's all it is because i like wikipedia and they deserve a bunch of donations.  And it feels like someone is actually speaking out for a cause I believe in, even if the lawsuit yields no *direct* results. That thought did cross my mind...

I hope that's not the case. Well and to bring attention to the issue in a public way. An individual could probably. If the government is spending millions of taxpayer dollars to fund illegal, unconstitutional surveillance then you're being directly affected. You either have to pay more in taxes for it, or the money gets shifted away from other programs. Either this concept needs to be erased from our legal system or any secrecy from government must stop.  The catch-22 of having to prove harm while a government can keep everything they've done secret is intolerable. well, to be fair, the requirement for imminent standing to sue has prevented a lot of idiotic cases from entering the court, the last big decision regarding it would be Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, and the ruling helped a lot more people than the crocodiles it (possibly) harmed. I think the main argument against NSA snooping is that is undermines the democratic process.

If I am the sitting president or privileged member of congress I have access to all the NSA stored information on all my opponents that I can use to attack or undermine their campaigns. 

Or at the very least I can monitor all their communications...

 I think you're on to something. If this is the challenge then the NSA can be ordered to reveal that the information they are storing doesnt allow for this to happen.

Suddenly files get lost and blah blah blah That database was in the RAM drive.  And here I thought 16pb of RAM was overkill. They knew what they were doing! And the NSA can make very sure that non-NSA-friendly politicians do not prosper.
 I think the worse is it's shared with the Mossad without any processing Israel has a real influence in American policy and get unfiltered data of every american! What you are describing is illegal (much like the Watergate scandal was) and if Snowden (etal.) had leaked details of that all of this outrage would be justified.  But they didn't.  All of the leaked programs are legal per existing laws.

True, the NSA could be abused.  And Obama could order the Secret Service to break into his political opponents property.  Or send Seal Team Six to assassinate someone.  In fact, the OSB assassination was extremely illegal in Pakistan.  

That doesn't mean its actually happening or even a realistic risk. Politicians do illegal things all the time, Hillary Clinton is on TV today explaining how the illegal things she did were not that bad... just because it hasn't seen the light of day yet doesn't mean it doesn't happen.  Is there any evidence, even in the Snowden leaks, that the NSA has been using information to alter elections? Surely that's just a fantasy.  &gt;Is there any evidence, even in the Snowden leaks, that the NSA has been using information to alter elections? Surely that's just a fantasy.

Them running surveillance on everyone in the country was just a fantasy too, not so long ago.

If it hasn't happened yet, it will.  The True Believers on staff will be able to justify any behavior to save the programs they're running.
 "OK OK, stop suing us, we'll stop!" -- the NSA "We'll promise to stop and keep doing it anyway." Now I feel obligated donate to wikipedia, jeez they are a good organization. i remember when everyone was scared to use wikipedia as a source in highschool because "anyone can change it!" 

i owe wikipedia so much, itd be a crime *not* to donate.  Does it matter if the money is going directly towards the law suit? If they see a huge spike in donations after the news of this is announced, it will go a long way to showing how many of us are behind this kind of action. Even if it is a $3 or a $5 donation, its the *number* of them that will demonstrate the support. 

Donate now! It is time! 

https://donate.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:FundraiserLandingPage&amp;country=US&amp;uselang=en&amp;utm_medium=sidebar&amp;utm_source=donate&amp;utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org

(Thank you /u/holographicbeef for the link)  Land of the free* *Terms and conditions may apply See instore for details. \* Subject to change without notice Godspeed Wikipedia, godspeed. According to this the ACLU filed it on behalf of wikipedia and other organizations, so you guys can stop stirring up a shit-storm about them possibly, maybe, using our donations to pay lawyers.  Google is so hard. /sarcasm Link edited and replaced with a better one: https://www.aclu.org/blog/national-security/nsa-has-taken-over-internet-backbone-were-suing-get-it-back Instantly, my mind went to "They won't win.. The judges would never open those floodgates, regardless of how illegal the NSA is.." Then I read the article and realised that Wikipedia is not suing the NSA in the regular sense of the word.. They've filed a lawsuit into its constitutionality, they aren't looking for damages - they're just looking for the courts to stop it xD Is this where my three dollars is going, Jimmy? some guy at wikipedia watching the donations is gonna get a heartattack soon. I'll bet that at least 90% of the people complaining about donations to Wikipedia being used for this lawsuit (which is not true) never even made a donation. Not exactly.

Wiki*media* is suing the NSA.

The other plaintiffs are:    
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CRIMINAL DEFENSE LAWYERS    
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH    
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL USA    
PEN AMERICAN CENTER    
GLOBAL FUND FOR WOMEN    
THE NATION MAGAZINE   
THE
RUTHERFORD INSTITUTE    
and  
WASHINGTON OFFICE ON LATIN AMERICA

[The Complaint](https://www.aclu.org/files/assets/wikimedia_v2c_nsa_-_complaint.pdf) I'm cheering for wikipedia and the ACLU, and will root for any lawsuit against the assholes at the NSA. I'm just concerned about one thing; how does wikipedia plan to establish standing in this case? This has been a real problem in taking up lawsuits against surveillance, and often the plaintiffs need to prove they themselves have been surveilled. it needs to change for the digital age in my opinion.

Thoughts? I think "straining" is the wrong word, "breaking" is more accurate. You'd think with all the spying the NSA would have seen this coming. Just like the TSA protects us from harmful 4 ounce bottles of water.  Wiki*media* is suing the NSA. Wikipedia is a product developed and maintained by the Wikimedia foundation. What is illegal about straining the backbone of democracy? The CIA, along with the NSA, and the US Military does this all damn day, every day, all over the world. I hate to sound simple-minded, but f*** yeah. So glad a big name like Wikipedia is joining the crusade against this shenanigans. Better yet, dont vote for shitty congressional reps who dont know shit about technology and cant oversight the nsa properly. So, do I become a terrorist if I give money to wikipedia now ? Does Wikipedia have standing to sue? Can they show that they have been directly harmed by the actions of the NSA?

I'd love to see the NSA get sued, but I think we're as likely to find out that certain abyssal fish species speak a dialect of Ancient Sumerian as we are to see this go anywhere in the courts.

But as a publicity stunt to focus attention on the NSA I'm all behind it.

They should also throw up a splash page about the issue like when they do their fundraising. Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/J7YRw4K.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) I like this. 

GO TO HELL NSA.

Sincerely - Canada. What's blowing my mind is how many of you are jumping to the conclusion that this is being funded directly by your Wikipedia donations.

They are working with the ACLU, so it's not clear where the money is coming from or how much it costs.

In the event that the Wikimedia Foundation is using Wikipedia donations to fund this, is $1 of your money not worth going towards a law suit to protect your civil liberties from being taken away? What better purpose did you have in mind for that dollar?
 I'm honestly surprised that this thread is still on the fron page. I had to recheck that this wasn't /r/undelete... Usually posts containing the word NSA are just quietly deleted from /r/news, /r/worldnews etc., due to some bogus reason. They should of gone with "By tapping the backbone of the Internet, the NSA is sucking all the freedom fluid from the internet's spinal cord." Am i the only one that thinks that no matter who complains, the government/NSA will always eavesdrop? they will just try and hide it better and if they get caught. Who cares, nothing happens to them except the whistle blowers. No amount of donating will stop the NSA from listening in on us.  It's like catching your kid lying and telling him never to do it again. They will only get better at it in the future. I've suddenly realized I've postponed my Wikipedia donation long enough. I support this, and I'm not even in America. The internet is global.  Yes I realize, but the NSA is not. Ive only heard stories of their treachery and hypocrisy, but from those stories I can support this. Yes the NSA is American but their wiretapping is not limited the the US. Internernet survailance is a global issue.  Oh, I didn't know that they were spying on all countries' populations. This is eye opening Information. (I don't get much internet, I'm in Norway) Sorry I didn't mean all nations it's impossible to wiretap everyone but it's not an all American problem.  Your Norwegian? Me to.  TIL. And that's pretty cool, don't really see many Norwegians on here as of late! Go wikipedia! you go girl! If this were a democracy we could just vote these federally funded terrorists away.
But alas we are slaves with only the illusion of mere influence, let alone control. Couldn't agree more, don't get why everybody think this is a real democracy, it's more of an oligarchy. Because their education is lacking and they have forgotten what the difference between a democracy and a representative democracy is.

Or how closely the founders based our government on greek and french philosophy.  This is especially grating when the christian whackjobs come crawling out of the woodwork. Most can't spell it let alone define it.
 
&gt;Because their education is lacking and they have forgotten what the difference between a democracy and a representative democracy is.

The irony here is that asking for the difference between a democracy and a representative democracy is like asking of the difference between a mammal and a cow - the question doesn't make a whole lot of sense. You mock people for lacking education, but apparently you don't know what those terms mean either. People can vote. The rich and the poor get one each. In the US lots of people choose not to vote or don't vote in their actual interests.

The US could vote itself out of the current mess at the next election if people could simply be bothered.  Wow, do you really think so ?! (Insert metric ton of sarcasm here)

Sure you "can" vote, but it's about as real and effective as dreaming. 
The illusion of choice. If 100 million Americans said "I'm using my vote to roll-back income inequality and will vote for whoever has the best policy on that issue" things would change overnight.  You assume there's a valid choice to be made. 
If given a choice between shit and chocolate covered shit, my taste buds aren't going to discern the difference between the two once I take a genuine bite. You're right if it's one person. You're wrong if it's 100 million people. After a certain point the politicans have to go to the voters rather than the other way around. 

The only reason this is less evident in modern americans politics is because the voters are so wedged on fringe issues with 55% splitting one way and 45% the other way.

If a big block of people said "this is our issue, we vote on this alone" the policy would follow. This has happened before to end wars and end discrimination etc.  I am right. 
Elections are bought and sold, not voted upon.
They don't even count the fucking ballots! What makes you think that? Neurotransmitters and reading comprehension. I don't think we will be able to have a useful conversation about this. Best wishes. 

 Because you aren't rich enough. Now think about the implications of that before seething over how terrible the existence of authority is. Thought about it ..
And still think its a fantastic idea.
 I am generally hopeless on any positive outcome coming out of this. The grip that the military industrial complex has on this nation is tight. Soon the generals will be taking orders from the representatives that the people/corporations bought. Once we are there the corporations will have their military locked down completely (not just the oil industry) we will see even more aggression abroad in mineral rich regions. This is the rise of the 4th reich, make no mistake about it and just like Germany, we the people are beaten down and apathetic because we are strained in a system that tolerates people making more money than they can spend in 10 lifetimes in 1 year. It's torrent up economics and we all have funny money here at the bottom. It sure doesn't look or feel like slavery, but it is, we are slaves to the taxes that are used against us. Opportunity died with the gold standard. Opportunity is still available, but the system has taught us all to be good little worker bees, not entrepreneurs and businessmen. Corporations are the way to long term riches, but only the rich have the knowledge of how to use them. With a corporation, you spend your money before you pay taxes, but the average 9 to 5 worker spends money *after* taxes. People blame the rich for having too much money, when in reality, it's their own fault that they haven't succeeded. Grow your wealth of economic knowledge, and a wealth of money will follow. 

The rich buy assets, the poor only have expenses, and the middle class buy liabilities that they were taught to view as assets. Knowledge is power.  I don't really understand what NSA did. Did they tap into Wikipedia's backend to investigate users of Wikipedia?  Wikimedia doesn't know either. Their blog post on this is all "could have", "may have", "one could guess", etc:

https://blog.wikimedia.org/2015/03/10/wikimedia-v-nsa/ Sounds like a solid case.   I thought the constitution was the backbone of our democracy...  The Constitution v1.0 was... It used to be. Current legislation seems to be creating loopholes to maneuver around the Constitution; hence the NSA. 

Personally, I'm losing faith in the US. Every nation has to fall eventually; my gut says that the glory days of America are over. We're falling into corruption and decline in more areas than just this. Because of your irrational obsession with capitalism. Oh no, I want to work for my own money and learn how to become rich! I'm a danger to our society!  aaaaaaaand I'm donating to Wikipedia. Americans, seriously, can you reign in your NSA already?!  I flipped off my webcam. That'll take em down a notch. i stare into my webcam while doing "activities", that'l really teach them  a lesson. ;) So glad my donations to make Wikipedia better are instead being spent on fruitless political endeavours I don't support.
 You seem to have a minority opinion.  Others would like to donate more. I don't mind having a minority opinion so long as it is well-reasoned and well-considered.
 Well, you've brought it up - why not support it? You think what the NSA is doing is just, legal, and acceptable by your standards? Whether or not I support what the NSA is doing is irrelevant.  My point is I don't think Wikimedia should be involved any more than I think Encyclopedia Brittanica should be involved.  **"The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual, educational content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge."**  That doesn't mean suing the government over political issues.  [Wikimedia's Foundation Plan](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/foundation/e/e0/2014-15_Wikimedia_Foundation_Plan.pdf) doesn't mention it, either; at best, there's a vague statement that **"Legal and Community Advocacy supports and defends the community and its contributions when movement values are at stake."**  And I get that Wikimedia is arguing that this is a "movement value", but honestly I don't think it is.  I might expect my contributions to be used for issues such as freedom of speech, copyright, etc. but not issues involved national security and law enforcement.  And I especially don't want my contributions wasted on lawsuits that have NO CHANCE of success.

 If you think the state of things with the NSA and CIA have no chance of inhibiting freedom of speech, you really, REALLY need to get down and dirty with the reading of what they're up to. Because it's some pretty scary stuff. Gestapo stuff. ISIS has a chance of inhibiting freedom of speech.  Putin has a chance of inhibiting freedom of speech.  I don't want Wikimedia wasting money suing either of those entities.
 Neither of those groups have a chance of inhibiting your freedom of speech. We have the biggest defense structure on earth. People that think that the fight is ever coming to our soil to stay are insane. No, its just laughable to expect Wikipedia to sue and actually solve everything (hell, *anything*). Nothing will happen, other than some lawyers' getting richer.  You're not /u/sirbruce.

But I'll respond to you anyhow, because you've brought up a great point.

To some, this may look pointless. But here's the rub - nothing gets done in this country if a shit-storm isn't raised. This lawsuit does a few things.

1) Brings more publicity to the issue. The more people that know the cold hard facts, the better.

2) Forces legal experts to examine (further) the legality of the situation, and the breaches of the Constitution in the past, and most importantly, the present.

3) In a small way, wastes the NSA's resources (our taxes, unfortunately), and distracts their leaders. Again, this is a small part. But, like DDoS attacks, this is a way to slow them down, doing whatever possible to slow them.

This gets the proverbial ball rolling. It frames the story. But much more must be done. I really don't expect much publicity out of this. Outside of reddit, nobody is going to hear about this stuff. And people vastly overrate reddit's impact anyway. Unfortunate, but true. I honestly don't see litigation bringing down the NSA, CIA, or any of these organizations.  &gt; Outside of reddit, nobody is going to hear about this stuff.

Why not share this article on social media right now? I have about ~200 folks on Facebook/Twitter combined. If I'm lucky, maybe one person will actually click and read it. Hell, Justin Bieber could tweet it to his billions of followers and it wouldn't change a thing. I don't have the answer to all of this NSA outrage though so I'm just being pessimistic. I'd love for this hollow lawsuit to start a revolution. If you don't try because you might or will probably fail the first time you try something, you really shouldn't comment on anything.  You are a pessimist and a quitter.  Anyone who has accomplished anything in life knows you fail on the first try, but if you give up there you never succeed. Not trying something because you have a low chance of success on the first try, is only an acceptable option when, the cost of failing, is your life or serious bodily harm.  

If you know you're a pessimist, don't waste everyones time espousing your opinion about how nothing going to succeed.  Shut up and let the people who understand the value of perseverance, affect some change in this world.
 

 &gt; I'd love for this hollow lawsuit to start a revolution.

atta boy. Isn't reddit social media? Also, I would, but I don't have any social media. Sorry. I...wasn't talking to you, so..no need to be sorry. Basically everything important in US history in terms of peoples rights was won through the courts, not laws. Blacks won the right to vote and access desegregated facilities through court cases. Almost every state with gay marriage has it because someone sued over it and had the laws banning it ruled unconstitutional.  Etc. &gt;  Basically everything important in US history in terms of peoples rights was won through the courts, not laws.

I agree with you that the courts have played an important role in expanding rights, but changes to the laws and to the constitution have also played super important roles. Here are some examples that were instigated by non-court actors:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emancipation_Proclamation

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirteenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fourteenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nineteenth_Amendment_to_the_United_States_Constitution

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voting_Rights_Act_of_1965

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Rights_Act_of_1968


 The amendments themselves didn't actually do a whole lot though, since states largely ignored them. It wasn't until the courts got involved that they started bothering to follow the constitution. Just like in this case. Theres no need for a new law or amendment because its already unconstitutional,  just hasn't officially been ruled as such yet [deleted] It's not just the Wikimedia Foundation funding this.

&gt;Eight other organizations, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, are joining Wikipedia's challenge, which is being represented by the American Civil Liberties Union.

&gt;They have no chance of changing anything. The only way there will be any reforms re the NSA is through congressional order, executive order and even then it might be tenuous. They're very powerful, and no one wants to deal with the "potential repercussions" of shutting down or changing one of Americas core intelligence services. No politician will take that liability.

This is exactly why this suit has been filed, because of this specific attitude. If you wait around for someone else to step the fuck up, no one will. We're so goddamn afraid and complacent in the US! Let's fix that, instead of being cynical constantly. I'm all for a bit of cynicism, but...this needs effort, not dissent.

&gt;we need someone super strong willed and well connected and well liked to be in power and make this sort of change. A wiki lawsuit isn't going to do anything except waste donation money.

I can't think of anyone in a better position for this besides the ACLU and the WikiMedia Foundation...can you suggest anyone that we could all contact that would be better suited? [deleted] I wonder how your mom swallowed so much cum.  I don't agree with you but this is a really good point that I think needs to be said. I'm not sure how much money is actually being spent by the WMF. The WMF is just listed as a plaintiff amongst others all of which are being represented by the ACLU, so the WMF may not actually be using any of their own legal resources. Time is money, as they say. The point of my post is to mention that the WMF might not actually have any of its legal staff spending time on this, they may have just cosigned onto a group lawsuit and be leaving the case tot he ACLU to handle. While I do support this, I believe that while Wikipedia may find a short-term surge in donations, they may lose some long time supporters.

I do hope I am wrong.  I agree. I gave about $20 because I want them to be able to host without ads. I didn't want to fund a court case in a foreign country. Last time I'm giving money to Wikipedia. I think it shouldn't get involved in political matters. Wikipedia should be about *facts* not opinions and political stances.  &gt; Wikipedia should be about facts not opinions and political stances. 

And what is your response when the NSA puts you on a list because they've seen you uploading inconvenient facts to Wikipedia? Or reading flagged articles? Well stated.
 It is the fruitless part I find frustrating.  As discussed above, they have no constitutional standing for this case, and they can't prove any actual harm.  So it is guaranteed to be thrown out.

I wouldn't mind them using my donation money if I thought they had a chance to get some kind of victory.

But this is just a publicity stunt.  There is no mystery in how legal standing works.  You have to prove material harm.   How come talks about the NSA, shadow courts, illegal surveillance, and so on has fallen off the face of reddit?

I feel like people want to hate it but since they dont feel directly affected, they don't care as much as they did when Comcast threatened to hurt Netflix... Because that was framed as a matter of consumer protection. As you say, it would directly affect a lot more people and so it was easier to make a direct appeal to people's interests; "if this happens, you will be worse off for it."

The NSA situation is different. It was already happening under our noses, and most of us had no idea. Even today, one cannot really say how this tangibly affects us. The argument is more abstract and couched in hypotheticals that seem inapplicable to most.

If there was a way to frame this in such a way that people's interests were directly and negatively affected as a result of surveillance, then it would be easier for the movement to garner support. And *every single* time the NSA's brought up on reddit, near the top there's the, "I can't believe people didn't know this", or essentially "any idiot should have known"-comment that derails any actual conversation about it.  And the same people were saying before ''They're not spying on us you tinfoil hat''  Well, not the SAME people. I don't think that's derailing. I think the general public's lackluster reaction to this scandal is directly because intelligence agencies violating personal privacy isn't a surprise. One way or another this is pretty much what we imagined.  "Derailing" may be a bit much. If nothing else it seems like the, "I told you so" crowd that use it to downplay what a huge deal it all is -- now that it's gone way outside blacked out sections of the PATRIOT ACT, rumors secret rooms and entire data centers spread around the country, and rejected FOIA requests. 

If everyone did know before, not many would actually talk about it.  It's a circle jerk of "I told you so's" and "we were right all along's" &gt; And every single time the NSA's brought up on reddit, near the top there's the, "I can't believe people didn't know this", or essentially "any idiot should have known"-comment that derails any actual conversation about it. 

This is because people trying to protect their psychological welfare will typically accept any trope or narrative that does little (if anything) to throw their self-concept into disarray.  This tendency takes various forms, each better suited for differing collections of circumstances/bias.

It's either feign being too-cool-for-school, or begin acknowledging some very uncomfortable things about one's circumstances.

That said, it's important to point out that this usually isn't a conscious process.  Too few appreciate how much of our thinking (indeed, not simply the bulk of it but also it's most foundational aspects) occurs "in the dark", outside of the focus of the normal waking experience of consciousness.  As such, people do not so much as calculate in lying about such things as they engage in a subterranean campaign to delude themselves. Why the fuck did this become a "thing"  to do? You're not fucking cool for guessing it before, and that certainly isn't a way to fix it. In fact, it should be downvoted for being completely irrelevant  Being surprised that the NSA is involved in domestic signals intelligence programs is a bit like being surprised that NASA has a space program.  

If you knew about the NSA prior to the Snowden leaks, what did you think they were doing? &gt; Even today, one cannot really say how this tangibly affects us

Imagine Ted Cruz with this power. I'm not up to date with American politics aside from what's on the frontpage of reddit, but I don't think Ted Cruz actually has a snowball's chance in hell. Ted Cruz is effectively the shield breaker of the Republican party. It's his job to run in and sacrifice himself to break the shield line of the Democrats. The Democrats (and reddit) will have a field day making fun of him, only to say "well at least they're not Ted Cruz!" to the politician that ACTUALLY gets nominated.  ...and for the Democrats he's a great rally call to demonize the other side.  Each party benefits from the fringe nutjobs because they themselves need to do less *real* work to get elected.  They simply need to be less crazy than the crazies.

All of this would end if we would just get rid of first-past-the-post voting.  A meaningful third party is the scariest thing to the existing two-party system because the Republicans and the Democrats would need to start working for a living. Which third party to vote for though, hrm... I know it's a pipe dream, but I wish the Libertarians and Greens could put aside their differences for a minute and form a 2-party busting coalition. Draw up a list of compromises (you get universal healthcare, we get more civil liberties, etc.) and start mopping up all the disaffected Ds, Rs, ad Is. Shit you might even get some socialists on that bandwagon if you played your cards right.

But that'll never happen because we can't have nice things.

Best case scenario, that could end up morphing into a 3rd, "moderate" party, but moderate in all the good ways. But how do you herd cats? You *need* to read this book by Ralph Nader:

[Unstoppable: The Emerging Left-Right Alliance to Dismantle the Corporate State](http://www.amazon.com/Unstoppable-Emerging-Left-Right-Dismantle-Corporate/dp/1568584547). I think it ahould be required reading for any voting American.  I've found that the Green party is pretty solid for most liberals who refuse to identify with the Democrats, while Libertarians tend to be more on the conservative side. Of course, you'd have to do some research to find exactly what party is right for you I can't side with the Greens simply because of their stance on Nuclear and GMO Thing this, there are Libertarians and there are libertarians. I would consider the Green Party to be pretty damn libertarian. Inversely, there's a growing number of us who don't identify libertarianism as a right-wing/conservative momement (see: karl hess, kevin carson, sheldon richman, the [students for liberty blowout](https://corymassimino.liberty.me/2015/02/20/open-letter-to-ron-paul/)), and are tired of the bigotry and banal nerdy minutiae they spend so much time debating, and general craziness.

Much like conservatives with their, "individual liberties" lip service, the Libertarians need to sack up and come out swinging as an anti-corporate privilege, anti-"capitalist" (in the sense of funds/land/ownership that has been accrued by dubious and/or violent means) party. Interesting.  What principles of the [US Green Party](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Party_of_the_United_States) would you say are compatible with [libertarianism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Libertarianism)?  I understand that there are both hawkish and antiwar factions within libertarianism, but apart from that, how do they meld?  For example, most US libertarians would say a private landowner would be free to frack the shit out of his own land, and the US Green Party would try to stop it. There is a difference between capitalism and what we have in the US (corporatism aka crony capitalism). Libertarians want capitalism in where government doesn't pander to specific groups (mostly lobbyists) while making it harder for other people to fairly enter the market place. The government should secure the rights of the individual and protect against force/fraud while enforcing contracts. This is not the case in America today. Libertarians also tend to lean more towards the side of the earth's resources are meant to be consumed as long as you own the property and your actions don't negatively impact other's life/liberty/property. The Green party would put environmental concerns above property rights.  Maybe a new one. Maybe independents?

Australia has preferential voting, and independents can sometimes wield incredible power. A lot of the indies are Religious nut jobs - moderate by US standards, but still nutjobs.

So there is that to consider. So, maybe a third party. [go ahead, throw your vote away!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAT_BuJAI70) But if we eliminate first-past-the-post, it wouldn't be throwing it away.  Trouble is, the people who have the power to eliminate first-past-the-post are the ones who were brought into power via first-past-the-post. Good luck.

*sobs* I know this will be seen as heresy on Reddit (downvote tolerance engaged), but...A three-party system would not protect us from crazies. It would, in fact, only guarantee that the will of a minority is served. See: How Carcetti won the Baltimore mayoral race in The Wire.Remember 2000? It's very likely that if Nader doesn't run, Gore wins Florida. But as it was, Nader splintered the left, opening the door to the shenanigans to follow. No Nader no dubya, no dubya no Cheney. No Nader no Iraq war. No Nader less bloodshed. We don't want a three-party *system*, we want a system that *allows* for a third party, which currently is not practical as you pointed out. 

That system should also allow for a third, fourth, etc. party to represent other groups, as well. The number of parties right now is artificially limited to two, but a more proportional system would naturally allow for parties to come and go as national and local interests shift and change. [Instant Run Off Voting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instant-runoff_voting) solves your concerns quite neatly.

Also, pinning 2000 on Nader is like saying a football team loses a game on the last point. Our voting system is the reason why Nader fractured the vote. Which is why third parties are not viable candidates, which is *why* we need election reform. I don't know about those conclusions... Just because Nader was more closely aligned with the democratic party, doesn't mean that vote would have been democratic. A lot of people voted nader as a joke, and the people who are serious about actually voting for him probably wouldn't have voted for Gore or Bush if nader didn't run. &gt; I don't know about those conclusions... Just because Nader was more closely aligned with the democratic party, doesn't mean that vote would have been democratic. 

I wish that were true. But if you look back on Nader's core message, it was clearly targeted at Dems. He cast Gore and Bush as basically being the same candidate with the same agendas. Irrespective of how wrong and irresponsible we now know this message to be, the reality is Nader's singular goal was to win the left. Nader ended up getting just under 100,000 votes in Florida in 2000, and Gore lost by less than 600. Some of those 100k would have sat out, sure, but a good many (i.e. way more than net 600) would have voted Gore.  Oh wow, I didn't realize Nader got that amount of votes. You are definitely right about that then. I suppose that is also assuming the same amount of vote fixing happens though. I guess in that alternate universe of nader not running Florida could have been even more ridiculous about the obvious vote shaving. It really would solve everything. As a non american though is there anyway to bring it in because the chances of either party trying to bring it in are genuinely 0.

 Goal post mover.  Cruz and his ilk in the ultra-right are useful to the far-right Republicans in that they drag the "goal post" of a debate out to crazy fringes.  Democrats of today come into a debate on an issue pre-compromised to barely left of center.  Fringe nuts in the Republican party set the other end of the debate out in Bat Shit Crazyville, and the rest of the Republicans say, "Look at how rigid and ideological the Democrats are... why won't they just meet us half-way?" Eh, Cruz is just the right's Elizabeth Warren. Both push the debate further from the center, which is fine with me - I'd rather not be given a choice between Hillary Bush and Jeb Clinton. FTFY: Imagine [insert any politician] with this power. Imagine Bill Clinton with this power. Is it bad that imagining any of the possible candidates with that power terrifies and depresses me? Ted Cruz is theoretically campaigning to end this, if you believe his speech when he declared his candidacy.

He'd never lie or flip flop, right? /s hasn't Ted Cruz proposed actual surveillance reforms though? Didn't then senator Obama propose the "Most transparent administration ever"? That's a bit different right? What I meant by Ted Cruz proposing surveillance reform is that he was part of a group pushing the USA Freedom Act (https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/3361)

One reason it didn't pass the Senate was that Rand Paul opposed it on the grounds that it wasn't enough.

Then senator Obama proposing the "most transparent administration" was campaign speech. &gt; Imagine Ted Cruz with this power.

Sure dude, whatever you partisan wankers have to do to keep the government from spying on the rest of us. I knew about the NSA for years, but I looked at it as kind of a "white noise" thing. They're trying to watch so many people at the same time that they're burying themselves in their own red tape. I don't subscribe to the, "if you've go nothin' to hide" mentality, to me it's more about hiding in plain sight, strength of weak ties, etc.

After watching Citizen4, fuck all that. I'm legitimately terrified of the NSA now. All the stuff about linkability, especially, scared me shitless. &gt;  Even today, one cannot really say how this tangibly affects us.
Depends what "us" is.  

1) In my country(one of the five eyes), my university was listed as an example of where police infiltrated protests to disrupt/monitor/entrapment.  Language used by participants protest was found in the keywords for XKEYSCORE, meaning participants in it got special attention there allowing for said police to coordinate and subvert that dissent more effectively.  There was telephone calls that were recorded in a fusion centre that were recovered and posted online lately -- in general, it *does* impact you if you've ever been part of a large protest, ,and it *does* impact you even if you haven't because the large protests in the past have run into difficulties with law enforcement using these illegal capabilities against them, making it more difficult to affect social change.  

2) One of the reasons the hammer is coming down on kim dotcom so hard is that mega makes life difficult for them.  There's more than a few individuals like him and anyone who uses Mega is directly impacted by their struggle.  Similar for anyone who uses Debian-based linux distributions, when their developers are being targeted, too.   

3) They have specifically weakened encryption standards making practically everything we use online suspect, not just for NSA intrusion, but for others (including organized criminals/china/russia).  The NSA's intentional suggestion to use weak encryption standards is a direct impact on anyone who uses a computer.  They also compromised [RSA](http://rt.com/usa/nsa-weak-cryptography-rsa-110/) and have a history of exploiting low level employees to compromise large systems, like ISPs of countries that are allied to them.  As someone who has previously worked for an ISP which relied upon RSA fobs for security I really wonder if our security would have caught them, and how much of our customer's ability to access to the internet has been compromised.
  If the NSA intentionally compromised account security, would anyone notice if, let's say OpenSSL, has some strange source code changes? &gt; would anyone notice if, let's say OpenSSL, has some strange source code changes?

Depends where along the chain of trust they hit.  If they hit the OpenSSL project  itself they might get away with it - - there's a lot of code there, checkins happen often enough they could probably get code in, and not enough people are learning the code enough to find it.  LibreSSL they might have more trouble on, but only a little bit.  If they hit further down the chain (say debian, or some other entity who packages openssl) they could compromise fewer users but with the added benefit of wayyyy fewer people looking.  Compromising the router of someone downloading an openssl update not only is very feasible for them, but it's almost impossible to detect unless you're looking.  So depends where they hit as far as how feasible/expensive that is for them.  I've personally been looking through the OpenSSL source code over the past few months and I can tell you with certainty that I'd never notice if they knew what they were doing. "Even today, one cannot really say how this tangibly affects us."

Every politician, every corporate leader, every political activist, every journalist is being spied on.

If you don't think there is blackmailing happening.... Come to r/Australia if you want some outrage. Our leaders have decided that spying on your people is such a good idea they signed a bill today making it mandatory that ISPs recorded everything we do online.  Remember, [VPNs](http://torrentfreak.com/which-vpn-services-take-your-anonymity-seriously-2014-edition-140315/) and [Tor](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/07/7-things-you-should-know-about-tor) are your friends.  It's the same in America, we just aren't as forthcoming with the details of it. "Freedom" in the first world sure is free It's very strange that this total surveillance is happening all over the globe at the same time.  Who's really calling the shots? Our country elected Tony Abbott as Prime Minister. Do you _honestly_ think we have any hope of getting this overturned? Hell, Labour even supported them.

It's before the senate at the moment so there's still a _chance_ it'll get rejected but honestly I have no hope.

EDIT: I scrolled down and read that it already passed. There's a surprise... I was looking at the [official page](http://www.aph.gov.au/Parliamentary_Business/Bills_Legislation/Bills_Search_Results/Result?bId=r5375) for it which is apparently out of date. Are we on the same Reddit? I see stories about the NSA on the front page literally every day. The front page defaults are susceptible to the massive forces of wandering attention spans and overt me-tooism that affect any herd animal. 

You have to subscribe to the right subreddits to get your daily fill of government abuses.  You must be wicked smart. http://media.giphy.com/media/jfsaMQr3GNkKk/giphy.gif You should read up on [JTRIG](https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/02/24/jtrig-manipulation/). It's a covert program that The Five Eyes (Mainly the NSA and GCHQ) have run to subvert and effictively manipulate all behavior on the internet that would have even conspiracy theorists shaking their head in disbelief. The [list of programs](https://firstlook.org/theintercept/document/2014/07/14/jtrig-tools-techniques/) leaked by Greenwald from the internal NSA Wiki exposes programs that, while not described in detail, seem to be able to farm out botnets to control visible posts on aggregate sites like Reddit. Check out AIRWOLF, BIRDSTRIKE, BUGSY, GODFATHER, MOUTH, RESERVOIR (Facebook data mining. Scary), SODAWATER (Full Gmail exploitation. Even scarier), SPRING BISHOP (Finds private images on Facebook and downloads them), and most importantly BOMB BAY, which allows manipulation of post visibility on websites. When my friend told me about this I didn't believe it until he showed me the leaked screencaptures of the Wiki. It is unbelievable how much power they hold thanks to JTRIG, and the best part is nobody's even heard of it. Every post on the internet that involves JTRIG has been downvoted or ignored to the point of oblivion.

If I had said something like this three years ago I would have been laughed at. The fact that this is now a reality sometimes makes it hard to sleep at night. It may be the worst of the programs, convincing people who are rightly upset that their feelings must be wrong, given that nobody else seems concerned. In this way it tricks all of society into walking quietly off a cliff. Really horrific. I understand about sleepless nights. People have no idea what's going on. ... torture ... admitted by Dick Cheney ... war crimes ....  
CATS! From Australia: Mandatory Data Retention just passed Fed Parliament today, game over for us here in Aus we're fucked. That was abolished a few days ago here in the Netherlands by a judge. Don't worry though, they are going to implement a new version soon. How come we have forgotten that Google has been a surveillance pioneer allowing untethered access to government agencies.  That used to be all over reddit too.   Because they only (mostly?) provided that when required to do so by a warrant Funny that I've never read about their intimate relationship with the Department of State on Reddit, either. &gt; allowing untethered access to government agencies

There is no proof of this. In any case, the government doesn't need Google's permission to take user data from them under the Patriot Act. http://apps.washingtonpost.com/g/page/national/the-nsa-is-hacking-private-networks/542/ Because nerds love android  I think it's because people are sick of trying to fight it and feeling powerless. what are you talking about? There was a front page article yesterday about the government asking for public comment on renewing the NSA laws, and theres talk of it in the comments of nearly every article. Not to mention the biggest topic has been information sharing the past year anyway regardless of weather it's government doing it Most posts about it on popular subs end up in /r/undelete What reddit are you on?  I see that stuff all the time, I would say I see it to the point where it is annoying and detracts from other content, on a variety of tech and news subs. there was a post on r/conspiracy about the heavy censoring of certain posts containing keywords, i cant exactly find a link right now but if you go there you'll most likely see it. There is honestly a post of mass surveillance on the front page every day... Because reddit is owned by a media company and is censored. But... ^but ^^free ^^^speech....

Tells ya a lot when /r/coontown exists but mods and admins prefer to censor news stories which we see later on /r/undelete all the time. Oh look there is the video of the Congress woman that just hit the front page. (The parking hit and run thing) Sigh... 

[Yep](http://www.reddit.com/r/undelete/comments/30dglo/41677390_congresswoman_demonstrates_worst_parking/). Because we're a bunch of proles Mass Surveillance was just passed in Australia today. YAY! http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-03-26/data-retention-laws-pass-federal-parliament/6351278 Sigh... The fact that Labor supported it and got it through the Senate, despite all but one of the cross-benchers being against it, really infuriates me. If our opposition party could actually fucking oppose the government *when it matters most*, it would be a bloody miracle.  I was a member of the ALP, I had even helped campaign for them at one point. Was a member, not after this.  And in other news... VPN use in Australia has dramatically increased overnight...  Should be using a VPN anyway with the ridiculous prices on online stores. There was actually a parliamentary report into uncompetitive pricing due to geoblocking that recommended exactly this.  No warrant needed either. Disgusting. Security agencies can trawl away to their heart's content and *they* can store the information they gather indefinitely! They should really implement NBN so they can spy on my friends at higher speeds.

Because they really need to make sure they have a stable connection to my friends while they play video games with me...

Why can't we have nice internet? Two year backstory on surveillance, by way of /r/technology threads:

* 2012-12-15 [The U.S. Department of Justice seeks to shut down a lawsuit against the NSA for warrantless wiretapping.](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/14w5hf/the_us_department_of_justice_seeks_to_shut_down_a/)
* 2013-06-05 [Confirmed: The NSA is Spying on Millions of Americans](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1frx1v/confirmed_the_nsa_is_spying_on_millions_of/)
* 2013-07-02 [Reddit, Mozilla, WordPress, and others plan July 4 protest against NSA surveillance](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1hielo/reddit_mozilla_wordpress_and_others_plan_july_4/)
* 2013-07-18 [Apple, Google, and more join forces to request NSA data be made public](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1ikbci/apple_google_and_more_join_forces_to_request_nsa/)
* 2013-11-13 [Google, Microsoft and others are fighting to lift gag orders that prevent them from disclosing the number of surveillance requests they receive.](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1qjezf/google_microsoft_and_others_are_fighting_to_lift/)
* 2014-07-21 [New Surveillance Whistleblower: The NSA Violates the Constitution](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2bbx4m/new_surveillance_whistleblower_the_nsa_violates/)
* 2014-11-18 [AOL, APPLE, Dropbox, Microsoft, Evernote, Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Twitter, and Yahoo are backing the US Freedom Act legislation intended to loosen the government's grip on data | The act is being voted on this week, and the EFF has also called for its backing.](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2mo4nx/aol_apple_dropbox_microsoft_evernote_facebook/)
* 2015-02-07 [In Latest Vindication of Snowden, Court Rules UK Mass Surveillance Illegal: 'We must not allow agencies to continue justifying mass surveillance programmes using secret interpretations of secret laws,' said Privacy International director Eric King](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2v3733/in_latest_vindication_of_snowden_court_rules_uk/)
* 2015-02-17 [The FBI Admits It Uses Fake Cell Phone Towers to Track You](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2w927p/the_fbi_admits_it_uses_fake_cell_phone_towers_to/)
* 2015-03-20 [Twenty-four Million Wikipedia Users Cant Be Wrong: Important Allies Join the Fight Against NSA Internet Backbone Surveillance](http://np.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2zow6h/twentyfour_million_wikipedia_users_cant_be_wrong/)

These posts were recommended by my topic analysis engine. I hope you find them interesting. Oh hey thats pretty cool did you write a program to do that? Yes, it's a big data research project that also acts as a technology demo for my consulting work. It was a lot of fun building, written almost completely from scratch. There is [a bit more detail here](https://np.reddit.com/r/FurtherReadingBot/comments/2zarvh/general_overview_post_general_questions_here/) if you want to know more. Plot twist: /u/complinguistics works for the NSA What kind of consulting work do you do? The technology is primarily Java big data, Hadoop on Amazon EMR or local clusters, or custom coded cluster management, data can be relational, document oriented, or straight to disk, whatever suits. On the business side my big strength is digging into the data, figuring out where the unexploited revenue opportunites are, and finding which algorithms will get that cashflow running.

I go where the work is, but what I enjoy most is getting companies off the ground with big data; run through a demo project to get their engineers started, go through their data and business model and find the solution that will work for them. The most exciting part of the job, for me, is getting to those first big wins that wind up funding the department's growth.

Edit: typo This sounds interesting. Where can I learn more? This is when the use of the Oxford Comma can *really* sway the meaning of a title.  I had thought that Google and Apple were merging, and that Microsoft and others were calling for reform seeing as these two would now be sharing a MASSIVE pool of data on their consumers If that was the intent though, wouldn't the semi-colon be the correct punctuation?

Honest question, because I'm not sure on this. Honestly, I have no clue. I don't think so but I have literally no evidence other than "that doesn't seem right" haha.  It could be; it could also be a period depending on your style and intent.  Whew! AOL is on board. I'm safe. If you attach all their CDs to a colander and wear it on your head, you can stop the NSA's mind reading beams. Have fun tracking down *all* the copies of AOL.  It's like highlander. You kill one owner, you get all his CDs.  I wouldn't discount their part in this as the owner of the most popular news site on the internet.   Kind of like having McDonald's and Burger King calling for reform in the fast-food industry.  Yeah, if google actually cared about mass surveillance they would stop tracking me everywhere I go... So, Google does mass data gathering as part of their business.  They are fairly transparent about it.  If they decided to be evil about it, their options are limited. They can't put me in jail.  And most of what they'd do, I likely have a recourse with various privacy laws.

When the NSA decides to track me, I have no idea it happened.  And if they want to be evil about it, they could be very evil and I would have little chance in fighting it.  

I think a number of these companies are joining the fight, not because they care about privacy, but because they are prime targets for NSA data gathering.  And that gathering usually involves manhours that they are tired of spending on it. And if you do fight it, it will be in a secret court, you won't get any access to any of their evidence, it will be classified as national security and you will instantly lose, without trial.  As unnerving as it is, the amount of information google collect is exactly as you said. You can't really expect somone to keep all those services running for free, they perfected the 'you are the product' business model when selling their advertising and no other search engine generally performs as well as google.

My main gripe is that their targeted search can sometimes be annoying but that's a bit of an oxymoron tbh. It would be nice to delete your stuff by a click of a button but then they would probably suffer greatly from it.

I find it kind of funny that the NSA has beaten them at their own game, albeit in such a dangerously unfair way... Pretty much. I've heard some sketchy things about Google recently, but the basic idea is that they want to know about you so they can tell others how to market to you. The NSA wants to know about you so they can fuck you up if they decide to. Well, Google is not forcing you to use them. Your government is forcing in you - plus you habe to pay for it. I hate to feel like I am wearing a tinfoil hat, but isn't Google/Microsoft part of the whole problem? I get the feeling like Google has two faces, the one face, we see, stands up for freedom from surveillance, appearing like it's looking out for the 'people', and the other face, the one we don't see, is the one that helps create the systems, and provide the information, to the agencies and governments and all, without batting an eye. I just get the feeling like a lot of these companies do nothing but provide lip service, while in the background they all collude together to find better and more covert ways to steal and share information of their users. Intel is everything. You hear it from governments, from the military, and even poacher hunters. Im not a conspiracy guy at all, but this has never sat right with me. Information is power, and I just worry that power has already, or is about to, fall into the wrong hands and be abused to a far greater extent. 
 It's pretty well established that these companies do some serious tracking and data gathering on everyone and their dog, and that is something that many of us don't like even if we simply accept it. Google probably know more about me than my mother, and we talk daily about very personal matters.  
  
That said, while I'm uncomfortable with Google tracking me online I can accept it. What I can't accept is that the people governing my or any other country wants unrestricted access to every little bit of my personal life. That is really fucking scary, even if they currently would be a completely humanitarian government with the best intentions (which is not the case ever anywhere). Let's say I live in a complete democracy, where things like poverty and inequality does not exist due to our wonderful politicians. Would I allow them such surveillance access?  
  
Fuck no.  
  
Why? Because that can change. One day the friendly politicians can be replaced by less friendly politicians, ones that may have a personal interest in shifting control away from the people and into the hands of police ad private companies. If that were to happen and they had access to a backlog of personal information on me and my family we would all be in deep shit if they decided to use that to restrict voting or access to public utilities based on political opinions, religion, sexuality or whatever they fancied. They could literally use those systems to find and silence dissenters before people could even start complaining about an overreach from government and police. They would have the tools to turn my country into a police state before people would even realize that anything was wrong and label "threats to security" as terrorists just for having had the wrong opinions five years ago.  
  
Google tailor ads and track our interests, but they do so for a commercial reason. Our governments don't have any commercial reason, it's purely a control reason. The one thing I'll give Google is that they give *you* access to *your* information to a large degree.  If it were 100% access that would be ideal, but what they do give you access to is remarkable and freaky, but I'd rather deal with freaky honesty than secrets.

https://www.google.com/settings/dashboard

https://www.google.com/settings/takeout

They're also one of the only companies set up to let you control what happens to your account when you die.

https://www.google.com/settings/account/inactive I wish we had a similar system for governments as well, where they log any surveillance done during an investigation, delete everything except for the logs when the investigation is over and give us access to these logs. Force them to disclose all surveillance done, what data was gathered and what was done with that data. If they do this I would be less uncomfortable, although I'd prefer very strict rules and consequences when those rules were broken.  
  
In a perfect world there would be no surveillance at all of citizens, but a compromise could be a third party with no personal interest that would write the regulations, oversee all surveillance and administer access to data concerning the surveillance.  
  
It's a difficult subject and I would like to see security and information technology experts have an open conference where a solution was developed together with governments. Having lobby organizations and politicians without an education in these subjects make these laws is ludicrous. Well, they're companies and their number one priority is profits and revenue and looking out for themselves and whatever is in their best interest. And that's definitely not a conspiracy. I'm a Microsoft employee, and I just recently finished going through some of the training for working with online services.  The security around these things is really off the charts.  

A lot of the services that we run encrypt all customer data, and the keys are managed in a completely different service, so that 95% of the people and machines that deal with customer data never have access to the keys.  And this is a trend with newer services being designed by the company.  I believe there is also published research, not sure if Microsoft has been directly involved in that research, on exactly the same thing -- such as designing databases that can work with encrypted data, without ever being able to see the contents of the data.

I'm a developer working on a service, but there is no way in hell I could ever get near customer data.  For debugging, I can't even get access to crashdumps from "live" servers; there is a sanitizing step, where someone does analysis of the dump, and sends over the results of the analysis, which doesn't include any user data.  Just stuff like stack traces.

Microsoft does way, way more than "just lip service" when it comes to customer data.  Believe whatever you want, but I see this first-hand. I don't think Google and Microsoft *want* to be complicit. But refusing probably wasn't an option. This would have been argued and pored over for weeks or months, committees formed, etc. But for very good reasons (probably severe penalties and who-knows-what) they just had to go along. This is a bit of a ridiculous comparison. With google/microsoft, you had a choice. You can opts to stop using any of their product, you can [opt out](https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922?hl=en) of their  program. You can try and cast them as some kind of bad guy or two face all you want, but in reality, you made the choice to give them the information. The deception that they are not using your data is in your head. They never made any kind of promise that your data are not used.


Not so with NSA. You have no choice with them. You have no choice on how and where surveillance happens, you have no choice how they are going to use the data. You don't even have the right to knowing what the hell they are doing. Neither do Google and Microsoft. We are as much a victim to NSA as they are. 

 That's definitely a good way to put it. Google will spy on you with tracking cookies, javascript applets, captchas, their web browser, and I'm sure there's more.

I appreciate how Google is fighting for the internet, but at the same time they are *really* good with deception. What a bad title, implying that Apple and Microsoft were already against ending mass surveillance, and Google *just now* got around to supporting that movement, too, when in fact they were among the [first founders](https://www.reformgovernmentsurveillance.com/) of this alliance, and probably the most outspoken from it.

Remember, it's Apple and Microsoft the ones that have recently agreed to share zero-day vulnerabilities that can be used for spying with the US government, while Google refused to do that. Source for Apple and Microsoft agreeing to share zero-days for spying? The source is his ass. Especially considering Apples privacy moves vs. Googles.  His ass I'd wager. I think it means that all of them joined forces together still a poorly worded title I thought it meant Google and Apple merged so Microsoft is now freaking out Don't get so caught up in the title.

Secondly, please don't defend Google when it comes to privacy. There are numerous reports of Google having a closer relationship with the NSA and the White House than any other tech company. The data that they have on their customers [products] is invaluable and only rivaled by Facebook. 

"If you have something that you don't want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in the first place."
 Eric Schmidt, Google CEO Never understood why people put so much faith in Google when it comes to privacy. The company's business model is literally based on using your data to sell you ads.  I'm not justifying the behavior, but it IS possible to use your data to sell you ads without directly violating your privacy as long as the data is simply paired to relative ads and not stored for deep profiling. Whether you should trust someone with that data is a different issue. This is /r/technology. I'd expect nothing less than Google defenses, especially when it means tearing down Apple at the same time. You'll also never see it discussed how much Apple has done to protect the privacy of its users. &gt; You'll also never see it discussed how much Apple has done to protect the privacy of its users.

Google tries to read your chats so they can advertise to you, and Apple at least tried to make iMessage unreadable to anyone including apple (it's a public/private key scheme)
 Apple also allows iPhone users to control permissions for apps, without having to resort to back-alley 'rooting' schemes from Moldova. Rooting schemes are only back-alley due to manufacturers and carriers. &gt; Secondly, please don't defend Google when it comes to privacy. 

Yeah, it's a fukcing joke that [this company](http://i.imgur.com/2jxDCJr.png) even dares do speak about privacy protection... Google analytics anonymises data for the owner of the website in which it is installed. There's nothing identifiable about you in the analytics system and if you're logged in to your google account the website owner can't see the terms that led you to the site either.

Making out like Google added that tracker is rubbish - Reddit is using analytics to track users anonymously and provide data for usage and testing purposes. I can't find anything from your link that implies Google joined before Apple and Microsoft or that they were "more outspoken." The only link you need is /r/technology! People here always know what they talk about.  You mean r/google  I mean both.  I was just kidding./r/technology is like Google's PR team, which based on your comment you are aware of. Why are you so upset? To my mind Silent Circle and Lavabit deserve more credit than these companies combined. They all volunteered to participate in PRISM, with the exception of Steve Jobs, Many idolize Jobs, but I don't. I disagree with his walled garden business model for app distribution among other things, but one thing Jobs did right was to not allow Apple participate in PRISM for as long as he was drawing breath. I respect his civic fortitude in this matter as much as any of his accomplishments.

Tim Cook is a terrible disappointment by comparison, folded like an umbrella on day 1. Except Google basically has the closest relationship with NSA out of those three companies... What a bad comment, implying that google is really against ending mass surveillance. Google's support of the movement only implies that they want to have a say in the regulations that will be affecting their profits.

Remember, it's google who are the ones that have allowed the NSA pretty much direct access to their servers: http://gizmodo.com/how-google-gives-your-information-to-the-nsa-512840958

 So is this a **mass** surveillance reform, or a **mass surveillance** reform? Like videotaping your mom? funny joke, but not even the widest of lenses is capable of such a feat. Look at it as **a** mass surveillance reform. Then how about supporting the effort to repeal the Patriot Act that was on the front page yesterday? Isn't Google in bed with the gov't on this? Anyone else think this is just lip service to the consumer and public? [nope they just don't want any upstarts getting their dick-beaters on those secret society dollars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-Q-Tel) It's only OK when THEY spy on you so they can sell all of your personal info. Is it spying if you give it all to them knowingly? I don't think many people are aware of google scripts running on a high percentage of webpages. 
google-analytics runs on this very page, I wonder how many people know that. How is this not The Onion? Either that or US exports are going to suffer further. Who want's to buy brands with spyware on them? Funny thing is all of these companies have exclusive contracts with the NSA. It's all a god damn PR smoke screen. Source? I always thought they were forced to comply. If you have a source for having a contract I'd like to read it Are corporations the only ones capable, willing or powerful enough to speak for the American people now? Pretty much. Google is calling for it? Bwaaaaa haaaa haaaa haaaa! These are the guys who have been in secret meeting with the WH weekly right? That is hysterical. I freaked the hell out when I read the title:
Google joins Apple, Microsoft and others to call for mass surveillance reform.
I thought you used , as a ;
this is why there should be commas at the end of list so its not that and instead this
Google joins Apple, Microsoft, and others to call for mass surveillance reform.
 I swear, you almost gave me a heart attack, I really didn't want a new Google Chrome S... &gt;Google calls for mass surveillance reform.

That's *adorable*. 

"Google! Enemy of surveillance!" I can't keep a straight face. Google's whole business model is based around pure unadulterated mass surveillance of their customers.  I'm leery by default of what they advocate for when it comes to mass surveillance. &gt; customers

Not citizens The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.  

William Shakespeare
 If all 3 of the biggest companies in the world just said no to requests..what are they going to do?  They bring in enough money to have the same protection as banks. Um, these are the companies that are regularly used as the vehicles of domestic spying. Is this a boondoggle? Because if any of these wanted to see real change, they'd just go ahead and remove the ability to do what they are protesting wouldn't they? I really don't get this if these companies don't want meta data collected why does every file from them contain meta data and why do I need to install 3rd party software to strip the meta data from my files? It seems to me that if you don't want data collected, don't attach a load of open data to a file. the government probably isn't paying them enough Uncle Sam hears ya... But uncle sam dont care. This is ironic. Google against surveillance and data gathering? Why? So they can make more $ selling it back to the gov.  Isn't this just the fox gaurding the hen house? I'd rather Google, Apple, and Microsoft collaborate to develop technological solutions to protect against mass surveillance --- like encouraging client-side encryption for all their cloud services.

Too bad their business models are all "we get to own all the surveillance data" and all they're really doing here is trying to take out their biggest data mining competitor/potential-customer (NSA). It is curious how these computing powerhouses are "joining together."

Especially curious since they ALL were deep in the sack with government spying. 

So now they're all suddenly against invasive surveillance that THEY helped engineer and supported? !    i just think it's funny that the biggest data gatherers in history are calling for mass surveillance reform, which wouldn't have been really possible without their own mass data collection An enemy of my enemy is my friend. Thy want to monopolize information flow, subjecting the dangers of a government as the main holder of information.

Who do you want running your lives? A quasi-democratic entity or a company? I've thought this for a while. A big reason these companies get so many secret subpoenas is because they conveniently have ALL the information. As more attention gets drawn to the situation, the more people take steps to protect their privacy, which hurts the corporate data collecting activity. Haven't these 3 been known to collaborate with the NSA?  Is Google the good guys now?  Or are they just not as bad as their opponent?  While Google, Apple and MS are critics about surveillance and reform they should reform their own privacy policies.  I have no doubt that this call for reform by big tech companies is nothing more than a business decision, it's not because any of these companies suddenly have 'wake up call' and want to help people.   Yeah, because we need to leave the surveillance to the private companies, because then it's voluntary. 

*What do you mean we can't do that? It was right there, in the meaning implied by the words in paragraph 538 of the Terms of Service.* PR move. Not buying it. I wish there was a consumer group that would call for mass surveillance reform against Google, Apple, Microsoft and others. It's crazy when you need mega corporations to keep the government in check. google? apple? microsoft?

cant these guys just make the internet have no surveillance or something. What "reform"? How about... just flat out rejecting and banning it altogether? Google also complied with requests to hand over thousands of Occupy emails to authorities. Keep in mind Facebook, Google et al all have a stake in our personal data. That's why facebook app is watching you and your phone all day.  you don't "reform" mass surveillance ... you STOP all forms of mass surveillance


only fascist societies "reform" mass surveillance There might be better places to ask, but how do I get involved in some sort of anti-mass surveillance activism? Whether it's protests or discussion or anything. I guess I'm not just asking for myself but for anyone else who might want to speak out against this issue, but doesn't know where to start or begin?

I'm in Southern California, but hopefully someone knows of a resource that is more comprehensive?

The only thing I managed to find in OC is http://ocprogressiveevents.info/ but again it's hard to find something related to this topic.

Lastly, since I've gone this far.. How is this topic being addressed so I could research it on my own? Mass surveillance? Privacy? NSA? Spying?

Pardon my ignorance in any of this, I'm just now attempting to get really involved. Sad that this seems like a good thing to us.

When companies are the big players in what decides the laws of a Country, you're in a bad place. That being said, at least surveillance is finally becoming a big issue in recent years. Not exactly. If politics were actually working, indeed, companies being able to influence laws would be bad, but that's not the case here. Took 'em fucking long enough The hypocrisy, it burns, it burns And this comes the day after both major parties in both levels of Australia's federal government just passed their own Meta data retention laws. I'll give these companies some credit...they have some big brass ones. Especially Google. Nobody collects more info they do. Except you consent to it when you use their free products. This is true. It is also true that private companies can't take your freedom away like governments can. Certainly not apples to apples but I still find it amusing that these particular companies object to similar practices they profit from. Google doesnt want competition on mass surveillance Pretty much my thoughts. Half of those organizations buisness models are collecting data. I don't give a single shit if Google or some other company has my information. They don't arrest you. They don't blackmail you. They can't put you in jail for disagreeing with them. The government has this power, and it's THEM you should be worried about with your information. With mass surveillance, they could blackmail the people that can do that though. That's rich 

["If you have something that you don't want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in the first place, but if you really need that kind of privacy, the reality is that search engines including Google do retain this information for some time, and it's important, for example that we are all subject in the United States to the Patriot Act. It is possible that that information could be made available to the authorities."](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nothing_to_hide_argument)

Stop handing over the info to the NSA willy nilly "This might effect our bottom line." So, all of the tech companies that are spying on us, collecting terabytes of data per minute, and forcing advertising down our throat based on that, is saying the government shouldn't do the same?

Well isn't that fucking cute. Well at least it's a start. &gt; is saying the government shouldn't do the same

You let me know when google has the power to arrest people and detain them indefinitely without legal representation or trial and that's the day I will consider the two anywhere in the same league as one another.  Really? Companies that rely on data collection are somehow against the Government doing it? Probably because they would rather sell it to them for a profit. Google, Apple and Microsoft are against mass surveillance? 

That's rich.  This makes 0 sense. 

Why arnt they backing the bill in the house right now to COMPLETLY REPEAL the Patriot Act? 

This all looks very strange,anyone care to fill me in here? &gt; Why arnt they backing the bill in the house right now to COMPLETLY REPEAL the Patriot Act?

https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/1466

Repeals the Patriot Act and requires a specific warrant for any surveillance.  
Contact your representative and urge them to support H.R. 1466.  Well, one, that bill was unveiled two days ago. Two, the coalition is calling for an end to surveillance under the PATRIOT Act - that can include a partial reform of the bill, or the complete repeal. My belief is the only reason why they are fighting so hard for this is because they want the government to have less information than they do. This will force the government to pay them for this information or put these massive technology companies that collect all your user information in a position where they can use it as bargaining chip. This is dangerous! (Ex Big oil companies, some how its 20fucking15 and we aren't on fully renewable resources by law) I feel like with Google fibre on the rise, Google is set to become the next NSA. Who needs Google+ when they have access to your entire up/downstream I know this sounds pathetic, but I'd rather have Google be the NSA than the actual NSA. Since Google being the NSA means they're trying to get my money. Oh I agree. They'd also be subject to data privacy and storage laws if they operated in the EU so I wouldn't be quite so worried. The fact that the NSA operate outside of the US and have been working with GCHQ is pretty appauling. I also think the worrying effect comes from ambition, but yeah, I didn't think about how it would work outside North America. Sorry for my naivety :) They do the same thing as my current providers, but are faster and cheaper. Would still be willing to switch We have two big broadband providers in the UK. But where BT have known links with GCHQ, Virgin Media are competitively priced and don't *seem* to hold any ties to government sectors. So we're doing better than the average American while Google takes its time. The ironi. They all collect data to target adds, to make money. Lets stop that too, please. Copied from another user,

Do you really not see the difference between a company holding customer data that was willingly handed over, and government entities secretly and forcefully taking all customer data from all companies?  There's a pretty god damn huge difference between those two scenarios.

When Apple or Google store information about you, it's because they're providing you services, or at the very least, trying to better market towards you.  You can also easily opt out of any tracking features.  The NSA has been using insane legal threats to force companies into disclosing information about their customers, and the companies aren't even allowed to exercise their first amendment rights to talk about it.  If they don't give up the goods in a timely manner, the NSA has been illegally penetrating those US companies and taking it by force.  This is a huge fucking problem. I see your point. But, both are bad IMHO. I think a company is just as likely to miss use the data, as a government is. Your op-out is your vote in that case. The U.S. population have allowed NSA to do what they do, like it or not. I want both to stop, that is all... I can see how both are bad but that's the price we pay for a free product. I choose to use Google, gmail, Google voice recognition software, etc. I know they are recording every time I speak to my watch or phone. That's how they improve and/or make money. You can't get rid of that and still have a product. I take the risk that they may mishandle my information.

The government on the other hand is doing it only because they want to. That's unacceptable in my opinion 