TL;DR:

* Thin Steam inhouse streaming box for 50 bucks &gt;&gt; http://i.imgur.com/Eb5ff9Q.png
* Steam controller also confirmed at 50 bucks
* Source 2 free for everyone, Vulkan versions confirmed, DX12 probable
* Steam VR being demo'd with new controller
* Steam VR room tech called Lighthouse, free for hardware developers
* Vive distribution starts this fall

Edit: updated info, thanks for the corrections!
Edit2: link died, replaced with image The tracking solution is free-to-use for Hardware manufacturers:

&gt; high resolution, high speed tracking...[] Lighthouse gives us the ability to do this for an arbitrary number of targets at a low enough BOM cost that it can be incorporated into TVs, monitors, headsets, input devices, or mobile devices." Valve intends to make Lighthouse freely available to any hardware manufacturers interested in the technology.

Sounds like they're thinking of smartphones and tv's with in-built motion tracking. Plenty of potential beyond VR. Very smart way for Valve to try to really push something as an industry standard too.  Make some awesome tech and want lots of people to adopt it?  Just give it away for free.

I know lots of people like to bemoan how many Valve "fanboys" there are... but I think Valve makes it pretty difficult to not love them.   Except for their shit customer service.  For me (and probably most other people), the cool/good things they do pretty heavily outweigh that. No, I totally agree. I like Valve too, but I also would enjoy some competition for Google and Valve so they will step up their service.  FYI Google's service is top notch for their paying customers (and I don't mean only adsense, all their paying products). You're still mostly ignored when you're not paying, but then you're the product not the client in those cases.

Valve can't really say as much. GG Oculus, see you on Facebook. &gt; Source 2 free for everyone, DirectX12 and Vulkan versions

Everyone, not just modders? I'll eagerly wait for more details but holy shit this week just keeps getting more and more interesting. I hope they actually mean to compete with Unreal and Unity, not just extend the mod support for their games.

And then there's the whole thing about Valve probably introducing a flagship game to show off the features of Source 2. All overused jokes aside, my money is still on Dota 2 since the mod tools already run on the engine (I think?)

Quite a week, and it's still only Tuesday. Anyone can be a modder for free, so the SDK and engine are free.

Dota 2's ported to Source 2 right now and works pretty well, but it can't really act as a showcase for the engine, since they need to make sure everything is exactly the same. L4D3 would be my bet, but that's probably not going to be mentioned this year. The game itself isn't ported to Source 2 yet, but its official modding tools are. The game's there, you couldn't test maps made with the tools otherwise! &gt;L4D3 would be my bet

If only they had some sort of shorter, more episodic game they could make using set piece moments to show off how much the engine has improved. You're damn right!

Man, Ricochet will be fucking amazing with VR and motion tracking! Bullshit! Gunman Chronicles or They Hunger is what I'm really looking for. Well, Valve did confirm Ricochet 2 more than two years ago. I'm betting we get that before L4D3. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=632kyLysP6c Day of Defeat? Right, but the difference is whether anyone is allowed to use Source 2 to make their own games, or whether they're just allowed to use it for free if they're modding for existing games. The Source 1 SDK and source code is fully available on GitHub right now, so that's fully accessible. After Epic and Unity gave out access to their engines for free today, I can't imagine Valve wouldn't do the same with Source 2. ~~The free Unity version isn't the same as Unity Pro~~ *(Unity is now 'free' until you have a total revenue stream exceeding $100,000 in the prior financial year), and UE4 isn't free, it's tied to royalty obligations. And IIRC Source Engine 1 isn't free for making games, you need to buy a license. You can make any sort of mod you want for an existing game, including full conversion mods for free with it, but that (like I mentioned above) is not the same thing as licencing it for making your own game. It makes sense to be free for everyone because I'm sure it forces you to use steamworks which means that valve gets their 30% cut when sold on steam. A very bright move especially considering the latest move EPIC just took with the unreal 4 engine's monetization. &gt; I hope they actually mean to compete with Unreal and Unity, not just extend the mod support for their games.

From http://store.steampowered.com/universe/

&gt; "Stay tuned for more information this week about a new family of products designed to bring the best games and user-generated content to exciting new destinations"

That, combined with their mention of Epic and Unity in the press release, it's kinda sounding that way. Damn we get source 2 and unreal 4 for free?

What is this christmas?
 It's pretty much confirmed that theyre working on L4D3, which will probably be released with source 2. Some guy visited the Valve offices and accidently took a picture of a computer that had l4d3 sound files. So unless they scrapped it since then itll prob be with Source 2 or soon after. It's going to be interesting how competitive they are with their royalties for Source Engine 2. Is there any info on this anywhere yet? How were royalties in Source 1? The engine license itself cost money, as was pretty much the norm back when Source came out. No that's not the question you asked, but it's information. Garry Newman got the engine for free for Garry's Mod, but he had to split his revenue with Valve 50:50 instead of the usual 70:30 like other Steam games. Valve literally made millions because of this deal. Goddamn, how expensive is the engine for that to have been the right choice at the time? It was his only choice, because he didn't have the money to just buy a regular license. Also there was no way of knowing that Garry's mod would ever explode like this. If I recall correctly, and this was about seven years ago, Source was $100,000 to license.  Holy Jesus.

Engines are waaaayyyy more affordable now. IIRC Unreal 3 was 750K for a license from Epic. Now UE4 is free for all , but I assume AAA studios still pay contracts like that for it. Epic allows you to "Negotiate a price" if you don't want the 5% royalty. I imagine that price isn't small. [deleted] Yeah I'm sure Garry is laughing all the way to the bank honestly. He can just look at it as 50% to a company that has given him the tools and platform to become super rich. Without Valve he would be nowhere most likely. Back in the old days a high tier engine license was in the 100's of thousands. Garry's Mod was nothing but one guy's side project for fooling around with physics, he definitely didn't have 6 figures to throw away for a license. This was 2003 so there was no kickstarter or anything like that.

The original GMod was little more than a physics gun and the ability to weld 2 things together, or make a rotating axis.  And it was still fun as all fuck.  each person who licensed it signs an NDA  I'd assume they're just going to take a percentage via steam  &gt; DirectX12

The press release doesn't specifically say DirectX 12 anywhere, it just talks about a (separate?) Vulkan-compatible version. 

Is there some other source you're referring to? I cannot imagine them announcing a 'separate' version specifically for Vulkan, if there was no DX version in the first place. And if there is, it's obviously going to adopt DX12. There could just be an OpenGL version, just like they ported almost all their games to OpenGL because of the SteamOS movement, and I seem to recall them saying that Source 2 will be OpenGL from the ground up initially. I wouldn't be surprised if they just ditched DirectX completely. Depends on whether they plan on releasing any games for the Xbone. If they're not, there's no real reason to make a DX version, unless of course they want other developers using it to make Xbone games. Even for Xbone, DX11 support will suffice, which they probably will include, given Valve's history of supporting older cards (which Vulkan or DX12 will not support). Vulkan supports every device from OpenGL ES 3.1 up, as stated on https://www.khronos.org/vulkan. I guess that's about as much Old Card Support that you can get from a modern engine. Why? The logical choice would be for regular OpenGL to be on all platforms. Fair point. I guess it's not outside the realm of possibility for Valve to not make a DX compatible version at all, but that would immediately put them out of contention in the engine market.  How many non-valve source games are there? Is third-party use of their engine a big thing for Source? &gt;  immediately put them out of contention in the engine market

Why? If the engine performs well and isn't riddled with bugs, the only problem will be that Source 2 based games won't run on Xbox One.  From the press release:

&gt; Also as part of supporting PC gaming, Valve announced that it will be releasing a Vulkan-compatible version of the Source 2 engine. 

The language is a little confusing, so I'm not sure (which is why I put a '?' in my comment), but looks like there is a 'version' of Source 2 specifically for Vulkan. Of course, they could just mean that Source 2 supports Vulkan in its rendering back-end.

Also, (and this is just speculation) I don't think DX12 support is that "obvious". What's obvious is DX11/9 and OpenGL4/3 support. DX12 support seems redundant if they're doing a Vulkan version, since both APIs essentially do the same thing (I could be terribly wrong here - maybe DX12 has some extra stuff compared to Vulkan; we'll have to wait until MS gives DX12 presentations), and Vulkan supports Windows too. So why work on two different versions, when one can suffice? Also, one of the SDL developers was on Valve's payroll, or at least he used to. Since they removed the Steam Link store page, here's a screenshot: http://i.imgur.com/Eb5ff9Q.png Also, Vive distribution this fall. Crazy!
 Where are you seeing Fall? I only see 'later this year'. Actually, they say "by the end of the year". So yeah, maybe not fall... Keep in mind - Steam Time is very different from Earth Time. The Vive was announced by HTC, who said it would be available this year.  I imagine HTC time is different to Valve time, so it wouldn't be a surprise if it was available in November to coincide with all the other releases.

I also get the impression it will have very high quality audio, HTC's M8 is praised for having incredibly good speakers, completely setting a new benchmark for smartphone audio quality. Gotcha, it comes out in 2017. (Wanted to write 2015 and then realized; holy shit, we're in the future) Yeah I wouldn't hold them to 'end of the year'. It's usually a good bet to expect delays. Still, their apparent confidence is quite astounding. They have certainly been hard at work on this tech for a while. Valve doesn't just throw numbers out willy nilly, and since the teams working on the product are self assembled and dictate their own project time frames, I am very impressed with this news. If there is only one thing that slightly worries me, it is their history of announcements for their other products. Prime example - Steam Machines. At Steam Dev Days, they claimed systems would be released late 2014.

But that change may have been due to the controller - those initial trackpads on the dev kit prototypes are cool, but feel funky. Where does it say DirectX12? It seems likely, but is there an official confirmation? &gt;* Thin Steam inhouse streaming box for 50 bucks &gt;&gt; http://store.steampowered.com/app/353380/

If this catches on, the thing that worries me is that developers will be even less motivated to provide decent keyboard/mouse support, let alone design their games for keyboard and mouse.

I have nothing against playing with a controller, I use it for sports, fighting and racing games all the time. But FPS and RPG games are far more enjoyable with kb/m. FPS games for the obvious advantages a mouse offers and RPG's due to allowing developers to design games without the limitations of a controller (for example, Dragon Age: Inquisition was clearly designed to be played with a controller and was in my mind much weaker gameplay wise compared to both of its predecessors). Steam Machines and HTPC use will never get to a point where PC games lack M&amp;KB support. It's just too easy to support them minimally, because they've been fairly constant to the platform for 30 years now. &gt; Steam Machines and HTPC use will never get to a point where PC games lack M&amp;KB support. It's just too easy to support them minimally, because they've been fairly constant to the platform for 30 years now.

I'm not talking about PC games, but rather multi-platform games.

Even nowadays a lot of supposedly multi-platform games have sub par keyboard/mouse support and UI's and gameplay mechanics that are clearly designed for a controller.

If people start playing games that they buy on Steam with the Steam controller while streaming it to their TV via Steam Link, the developers who still design games with proper keyboard/mouse support will have even less of a reason to invest resources into that. Just within a couple of days, we got Unity 5, Unreal 4 for free, and now Source 2 for free. Completely crazy... what a change from just few couple of years ago. Yeah this makes me assume other companies knew Valve was going to do this and kind of knew it was coming. Putting a little too much stock in how much companies actually care about the source engine.

Source has never been a very popular engine outside of Valves use of it, it being released for free is much more a reaction towards engines like UE4 being free rather than the other way around considering how much more marketshare UE has compared to Source.

Unreal engine is used by hundreds of games and companies, besides Valve source is used by less than 25 total. Probably because Valve never positioned itself as an engine licensing company, they said it themselves several times in the past. Looks like they changed their mind. Here is a massive issue: when you release technologies like this to other developers, you need to also provide SUPPORT. And support means man-hours. And Valve has historically had one of the worst support "teams" of all time, and still does.

Fanboys explain it with "But Valve doesn't want to/can't hire more people!" etc. - well guess what, this means they "don't want to/can't" release an engine.

We'll see though. It's good for UE to have some competition, even though I can't possibly imagine Valve's janky software to compete with actual professionally-written, **tested and supported** one that the UE product line is. i still dont understand how people can justify valves internal structure with regards to support... steam support is absolutely horrendous. its insane what they get away with in that department

i swear its done entirely by bored workers on lunch breaks That's actually not even wrong. Gabe said that everbody does what they feel like doing and support is just one of those black sheep. They need to break ranks from that mindset and at least hire a third party to do their support. I'd be willing to wager that the community would rather accept Indian phone farm tech support than Valve's current system, at this point. I don't really think Valve had anything to do with Epic or Unity's changes to their engines.

UE4 had a whopping $19 paywall to use. An active subscription was only necessary to receive engine updates, but not to use and develop with the engine. Anyone who has trouble saving up $19 for a subscription is hardly going to be the type of person who is going to be developing games in the first place.

It's far more likely that Unity pushed its pro features onto the free version to compete with UE4 than Source 2, because let's be honest, the Source engine was never relevant outside of Valve and the modding community. Or everyone is just looking to capitalize on GDC. Steam Link seems really interesting. Would it just be something you plug into your hdmi slot?  It sounds like a thinclient device, sort of, so I think so. Think Playstation TV or Chromecast. Here's the steam page for the Steam Link, maybe they're looking to sell it through steam? http://store.steampowered.com/app/353380/ Link's dead, BTW. Mirrors please! Redirects to store page. Here's a snapshot form wayback machine but the page is kinda screwed up:
https://web.archive.org/web/20150304004320/http://store.steampowered.com/app/353380/ Oh wow. Maybe. Im sure it'll be on other websites like Amazon though. Probably some retail stores too. If I can buy this thing and a steam controller for 100 bucks, and it actually lets me play stuff on my TV really nicely, it might be enough to dissuade me from buying a PS4. I might actually finish Shadow of Mordor... If you have a newer nvidia card, you could use [Limelight](http://limelight-stream.com/). is limelight any better than steam streaming? I've been using steam streaming to stream games from my PC in the room next to me to my laptop so I can sit in bed and play games (sometimes I don't feel like sitting in my office till 3am). Its been working very well except I have had my PC blue screen twice while streaming. I just got my Raspberry Pi 2 a couple of weeks ago and I plan on trying it out with that sometime soon. [Looks alright.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NagoUwsrBLQ)

I'm guessing it's what you mean by Steam Streaming though. It's very buggy in my experience, and has the capability of BSOD'ing my desktop. It's the only thing I've ever seen BSOD it, actually. Even with an ethernet connection it was way too laggy for me to play Spelunky well (but that game requires good twitch reactions). Yeah, that's pretty cool actually.  If you have a gaming PC already, then for $100 you can simultaneously have a living room console that's better than the other ones on the market. Depends on latency Steam inhouse works pretty well but some more comp style games might have too much latency. That's true, but most of those aren't the kind of games I think people even really want to play from their couch.  For almost everything else, this could be pretty great. Exactly. I loaded up goat simulator with a friend over using my laptop to stream from my desktop and using a PS3 and PS4 controller.

Worked great, and with almost no frame drops. There were a few, but the laptop was on wireless (N) so that might have had something to do with it.

The only problem I would have with it is the really immersive games would not have their sound transmitted in full surround as I think everything you use streaming with get's down mixed to stereo. It does look like a Chromecast for games. I'm a little disappointed Chromecast isn't the Chromcast for games, but there's no way to plug a controller into a Chromeast, so I guess I need both. Chromecast does have some fun smartphone games. They are mostly party games though  Hopefully the Steam Link can also stream media! Steam put out a beta music player a while ago, and if Steambox does begin to gain any traction I'm sure media streaming will be a growing part of it. Maybe some Netflix support and such as well.  I'm glad it has an ethernet port as wifi Steam In-home Steaming has not been a good experience for me thus far. Wifi can definitely be hit or miss. Wired delivers a fantastic experience. Exactly, but it has an Ethernet jack, a must for low latency high resolution. This is what I'm most excited about. I've been using my 5 year old MacBook Pro to stream games 1080p 60fps from my gaming PC to my home theatre setup. While it's running almost flawlessly, it will be great to have a little box that just does it without any work, and I don't have to move it around and such.

Great time to be a PC gamer. Im excited for Steam Link. It means I can keep my desktop in my workspace and I dont have to lug it out if I ever wanted to enjoy it out in the living room. Hopefully the latency and all that jazz actually works as advertised.

And it makes me all warm and fuzzy inside when they mention Epic and Unity, along with Source 2 helping make the PC more accessible for game makers and such. Friendly competition can only make a market stronger, in my opinion.

All in all, super excited for everything they announced. And Im sure the event planner was the one that set the date and time for the whole thing, I wouldnt be surprised. [deleted] Yup Steam Link seems to address the concerns a lot of people had about Steam In-home streaming: 

1) A full-blown steam machine isn't justifiable cost for the sole purpose of streaming, and 

2) Having a long HDMI cable from your PC to your TV can be awkward and expensive if your PC isn't next to your TV. [deleted] I got a 50 ft Hdmi cable and taped it along the wall. You can probably get a longer one. My understanding is that 50' is the practical limit for HDMI. I personally use HDMI to CAT6 extenders for 50-100' runs and Am very happy with the results. They're reliable and cheap.
 I don't know how far away your TV is from you PC, but you can always use a laptop or a long HDMI cable (the latter can be found for very cheap) This may very well actually be the year that we get HL3 as valve uses it as it's horse to drive sales of everything new it's been working on over the last two years. Oh we can only drem. I think it is highly likely. The only way this game will live up to the unbelievable hype is if it revolutionizes gaming (or brings new tech into the mainstream). Source 1 held up amazingly well since 2004 -  even Titanfall was built on a modified version - and if Source 2 is also that futureproof, HL3 + the VR kit should be able to satisfy the almost comical expectations. Hell, while Source has shown it's age by now, I still have a hard on for the water effects they were able to do.

For an engine that is over 10 years old, it has amazing water effects. And the physics in general are pretty damn accurate too, which is something even some modern engines have trouble with sometimes.  Facial animations too still seem extremely life like. I know it's not always a priority but when I see current games come out and it still doesn't match what was in half life 2 kind of makes me raise an eyebrow. The people at Valve are absurdly talented, no doubt about that. I don't have any concerns for whatever 3 they do first regardless of ridiculous expectations, because they've not let us down yet. I'm still waiting for games to have facial animations as good as L.A. Noire. It's probably too expensive though since a lot of it was mocap Basically because it's videos, made into 3d and added on the models. Or something like that anyway: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mb8vNNhvqpA Physics really went down the drain after HL2 was released. Havok (HL2 uses modified Havok physics) was bought by intel (ensuring that it would never be GPU accelerated), and it has stagnated ever since.

PhysX started to be pushed hard by Nvidia soon after, but honestly, I don't find PhysX to be very good. Somehow, everything feels like styrofoam, and it's absolutely awfully optimized, to the point where advanced PhysX will take more computer resources to run than the entire rest of the game. And PhysX is fairly locked down to Nvidia, which means that it's tacked on as an extra feature instead of being integral to the game like physics were in HL2.

On the other end of the spectrum, consoles never embraced physics systems because their limited CPU resources were used by devs for other things like animation, increasing NPC count, and helping the GPU's workload when possible.

So at the end of the day, this HL2 tech demo from over a decade ago (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k1hh2hcv_do) is probably better than the majority of AAA games released today.

I hope source 2 revolutionizes physics once again. Physics adds so much dynamism to the gaming experience. I like how the ragdolls actually seems to have weight. It's something that really wrecks my immersion in games like dark souls where the ragdolls just jitter about all spastic. I'm actually pretty disappointed how physics hasn't advanced really at all since then. The biggest issues I have is with sound and feel.

If I drop a bucket - you know, one of those flimsy plastic fuckers you see in industrial environments that driveway sealant comes in - down a flight of stairs, it's going to make a hell of a racket. If you drop a bucket in a game, it usually makes the same muted 'thonk' sound. Having something heavy and metal dropped next to you is intimidating - it's loud as shit, you can *feel* the impact... and yet in games, dropping a dumpster or something is just... underwhelming. 

Add into that irritations like physics hardly being in all games and client-side physics in multiplayer games, the technology honestly doesn't feel like it's advanced at all since HL2. &gt; The only way this game will live up to the unbelievable hype is if it revolutionizes gaming 

Which is why Valve has taken so long to release it. I think it is worth accepting that Half Life 2 will always be better than anything else that comes. If Valve just released a Half Life game that continued along the same track and didn't drop in story quality while also releasing a 'Half Life Deathmatch' style mod to get the ball rolling on more Source 2 developments I reckon a huge majority of people waiting for this game will be more than happy. 

VR is still a long way off appealing to the majority. I doubt many people who buy HL3 would also get a VR headset simply due to their computer not being able to render in a suitable resolution or frame rate as well as its also still lingering gimmick-like perception. But certainly I agree that if Valve is going to push VR, the smartest way to do that would be with one of the most anticipated games on the planet. Even an Orange Box 2 with Source 2 TF2 and L4D1&amp;2 (as is rumored to also exist) with Half Life 3 as the selling point would be an unbelievable purchase. &gt;  I think it is worth accepting that Half Life 2 will always be better than anything else that comes.

People said that about Half-Life 1 as well. Yeah, but how many games have been put out in the last decade that you'd really call "revolutionary"? Plenty, maybe not from a graphical or technical standpoint. But plenty of games from the last decade have really shown how video games are being treated and created as more than something to waste your time on. Whether it's how involved a player can be in the narrative (The Walking Dead Game, Spec Ops: The Line, The Last of Us, Papers Please, etc.) or it's level of complexity and freedom (Civ, EVE, etc.). Or simply how fun we can make things (Minecraft, Hotline Miami).

My favorite thing that has come out of this decade are the stories though. The stories we've gotten fron the last 10 years far surpass any other decade.

Edit: word choice I'd add Portal (moreso 1, but also 2 for shits and giggles) to that list. It was nothing we'd ever seen explored yes there were some portal elements in older games, but nothing quite like the way it did it. Also the story/storytelling was awesome.

Also there is The Stanley Parable. It was very funny, and lovely, but more importantly I think that it gave a new/changed perspective  about games as a whole. Not revolutionary, but still very unique. Dont forget about the nemisis system from shadow of mordor. That thing made that game great. Without it it would just be a mediocre lotr game DayZ mod created an entire new genre of video games.  Yeah, I'd say that Minecraft and DayZ would be the modern games that created their own genres. If only KSP would be copied, I want more fun educational games! KSP probably was a big inspiration to Besiege and Medieval Engineers. Guitar Hero, Wii Sports and Angry Birds. The theme with all 3 is that they changed how the games were played and not the actual gameplay. Things like peripheral controlers and mobile gaming are the biggest changes in the last 10 years. VR fits in that catagory, so I don't think its too far a leap to say Half Life 3 made for a Virtual Reality headset would be revolutionary. &gt;If Valve just released a Half Life game that continued along the same track and didn't drop in story quality

I think this is the most important thing to remember. Even after the shininess of the physics fun, the gravity gun, and other HL2 creativity, the thing that made me want to replay it over and over was just how fun and exciting the game was. Everything about the game is really tight, and the story was gripping. It was just a great all-around game. I don't need them to top that--I just want them to do it again! They can't just retread HL2, it's going to have to surprise us in some ways. But it doesn't have to have something never-before seen to be amazing. Wait... Titanfall was modified Source? Shit, I didn't know that kind of thing was possible. 

If you can do that with source 1... Imagine what source 2 can do, especially if it's out for free... OH BOY! It's kind of poetic really. I think it's the only Source game that isn't on Steam but is on Origin. &gt;highly likely.

I think we call this delusion. To be fair, Dota 2 has brought in more than enough revenue ($45 million from TI4 alone) to help Valve along financially, as well as all their other undertakings. Steam is consistently growing as well, I think that Half-Life 3's release should not be financially motivated as there is no need for a financial boost for the company right now. It may be released this year as a flagship for the new engine, but Valve is not hurting money-wise for that to be a figure. valve is under no financial stress

steam alone makes them tons of cash

they could all give up making video games completely and just live on steam and they'd still be absolutely massive L4D3 is more likely. Valve used Half Life 2 to push Source and Steam orginally, I wouldn't be surprised if the used Half Life 3 to show off Source 2, the Steam Box and VR. Maybe a free or discounted copy with every Steam Box or something similar.  IIRC, the leaks from Valve over the years (that show what devs are working on what project) show that most of the HL3 devs moving to L4D3. I'm personally leaning towards HL3 for next year. I'm pretty sure they're waiting on Source 2 to build all their next round of sequels and games. Also don't they typically work with the engine as it's being build? This is, nevertheless, a solid stepping stone on the road to Portal 3, TF3, etc. Too much for one year alredy. I think this year for Valve will be about tech and next year about games. Please follow the subreddit rules, guys. We've already removed a dozen low effort comments in this thread. 

Comments like: 

* "Holy shit, Valve finally did something?! GET HYPED!"
* "HALF LIFE 3 CON... Never mind."
* "STOP.. MY PENIS CAN ONLY GET SO ERECT!"
* "Well spit on my dick and call me Sally."
* "OMFG"
* "I ejaculated while reading your comment."
* "Half-Life 3; confirmed."
* "omg omg omg omg"
* "Enjoy it. We'll never see a Source 3. :-("
* "3/3"
* "Source 1 comes before 2. 1 + 2 = 3. Half life 3 confirmed." 
* "Can't wait till Source 2 episode 1"
* "Something something Valve will never make a Source 3 cause 3"
* "Ladies and gentlemen, place your bets. Half-life 3 or source 3 comes out first"
* "HALF LIFE 3 IS COMING, BOYOS"
* "sigh I swear if anyone says it.
* "Im not the only one who searched page for half life 3 and turned away when there was nothing right?"
* "1 + 2 = 3! HALF LIFE 3 CONFIRMED"
* "[IT'S HAPPENING!](https://i.imgur.com/7drHiqr.gif)"
* "Valve... 2015... Source 2 Engine... 2+0+1+(5-2)/2=3! GUYS! HALF-LIFE 3 CONFIRMED!"
* "Omg omg omg omg half life 3 confirmed???????"
* "A press release regarding a Source 2 engine ON THE THIRD DAY OF THE THIRD MONTH. CONFIRRRRRRMMMMMMEEEEEEEED"

We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules Gotta love those examples. Mods, thanks for all your hard work! I would figure someone could write a bot that would pull the top 20 responses from /r/gaming and use them as criteria for comment removal. 

Might make the mod's job easier. Seriously, the reason why this sub is so great is because the amount of work moderators put in to prevent this sub from being a shitty cesspool like /r/gaming Yes,  this is not /r/gaming This is exactly why this subreddit hasn't gone to shit. Thank you so much for your hard work guys. This is definitely one of the best gaming subreddits. Looking at that Steam Link streaming box and it says on the steam page [here](http://store.steampowered.com/app/353380/) and it says "English language not supported", Just a mistake on the steam page i assume? I guess it's their attempt at hiding it from search results or whatnot. I am super happy about the UE4 and Unity 5 announcements, but as an amateur developer I am very very interested to see how Source 2 supports community creations. It might be the most viable path to start making some income without having to make an entire game by yourself.

But all things considered, this is an insane week for game developers. Almost all of Valve's games have incredible community content, especially with Dota 2, Global Offensive and TF2. So you could say that Source 2 will only improve on that since they've expressed that Source 2 should make it easier for content creators. Just wait till people make Warcraft 4 in custom maps in Dota2.  Valve and Source have a lot of catching up to do for amateur and professional developers alike. SDK updates have been infrequent and fraught with problems, and many of the tools are wildly out of date, with Hammer being the most egregious. There's some good stuff in the Dota 2 workshop tools, but Epic and Unity have been covering so much ground for years now. Valve will need to really double down and stick with Source 2 if it's actually going to be relevant for other developers. Are you talking about the New Hammer that came with the Dota2 workshop tools or the Old Hammer?

AFAIK, people liked the New Hammer. I haven't anyone else call it "egregious". 

That being said, yes, Unity and UE4 are obviously much more advanced tools directed specifically at game developers. Source 2, on the other hand, seems to be directed at gamers who want to tinker with games and make mods/content. &gt; Valve will need to really double down and stick with Source 2 if it's actually going to be relevant for other developers.

I don't think Source has ever really been relevant to other developers. Outside of Titanfall, there hasn't been any real Source based games that weren't previously based on a mod released in the last five years. Yep, that's my concern. Modding has been pretty hampered with Valve preferring Authoring Tools for lots of other games, and I got the impression, from Robert Briscoe of Dear Esther in particular, that licensing was pretty nightmarish as well. Lots of people working with Source have become disgruntled over the years since no, or very few, Valve employees are dedicated to supporting it. I hope they realize that this time around. Valve can use Steam to leverage that suffering though. They could offer major discounts to developers who use Source and sell on the Steam store. Or fast track Source games through the greenlight process.

Either way, they could instantly corner a huge market, because they have the only storefront that matters. They've actually been pretty open with current devs. The way it works is connecting directly with Steamworks (the Workshop mostly) . For example let's say your creating a mod for DOTA2. Back in Source 1 days you would compile the maps, code or whatever and zip it up (could take a few hours or so). Then upload it the Moddb or any site of your choice. This was a hassle and Source 1 was a very buggy mess especially in the late 2000s. (when I left the Source modding scene)

Now with Source 2, you can upload strait from Hammer to the workshop and Hammer now automatically compiles your map (like in Unity) and has allot of time saving feature put in it. So now you can make a map in about 20 minutes and have it in players hands almost instantly. Also, you can have your own private page for testers and stuff like that. Think Git for modders.   Perhaps I haven't been keeping up enough with VR, but it seems like this thread is generally blowing past the news that a large scale VR product is going to be released by the end of this year by two major companies.  I'm not sure how good it will be, or if they're just trying to be the first out the door, but no matter what the final product turns out to be, this seems like huge news which is arguably more important to games in general than Source 2. It's because HTC announced this product yesterday.  Old news, and all that. What Klynn said but also mods have started removing posts that are only showing excitement and not adding to the discussion. look at /u/foamed comment to see how a lot of excited people are reacting. I know that a product can always see delays, but I'm pretty happy to hear that there are release dates at least planned for link and the steam controller. For me at least, it means that they are less of an experiment and something I will actually be able to purchase when the time comes. 

All in all, I'm pretty excited about Valves upcoming products! I'm feeling confident that the steam link will come out as scheduled as it seems that the picture is of the final project.  So... [they didn't intend to release/formally announce Source 2 until they had a game for it.](http://www.pcgamesn.com/gabe-newell-confirms-source-engine-2-has-been-development-while-valve-are-waiting-game-roll-it-out)  I never get my hopes up for this sort of thing with Valve... but I'm going to be watching GDC news like a hawk.  Article was 841 days ago, Doesn't mean Steam/Gabe haven't changed their mind on this and are putting the engine out without a game ready. Well to be fair Dota 2 switching to Source 2 has been in the works for a while now and you make a good point, but any news from the horse's mouth is better than anything else we have going.   I honestly can't see Source 2 being used by third parties. Epic Games has done everything to empower it's community and get people to use it, Valve over the years has been nothing but "meh use it if you want I guess, we don't really care anymore".

Valve is notorious in the modding community for several things that have led to a degrade of it's use and people jumping ship for Unreal:

1. Their documentation is bad. There is information on their "Valve Developer Community" wiki that has been outdated for years, it's simply expected that the community is supposed to run it and update it. This includes compiling the code, bug fixing Valves provided code, documenting what entities do what, etc. The only team I have seen make an actual effort is the L4D team they documented a ton of stuff regarding modding their game, how to setup proper vscripts, how to make custom mutations, etc. You look at CSGO's documentation on Vscripts and you have no idea what you are really looking at.

2. Their communication is beyond awful with the modding community. Case in point the big Steampipe update of 2013.  Valve without letting anyone know of this upcoming switch over flipped over every mod on Steam to Steampipe which of course broke a ton of stuff. Audio, models, textures etc. Basically anything that depended on HL2 content was broken. No warning. So of course the communities that play these games are freaking out thinking developers launched a bad patch and blaming them and are leaving the mods, devs are flipping out trying to figure out what broke and how to fix it and Valves going "Ooops I guess we forgot to tell you about this thing we've been planning and had no intention of testing it before going live I guess, hope you can fix it". Getting an actual Valve employee to answer a question on their own forums is like seeing bigfoot.

3. They have no interest in updating older products when the fix is known. Source SDK Launcher, the classic tool for launching hammer and configuring mods died due to Steampipe. No update, no warning, etc. They didn't even bother to let anyone know how to launch hammer after this via the games bin folder so now you have people watching popular highly rated video tutorials getting bad information because they were made prior to this change. HL2 Deathmatch has a bug with player model selection that people discovered in the provided code and pointed out what it was and what needed to be done to fix. Still broken to this day. Cubemap generation is still broken by default without using a modified compiler, this is something that has been known about and documented since late June 2013. The modified compiler which was made on Valves provided code and offered back to them fixed is still not implemented. Hammer for Source 1 is still pretty bad and Valve won't open source that for who knows why so that the community can try and update it.

4. The changing of tools with no given notice. If you have ever used CSGO's workshop you know what I'm talking about. Previously there used to be a nice button on CSGO's authoring tools that would bring up a window for uploading content to Valve workshop. Well someone decided that was too easy for whatever reason so they removed that and put it in game as a console command. No notice, no "Hey we're moving this to be in game and it's hidden inside the console window and you won't find it unless you do a "Find workshop" realistically". TF2's item workshop uploader has been changed about 3 or 4 times now. Steamcmd replaced the HLDS update tool unexpectedly which threw server operators for a loop.

5. They are less then supportive to actual paying developers. I wish I could talk about my time working on Contagion and what I saw/heard about from other members regarding Valve during my time a part of that team but my NDA won't allow that and I rather not bring that team into a bad position with Valve. I can say though that you should go look at the history regarding The Ship, [specifically the newest owners not being able to do any changes to the games code or make any updates to it all without rebuying a license from Valve](http://www.blazinggriffin.com/blog/ship-board-communcation/) which is absurd for a game that old. You would think a team porting one of Source's first third party games on one of the oldest branches of that engine to the newer engine build in order to fix issues caused by Steampipe, getting it on to Mac OSX and Linux would be enough positive press for Valve to have them work out a decent deal for such an outdated engine but apparently no dice. Talking to other Source developers who have been a part of fully licensed projects it's become more then clear to me that Valve employees that got assigned to help answer questions were not exactly happy to be doing it and that getting greenlit as a mod meant getting aggressively marketed to about how you should buy into their license so you could make that sweet Steam cash, just don't worry about the ~$25K+ licensing fee they are sure you will more then make that in a year after release and they will be happy to front you some of that so long as you are cool with seeing no money until it's all paid off.

As it stands right now I do not see what exactly it is Source 2 is offering that UE4 isn't and I strongly suggest to anyone considering using Source 2 that they look at Valves past with Source 1 before deciding on it. Epic Games has done a ton of stuff to help it's community of developers, everything from properly documenting to actually talking to them. Valve on the other hand has been more or less this parent that is too busy to actually help it's child and relies on it teaching itself and fixing it's own problems.

I wish I could say "Yeah we should all be getting pumped about this news" but I can't in good conscience say that. Instead I'm going to say this could be interesting but you should watch from a distance until it is determined how things are going to go down. I have greatly enjoyed mapping and modding for the Source Engine over the past years but if they are going to treat this like they did the modding community after the modding heydays of HL2 I would stay far far away. I mean would you really want to be relying on a group of people that can't be bothered to reply to a question in their own forum? That can't be bothered to fix things when the community gives them the solution? This is very well summed up, thank you Wazanator. All the troubles Source mod community had over the years... I could add something, how multiplayer mods on 2007 branch had no functional server browser at some point due some master server changes on Valve's side. I literally had to improvise some web based server list. They fired Tony, the guy in charge of SDK at some point and basically forgot about the mod community during 3 or 4 years. They couldn't care less about modders by that time. 

This isn't Valve hate or anything similar, just how things were. I'm grateful they started to accept mods into Steam again, Source SDK 2013 was released, that's how things should have been. 

Source 2 could follow same way I'm afraid of. Valve don't need revenue from software licensing and most of their employees probably didn't signed to support others in creating games, so it's natural they hate it. I'm grateful they release it for everyone to use, but I certainly have no big hopes about their future support.

However I'd use Source 2 if porting content from Source 1 isn't a pain in the ass. It would save me from that stupid $25+k payment at least.   &gt; As it stands right now I do not see what exactly it is Source 2 is offering that UE4 isn't

It's made by Valve so it has to be good.

In all seriousness though, the hype for a... *game engine* is astounding. While we haven't seen anything of Source 2, I think it's safe to say that the raw tech for UE4 is better, the support is definitely better, developers are already familiar with the tools so getting help from non-engine developers is significantly easier, among other things. There's no real reason to switch to Source 2, unless you think a "Made with Source 2!" label on your game would help sell more. I almost have the feeling that the no cost feature was supposed to be kind of big news and was going to be there way to say "This is how we are setting ourselves apart" but following on the heels of UE and Unity announcements it's not even really worthy of much fanfare because at this point it would have to happen. Oh man, I remember the Steampipe shitfest. It still baffles me to this day. How could they let down the community which they capitalized on, with most their games being based on mods? Seems like Valve is really good at automating tools of non-communication. Sure hope that'll change if they really intend to get this engine to developers and not just a bunch of modders with lots of patience. I love using Hammer, but this is so on point. The launcher of SDK from Steam is now useles,  you're better served by downloading some of the modded launchers out there. And the cubemaps thing... It used to be as simple as playing some entities and typing buildcubemaps, now you've got to do all this weird shit. Every time Valve has launched a new engine it's been accompanied/showcased by a new Half-Life game...would hate to see them break from tradition.  That's disingenuous, GoldSrc came out with their first game: Half Life. Source debuted with Counter Strike: Source with Half-Life 2 following 3 months later. After that there have been upgrades with every game. Episode 1, the Orange Box, Portal 2, DOTA 2, and CS: GO have all served as iterations on Source. Some of them bigger than others.

The DOTA team seem to be implying the move to Source sometime this year, so I wouldn't be surprised if they're the first out of the gate. Keep in mind that the Mod Tools they alpha released last year are already running on at least a subset of Source 2. Half Life 2 came out 15 days later. And the initial presentation of Source was very Half Life-ish with the Gman showing off facial expressions, gameplay with the phys gun, etc. Sorry, I was including the Beta period of CS:S. Are you going to consider the initial presentation of Source 2 as the Workshop Tools for Dota 2? I generally consider the first playable game as the debut of an engine for a company like Valve. 

If you're Epic and make an engine almost entirely for the sake of building an engine to sell, it's a little different.

Either way, the last big update people think about with Source is either the 2013 version, or the 2009 Portal 2 version. &gt; Are you going to consider the initial presentation of Source 2 as the Workshop Tools for Dota 2?

Probably not. At best the first game released for Source 2, but I guess the first ported title (probably Dota 2 or CS:GO) would also count. Or a presentation like the one for Source, but I don't think we will get one.  I really need to know if Valve is going to port their current generation of free-to-play games over to Source 2 in the future. Building such a massive economy in each of their games has put them in a difficult position with making sequels to these games, and updating their old platforms with new technology seems to be the best way of supporting their existing playerbases. There's already a very partial port of dota 2 to source 2, mostly relating to mod tool stuff. Last I heard the full game should be ported sometime this year. Probably after TI5 in August. I've seen some unofficial statements about Dota support, but nothing on TF2. The TF2 community already feels abandoned by Valve, and Source 2 support would be a strong showing of solidarity on Valve's behalf. [deleted] Ultimately, by going with the F2P model, Valve has painted themself into a corner. They can't release a standalone sequel without alienating the players who've invested in the TF2 economy, so realistically they would have to continue updating the old game with new tech. I'm just unsure of whether or not Valve is going to do this with all of their games, or just Dota 2/CS.

Most of the time, TF2 feels like the unloved stepchild that Valve doesn't want to take care of. &gt; Most of the time, TF2 feels like the unloved stepchild that Valve doesn't want to take care of.

As a Day of Defeat fan, this makes me laugh. Day of Defeat is the child that Valve keeps locked in the basement to hide from friends and neighbors. Question: Does anyone have experience with game streaming with a powerline internet adapter? I'm assuming the latency will be pretty much non-existent but I don't know for sure. If it's good, definitely picking up another adapter to stick in my living room. I use a 200Mbp one from my main rig to my router. My Steam client in the living room doesn't experience any bandwidth limitations. 

Make sure the adapters you get actually have gigabit ports, though. Some off brands try to trick you by cheaping out on 10/100 ports and hope the user wouldn't realize.  This is incredible news for Steam! It's going to be a massive year for Valve. This is really good news for Valve fans. There should only be a matter of time until the release of a next installment of the Half Life-series.  Fingers crossed. Are current WiFi networks able to handle streaming games like this? I mean it sounds good on paper. But I'm  just afraid of lag issues. Might be time to get a new router anyways. Basically, yes, but with caveats.

My setup:
I have a decent rig which up until last year maxxed out all games. I have an ultrabook which has relatively weak wifi but is otherwise great. I have a router that is new and situated about 5 metres (albeit with a thin wall in between) from my desktop, which itself is connected to the network over wifi. My laptop, being an ultrabook and not having any ethernet ports, is also connected via wifi. Plugged into my ultrabook I have an xbox 360 wireless controller adaptor and to that I connect between 1 and 4 xbox 360 controllers, wirelessly.

My results:
With this setup I have been able to stream graphically intensive games such as the new sherlock game, shadow of mordor, wolfenstein etc at resolutions between 720p and 1080p to my TV with framerates usually holding at 60fps but dipping down to 30fps, but not generally less. There is next to no latency or network lag apparent, although you get an ocassional 1ms spike ever now and again, par for the course. The controller is very responsive.

Caveats:
Before I moved into this new flat, I was trying this setup out in my family home which has big stone walls and is generally much larger, meaning that the conditions for streaming were much worse. Although the average latency was still very good, I used to notice anomalies, a.k.a massive lag spikes, occuring fairly frequently, which made a lot of games unplayable and the whole experience much less enjoyable.

Conclusions:
In summary the system is actually very impressive and I don't feel the need to get a console this gen, except if I get enticed by exclusives. Clearly some tech/house setups will be better suited than others, and newer hardware (nvidia) will massively benefit from their hardware encoding/decoding capabilities. Additionally, all my streaming has always been done over wifi, but if I had ethernet ports I imagine that I would see very significantly improved performance overall.

Edit: Words Steam Link works through ethernet.  Or Wi-Fi 802.11ac. I suppose so but it will always work better through ethernet. The Link is pretty sweet to me.  Reminds me of a Roku.  Will be nice to not have to rely on my full-fledged HTPC for streaming from my gaming rig. I would think that this is the beginning of the end for DirectX / Direct3D. Considering that OpenGL (and, thereby Vulkan) works on *all* platforms (exception Xbox) -- PS4, Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS -- it's making less and less sense for developers to target purely DX / D3D. It would make far more sense to target OGL / Vulkan as a primary renderer and then have *Direct3D* be the renderer they have to push compatibility for.

Or, anyway, that's my hope. :D Nice to get some more details on Valve's products (release times, prices, etc). Steam Link sounds interesting for those who don't want to create their own system for streaming games from their PC to their TV, ease of use is what they seem to be aiming at.  [deleted] This plugs into your TV. This is a device dedicated to streaming, meaning you don't need a second PC to utilize the streaming function. &gt; This is a device dedicated to streaming, meaning you don't need a second PC to utilize the streaming function.

This is contradictory and false. You can't stream the games without another PC in your house rendering them. Valve is not offering an OnLive-like service. He probably meant that you dont need 2 PCs, only a beefy PC and the steam link thingy The Steam Link thingy is likely a very cheap PC... Actually it is a cheap PC. Even if it ends up being ARM that is still what it is since it will probably end up running SteamOS regardless.

If the Raspberry Pi is considered a PC in many situatiosn then this thing would be too. You know what I meant You don't need a laptop.  It's $50 It is the same thing. This is just a cheap device for people who don't have a laptop to use or who want a dedicated device for it. Does anyone have a video on the press release? The only news I can find is just text. I want to hear Gabe unveil the engine :p Text is all a press release is, just a statement e-mailed to a bunch of press-related people.  So unfortunately, no video of Gabe just yet. [Looks like there will be some more info this week?](http://store.steampowered.com/universe/) Steam Link seems pretty interesting; I'm looking forward to hearing more details! Anyone know if we'll be seeing that input solution they have tomorrow? Probably, they're giving SteamVR demos to the press, but reports are embargoed until Wednesday sometime. Forgive me if I'm a little behind the times, but my major concern is with the compatibility of the new Steam controller. Will game makers have to specifically code in the ability to use it, or will it naturally be compatible with any game which allows PlayStation/Xbox controller input? Does this mean it will be backwards compatible with all my old games as well? And how the hell are they going to get it to work with Dota 2? They've updated the controller to be closer and closer to a real controller over the past year, with face buttons and an analog stick, so I imagine the touchpads can be made to emulate a Dpad or other analog stick to make it compatible.

And I don't think anyone is actually going to try and make Dota 2 work widespread with a controller, even the steam controller. Interesting. Do you know where I can find the latest models / news of the steam controller? I was still under the impression they were made of two haptic thumb circles, so the analog stick is news to me. https://steamdb.info/static/img/blog/52/leak_controller.png this is believed to be their latest iteration on the design. 2D images of it have been leaking into Steam updates for a while. SteamDB has the latest one [here](https://steamdb.info/static/img/blog/52/leak_controller.png), showing the analog stick along with the two touchpads, one of them with a dpad shape on it. I remember old videos showing it off where they just mapped it to keyboard presses. 

So it worked with any game on your PC.

I don't see many people trying to play dota 2 with it though, outside of mucking around or doing it for a bit of fun. Serious question: Does anybody know if Valve will attend any major expo this year? If yes it would be pretty reasonable to assume they will annonce HL3 there. They already said that they are "waiting for game to ship new engine on" and making HL3 main title for their new VR would be market killer for any other VR company. So what's the latest on the Steam Controller?

I haven't seen a picture of one since I heard they were removing the touch pads and central screen, is it basically an Xbox controller now? afaik there will be demos later on, I guess someone's gonna take a picture of it. just wait. 

EDIT:
&gt;Wednesday 10:00am-6:00pm: GDC expo: Valve doing press demos of HTC Vive, showing off new Steam Controller/Machines etc.
 &gt; We will be making Source 2 available for free to content developers. This combined with recent announcements by Epic and Unity will help continue the PCs dominance as the premiere content authoring platform.

All these engines must be such a double edged sword for developers. On one hand, you have a bunch of affordable engines to create your vision with but on the other hand, it exacerbates the tragedy of the commons problem in game development these days. Must be exciting and scary.

As a player though, I can't wait to see these engines help to enable the breadth and depth of the games medium to grow.  &gt; it exacerbates the tragedy of the commons problem in game development these days

What's the problem here? Rami Ismail sort of [talked around the issue in an article](http://www.polygon.com/2015/2/2/7962513/everything-in-gaming-is-not-fine-and-thats-fine). Robert Boyd [also chimed in as well](http://zeboyd.com/2015/02/02/competition-among-developers-is-fiercer-than-ever-and-thats-fine/). 

It's harder to sustain as an independent developer these days with the fierce competition. More games are being released and fighting for attention which makes it harder to get noticed. The increased competition also raises consumer expectations. 

On top of that, with more developers entering the scene, it increases the chances of poisoning the well. You can see this in how players are wary of Early Access and Kickstarter, two viable alternative ways to finance a game, because irresponsible developers have abused those systems.
 There's probably something in the EULA that tells developers that Valve/Epic/Unity own a portion of the profit on any game you sell. Free to everyone means they're making money elsewhere. Perhaps the fact that any game sold on Steam makes them money, and easier access to engines increases the volume and quality of games on Steam, resulting in more sales? That isn't something you can hide away in the EULA. It's part of the pricing agreement. Epic gets 5% of your gross revenue (money *before* profit). Unity takes no royalties at all. They do take cuts off of their asset store, and there are paid licenses available.
 Huh, TIL. Thanks for reading shit I won't read and telling me when I'm spewing ignorance. Do you know if Source 2 will take royalties or is it too early for info like that? I know as much as you do on Source 2. As far as I'm aware, there is no further information than discussed in this OP. Can you please explain what you mean by:

&gt;exacerbates the tragedy of the commons problem

I don't think you are using the phrase correctly. Some links for those who want to learn:

[Official Unreal Engine 4 tutorial playlists](https://www.youtube.com/user/UnrealDevelopmentKit/playlists)

[Tesla Dev's UE4 tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwqnA65RFUf-8xIFQYV8Zjziv4gUqjLZ_)

[Unreal Engine 4 Wiki \(includes written tutorials, too\)]
(https://wiki.unrealengine.com/Main_Page)

[Unreal Engine 4 Documentation](https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/)

/r/unrealengine

If anyone wants advice or anything like that, feel free to PM me, or friend me using the Epic Games Launcher. My username is "mrostrichman".



 Got any learning resources for someone coming in from Unity? 

In particular for learning C++, because by all accounts it's much more difficult than C#. I know blueprints exists, but at some points I figure it would be easier to just write the code. https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/GettingStarted/FromUnity/index.html What. The developers thought of everything!

Thanks for the link. Oh, wow. I didn't realize that existed. That's pretty cool! It seems that there aren't many C++ tutorials for UE4, which sucks because C++ is way easier to use for the more complex things of your game.

Epic does have this [UE4 C++ tutorial series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZlv_N0_O1gb5xvsc7VM7pfoRAKLuIcFi), maybe that will help. But what I did is code some basic applications outside of UE4 to get a feel for the language. And then I used Blueprints to help me learn how the engine works, as it does have quite a few terms unique to itself.  Thanks for posting these; gone through some Unity tutorials in spare. Hopefully I can grasp Unreal 4 faster than Unity (which I still don't fully understand). I feel the same way. I start watching these tutorials and just zone out and forget everything :/ It's better to follow along with the tutorials and not just watch/read them. If you're watching a video tutorial, you'll constantly be pausing the video so that you can go in and make the changes. If you don't understand something, stop and look it up. You can also try and modify some stuff from the tutorial to improve upon what they did, and this will deepen your understanding.

Basically, the idea is that you get better at doing something by doing that thing, not just by watching other people do it. Also, it'll stop you from zoning out, since it'll give you something to do. Honestly, UE4 is not any easier than Unity. UE4 has made some strides toward usability for non-coders like Unity, but it's still a complex engine and it's easy to find yourself spinning in it all. Try out some of the tutorials, though, and follow along on your own. Maybe it won't be that bad for you. I'm not sure how Unity is for non-coders ._O You still need a coder to make a full game, but there are a lot of things like particle systems and animations that you can create in Unity with no programmer involved. Most engines require a programmer to implement just about anything, but Unity allowed you to do a lot without coding. On top of that, the engine is simple enough that I've heard of some artists managing to implement basic things while the programmer was busy.

UE4 is kind of similar in that regard, at least lately, although it still isn't quite as streamlined and the engine is much harder to work with, both in terms of complexity and simply because it uses C++. One isn't easier than the other, just different in workflow. Many complain about UE4 being harder but that's mostly because they have spent a lot more time with Unity than UE4. I find UE4 much easier than Unity  which I find as a complete mess of bad functionality and bad UI decisions. The blueprint system is ridicously capable and most won't probably even touch the C++ which is the major turn off for many, ironically. i feel Unity was pain in the ass because of those moments where it is not logical, but more along the lines of 'hehey, thats just how it is'. Like life. :/ Is there any tutorials that take you from a completely blank project to a finished (crappy/simple) game? 

Alot of the tutorials I find for Unreal focus on one specific part of the engine or game development. Ya, that is useful when I want to learn about X. But before I get that much detail I want a feel for how to go from nothing to something and lightly touches on everything.

Like this tutorial for Unity: http://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/space-shooter. You build something really basic but along the way you get a simple overview of setting up a scene, cameras, user interaction, basic code, UI, sound, etc. Yeah, those kind of tutorials are definitely really helpful. Sadly, there aren't any like that for UE4. There were tons of those kind of tutorials for Unity.

The closest thing I've found is the [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vtcWrcscXos&amp;index=1&amp;list=PLZlv_N0_O1gb5xvsc7VM7pfoRAKLuIcFi) playlist, but it has a heavy focus on C++, rather than the whole thing. Cool, I'll take a watch. I dont mind the programming focus as I am more programmer than artist. Here is response from Unity employee to this.
&gt; Oh, it is so on.

http://forum.unity3d.com/threads/unreal-engine-4-free.305902/#post-1991578

Unity is holding [a special event](http://blogs.unity3d.com/2015/02/27/unity-at-gdc-2015/) tomorrow where they will share some news, hopefully something similar. When competition actually happens it warms my heart. Unity damn well needs competition.

UE4's "pricing" is made so that people are free to learn and Epic only profits if their users succeed. Unity is priced so that you have to pay way more for features that aren't even cutting edge. They make you pay for LEARNING, which is definitely not what you want to do with an indie engine.

I always felt like there is this weird disconnect between the pricing of the two engines.

Unity seems like it's designed more with indies in mind, but it's pricing doesn't reflect that.

Unreal's design always seemed to be focused around small or larger TEAMS (especially before ue4), but it's pricing has been always pretty indie. Although with UDK (the previous indie version before ue4) i would never consider using it, because it was very, very closed source and bloated. It's simple: Unity is betting on customers failing and make them pay up front. UE4 is betting on users succeeding and making users pay if they succeed. Epic has some what of a "brute force" approach to making money from this.

While perhaps serious game developers will pick Unity because it's cheaper if you actually do believe your game will sell more than like 2000 copies, the rest will no doubt go with Unreal Engine 4 since it doesn't cost a single dime to experiment.

I'm assuming Epic hopes for plenty of developers just creating stuff and then suddenly a new Minecraft comes along and Epic makes billions. I'm guessing they're going to announce a royalty based option just like UE4, but keep their current pricing as a side option. Then they'd lose a huge cut of sales from indies who do pony up for the 1500 license, while larger studios would just grab the 1500 license because it's far cheaper than paying royalties.

I mean they could, but keeping both models would be tougher income-wise than going with one or the other. They should definitely go with royalties. You will get more from the 1-10% that blow up than if you charge everyone $1500. And lowering the barrier to entry means there are more potential games to blow up. Got this email from Epic:

&gt;If you have paid for a subscription on or after January 30th, you will receive a pro-rated refund for your latest month's payment after March 12th. You'll continue to receive all future updates for free.

&gt;And, because you were a paying subscriber, we're also giving you a gift of $30 that you can spend in the Marketplace now or save for a future use.

&gt;Happy creating!

&gt;-The Team at Epic Games

This is so awesome of them. Seriously Epic, you didn't have to do that, but I'm glad you did.

Quick Edit: Apparently you can have friends on the launcher. I'm working on a game right now, so if anyone would like to offer some help or gives some tips (because I seriously need them), add me: **Hoopera** This is pretty amazing indeed. Where's the asterisk? 

EDIT: Well, they take 5% after you've made $3,000 per product/quarter, which I actually find super fair. You could easily argue that an engine is more than 5% of a game's production. Hell an Engine that polished, with the documentation and support it has could easily eat 50% of your development budget - which is a fixed cost sure, but a big one for anything above B-grade games.  

Even then you're probably going to need some middleware (which unreal already includes equivalents of) which would probably cost you almost as much.

Too many indies and small developers have failed miserably because they tried to create their own engine, and either it didn't end up a good engine or it ate so  much of their budget that the game suffered for it.   
Prime example of this would be Natural Selection 2.  

And I'm sure big developers who expect to sell a few million copies could probably negotiate a fixed fee or a reduction in the percentage. I was debating moving to Unity or Unreal when I start messing around in 3D. This has made it pretty likely I will be looking at Unreal. 5% is not bad at all. How much is it for unity? Don't they have a similar pricing structure? I may be mistaken but I believe Unity is your choice between $75 / month (with a 12 month commitment) or a one-time $1500 flat-fee. I don't recall reading anything about royalties with publishing finished Unity games. No you're right. Weird. I could have sworn that unity had a similar pricing model. Maybe that was with Unity 4 or something.  Note: Natural Selection 2 have had multiple patches which fixes the performance and free content updates since it's release. 


There is no longer a problem with the game for 99% of the players (Don't quote me on that) True but the problem is it took them so damn long to get the game even half done, it was in beta forever and pretty much unplayable.

That's the main problem with what they did combined with early access - the game didn't release so much as unclench.

It's a great game, but it took them 2 years, hell almost 3 to get the thing even playable after then started fundraising for it. If they had used Source (would have made sense as it was a HL1 mod) or Unreal, they could have gotten it playable in a year - then worked on growing it.

Instead they released a broken beta, that limped it's crippled arse into release and then took another year to fix, which was time spent fixing the engine instead of adding content. The funny part is that anyone who was around for Natural Selection 1's release was probably experiencing massive deja vu. For some reason the performance was also absolutely awful for a while after release (2-3k pings being the norm). Yep, extremely fair. That 5% also applied when the engine costed $20. For the tools you are getting, it's a great rate, especially for an indie. For a massive AAA studio, I'm not sure though, might still be a good deal.  If memory from when the subscription model was first announced serves: you can still buy a "proper" license with the traditional costs of an engine... which I don't understand but I assume is comparable to Windows or Photoshop (a very large lump sum payment for X updates of the engine). All Unreal Engine 4 licenses are identical. Publishers that ship lots of UE4 games can negotiate different fees based on how much money they make. So if they make a UE4 game and they sell $1 billion worth, they could pay Epic less than 5% of total income on the project. AAA games/studios can probably negotiate a fixed (non-royalty) fee to license the engine.  That might be expensive (think a couple hundred thousand bucks for a huge AAA title), but would end up being less expensive in the end for those types of games. Kind of wish I had something up at the marketplace for under 30$ now, I bet they'll see a nice boost of sales the coming days when people find their free 30 bucks to spend. No kidding. Some of those guys really deserve it to, some great stuff on the marketplace. I grabbed the Top down City Assets from Manufactura K4. I had been coveting it for a city builder I want to prototype and they(he? she?) knocked it down 50% to $40. Irresistible. I got the email too, but I still assume this doesn't concern those of us with a free student licence?

Really, really interesting news though. Excited to see how Crytek and Unity respond to this. Unity has had a free version for a while Yes but with features locked. UE4 is the whole package. Not only is UE4 the whole package, it also includes access to the source code, which Unity doesn't do even after the $1,500 license per seat. And UE4 also includes support for the two main mobile platforms free of charge, unlike Unity. Also, the guy running Unity now is that dude from EA that everyone hates. That narrows it down. "Ah yes... everyone from EA." The free version is missing a lot of useful features from Pro. Also, Unity and Unreal have somewhat different monetization schemes. If you want the full version of Unity, it's going to cost you a one-off fee of $1500 or a $75 monthly subscription (and you have to sign up for at least 12 months). With Unreal you get everything for free, and even before this it was $20 for literally everything.

The thing is though, if you choose Unreal, Epic will take 5% of your income as royalties. Unity doesn't take any, even if you use the free version to develop and release a commercial game.

The main focus of Unity's presentation will probably be Unity 5 (I'm guessing they'll give us a release date), but I wouldn't be too surprised if they also announced a new payment model, something closer to what Epic and Crytek are doing. I would agree with you for the most part. The focus of the two engines are rather different also. Unity is being pushed as almost an entry level engine, built to serve people who develop assets, but don't want to deal with coding too much.

I'll also admit that I have some familiarity with Unity, but haven't touched UE4 at all. So, my opinion is biased. With that, even with the restrictions in place Free Unity is pretty solid for 2D indie development, but I can't really point to a particularly high quality 3D release coming out of it. Unreal, on the other hand, has a long tradition of developing a good 3D engine for other projects, much like Crytech.

I don't think we'll see Unity switch to a percentage system anytime soon, and with the AAA focus of Crytech I doubt they will either. Interested to see if we'll get more indie Unreal developments coming out in the future because of this. Either way, I doubt Unity and Cry are feeling too much pressure to change at this point. I'm pretty sure Brothers A tale of two sons was made in unity, its gorgeous no that was unreal. [The Last Tinker: City of Colors](http://store.steampowered.com/app/260160/) was Unity Oh man that's fantastic, I literally just bought it like a 5 days ago.  [deleted] It only cost $20 before today for everything (including the source code).  You could just sign up for 1 month of the subscription, cancel it, but still use the engine forever.  You wouldn't get any updates, however.

 Yeah, they were very open about letting you sign up for one month and then cancel &amp; continue using it. I saw them demonstrate some of the 2D game making features of it at EGX last year and they were actively encouraging people to sign up for one month and then cancel. The good ol' "...but $20 is $20" For a hobby, having a twenty dollar investment (if memory serves, you can use the "free to everyone" visual studio to build it) is really damned good. if you don't think a hobby is worth investing twenty bucks in, you really shouldn't be on a gaming subreddit, heh.

And if you can't afford to make a one time twenty buck investment for your hobby, then... good luck with that. $20 isn't much but if every hobby you're interested in dabbling in costs $20 then you'll start making choices. Some people want to try before they buy, especially if that hobby requires further investments down the road. Well, I think that boils down to having to decide what hobbies are worth pursuing. For example: I love painting miniatures and I love wargames, but I will NEVER get into a Games Workshop title for the simple fact that it is way too expensive.

The free version is definitely good for "try before you buy" (which is what Epic are counting on), but at the same time: if your limiting factor was the 20 dollar buy-in, odds are this would always have been a "dicking around" hobby and never would have gone anywhere.

There is nothing wrong with having a dicking around hobby, and it can be both fun and relaxing, but when time is precious you have to decide what to do. Hell, I have lots of proof of concept games I have made with UE4 that I mostly use to goof around, and the odds of me ever polishing one enough for a proper release is slim to none. Man, if I could dabble in every hobby I was interested for $20 I would be thrilled. Actually that would be nice.  Want to play guitar? $20. Want get into printmaking? $20.  Want to get into coffee roasting? $20. if $20 is the only thing keeping someone from dabbling in game development, then $20 is only the first thing keeping them from dabbling in game development. Learning how to use the engine is a huge time investment and they will most likely install it and quit as soon as they start reading the first tutorial. Agreed with you for sure. Have a lot of friends in the modding scene and I'm pretty excited to what kind of things we will see in the future that is created with this engine.  Unity has their own event tomorrow at 8:30 am PST ([stream available](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N8Ao5oyflik)), I really hope they've kept an eye on Epic/Unreal and decided to borrow a trick or two from them. I've no doubt this is a strategic move against Unity. I can't believe that nobody has yet mentioned that it comes with the alpha of Unreal Tournament...

...which I'm now installing (this sdk opens up a bit like steam/origin)  It's pre-alpha still and you can download it without UE4. They both run from the Epic Launcher, though. That launcher *is* Epic. Wow. This is huge. If I was talented enough to make a game I'd be weeping with excitement. Epic seem to be hitting all the right buttons at the moment. You don't have to be talented. Just creative and your own mind. Seriously, learning a programming language with short term and long term goals is actually fun.

You will be pissed off, you will praise yourself, you will stop and continue soon after, you will be in your bed and cant sleep because of that one thing that doesn't work and you will be sitting a lot of time thinking about why you're so fucking stupid. But when everything comes together and you can show your friends that you actually created something that is fun, you're so fucking proud.

Learning with goals is good too: You learn a few things and try to get a game going from what you've learnt. Even if you just display text on a UI. And then you scrap that and go on. And go on. Try to write simple game ideas together and code the most bare mechanics in 2-3 days. Like, you want to make a 2D jump scroller - write a pixel that jumps and falls and moves as you like. Even plattforms are easy for you now. Tweak some numbers, make the pixel bigger and add an animation (sprites that go per time / frames / whatever kind of math you like to do with it) and bam. You have your first "least viable product".

Learning with Unity and UDK is pretty easy. There a tons of beginner tutorials to get yourself into it and then you buy a C# / C++ book and within a year, you're pretty confident with a few languages and their libraries. If you're even really serious about it, you might be able to sell your products (it's maybe a couple of bucks at the end of the day and a lot of hateful comments, but then there is the one guy who didn't regret buying it). 

And before you can say knife, you're a fucking (hobby) game developer. Selling apps on Google Play Store, Windows Phone Store and Apple iTunes isn't too bad either.  I've taken babysteps into the world of coding with Raspberry Pi a couple of weeks ago when I received one as a birthday gift. It's very exciting but going from the Pi to Unreal Engine 4 seems like trying to run before I've learned how to walk. Either way, this thread is actually rather encouraging so I might take a look. Honestly the biggest problem that I've faced and I've seen others face is not believing in themselves. Every success story has a small beginning. Dedication is the only thing that separates us from not being able to do something and being able to do something. Learning things from the beginning is always hard but the journey is the reward. I've studied 20th century my whole life and I still find new things this is the same with any subject.

&amp;nbsp;

/r/gamedev is a good place to start. Look at the sidebar for information. They have a section called Wiki &amp; Resources that is full of helpful information. The number one point that they make is "Anyone can make a video game" and its true. The wiki has a guide of what games to start with to learn. [Link section called "You have to start small](http://www.reddit.com/r/gamedev/wiki/getting_started#wiki_you_have_to_start_small.)

(edit:)
I found a GameDev post journal-ling his/her experience from knowing nothing to publishing a game on iTunes. [Link](http://www.reddit.com/r/gamedev/comments/stg2o/how_i_went_from_knowing_nothing_about_programming/). I found it to be very inspiring. Its linked to from the wiki. Your first point is so true, I mean the idea that you can code something up in that legendary engine? Nah it must be too hard, only wizards and crazy people do that.

Heh, but it's not. It's actually the other way around. With UE4 you have a pretty stable plattform to try mechanics out and coding in general. If it moves: Good. If it doesn't: Start over.

You don't have to know every detail and tinker with particles, models, graphics, methods, whateffs. Just concentrate on something and steal yourself the assets together. You can even pull a lot of models out of other games with converting tools and import them again. It's all about doing something that is fun for you. I started with shitty reddit bots.  You don't need to know anything about coding in order to create a game in UE4. The blueprint system makes it so you can click together your code. There are thousands of great and even short tutorials out there to teach you the basics.


Aside from that you get some free starter content. I suggest you try it out - I mean, it is free, right? ;)

Edit:

This is the blueprint system:

http://i.imgur.com/UEjlr5h.png Is it really that easy? I can learn it with only very limited knowledge of coding? You can make games in UE4 with no traditional 'coding' at all, but you will still have to have a good sense of game logic and data flow, and coding knowledge will certainly help. Is it easy to make 2D games with it? I've been tinkering with Construct 2 for a hobby game. It was not easy in 4.6 but I think they improved it a little in 4.7 but I doubt it will be as "easy" to start as Construct 2. But it may very well be more flexible.

But if you plan on publishing for HTML5 then I don't really advise UE4, it uses Emscripten and so the size of the finished game can be quite a bit larger than with tools that are designed to work with Javascript natively For 2d games I'd rather point you towards [game maker](https://www.yoyogames.com/studio), which was built for 2d environments and spawned many great games. even if it isn't **that** easy, it comes with tutorials and everything you need to get started.  It really is incredibly accesible, not only that, it comes with the UT alpha

and yes, you can learn it with very limited coding knowledge.  I've never even seen what code looks like before and I've already made a really pretty bedroom with nice lighting effects and I can even jump! How big is the download? don't want to hit my data cap UE4 bare bones is 2GB and the download from the site is 60MB Yeah, and there's plenty tutorials for it including official stuff which is quite good!

You won't be able to make super advanced stuff without knowledge of C++ though, since it's pre-written code basicly but it sure is handy. Think this is the best response I've seen so far. With any of these "easy" solutions, the ease of use is for rudimentary applications, which is good for easing you in, but you'll still want to learn the underlying code at some point for more advanced applications. 

Even with something as simple as Twine, for text adventure games, if you want more complex adventures you'll still want to learn a little css and possibly html. For even more complex stuff, knowing javascript wouldn't hurt either. 

Personally, I've always considered working on mods for existing titles to be a slightly easier transition, but if you're interested in going to the very base, this probably isn't a bad place to start at all. Play with it and spend time figuring it out.  Anyone can learn just about anything like this with enough interest and time.  That last part is really key though - you have to be okay with being a worthless noob for awhile before you can get anywhere. It's not easy at all. You can learn anything though. Give it a try, it's very daunting at first (I'm still at the stage where it's daunting, actually, but I'm sure it'll get better) but you've got nothing to lose. That's one thing I have to give Unreal 4 that many *many* Engines don't do well: Simplicity for beginners.

I tried out Unity a while back and was completely lost about 20 minutes in (maybe I'm just stupid, but to me it didn't seem intuitive), while Gamemaker and Unreal 4 have been pretty kind to me. Of course, the former of those two is geared heavily towards beginners. 

 Does it support Linux? Some people do run it, although I don't think there's any official binaries and there may be some bugs.

Cross-compiling to Linux works better at the moment [according to their wiki](https://wiki.unrealengine.com/Linux_Support), but compiling naively for Linux and running the Unreal Editor is also done by a few people. Ubuntu 14.04 is officially supported. The out-of-box experience is good I think, just run few scripts (assuming you have correct dependencies installed) and it should work. I'll give it a go. I'm on 14.10, probably won't be that bad (I hope) Should be fine. I don't think things changed that drastically from 14.04 to 14.10. https://wiki.unrealengine.com/Linux_Support Just a heads-up because this took me a minute to figure out.  For those who wish to download and install the engine, you have to click on the Library tab in the launcher and then click add versions. I wish I had money to Gold you for this. Why the fuck was the option to download so hidden? It should just pop up when you click the big "No Engine Installed" button. How would someone go about learning how to use this from the ground up?  On top of this, Epic have released [their own video tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZlv_N0_O1gaCL2XjKluO7N2Pmmw9pvhE) to use UE4. I started last month. I suggest you watch TeslaDev's videos on youtube. Has has pretty short but great tutorials. They are on the point and show you some basic stuff.


Also, the great thing about UE4 is the blueprint system. You don't need to know how to code because you can just click together some blueprints. Sounds dull and stupid but it works pretty well (especially for a beginner like myself).

If you don't know how do animate or create models you can buy them from the market place. Everyone can "click together" a game within a few days. Something big will still take up a lot of time but UE4 is a great tool for hobby devs. [Here you go.](http://www.reddit.com/r/gamedev/comments/2mao55/unreal_engine_4_tutorial_series_in_english/) [There are pretty good tutorial videos in UE youtube.](https://www.youtube.com/user/UnrealDevelopmentKit/playlists) Thank you!!  &gt;When you ship a game or application, **you pay a 5% royalty on gross revenue after the first $3,000 per product, per quarter**. Its a simple arrangement in which we succeed only when you succeed.

Not exactly free but certainly good news for hobbyists interested in the engine.  I doubt anyone making substantive games was ever discouraged by the $20 per month fee in the first place. Software costs haven't stopped people from learning, people will just pirate software if they can't afford it and won't be making money off it. But now people can make games and content to sell with less of a barrier to entry.  Right, this should be higher up. People are saying that this puts them ahead of Unity, but Unity still doesn't take a cut from royalties and is still fairly affordable for "Pro" but very capable with "Free". If you plan on make any sort of money from your game, indie or not, Unity is still a hugely viable option. Unity is also 4.5k per seat if you want all the features. That is not very friendly to people just starting out. Even still: if something I make with UE4 makes enough for me to have to pay epic some royalties, I will gladly hand over that money. Exactly. This is very attractive to hobby or casual game makers who are not expecting to make it big.

I'm not looking to change careers, but if I can make a few bucks doing something interesting and fun in my free time, I'd gladly take the money. If the product I make blows up, I'll gladly foot the royalty cost. I have no experience in using these tools at all, but since they are free now I shall make an amazing thing.

Thats how this works right? it certainly can- given the amount of high quality free training available on both the website and youtube.   Kidding aside, I am rather interested to see what I can create with the tools.  It's been a long while since I dabbled with them and it would go great with other hobby projects.  Who knows...maybe even more than that?

 i played around with it after it released and the complexity scales really well.  on the simplest side, i'd compare it to Forge- the built in map maker for halo but for Unreal Tournament.  that's a simplification, but you probably get my meaning.  all the way up to custom coding line by line.  good luck! One question, can I start with this? I have some programming background with C++ I am not looking into making Half-Life 3 on my own but even as a hobby can I start with UE4? if so where to start? Their youtube channel is pretty in depth, I would suggest taking a look there. You can definitely start with it. Blueprints allow you to make entire games without writing a line or code.  I have had about 6 months of experience with UDK.
I switched to Unreal Engine 4 to make [this!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efA0HsK92Tc)

Now of course that's just a small demo, and it's not really finished. I don't have a lot of experience with... well, anything really. But I think it's still amazing what you can do in UE4.
Everything just seems so much more stable and usable. There are lots of tutorials and official documentations out there, and the support is great, as are the frequent updates.


I urge everyone who has the slightest interest in game development to at least give it a try. It's incredibly fun, and UE4 is incredibly powerful.

 This explains why the download for UDK (free Unreal Engine 3) seems to have disappeared and support dropped off. Can't blame them and glad they want to move to the future as fast as possible. My design studio group at Carleton University just started a game in UE3. We were confused when the download link suddenly dissapeared so we had to share the installer between computers. I can't wait to tell my game dev professor.  He chose Unity for our class and while a good engine some aspects are frustrating. It was already free for universities. For those who are wondering, here is the licensing fee, from the [Unreal Engine FAQ](https://www.unrealengine.com/faq):

&gt; Once you ship your game or application, you pay Epic 5% of gross revenue after the first $3,000 per product per calendar quarter.

I'm not sure what the rates are with other dev tools, but that seems fair.

Also, for anyone who is interested in developing with UE4 (and maybe you're unsure where to start), I'd suggest you try starting [with this tutorial thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/gamedev/comments/2mao55/unreal_engine_4_tutorial_series_in_english/). Unity, unless they've changed it recently, is the pay once or subscribe model. If making games is your job, then it may end up you pay more for UE4 with a royalty than a Unity license. Unless you dont expect to make any cash, any AAA game would just pay up front for the engine, as they have always done. Consider that at $1500 per seat you (lone dev) would have to make ~$33k before you would be paying as much as with Unity. Going full mobile? ~$93k. Multiple licenses? Just multiply the last 2 numbers accordingly. 
EDIT: Missed a decimal place. Fixed. I'm not sure I follow. 

If you make 100k off a game. 97k x .05= 4,850. And you have to keep paying.

The Unity license is 1,500 for desktop and 1,500 each for mobile.

EDIT: So I guess it doesn't work like that

&gt;That's not how the UE4 royalties work. Its 5% of revenue, over $3,000, per quarter, per product. That's not how the UE4 royalties work. Its 5% of revenue, over $3,000, per quarter, per product.  Fixed. Missed a decimal place. :-P 

Please remember that this is per seat. If you had multiple developers/artists that costs would go up per developer and/or artist. You think there won't be frustrating aspects to the Unreal engine? IMO, Unity is much easier to use than UE4. As a one man team, I use Unity, but I think UE4 is a better engine and would be better for bigger projects. As someone who has used both, you're kidding yourself if you think Unreal will be any less frustrating. Just to be clear, this also means that if you release a free, open source game, you don't have to pay them a cent, since there's no gross revenue?

If so, do donations count as gross revenue (specifically if it's obvious that the game is free to download and that donations are optional and not expected)?
 I emailed them this question a long time ago about UDK and donations count as revenue. This was probably a year before ue4 was released.  You are 100% right about truly free software where no revenue is generated (see [here](https://www.unrealengine.com/faq))

 "The following revenue sources are royalty-free: [...] Truly free games and apps (with no associated revenue)."

I think your donations for your game are subject to the 5% royalty, it seems fair (if you make more than $12,000 per year, Epic deserves a share of it, but that's my personal opinion) If I was raking in $12000 in *optional donations* per year I would be quite alright with giving Epic a piece of the action, that's for sure. I recall Tim Sweeney or an engineer at Epic saying something about donations on the official forums, but I don't recall what it was. You can always ask on their forums about donations. I bet they do count donations as revenue unless you are giving that money to a charity or something. [deleted] [deleted] I love how I actually made a profit for switching from CryEngine to UE4. I subbed last month for 20. Now I get a 30 gift from Epic to use in the market place. So I made 10...technically. If you subscribed after January 30th, you will get a refund for your subscription fee. So you made even more! Yea as a February subscriber I'm pretty psyched.  It was already well worth it so I'm just getting free money at this point I did my first bit of games coding in an RPGmaker competition this weekend and won, it was amazingly fun. I can't help but feel this is a sign. This, ladies and gentlemen, is why competition is a good thing.

The war between Unity and UE has made game development more accessible and easier than ever.

Unity has been the go-to engine for indies for a while now, and now I look forward to indie games in the UE too. So RIP CryEngine? I don't see how they can even compete now.  Cryengine is $10 per month but has no royalties.  Unreal engine is free but carries a 5% royalty.  

That 5% royalty is a huge difference for some people. CRYENGINE, while very powerful, has pretty horrible documentation. We waited weeks before giving up on getting help from Crytek and chose to switch engines mid-development.  The documentation is pretty rough. But I thought the biggest problem was the asset chain. I remember when the 3d asset exporter they provided was broken for like a year. Then afterwards it would switch between usable to broken.  You get the source with UE4 though. The 5% royalty only kicks in after $3000 in revenue has been made. At that point any indie dev that creates a game using the engine is making more than what they expected and any big time dev wouldn't mind taking a 5% hit on there $500,000 making game.

I think this system will workout pretty fairly for everyone. Just because you "are making more money than expected" it doesn't mean it is a smart move financially.

Lets assume it takes 2 years to develop a game and you are a small indie developer (aka only you need an engine license).  If you make anywhere between $3000-$4800 on your game you are better off using Unreal.  But if you make more than $4800 on your game in it's lifetime, its far cheaper to go with Cryengine.  If you charge $15 for your game, thats only 320 copies you need to sell before Unreal starts to be more expensive.  That numbers goes even lower if it takes less than 2 years to develop your game.  For a game that is greenlit on Steam, I'm sure 320 copies is nothing.  What makes this worse is that the 5% royalty is on *gross* revenue, not net profit.  So you need to pay Steam 30% and any other store that you sell your game on.

&gt;any big time dev wouldn't mind taking a 5% hit on there $500,000 making game

Ummm no.  Any "big dev" would rather have that 5%.  That's $25,000 on $500k revenue.  That could pay someones salary for 6 months.  

I'm not saying Cryengine is a better deal, but you need to weigh the costs.  Saying "its more money than I expected to make anyway" or "meh, I'm a big dev and it's only 5%" will make you bankrupt in a heartbeat.  You need to make smart business decisions if you want to be successful.  

Some people would rather have $10 per month, shitty documentation, and no royalty (CryEngine).  On the other hand some people want no monthly fee, amazing documentation, and a 5% royalty (Unreal).  You  need to analyze the costs based on you and your studio and see which one is better.  

**TL;DR - Cryengine is still very much in direct competition with Unreal.**   Per the current rules, it 5% on everything over $3000 per calendar quarter. Assuming steady sales, that exempts you on $12,000 in sales per year, making UE4 cheaper until you hit about $15,000 in sales. Make a better product. While this is nice, it primarily affects hobbyists who probably won't actually finish anything. And I speak that as one of those hobbyists

For any company or even most indie devs, the monthly fee (or even one time fee) are well within operating costs. It doesn't matter if UE4 is free if CryEngine is a better product. The fees for using the engine are a minimal concern for an AAA title. I meant for indies. That is the whole point of doing the $10 subscription. They don't exactly have many AAA clients either. Only recent games were Sonic Boom and Evolve.  $19 USD a month is nothing to an indie or an AAA, the only fees that matter are percentage of revenue which are unchanged by this announcement.

CryEngine is $10 USD a month so that's really not a factor either. And Star Citizen/Kingdom Come: Deliverance It wouldn't matter, but I would argue that CryEngine is not a better product.  I don't know whether Unreal 4 manages to reach CryEngine-level performance and fidelity, but, as a dev, I would say that Unreal is the better product, just based on one thing: documentation.  Unreal has tons and tons of documentation to explain how to do things, how they work, and what to expect, not to mention that Epic itself puts out a ton of video tutorials.  Crytek, on the other hand, has some of the laziest documentation I've ever seen.  I tried for a week just to get my head around how to program anything for their SDK, and I couldn't do it, because they don't explain anything of substance.

So, if I were a AAA studio, I wouldn't want to switch to an engine that my devs wouldn't be able to teach themselves.  I certainly wouldn't want to have to call Crytek to come teach them or buy stacks of books on the subject.

Hell, as much as I'd prefer high-performance gaming, I'd rather develop in Unity than CryEngine.  Unity, for its faults, at least has fantastic documentation. I was just thinking about learning game dev, should I drop learning unity and learn Unreal 4 instead? Choose one thing and stick with it for a while.  Just gonna put this here for everyone:

[Installing the Unreal Engine](https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/GettingStarted/Installation/index.html)

Now go make some content! [deleted] I really love this payment model, and I'm extremely happy people are starting to adopt it. Unreal's already a well established name in the industry, and I just hope it gets even more popular in the coming years. Seems great but on Github EpicGame's page just says "This organization has no public repositories." 

What do? I'd give them a few days. I'm sure they will switch the repository to public soon. Weird that they didn't just do it for the announcement though. I had to request access, not sure if it was through github or the ue4 account settings. This was a month ago though, and it only took a couple hours. Can someone ELI5 how they can afford to do something like this? I don't know how game engines work or how these companies produce/pay/whatever their products. While this is great, does this hurt the company's profits? Bear in mind that I'm no expert on game engines.  This is just a guess: Epic Games' short-term income will be adversely affected, but in the long-term this is probably a really smart move for them.

Unless I'm mistaken, Epic charged a subscription fee for Unreal Engine.  Anyone interested in using it had to pay $19-20 a month, and also pay 5% of gross revenue of any commercial release built on Unreal.  By making it "free", all they're doing is eliminating the $20 a month subscription fee.  Anyone that develops a commercially-released game still promises Epic 5% of gross revenue.

Getting rid of the $20 a month subscription will, of course, hurt their income in the short-term.  But Epic probably has good reason to think that by making it "free" to anyone, more and more developers will use it.  Then the next, indie-developed mobile or PC game that makes it big will owe Epic 5% of their revenues.

Epic is increasing their chances that Unreal will be used to make the next big game.

Edit: Something else to add - Last I checked, Unity has been following this model that Unreal now uses for a while now.  Since this model has been working for Unity for a while, Epic probably realized they would have to follow the same model in order to stay competitive.

Before now, most devs I've worked with would sum-up the differences between Unity and Unreal like this:

Unity: Really easy-to-learn; not as powerful as Unreal; free-to-download; great for indie development since there's no up-front cost and it's easy.

Unreal:  More powerful than Unity; more difficult to learn than Unity; more expensive than Unity, since there's a subscription.  Unreal is usually perceived as the engine that bigger game companies use, but it isn't really for indies.

By making Unreal free-to-download, they've eliminated one of Unity's advantages over them. and i believe the revenue threshold used to be much higher.  under the old terms you only had to cut them into the revenue after...i want to say $10,000?  you might want to double check that number, but ultimately they get a cut much sooner, which is clever if they want to get in on the early access steam releases that make money up front, typically before the game is even finished. This is going to be very good. Think of all the little indie games we're going to be seeing for years to come; this is a fantastic way for new devs to start making and selling games. Contrary to what people believe, they didn't really earn that much money from 20$ sub folk. Vast majority of their profit came from royalties and fees from large studios that used UE. On the other hand, this scheme means they have a much higher chance of indie studio using their engine to produce the next successful original indie title. Think Rust, think Darkest Dungeon, This War of Mine and such. And then, that indie studio, which already pays 5% royalties from that title's sales, starts to work on another title, maybe a sequel even. And its highly likely they will chose the same Unreal Engine - because that is what they are experienced and familiar with. 

Its a very good long-term business decision. They are sacrificing small stream of revenue, yes. But they can afford it - Epic is doing great financially, their engine is in well regard and used frequently for AAA titles. They take small loss, for the sake of very large payoffs.  Can't login to epic games. Is the server overloaded?  You bet your immediate family it is. Their servers are taking a hammering from all the attention this story got. I'd give it a few hours at least before trying again. Does this mean everyone can join in the Unreal Tournament beta (which required a UE4 engine subscription to compile the test versions)  Yes, however, it actually isn't in alpha yet, let alone beta.

Edit: Fixed idiom. Call this wild speculation if you will - but a sentiment being generally agreed upon with many game developers at the moment, is that Unreal are aggressively campaigning themselves (which is EXCELLENT for competition in the marketplace!), is because Source 2's launch is imminent. The market might be about to get a whole lot hotter.  i think it more likely they're trying to level the field with Unity, as there was some disparity between cost.  if you look at all the games developed using UE, Unity, and Source i think Source doesn't come out looking like a huge concern for Epic. Source 2 is still a faraway dream. I have been expecting Source 2 for years. I have been thrilled at the leaked Source 2 slides, but that was a year ago?

Even if Source 2 would come out tomorrow, it is important to remember that the original Source was never too much of a competitor in the game engine world. More like something Valve kindly offered to the community (only a handful of "serious" games, Vampires, DMoMM, Titanfall) Keep in mind that when Source first came out, Valve was primarily a game developer. Now they have their hands in a ton of stuff, and it doesn't seem unlikely that Source 2 will come with a pretty featured suite to compete with Unreal Engine and Unity. Does anyone have the engines github link? Their github account doesn't seem to have it listed? You have to link Epic and GitHub accounts first. Go to your Epic account, enter your GitHub name, save and then go to GitHub. You'll get an invitation from Epic. If people are downloading the launcher and then having trouble figuring out why it just says there's no engine detected...

* Go to the Library tab
* Click the orange Add Versions button on the upper left
* Select the most recent version, currently 4.7

It took me a pathetically long time to figure this out. Whats their MO on free projects?  
They take 5%.  
But I dont like charging when i release content so would it still be fine It's 5% after $3000, so free is fine. You don't have to pay anything until you make $3k off of it $3k a quarter too. It resets every 3 months.  Does anyone know if the free version will have oculus support? or will it be like unity? because I know that you have to upgrade to the pro version of unity to be able to put oculus rift support inside of a game.

=

I've been really wanting to do some replica's of worlds as a hobby because it seems like a lot of fun, and thought about turning them into little walk through demos. Someone a while back did a Sienfield demo in unity that looked like crap but it was fun. I think it'd be fun to do stuff like that but improve on it.  There is no free *version*. There is just Unreal 4, and it's free. The entire engine is free. There is no paid version. They just take a 5% royalty on gross revenue. It's totally free.  https://wiki.unrealengine.com/Oculus_Rift Thanks for this, can't wait to start working on my projects []-D 

edit : wow, you're gonna need a pretty beefy card. My 660 can't handle it that well. I can run it at a decent frame rate in 720p but not at a glorious 1080p :(  Well, yeah. Running an Oculus is basically rendering your game twice If you're talking about the editor, you can adjust what rendering and post processing is happening to have the editor run smoother &gt; because I know that you have to upgrade to the pro version of unity to be able to put oculus rift support inside of a game.

That's not true as of Unity 4.6 I believe. That is specific for Oculus Rift because they added it officially instead of installing it as a third-party C++ extension module. I'm not sure Unity Free still does not support C++ extension modules because if it did, it would be trivial to re-implement all of the restricted features as extension modules. I remember a few months ago when talking to some guys at blizzard and some other companies via a google hangout session for school I brought up if we should look at other programs like Unreal Engine while still working on Maya. At the time they were just announcing the use of it paying the subscription price. They all said no just focus on getting your craft right which yes I know that should be a focus, but it never answered my question. Now this program is free and can change how people make games and use its code, I would love to hear their opinions now. Maya after school will cost me nearly $4k, fuck I already have the debt from school to worry about.  Remember that Maya is not doing the same thing as UE4. There is a very basic animation package in UE4, but there are lots of things Maya can do that UE4 can't (make a 3D mesh, animate and rig your model easily, etc...)

On the other hand, there's a truckload of things UE4 can do that Maya can't (literally everything about making a game) Yeah I see it like that, that's why why is the industry standard. I'm talking more about the pricing and availability. I only get maya for 3 years for free then need to have 4k ready to continue and its practically required in my field. It might just be the gamer in me who specifically wants UE4 for what it can do for me. I like maya, but would love to learn UE4.  OK, sorry, I didn't get the parallel. I guess the #1 reason this won't happen with Maya (and Photoshop, and CAD software) is that : 

 - there are a lot of people who want to make games for hobby
 - there are not really a lot of people who want to rig 3D models for a hobby

UE4 license (free to use, 5% royalty) is good for everyone involved. I am sure that if Maya were free to use, but 5% of your salary becomes royalty, you would be pissed. Yeah I'm learning and doing stuff with rigging, I don't like rigging lol. But I do see the Royalty as an issue, even at 5%. Yeah it won't happen to any of the programs you listed, but then again I could get my swashbuckling on and find me some burried treasure ^and ^good  ^seeds You could pick up Blender. It is free. I'm not a programmer or a game developer by any means, but I do know at least what an engine is, and I know that one has to (generally) pay a hefty sum to develop an engine from the ground up (I remember Square Enix claiming that Tomb Raider's brand new engine cost them millions). And as I understand it, Epic is doing this in an attempt to move people away from the Unity engine.

Just how much more powerful is Unreal 4 in comparison to the most commonly-used, free engine today (which I believe is Unity, correct me if I'm wrong)? How big a move is this really for Epic? I'm curious about this side of game development. in an actual free comparison, UE4 is much more powerful. since the free unity is missing a lot of necessary stuff for many devs.  I was checking out Tim Sweeny's posts on the official forums and he replied to different threads about people being blocked from paying for the subscription.

&gt;I'm sorry for the payment complications! We're working on a better solution for users who aren't able to set up recurring payments via Paypal. Stay tuned for news in the next week or two!

Making it free was certainly one way to solve it. Anybody who has previously subscribed has also received $30 in credit for their market too! Awesome!

"And, because you were a paying subscriber, we're also giving you a gift of $30 that you can spend in the Marketplace now or save for a future use." that was a really cool thing to do.  and not just for people who recently paid money, which is what you'd expect.  i cancelled my sub a few months ago and i still go the credit. I remember having access to the Unreal Engine 2.5 complete C++ source when it was worth over a million $ a few years ago after working as an intern on a game using it. Still have the zip file. Pretty useless now is it? Considering you couldn't legally release anything with it, yes. With UE4 being one of the few big names to support Linux, I hope this helps get more developers to embrace multiplatform. I hope it gets more Windows users to switch to Ubuntu/any-Debian-based-Linux for gaming builds. As per usual on Skylines threads, games **community manager here!** Feel free to hit me with any questions related to this or the game :)

Edit: I always underestimate the amount of questions one gets in here. Have to get to bed, will pick up stragglers tomorrow. Thanks for all the interest in our game! Are you getting paid overtime?  No :D Doesn't matter, though, I just enjoy working with a game I think is awesome. Paradox doesn't expect me to work after hours so there's no shady practice from that end. I think it speaks volumes for the company culture that thy have employees who *want* to spend their time talking about their work. You guys have a great thing going there - don't ruin it!

On that note, is there an official channel to submit ideas and suggestions to? (for example: kill the useless chirpies but still allow ones with actionable information trough - no seriously, if one more person's vacation is extended and needs their plants water I swear, I'm just gonna bulldoze their entire house.) Company culture is important to Paradox, our COO - Susana - actually spends *loads* of her time making sure we keep our positive attitude and environment even though we're growing *really* fast. 

This might sound like some hardcore PR bull, so feel free to take it with a grain of salt (I get that it's hard to trust random marketing guy on the internet), but this company is genuinely awesome to work at. I've spent soon 3 years here and it's like a second home. 

So of course I want to spend my time helping Skylines as much as possible :)

Yes, please join our forums to have the best chance to affect our developers!

http://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/forum.php &gt; This might sound like some hardcore PR bull, so feel free to take it with a grain of salt (I get that it's hard to trust random marketing guy on the internet)

Ooh, he's going for that anti-marketing dollar, that's a good market, very smart. The official channel is the paradox plaza forums...

But it's not like suggestions on the /r/citiesskylines won't get read...

We even have a post flair there for them!

Edit: you could use careful dam placement to flood their house... Good job on making SimCity look like shit, they deserved it. EA did that all by themselves. This was the final nail in the coffin though and it's glorious! Blink twice if you are in danger. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Why do cities with population of 20,000 look like they are huge metropolises like New York?  Because we've chosen to go for an agent system where every Cim (err, citizen) is a simulated entity. This means we had to decrease max pop numbers, as we didn't want to artificially boost them. It gives us a max pop of 1 million unique inhabitants - which I reckon is a fair compromise to have them be a bit more interesting :)

So it scales a bit smaller but looks and plays nicer (imo). Thank you for the answer! I can understand your reasoning behind it, and I agree.  Just for comparison purposes, Sim City (2013) opted to do the other way around  basically have 1 agent being simulated and that agent being a group of citizens so they would multiply agents times a factor to give you the "population" of your city. Made the number more realistic, but people really really REALLY disliked that. As it felt like the city was working in blocks.. like a block fo 20 citizens just left the same building to go work at the same office  in the same car, and then back.  Yes, but SimCity also literally had a "getFudgedPopulation()" function in the code. I don't entirely buy the idea that this was an intentional design decision to think in terms of "blocks" so much as it was a later attempt to explain a poorly executed simulation with fundamental flaws.

Remember also that the SimCity Glassbox engine didn't model these "blocks" of population in any concrete  or meaningful way. The "blocks" would "live" in different houses every night and go to whatever the closest C or I property was for work. There was no persistence or realism in the model at all, which is why so many people complained about the shallowness and brokneness of the simulation. Even IF you want to model blocks of population, you could at least have them not change homes and jobs every day. It makes no sense whatsoever. 
 I imagine it would have been trivial to add a getFudgedPopulation() function but then decided that wasn't on the cards ;) Is this maximum modable?  Even if it would slow computers today to a crawl, would be nice to revisit it in a few years with more horsepower. Currently it's hardcapped, not sure how/if we can expand that. But then in the future maybe it's possible, who knows :) Not in the foreseeable future at least.  10 years from now our watches will be running Cities Skylines with uncapped populations and 25x4km^2 megatropolises. To rationalize it, they want to balance realism and fun. Here they sacrificed realism for greater purity in the simulation, I think it's a reasonable move in that light. You can click on a person walking down the street.  It tells you where they live, where they work, and which shop they're going to visit.  You click on any of those names in the blurb and it takes you there.  You visit the shop they're headed to, and you see a truck unloading goods.   It tells you which factory produced the goods that are being offloaded to the business to sell. Hi, first of all congrats on your sucess :) 

I was wondering if you would ever consider patching in an autosave feature? (Maybe autosave every week, or something?) Thanks anyways, I've had a lot of fun with your game (even though I lost a lot of progress when my computer froze yesterday :c) Hehe, on max speed that would be autosaving every minute or so ;) Yes, it's on the to-do list. Not sure how soon it'll be added but definitely on our radar.

There's a fully working mod out there that enables it, by the way, if you really want it ASAP.

 I haven't got this game yet but aren't you a delight.  Oh no, there's no autosave?  I'm getting flashbacks to every SimCity 4 session ending the same way: crash to desktop followed by the realization I hasn't saved for 5 hours, followed by uninstalling. Fortunately a modder has created a simple, configurable auto-save script and uploaded it to the C:S Workshop :) Works like a charm Modding is going to be a major factor in this game's long term success. There's a reason Skyrim tops the sales charts during discounts nearly 4 years after it was released.

Thank you Colossal Order. /u/TotalyMoo is based af. Mods are awesome. The game is amazing. I watch streams and then I play the game and I watch streams again.

I am dreaming about zoning.

You did it guys. denouttafuckinden Haha, my SO and I went to bed discussing road designs yesterday. I even had to go get a notebook so I could show her a roundabout-with-a-hat design I wanted her to try. Guess I've really missed playing a game in this genre that I enjoy :)

Thanks for your kind words and support! &gt;roundabout-with-a-hat 

is that like a roundabout with an elevated reverse-roundabout on top?

brb asset editor There's currently a mod on the steam workshop which autosaves.   It might be kinda silly, but are there any plans to patch in a day/night cycle and the ability to create intersections by dragging across existing roads without have to lay down individual sections?

The game is seriously fantastic. You guys rock! Well, I can't say there are direct plans as in "this date we'll do it" for either - but at least the day/night cycle (in some way or form) is on our radar and has been since the game was announced. 

Thanks for your support, we're stoked so many like it :) Will a future update include gigantic, insane disasters for when we're feeling a bit sadistic? I really want to lay down Godzilla or an alien invasion now and again. Haha, perhaps! Our brand manager /u/jmunthe is a big fan of a Kaiju  invasion expansion together with Oculus Rift support.   I placed my cemetery directly next to the trash dump, and half expected to cause a zombie invasion eventually. Shut up and take more of my money. Cities: Skylines represents the first full-price steam game I've purchased since Skyrim came out. 

I got to demo Crescent Bay at CES this year. One of the little demos was a tiny city. I immediately wanted a city building game with Oculus support. It was so frakking cool to lean in and get close to the city, look down streets by moving my head around, change perspective thru motion, etc. I seriously cannot express the experience in words, other than to say DO IT. Add in a Kaiju expansion and... HNGGGGGGGG. I mean seriously. You cannot imagine how cool that experience would be.  I have a request. Is it possible to have certain mods that are approved to work without disabling achievements?

Or at the very least I'd really love two enhancements: autosave and a day night cycle. 

The thing I loved the most about SC4 was scrolling by my city at night and seeing downtown all lit up. Or scrolling by the stadium at night where it's a huge light source due to some game that's going on.  Please, never get bought by EA. That would require our boss, Fred Wester, to sell out. I'm close to writing a long metaphorical description of how absurd the world would have to be for that to happen, but I'll give you a tl;dr.

*Frogs raining, elbows turning into kneecaps, butterflies in your ears, inception-type bending of the world and.. and... strange things*

Basically; don't worry. We're staying independent.  three thumbs up for Fred Wester! either you have 3 thumbs, or you have a hard on for Fred. They will never take SVERIGE! Except for DICE... And Notch.  Notch is living the dream. Honestly can you blame him. Will there be any free content updates? I mean, I assume not, since paradox does very well with DLCs but it doesn't hurt asking. Yup, actually quite a large amount too. We're going with an expansion policy similar to CK2/EUIV where we bundle free content and updates with larger paid expansions. For example our first non--bug-fixing update to the game will be free tunnels and European wall-to-wall buildings. :) This is why i love Paradox (And Colossal Order too, now ? haha) so much. Bought every piece of gameplay DLC, and even cosmetic ones. The gameplay DLC actually brings new stuff to the game and while the cosmetic ones don't change things that much, i like the visuals and supporting paradox's very generous DLC model. Hey, cool. Thanks for the support! We usually get mixed reception to our expansion policy - even though we internally think it's best for both parties - so hearing positive feedback is great :) Well I can see both sides of the argument. I mean, I was playing CK2 today and its been a while so I checked the store and realized I have like 4 complete Expacs plus a shitload of cosmetic DLC not bought and it was kind of a HOLY SHIT moment for me. Its not that is wrong but just surprising. I checked EUIV as I dont have it yet and again, 100$ to get the whole thing. So its a very fair model if you buy it early and buy them as they come out. But it can be a litle bit overwhelming for someone to get into a game later in it's life.  Obviously im aware for the fact that you can just pick your DLCs as you like (I personally dont care to play as India in CK2 yet so no need to buy it for myself) and I wanna clarify that I do agree with Paradox's model. But I can see how some people might come today and check out CK2 and see a 2 page list of DLC and say "fuuuuuck that!" without giving it much thought.  European here. I had no idea this wasn't a thing in other continents. No question, just want to congratulate Paradox and Colossal Order on reviving a genre which until now looked pretty disappointing. Thank you. :)

Edit: Added CO since I shamefully neglected them in my original comment. Hey, thanks for your support! I do have to say that Colossal Order, the developers, are truly the ones you should thank. [deleted] [deleted] I guess it could be made by a modder? Not sure, they can create the craziest of stuff. Personally I'd much rather just see a greater variety. Thinking of opening a twitter account you can Chirp to and then, on a monthly basis, gather the best and give to CO so they can add to the game. [deleted] "Really @mayor? Farming? What's next, horse carriages?"

OH IM SORRY CITIZEN I THOUGHT YOU WOULD LIKE TO EAT SOME FOOD OCCASIONALLY. 

U LITTLE SHIT.

when i find that fucker im gonna turn her home into a landfill. Click the name on the Chirp, it'll zoom in to them and show you where they are. Then click the green arrow thing to follow them around. When they go home, you'll know where they live.

Enjoy your landfill revenge! You know what the strange thing is? When I see a game is published by Paradox I'm excited for it. Even if it's not in a genre I typically enjoy I usually pick it up and never regret the purchase.

Even stranger? I'm also excited about DLC that gets released for Paradox games. It feels like the old days where Expansion Packs and extra content for your favorite game was something to be excited about and was a fair, square deal rather than feeling like a piece of the game that was cut out to be sold later.

Paradox and Devolver are the only two publishers where it's become almost a mark of quality to me. I'll give that game a look and feel comfortable taking a risk on a purchase. Just wanted to pass along that it's not just pats on the back, but it has a real tangible financial benefit for a company that does not treat it's customers like garbage. You probably don't need to be convinced anymore, but I just wanted to say that what pushed me over the edge towards buying Cities: Skylines is that it was released with a Linux client. Thanks for supporting our small, but loyal community! :) It's a great game, but don't you feel it would've been enriched by some pointlessly tacked on always online DRM? Also, the city sizes are too big-- it feels like I could build a sprawling and detailed metropolis. Where are the needlessly hemmed in and incredibly small maps that can't be enlarged? This is one of the first games in years I've had to actively force myself to stop playing because it would be irresponsible. 

I seriously could have played it all night long and been happy.  I haven't been that in to a game in years.   These stories make me both happy and worried, as we've had several fans claiming they got into work late due to having late. Please play responsibly, the game won't disappear :) &gt; Please play responsibly, the game won't disappear :)

Just having to say that shows you made a spectacular game!  Great job! There have not been many games *ever* to make me feel like 3 hours was 3 minutes. The Civilization series is the only thing that comes to the top of my head right now. It's nice to feel this way about a game again I accidentally stayed up until 3 am last night playing it, despite having to get up at 6:30 for work. No regrets (although I did have to take a nap when I got home!) I was up till 2:30

I knew I should have stopped at 12:45, but I figured just a bit more, which became another hour and forty five minutes in relatively no time.   Same. I haven't had the "can't put it down" feeling about a game in several years, but I've been up to 3 AM two nights in a row playing *Skylines.* I can't recommend it enough. As far as I am concerned this is the true successor to Sim City 4.
 I'm so happy to see this game doing incredibly well. Paradox and CO have handled this right from day one - listening to the fans on forums and reddit, not seeking to nickel and dime them through murky monetization schemes, and endorsing mod support for the game. Oh, and selling the game at the bargain price of just $30. 

It's so refreshing in this day and age to see a developer/publisher handle things the right way. And by the way...the game is incredible as well. With mod support and continued patching/content from CO, this game is going to be big for quite some time.  Plus they released the game to youtubers like a week or 2 before release so there were let's play and reviews by release time. Not like other publishers who insist on review blackout to be lifted hours after release. This so much. I was 100% confident buying on day 1 because of all the videos. The tie in to the steam workshop didn't hurt either. On day one, there were already **free content** like maps, buildings, and other assets. Agreed. I'll never pre-order another game, but I picked this up day 1 because all of the streamers and redditors that gave it stellar reviews. Plus, $30? Shit, most of the time you have to wait months for a new game to be that cheap. Its 30 bucks???  Sold.  It's incredibly uplifting to finally see some positive news and comments about a publisher and new release these days. There's so much cynicism floating around this subreddit lately it's like a breath of fresh air &gt;Paradox Interactive and Colossal Order, currently gamings proudest parents, have today revealed that Cities: Skylines, the critically and commercially acclaimed city simulation game for PC, Mac and Linux, has sold an incredible 250,000 copies, including pre-orders, in its first 24 hours on sale, **shattering sales records for every previous game in the Paradox catalogue released within the same period of time.**

Title is a fantastic city building sim we needed after the colossal disappointment that was Sim City. Glad to hear that the word of mouth marketing pushed so hard, totally deserves the sales.

**Also this has nothing to do with Cities: XL. That should be noted as that game was sorta booty. (As in not all that great)**

*/u/TotalyMoo, the Paradox community manager for the title is actually in the thread right now. That guy's comment deserves to be higher up than this comment simply praising the title. Paradox out there publishing some solid games for the fans.* &gt; Also this has nothing to do with Cities: XL. That should be noted as that game was sorta booty.

They really should have gone with a different title. When I first saw Skylines pop up on Steam, I thought it was just another XL/XXL expansion or something in that franchise, and so ignored it. 

 They did Cities In Motion previously, which is where the "Cities" comes from. They really should have chosen a different name though. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] They should have dropped the Cities part and just called it Skylines. That'd be terrible for searchability though and it's a spin-off of the Cities in Motion franchise. Better than getting reviews from another, shittier, game. They really oughta have altered the main part of the name. Aside from having two games called Cities release concurrently being a recipe for trademark lawsuits... It really -it- easy to confuse the two if you're not that familiar with them. Yeah I totally thought the same. It's a weird decision that would have caused me to also ignore the game had a friend not clarified it to me as well.  I totally thought they shared some lineage, they're not even the same publisher/developer. I'm with you. I remember hearing the Cities XL/XXL games were pretty shitty, so I was surprised when Cities Skylines was getting so much attention with threads pitching it as "the game SimCity 2013 *should* have been."

I was happy to learn they aren't related. The xl series isn't that bad. It just had poor performance.  Well, it's the same team that made cities in motion 1 and 2 right? so I think that's where the name comes from. I'm beginning to think I'm the only person who enjoyed Cities XL. It was easy but you could still make some pretty cool cities.

Edit: Oh, and Cities: Skylines is an awesome game I'm at work and daydreaming about how to improve traffic flow. 

Highly recommend it to anyone on the fence. Traffic flow is the bane of my existence I have mastered traffic flow. I have built a mega city that rarely if ever has a traffic jam [deleted] &gt; I'm beginning to think I'm the only person who enjoyed Cities XL. It was easy but you could still make some pretty cool cities.

The mechanics of CXL are fairly solid.

Everyone hates CXL because of the incompetent/malicious developers that have kept rereleasing the game, claiming to have fixed the huge bugs like the memory leak that will make you need to close/reopen it every hour once you get going unless you tweak the hell out of the game....and never actually succeeding in doing it if they did try.

Not to mention that it's a 6 year old game that they've basically done nothing to and they're selling as new. Cities XXL adds multi-core support and Steam Workshop integration. And they're going to charge you $15-30 for the privileged of something that any other developer would call a patch. &gt; Also this has nothing to do with Cities: XL. That should be noted as that game was sorta booty.

Thanks for the clarification. Wishlisted. I think the "Cities" part of the name comes from Colossal Order's other two games, Cities in Motion (and CiM2).

It's just too bad that those two games, which were pretty good, have its reputation in name drowned out by Cities XL After this launch so far I think Colossal Order are going to be what people think of when it comes to 'Cities'. That would be undeservedly good for that other Cities:XXXL franchise. [deleted] I hope it gets some dlc. I'd like some disasters or more in depth societal management. Read [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/CitiesSkylines/comments/2w87cv/cities_skylines_outlines_free_content_will_follow/). Basically, they're going to follow the same DLC model of CK2. So there will be an update or two coming: http://i.imgur.com/9HPk6AB.jpg and I'll be as eagerly waiting for them as I am for CK2 and EU4 DLCs. Paradox *gets* how to do DLCs. I want day and night cycle and more advanced controls for intersections. It's getting tiring trying to build roundabouts and seeing traffic lights pop up.

Otherwise it's really solid. And of course more depth in everything would be nice. I'll buy the hell out of all of it, just like I do with EUIV, CKII, and VII. These guys deserve all the monetary support I can give them, I don't care if I only get a few songs or face packs for the money. Totally worth it.

Even the expansion style DLCs come with half of the features for free in a patch. Paradox has overtaken Blizzard for my favorite gaming company(ies, dev &amp; interactive) of all time. So.. ALL THE DLC! [deleted] Not to mention, for multiplayer, only the host needs the DLC for all participants to be able to access DLC content. At least, that's what I heard? I wouldn't know because most of my friends don't have what it takes to hack it in EUIV :) [deleted] It really works that way, only the host needs the DLC Correct, the DLC the host has enabled is what everyone uses in multiplayer games for EU4 and CK2. Yeah, I *do* love that they separate the cosmetic stuff! (And in most cases, the fact that they do separate it makes me actually buy it *too*, when really I only want the mechanics, and don't care about how it looks.) [deleted] &gt; Also this has nothing to do with Cities: XL. That should be noted as that game was sorta booty.

Thats for that, I was getting confused :P. Well deserved. 

This is one of those games where I'm actually scared of playing it because it has the Civ effect - "One more turn" or "One more highway!" ends up adding a few hours to your playtime.  I bought SimCity 2013, and I bought this one. So unlike many others here, I know from personal experience precisely why and how SimCity failed. I've been playing Cities: Skylines all day now. This game is literally everything SimCity 2013 was promised to be, and *more*. Why? Because it's amazing how much more playability and fun the *hugely* enlarged map size offers.

Those of us who bought SimCity had been waiting for a long time after release for any sign that EA would enlarge the map. This was one of the biggest failings of the game, outside of the ridiculously stupid AI system governing sim behavior. Playing on a postage stamp-size map that was literally just 15 square blocks made you feel cramped and never allowed you to have any creativity. Some people attempted to mod it with various hacks to expand the play area, but none of them really worked well and in hindsight they now all look like a colossal waste of time. 

Cities: Skylines is basically an identical game as EA's offering, but *way* bigger, and that alone makes the experience so much better. No feeling of being cramped, no feeling like you have to demolish half the city in order to make any changes. It's glorious. I put in 6 hours into this game already, and if this was EA's SimCity, I'd have fully built out an entire postage stamp-sized metropolis in that time. With Cities: Skylines, I've only just hit the stage where high-rises are appearing, and still have so much room to grow on the map, with empty space as far as the eye can see. And I haven't even mentioned the fact that the underlying simulation is superior in pretty much ever way to what EA could accomplish with their custom-built game engine, which should blow everyone's mind.

What's even MORE amazing is that, contrary to even my own trepidation before this game came out, this is absolutely *not* some amateur indie-developed clone. It's actually a tremendously polished experience! The game just flat-out *works* as advertised! It really does! If you think this being made by some small company out of Europe means it's some hacky, poorly-put-together low-budget experience like so many games of this type are, boy are you wrong! This is a true AAA-caliber experience. Really, the only flaw is that some parts of the UI are a bit awkward (as is expected from low-budget games), but even here the flaws are *surprisingly* minor and hardly ever get in the way of you enjoying the game. The depth of the game and the polish is really quite surprising.

If you're into these types of games, or any tycoon-style games, Cities: Skylines is not only a must-buy, it's arguably one of the best games within this genre released in probably the last decade, and is bound to end up being one of the best PC games of 2015. And all this for under $30?! While I agree with your points, despite the horrible launch, the game-ruining map-size and the terrible traffic simulation, I do think there are a actually a couple of things that SimCity 2013 did right that I would love to have seen in Cities: Skylines.

One thing I liked about SimCity 2013 was the modular additions to buildings. It gave the standard police stations and firehalls so much more depth to be able to tack on a prison or an additional garage (and to be able to place it as you please). You could do this with almost any special building, too, such as adding an extra ward to a hospital or extra classrooms to a school.

I realize that in a way you can make these sort of additions in Cities: Skylines through the extremely flexible asset editor but you have to save it as a new building entirely. I appreciated SimCity's ability to upgrade every police station uniquely and as you go along.

Another thing that SimCity did well was the inter-city trading. Of course, with its tiny city size it used this aspect as a crutch, it would be nice to see a more involved supply and demand system. I appreciate that Cities: Skylines actually simulates a lot of this as it is (there are natural resources and you can designate industrial districts to focus on a certain industry and can even see where an oil tanker is delivering its load), it would be nice to see what the neighbouring cities are in demand of and to have specialized commercial industries to make use of the specialized industrial goods, and ultimately a sort of progression to more complex industries.

Overall, I'm *loving* Cities: Skylines. It's infinitely better than SimCity 2013 (which was such a crushing disappointment), but amidst all the hate for SimCity there were a couple of things that it did well that I think Cities would ultimately benefit from, and I hope to see something like it in the future, either in the form of a mod or DLC.  The reason they allowed building upgrades in SimCity was so that you didn't waste more of the precious map real-estate on copies of the same building, so you could effectively have just one police station, one hospital, etc, for the whole city. It was absurd. A neat little gameplay mechanic, but it was still absurd.

The whole resource-mining aspect of SimCity was also, I feel, the result of the small map sizes. Since you could basically "finish" an entire city after 4-6 hours of gameplay, the resource management thing was basically the only way to play in the late-game, after you've exhausted all real-estate and have nothing to do anymore. I despised this aspect of the game, especially because resource-collecting buildings (whether they were oil wells or casinos, etc) took up probably 25%-50% of the entire god damned map, forcing you to demolish nearly everything you've built up to that point. This was essentially the entire point of SimCity once you got your basic infrastructure plopped on the map. I hated it. It distracted from what the point of city-building games was all about -- building a god damned city.

I think that the only thing SimCity actually got *right* was their amazingly beautiful UI and the really accessible way to do everything you wanted to do as far as building the city -- which, unfortunately, was just a minor part of the gameplay due to the aforementioned resource-gathering late-game. The AI was pretty worthless, IMO. Different job and a different house every day. If you're at all interested in this genre (hell even if you aren't) and you don't own this game...go buy it. Seriously, it's fantastic. And between the developers saying they'll be supporting the game well into the future, and the power they've given to the modding community, this game is going to have some serious legs.  And paradox interactive is like the opposite of most publishers, they would rather keep a game up and running with a more niche audience for years than to try and annualize a title Paradox has become one of my favorite publishers/developers. They have such obvious passion for games and don't sacrifice the integrity of their brand to make a few extra bucks, nor do they constantly insult the intelligence of their customers. Can't wait for Pillars of Eternity in a couple weeks. Well at least for europa universalis its because they play the hell out of the game, they aren't improving just for the sake of the player or for more profit but so the game is more fun for THEM to play too There is a huge difference between the way Paradox explains their games and previews them and how a lot of other devs/publishers do their shit You can tell that these guys funnel in a ridiculous amount of time into playing their games on their personal time. I think they were even dropping references to CK2 and EU 4 campaigns they were playing during the HoI4 dev journal thingies.   Which I see as a good thing. Developers who make a game because they want to play it, and keep it updated so that it's as playable and enjoyable as possible is definitely going to produce a better product than developers who don't. Yeah, but imagine a world with Victoria 2k15. They even included a gas attack hit stick in this version You laugh now, but this solves the longstanding issue of playing the Spanish-American War with old rosters like a chump. 

Lebron James is still on the Heat in Victoria 2. They really need to remove the GP vision cone system in this version, I think it's bugged that the UK can't seem to see any of its allies getting invaded. Preorder it at Gamestop now to power up your game with the tiger camouflage Maxim and steam punk trench spade. If you also preorder Hearts of Iron: Extreme Ghost Soldier Battle Poland Surprise Attack we will throw in an exclusive early unlock of the SMS Kaiser so you can crush the opposition on the high seas on day 1. Gotta love those Scandinavians.  Always playing the welfare long game.   It's a fantastic game. That 22.99 RRP price point doesn't hurt either. I got it for 16 of GMG, it's insane because it feels like a 40 game. I bought it on Steam for 23, found out about the GMG thing an hour later, and wasn't even mad. The game is fantastic.  I bought Europa Universalis IV from the steam winter sale and have been just blown away by how well they do dlc. When they release a dlc, the patch also includes updates that everyone gets, not just people who buy the dlc. 

Furthermore, the dlc normally add a significant amount of content to the game. I really look forward to what Paradox makes in the future. Also if you have the DLC and a friend doesn't, not a problem. You can use it anyway. I agree with you. I've been playing too many of the same genre (FPS and RPG's) recently and happened upon this game yesterday. Bought it and spent two hours failing miserably.

Then my flatmate saw what I was doing.. and four hours later at midnight we'd finally stabilised traffic for a 3k population city. I'll add that I'm awful at this genre but really enjoy playing it because it's completely new to me. We're already planning our expansion! Ha, yeah I'm pretty terrible at the game too. But the contentment of solving a traffic issue...man, I can just sit back for 20 minutes and watch the cars and trucks happily motoring around the brand new traffic circle I just put in (after demolishing 50% of the surrounding neighborhood to make room for it, since I have no ability to plan ahead). And being able to follow those trucks from the logging district I've got on the other side of the map, all the way to their drop off point at Bob's Furniture Store...this game just revels in the simple things, and I love it.  First City simulator I've played since SimCity 3000 and I'm having a blast.  You can't help but love the developers for how they made this game and their idea's on the games future.  The fact that they are open and honest along with being huge backers of the modding community has won over so many people. Currently in GMGs VIP section Skylines is ~20! Oh right, that's almost the best part! I paid $22 for it. I generally never buy games at launch, or pre-order, but this was one that I was happy to make an exception for. 

And if I sound like a Paradox marketing person or something, it's only because I'm absolutely in love with this game. It's just a joy to play.

edit. Just to add on about the pre-ordering part - this game had so much footage available pre-launch (as in weeks prior), it was incredible. Hours and hours of let's plays and streaming, from people casually playing to those trying hard to break the game and push the limits. It was the most informed buying decision I've made in a while, and it was a damn pre-order. Very impressive stuff from Paradox/CO. That is a big point that needs highlighted.

Just earlier i restarted Steam due to an update and up popped an advert for the new Assassins Creed game (not even unity) and they wanted 40 for it.

40 for a game that belongs to a series with a plummeting reputation and is the 6th release from that series in the last 3 years alone with another 2 planned by Christmas.

Meanwhile Skylines cost me 18, has a ridiculous amount modding potential, runs great, has a publisher that has shown it will support games years and years after release and is genuinely a fun experience.

 Currently on Nuuvem 16,98 or $18. And before anyone ask, No it isn't region locked and yes it's legit. For anyone unfamiliar with Nuuvem, it's one of /r/GameDeals (linked in the sidebar) trusted outlets. &gt; and the power they've given to the modding community

[Someone already made a proof of concept for dynamic resolution.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=80RFYN9Be-k) Originally I was thinking mods would be maps and buildings, I never expected something like that.  Im still in disbelief that this game is a thing. Such an awesome developer. I haven't played a sim city game since the 90's.  I hadn't even heard of this game until the past week when i loaded it up on a stream.  The look and feel was so good I bought it on launch day and I'm addicted. I hope this is a vindication of good products and good business practices over more the shady stuff that's happened over the years. 

I bought the original Europa Universalis for ten bucks as a kid. Paradox has been good to me over the years and I wish it continued success. Great!   
Hopefully that'll give them a huge boost in energy so they can come back after a short break and work on things like a day/night and seasonal cycle and maybe a desert/snow biome to build in :) Also more street options (forced right turns and such) and the ability to keep  buildings from leveling up. More events/challenges in the late game and maybe one can dream about multiplayer :) &gt;the ability to keep buildings from leveling up

Already in the game, check city policies (different tab in the smoke detector/recreational use etc menu). It was called highrise ban or something  Oohhh snow would be awesome.... A snow Biome DLC with snow plows and shit. HHRNNGNNN Jesus christ, my traffic problems are bad enough already *without* my Cims driving like idiots in the snow! Imagine the backups.... 

-shudder- So a lot of people are attributing this to Skylines being the much needed offline version of SimCity, but it would have passed entirely underneath the radar for all but uber fans without Paradox's fantastic marketing strategy. They put their game out for a ton of YTers and Twitch streamers to play and promote. They let people show off how great their game is without restrictions once the initial embargo lifted.

I personally bought the game because I saw how great it was when /u/ItsOppositeDayHere built Scumtopia. Even though he wasn't great at the game, you could see the potential in Skylines. Paradox Interactive has been *slaying* it since Crusader Kings 2. Great advertising campaign with that game and they're still churning out high quality DLC, as well as free patches that drastically improve the game. Same with Europa Universalis IV. And now they're helping Obsidian with publishing that new RPG.

Along with Atlus, they're among the few teams that seem to understand the importance of wooing hardcore gamers through social media. and *Mount and Blade*

and my first Paradox game, *Savage*.

These guys rock, they are the new Blizzard in my eyes. The Ribcage, though. 

But I definitely agree with you, I probably would not have preordered the game, or possibly even have bought it at all, if it weren't for seeing guys like NL and Mathas play it a week in advance. How complicated is this game? Can never really get into a SimCiy game - but I love the idea. Played the shit out of SimTown several years ago. A lot of things are locked in the regular game; you have to reach a certain populace. Thus, you get used to tools and then are introduced to a few new ones as you go along. And after you get comfortable with the available tools and buildings, you can turn on the option to have all of them available to you right at the start of the game.  Its a bit more complicated, less handholding, than SimCity 2013 It's extremely forgiving though.
You can pause the game, change infrastructure dramatically and your city will adjust on the fly the moment you restart time with little impact. I mean granted if you take out a swath of a residential or commercial zone then it'll take time to rebuild. 

But nothing is really set in stone or feels all that punishing the way other sims seem to do. Just be careful with dams. You can literally flood your city if you place it wrong. Create a new Atlantis by accident. Dem water physics I can't manage my roads for shit. Always ends up being traffic and firetrucks can't get to places on time and buildings burn down. This is my largest hassle.. There are so many fires in this game and my population is ~25k. I would reach twice that in SC4 and SC2013 before fires started to pose real problems. But yet the fire percentage is ~10%. I would expect far more if it was higher than say 50%. Also they scream about crime rate higher than 5%. Aside from that it's been a solid game.  Are you using the policy where you distribute smoke detectors to all residences? I do not usually since it costs so much. Will it cut down the amount of fires substantially to validate the cost? Yes, it significantly reduces fires. And you save cats. My experience with is has been terrific, after I got over the hurdle of getting started.

As some said, it doesn't hold your hand, so you might have to restart your first city a few times (took me about 5-6 attempts) about 5 minutes in. However, once the ball is rolling it's suddenly 10 hours later and you didn't even get up to pee. It's a bit complicated, but nothing you won't be able to easily deal with if you read the tutorial text. I haven't played any previous city builder games. I'm about 2 hours into it so far and really haven't got any huge road blocks apart from just learning the systems. Of course I haven't unlocked everything yet, only done the first 3 population tiers.

It seems that you can make it as easy or as difficult as you like. There is a lot to it but it isn't painfully hard to get into. Menus seem complex but not so obtuse to anyone just joining the genre. You don't micromanage every house, store or factory that is being built, just designate areas and they auto build. For specific need stuff (police, schools, leisure etc) you do place them individually.

The first few hours definitely didn't turn me away. I'd you got the money to spare I would check it out.

Edit: fixed phone spellings Fantastic to see this kind of success for colossal order and paradox! Paradox isn't the smallest publisher out there, but we need a new generation to suck some cash away from the the big players, and cities' success shows that EA's business model, along with its empire, stands on shaky ground. Horray for competition :D I am afraid of buying this because maybe its popularity is just a counter reaction to the terrible Sim City. Is it really *good*, or is it just popular by default? It's really good, and it will only get better. I didn't even tough Sim City and this game is amazing.

edit:Tough=touch It's a good game. If your worried about it, wait a bit and see what the expert City Sim players are saying about the late-late game and how the modding scene is helping it. It'll take time to see if this is one of the greatest city sims of all time or just the best one on the market.

But right now there aren't any major glaring flaws like the latest Sim City and everything just sort of works. It may be sort of overhyped but that's due to the fact that every major complaint that everyone had about the last Sim city has essentially been addressed. Cities are massive, no online connection and it's fun. It strikes a decent balance between hand holding and letting you figure things out though I wish the game warned me that traffic is always a problem and you need to deal with it. 

If your worried wait a bit I'm sure some super expert player is going to sink a ton of hours, build 10 cities and be able to point out every detail of why this game is good or bad or alright. In the meantime it's a good game for me right now, so take what you will.  It's a little bit of both. But it's only $30. It is pretty good. At the very least, it's rock solid. But I do think that some of the happiness about this game stems from both the fact that it's a lot better than the most recent SimCity and that both the dev and publisher have been extremely forthcoming to the community's wishes. Just the possibilities for modding the game are huge. On the other hand, this is pretty much what happened when you put down a small, dedicated studio and answered the question of what SC2013 should have looked like. It has its limitations, there's not that much new stuff in it, but it works, looks fine, has few bugs, is surprisingly well optimized for its scope and it's fun. But while it is extremely good value for it's 30, it's still a 30 game for a reason, which means that *at* *the* *moment* it might feel a bit limited in the long run.

Also, this is a Paradox published game, so expect DLC up the wazoo. But DLC done in a right way; cosmetics dlc and mechanics dlc are seperated, constant long time support (eg, EU3 got patches for more than 6 years after its initial release), and no possibilities of "buying power" in game; all that's open to modders.

But if you're really not sure about this game right now, come back in a year or so, and I'm pretty sure that save a tsunami/nuclear war on Finland, that it'll be an even better game. I'm really enjoying it, first city sim I've played. I'm horrid at it, but it's fun :) Try [Banished](http://store.steampowered.com/app/242920/) after this game. It's an entirely different take on the genre and equally fantastic.

Here's what happened when I played Banished:

https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2yqt05/the_strange_tale_of_a_cities_skylines_town_with/cpcp238 I am enjoying the game, but my play style makes for hard work, I feel myself wanting to start again from scratch instead of fixing problems. Pretty addicting. I kept an eye on this game, and have been watching the updates over on /r/citiesskylines for some time. I was confident it was going to be good. 

I played it last night for about 10 hours. I really can't describe how amazing this game has been so far, especially for someone like me - a lifelong sim city fan, bitterly disappointed by the last Sim City game. 

This game more than makes up for it. I kept finding whole, massive elements to the gameplay that only became apparent after several hours of playing. I'm off work now and I'm going to go play it again until I fall asleep.  Anyone know how to start off in a new city without having two roads? Like the road highway coming is two separate roads. Would rather not have to run a large high down the middle with one way both ways, and it looks silly. I know i've explained this terribly but it, so far, is the only thing thats really bothered me. I sat there for 10 trying to get it right but I could't so I ended up stopping. You could connect the highways together where they start then just have a single two-way road branch off from that. That would cause horrible congestion later on, though.  
I usually start with a roundabout (one way curved road) and later on make an avenue right in the middle, and two one way avenues right above it. So far it's alright.  First, you guys are doing AWESOME!  I rarely even like city builders....and yours is making me rethink that. I've played about 18 hours in the last two days.

For the price, this game is unbeatable.  

Second, what's the best way to get one's ideas heard? In particular:

* Please allow one-way streets as an upgrade

* Please fix larger road building not allowing you to intersect multiple streets in one go. As it stands, you have to build between two streets, then click from there to the next, etc, instead of a single build crossing them all. 

* Please add a way to see why an area won't grow. Like an unhappiness indicator but for unpopulated areas. 

* Please enhance the "low land value" indicator with suggestions. I often have 1-2 buildings get pissed off and leave when everyone around them is super happy. 

* Please add auto-save

* Please allow intersections as upgrades.

* Please add day/night This is what happens when a company focuses on core gameplay and does a kickass job at it. Sim City could have been this, but I'm glad there's a new player in this genre. [deleted] I have only played a few hours of this game, but so far it feels exactly like what I want from this genre.  It is a really fun game building your own city and controlling a variety of things to make the city functional. Even for someone who is absolutely terrible with designing things, like me Thats pretty damn impressive. But it is the first good city-building sim to come out in more than a decade Banished was pretty good. while Banished was very well done, it was far more a misery simulator than a city builder.  All true. A good, yet kinda dark and unforgiving city builder. You mean, if you let you tubers and streamers play a game early, it builds pre-release hype without having to fuck over the consumer?!? Will it run on a surface pro 2? Most probably will, the game is not that demanding :) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] Sadly a subreddit needs "nazi-mods" and rules for it to keep content quality up, otherwise it would just deteriorate and end up like most of the default subreddits. I'm not sure why you tell me to lighten up (which has nothing to do with the rules to begin with), I'm pretty much always in a great mood. [deleted] Its a fun game but its not without its own flaws.

Pros:

* Zoning doesn't cost anything in this game. My biggest problem with the SimCity series was that it cost money to zone and rezone. If you fudged up royally with zoning you might as well restart. But in Cities Skylines you can rezone with a few clicks with the only punishment being that any buildings already built in that area need to rebuilt so your income takes a hit while this happens. In SimCity you would need to account for the rezoning price as well as the possible cash on hand if your tax revenue plummets.

* The road system is complex. You can build almost any type of road system imaginable. In SimCity you were stuck with the predefined road mappings but with Cities Skylines you can build custom roundabouts, ramps, etc, etc.


Cons:

* The game still feels like it punishes you if you don't plan way into the future. You built your city with a bunch of two lane roads? Well good upgrading to four lanes without demolishing blocks upon blocks of buildings to build bigger roads.

* The game still suffers from my biggest pet peeve with the SimCity games. I feel like I still need to build an unreasonable amount of Police Stations/Fire Stations/Schools to make sure everything is covered. I only have a city of 6000 but I still need like 5 fire stations to make sure everyone is covered. I mean sure if I go through and fix every little street it might fix my problems but it shouldn't be that way. &gt; The game still feels like it punishes you if you don't plan way into the future. You built your city with a bunch of two lane roads? Well good upgrading to four lanes without demolishing blocks upon blocks of buildings to build bigger roads.

Soooo, like real life? I would imagine people building say... a suburb to a city do some future planning when they start building the area. 

Another option you have instead of upgrading all the roads is to create a new connection into the city off of a highway and start a new area of the city with roads for higher traffic flow, more industry, higher density housing and commercial etc..perhaps your new "Downtown". If traffic doesn't have to flow through your older smaller streets and that area isn't growing anymore then it should be fine as is. 

I completely agree on your firestation/clinic/police station gripe though.
 Also, you can upgrade from 4 to 6 lanes without any issue since they take up the same space. So as long as you build your bigger, main roads as 4 lanes to start you can upgrade them later no problem Oh man, this is massive. I've been trying to build my cities and planning into the future (so massive 6 lane roads for my brand spanking new city). It's so expensive to start with some feeder 6 lane roads. Keep in mind 4 lane roads put traffic lights EVERYWHERE which makes traffic pretty horrible. I pretty much only build 2 and 6 lane roads or use a lot of one way roads because of this.

I'm far from an expert but that's what I've noticed. Tbh I'm still playing with how to structure the city.

Starting off with 4 lane roads instead of 6 means it's a bit cheaper. My hometown has two fire stations. 27000 population. Don't notice too many burned down homes. Admittedly, I wonder how often neighbor town forestations help out. I mentally multiply the population by 10. 

It makes more sense that way. The popcap of 1 million is comparable to the order of magnitude of the largest cities in the world - and that makes sense.  Except it's not like real life at all. There's no intermediate-feeling road in this game.

Go look at the Network Addon Mod for Simcity 4. That mod should be the *gold standard for road options in any city-building game*. Look at New York City. They have six-lane roads in the same space a more rural city would have just a two-lane road. Tighter lanes, less bullshit wasted space, there's on reason why the two-lane roads in this game have space for trees and grass, but not extra driving lanes. The only upgrade from 'roads' is to 'medium roads' which are a rather extreme and jarring upgrade and take up tremendously more space, and that extra space is wasted on a pointless median. Why can't I just get rid of the median and compact the road to a smaller width? You meant fire station and police coverage but don't even get me *started* on the amount of crematoriums you need good god.  Yeah, I have a graveyard 3 doors down from buildings that have dead bodies in them. 

Dead Body &lt;---------Graveyard------------(one way road towards house)

"Who do I call to pick up the dead #movingout" fuck off lol Honestly a game that rewards forward thinking should be a pro, not a con.  The difference in between your phrasing is meaningful. I agree that rewarding players for forward thinking is probably good. Punishing players for failing to do so is a bit more of a gray area.

The difference between the two is largely how it's framed, but you want to incentivise good play more than punish bad play.   Of course you have to plan into the future, that's the whole point. That's how cities work. On your second con, sometimes it is okay to let things burn down. We just broke the 14k mark in our city with two fire stations, one police and we just put in a hospital (no medical centers). We also just now decided to start putting in schools. It's a delicate balance between services and growth, and I'd rather not have 100% coverage for a lot of things with a healthy budget and a growing city than bog myself down with a ploppable building (again, good luck upgrading roads later) every block. Play the way you like though, that's a choice not a bug though. You can actually move the ploppable buildings after they're built. True, it's just a pain if you're trying to upgrade a whole strip of road. You have to upgrade a portion of it, move the building, upgrade the rest of the road, then if desired move the building back. Makes the process a bit more tedious. &gt; You built your city with a bunch of two lane roads? Well good upgrading to four lanes without demolishing blocks upon blocks of buildings to build bigger roads.

As a resident of Cincinnati, I can say that this is about right. &gt; The game still feels like it punishes you if you don't plan way into the future. You built your city with a bunch of two lane roads? Well good upgrading to four lanes without demolishing blocks upon blocks of buildings to build bigger roads.

That said, so long as you built your blocks with some empty space between them for the expansions, they'll rebuild back to what they were in a couple minutes assuming demand still exists. So it's not a huge issue. That said I've started building high-density expansion areas with 4 way roads from the beginning now that I've learned it. I live in a town of about 3k and we have 5 fire stations. Mostly because the town is spread out, but its not far from the truth. 

What I'm annoyed by (and it was the same in SC4) is that it's really easy to end up with an over educated or too happy population.  1) the upgrading system works flawlessly unlike the one in other games. Aside from that there is a button called "move" or "relocate" for schools, police departments and such so you don't have to destroy and build it again.

2) Force them to use smoke detectors. I would agree with the last con there -- I lived in a town ~150K when I was growing up and there were a grand total of like 10-11 elementary schools, 3 high schools, 7-8 fire stations, and two police stations, and I don't think I remember the town devolving into lawless anarchy. I'm fairly sure the planning and the infrastructures in your city were better than what the average gamer produces though  The issue is static numbers. You can build a school in real life to a size you may need. In the game, it's X number of students, possibly also takes into account Y range.

Edit: My friend says you can increase the school's student size. From what I can tell in Cities Skylines its a static number at first but you can increase your overall education budget to allow schools to have more kids but its global not by individual school. As for what areas are serviced by the school is based on how your roads are setup and how easy the school is accessible.


In Simcity 4 it was different. You built a school which covered area based on a circle around the school. You could then increase the number of students and size of the circle by increasing the budget of that one particular school.


I was really hoping it would be like this. You build the school/police/fire. You then paint over the map like you do for districts to determine coverage. The budget and size of the school would be determined based on what you painted over. Depending on the number of students and how far you paint away impacts your budget. This way you can't just paint across the entire map because the budget would be unreasonable compared to building a second school. I don't think the Cities:Skylines population numbers are supposed to be literal.  I have full skyrises with less than 20 people living in them.  I think 1 citizen in the game is supposed to represent many people, otherwise the numbers don't make any sense. &gt;The game still feels like it punishes you if you don't plan way into the future. You built your city with a bunch of two lane roads? Well good upgrading to four lanes without demolishing blocks upon blocks of buildings to build bigger roads.

Use all the space you have available and dirt roads it makes it so much easier to add on dense nieghbourhoods. Pro: I did a minor doubletake when I realized recreational use *decreases* crime slightly. That's kinda cool. It would have been the opposite in one of the sim city games I think. I remember one them had a legalize gambling policy and one of the side effects was it increased crime.

Con: it doesn't make sense to me for so many things to be locked without some population. You can build six lane roads immediately. But you have to wait a loooong time before you can connect them with the proportional roundabout. And it's harder if you plan ahead because you can't even click the icon to see how much space the thing takes up. Wow, compare that to the 2013 SimCity
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SimCity_(2013_video_game)#Commercial
&gt;SimCity sold over 1.1 million copies in its first two weeks, 54 percent of those sales were of the download version of the game. As of July 2013 the game has sold over two million copies. Keep in mind that all of those sales happened strictly because of Maxis and SimCity's reputation and branding -- years of goodwill built up with a franchise that hadn't had a serious misstep.  Similar to the huge money the first Star Wars prequel made, even though it was a complete dog turd of a movie.

Since the initial sales boom, SimCity hasn't done much.  In the weeks after SimCity released, the game was such an unmitigated disaster that EA had to give everyone a free game to compensate for the disaster, and Maxis's reputation was so destroyed that the studio just got closed down for good. EA ran high-profile TV commercials for SimCity 2013. I remember there was one playing during an episode of Saturday Night Live, for example. I would've been surprised if it *didn't* sell well.

The fact that this game with practically no advertising budget outside of online social media is *still* doing this well just shows what an untapped market the PC gaming scene really is, Seriously, PC gamers just want quality. The second they see glowing reviews and high user scores, with virtually no extremely bad press, OF COURSE they're going to jump on it. It's easily the biggest untapped market right now, it just needs quality releases. PC gamers don't like to take shit so of course if they're hearing about annoying DRM restrictions, low quality content, tons of day 1 P2W DLC, etc...they're not going to buy it. These companies just need to take the time to create an artfully crafted experience and they can rake in millions, instead of trying to rush something out with no good long-term planning. This whole thing makes me think, what other "empires" should fall and be replaced by new, quality upstarts? I would love to see spore done right You know, when I think about it, every part of that game that was really flexible was awesome. Every part that was not really sucked. 

Creature creator awesome. Silly unlocking of silly parts with illogical evolution (big wings to bat wings to bird wings?) Bad.  
Cell stage assume gameplay. Inflexible progression through it bad.  
Randomized creatures in creature stage awesome.  Absurd, short, worthless progression through it bad.  
Whole Tribal stage bad.  
Civ stage building stuff, designing buildings,  good.  Short simple baby version of conquering world bad. Inflexible.  
Galaxy stage building vehicles, encountering species, building an empire, tweaking creatures to your liking, good. Repetitive gameplay grind bad.  

Everything is so awesome... Just Not in all the right places or something
 I think the main problem Spore had was lack of emergent gameplay.  And it should have been _made of_ emergent gameplay.  For example, your predatory ability was dictated entirely based on what jaw part you added, not where you put it or any other aspect of your body.  They ought to have leveraged their creature designer so how well you bit depended on leverage and reach and things.  The ecologies were all about slotting in whatever you wanted into a preset category, and the ecological disasters were just random occurances that had nothing to do with it.  They should have run some super-simple ecological sim and had disasters emerge naturally from that.  Etc.

It had so much potential.  Seriously, more games need to try the creature (or even cell) designer.  But they just dropped the ball. I think the problem is that there was nothing really like it up to that point (at least not that I can think of), so there were a lot of things that it missed on. It came out too early to be part of the whole Steam "improve the game over time" kind of deal.  It was supposed to be exactly that if you watch early gameplay demos. They were strongarmed into simplifying every aspect of gameplay. cell stage is like that &amp; why it was favorite part of the game. once you leave the first part of the game none of your choices matter much besides the simple progression  Wasn't exactly a strong arming. The team was split 50/50 on the real science like game originally announced and a more sims like cute and silly game. We unfortunately ended up with a shitty compromise of the two sides.  &gt; They should have run some super-simple ecological sim and had disasters emerge naturally from that.

They shouldn't have had disaster emerge at all, or at least had the ability for you to develop a planet so they didn't. All they did was causing me to have to run back from halfway across the galaxy to prevent my colonies from devolving back into unlivable husks.  Yeah, the craptacular "run back to babysit all your planets personally" is an entirely different problem. 

I still think they could have incorporated ecological disasters, but the whole scale of the galactic game needed serious work to keep them from being stupid and annoying and pointless.  Either it should have been close-in focus on your ship, with challenges for the ship to meet that _didn't_ involve babysitting an empire, or it should have been a proper gal-civ style space empire game. Hell, I'd love to see the previewed beta.   I'd play that so much even with bugs. So much yes here, I loved that game and I was too young to really see the flaws, but looking back I can see them in spades, I remember picking up the game about a year after its install release on disk in an ASDA supermarket, the part pack later on and then the expansion was one of the items that I ever ordered on-line, I still have the disks somewhere...

Several years back I stumbled upon [this](http://thrivegame.canadaboard.net/), Thrive is a game being built from the ground up to fill in where Spore missed, its an open source collaboration, I joined the community but life took over and I kind of forgot about it, at the moment they are actually starting to get to a playable microbe stage.

It is an incredibly ambitious project and has gone through its fair share of issues, but there might be a full game there, some day. Were you too young to have seen the original Maxis presentations for Spore? It was so amazing looking originally and they butchered it into this shallow, childish game that ultimately failed. I remember a creature dragging its dead prey across a beach by the neck. Age of Empires/Planet Earth :( Yeah, I would say a "historical" RTS game like that is long overdue.  I'd love a large scale RTS game that isn't match based, but campaign based.  Imagine an RTS on a truly massive scale, where you spend 20 hours on a single "game".  Civ meets AoE.  Or Total War where the campaign map and battle map are the same thing.  Add in the dynamic border mechanic from Rise of Nations.  Holy hell that would be an amazing game.  

Make it even more complex by adding in city building and trade mechanics a la Anno/Dawn of Discovery.   rise of nations 2 :o This would be great actually, I only recently picked up Rise of Nations and I fucking love it. Sins of a solar empire is a massive RTS You should check out Hegemony Prince Macedonia or Hegemony Rome While I like that idea, I don't think I could ever find the time to play it. I usually get to play an hour here, a couple there, etc. 

If you look into a lot of the big rts games, and pseudo-rts (like sins of a solar empire), you will find that a lot of the time the biggest hindrance to the games having an active multiplayer is the time it takes to complete a game. If it takes more than an hour to complete a match, you are going to lose a lot of people who simply don't have the time to devote to something like that. You can go wolfenstein and just have a really strong core single player experience. :/ Nothing wrong with that. Single player seems a bit underrated lately, and I don't think it should. A single player game with emergent gameplay has huge replayability. Add some community aspects to it (no, not "share on facebook", but just encourage the build-up of communities around the game such as making forums or subreddits), and it'll not only last even longer, you'll have an easily accessible source of feedback. &gt;  Or Total War where the campaign map and battle map are the same thing.

Check out [longbow games](http://store.steampowered.com/search/?developer=Longbow%20Games). Hegemony gold and Rise of Ceasar are very much like that. Pretty much an open-world TW where the campaign and battle map are the same. I haven't played them, but didn't the Total War series kind of take the helm for historical RTS? I remember History Channel using their engine to recreate giant battle scenes.

P.S. Anno is one of the best. The Total War series does the giant battle scenes part really well, but everything else is a bit lacking in my opinion. Give me the battles from Total War, dynastic relation from Crusader Kings and mix it with EU4.. or maybe I shouldn't throw my life away quite yet. They still have a lot of work to do, but 0 AD is certainly giving it a decent try. I'd love a new Empire Earth primarily similar to the first game but with some mechanics from the second as well (like the much better diplomacy). Roller Coaster Tycoon. Have you seen the trailer for the new one? Eww.  Check out Theme Parkitect. Parkitect is nothing yet. Maybe in a couple of years, but it's just a proof-of-concept for now.  Frontier is making another roller coaster game and they were responsible for RCT3, so that could be hit or miss. Theme Hospital, we need something like Prison Architect but for theme hospital! Just thinking about it gives me a bloaty head. May I suggest you take a look at Museum Tycoon, which is in early development?
[
Here's a video by /u/quill18 that shows very early gameplay](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FGHC5g4znEg) and it seems like the devs are hitting the right tone in terms of art style and humor to be a spiritual successor to Theme Hospital and games in that genre.

Come over to /r/museumtycoon, join the discussion and help shape the game - the devs are pretty active in the sub. A museum is such a great idea for a tycoon game, I can't believe it hasn't been done.

That being said, that gameplay video doesn't look great. It doesn't really make sense the way you use paths and plop things along side it. It should be like theme hospital where you drag out the exhibits like rooms and then each area would have required items and then additional items. And the patrons can walk freely in the open space between them. Are you familiar with [CorsixTH, the Open source clone of Theme Hospital](https://github.com/CorsixTH/CorsixTH)? Doesn't that game require an original copy of Theme Hospital? Yeah but you can buy it through GOG. Origin gave it away a few weeks ago also. Tycoons in general, they were everywhere in the early 2000s... Miss mall or zoo Tycoons  Well... We still have "X simulators" coming out weekly, where X is anything imaginable.  A proper Zoo Tycoon reboot would be pretty neat I think we are a minority, friend. Sometimes I feel like the only one who loves these games. Wildlife Park 3 was a lot of fun, but could have been so much better. Niche genres that need new life:

* Civilian flight simulation. We're all still basically playing/modding FSX and I guess X-Plane. I wish something exciting was going on.
* Non-band rhythm games . This genre is dead at home but is crazy good right now in arcades. Games like Pump it Up, beatmania, Sound Voltex, and Jubeat are still being released and are still awesome. Probably harder to have an "upstart" game with an expensive peripheral required.
* Realistic mech simulation. Mostly dead genre since like 2000-2001 with MW4 and Steel Battalion. I haven't tried Hawken but have been put off by it being free-to-play early access and dead in development. I'd kill for a modern Steel Battalion style game. As cool as it is, it runs at a terrible framerate and has no view distance. The Mech genre would be perfect for VR. I'd love to recapture the strange atmosphere of Mech Warrior 2 - that sensation of touching down on an alien planet at dawn, with that little automated voice that tells you the local time and temperature while your systems boot up. It was a warm sensation, like being in a womb or something. Imagine that level of immersion with VR... it's time for mech games to come back! Ah I still have fond memories of MW3. I loved that bending shearing metal sound when your legs were badly damaged. I was so excited for MWO but alas... &gt; I'd kill for a modern Steel Battalion style game. As cool as it is, it runs at a terrible framerate and has no view distance.

Someone just needs to rebuild the damn game on something like the Unreal engine, and fire out a stock of classic Xbox controller --&gt; standard USB adapters so people can plug their SB controllers in and play it on PC. 

I own two of those controllers (used to run a major site for the game) and had SO much [fun](https://youtu.be/Kivvi3x7ZTY) with it back in the day. Even these days I still break out my controllers and classic Xboxes on occasion to play Steel Battalion at LAN parties.

...Fuck it, let's get this show started! I can... um, supervise. We just need a bunch of artists and programmers who are willing to toil away for free for several (dozen) months to make this happen! 

come on guys who's onboard I'm in! I once wrote myself a calculator in C## so this shouldn't be a problem. Hawken definitely isn't in the realistic mech sim realm so that's not what you're looking for. I'm gonna sound like a noob - but - What is "realistic" mech sim? Think flight-sim: large array of buttons/options, slow, yet complex gameplay, that kind of thing. Hawken is much faster paced and more shooter-y. So fucking right on FSX. I find it amazing that a sim almost a decade old can't run without issue on my current rig at decent settings. Prepar3d didn't even add much for the vast majority of people. 

 I keep reading mixed results about Prepar3D vs. FSX, but it runs *and* looks much better than FSX on my computer. I'm really happy to have switched. I'm stoked that Lockheed Martin is continuing development on it, even if we have to all be...students (of life)...to use it. The FSX engine is still really powerful, it just needs optimization. Check out osu! for pc for non band rhythm games  Civilian flight sims will inevitably see a resurgence once the Vive and the Rift hit the market. Bus Simulators. There is basically only 1 company making them and they make 2 a year (CityBus Simulator and Bus Simulator respectively), yet Farmer, Construction, Train, Air Control etc get lots of simulation love.

Right now, my best bet is to play GTA V in first person on the PS4, which is great since you can make your own bus routes from Paleto Bay to the airport and can take an hour+ to complete.

They even have 3 or 4 types of buses (coaches, LST buses, shuttles and prison buses). Serious question, what is the appeal of a bus simulator? I'm curious. Germans get bored too,... Omsi (2) is a great Bus Simulator. It only covers Germany, but it does it great.

http://store.steampowered.com/app/252530/ Please don't take this as a personal dig, but I cannot even begin to fathom what would make someone want to play this. Same kind people who play Euro Truck Simulator, or Train Simulator, etc. There's a market of people who just enjoy that kind of thing, as weird as it may seem to people like you and I. [deleted] Now...a Perfect Dark sequel that's actually as good as the original...I'm ok with that...cause I love Perfect Dark.  Not the sequel, or the prequel, or any other shitty iteration of that game. [deleted] Zoom and aim is messed up though :/ I loved RC Tycoon. I was holding out a shred of hope that the new iteration of it would be good, but most signs are pointing to disappointment. I still play RCT2. It's still amazing. Frontier (made RCT3) is making another RCT-type game, so even if the new actual RCT is terrible (from what I've seen it looks like a mobile game) there is always Frontier's game.  I also think there are a few other games in development similar to RCT. EA's mishandled Dungeon Keeper could soon get bested by War for the Overworld or similar small-studio offerings in the dungeon management genre. Very similar to the SimCity genre and likewise fairly niche - but the fact that they were so popular games in the late 90s suggests that there's an audience for those games, if an actually good one comes out, like with Skylines.  I'm still waiting on Startopia 2!

Also, there is Impire which looks like it could be fun. I don't know if it has as much publicity as War for the Overworld though. Impire is... alright. It takes a lot of the fun out of things by not letting you design your own rooms. Instead you have to place premade ones with set entrances and exits, making most of the game about planning ahead to try and jigsaw awkwardly shaped rooms together. It's generally a lot more shallow, even in combat and minion management. The plot is quite funny, though, and it does more with existing map design than most games of its type. You have a commander in the world, so a lot of the game is leading exploration parties or assaults yourself.  &gt; the fact that they were so popular games in the late 90s suggests that there's an audience for those games

there is, but not big enough to warrant AAA devteams or marketing, so publishers rather focus on the big cashcows. &gt; so publishers rather focus on the big cashcows.

This is a great way to have a nice bottom line, until you kill your cash cows and go bankrupt, ala every Hollywood studio currently.

Activision is probably likely to be the first giant videogame publisher to go that way, especially if Blizzard ever manages to spin itself back out. Activision itself currently owns Skylanders, Call of Duty, Destiny, and a bunch of shitty licenses. That's about it. Every other popular series they've had, they killed by putting out 20 of them  - Tony Hawk, Guitar Hero, etc. &gt; but not big enough to warrant AAA devteams or marketing

Such a game doesn't have to be AAA to be wildly successful. Hell, a port of Dungeon Keeper and Dungeon Keeper II with adequately updated graphics and with the gameplay intact is all I (and I imagine a legion of DK fans) need. Strategy games. Blizzard controls the market with starcraft but they are sooo fucking slow at making much needed changes to their game it's infuriating. One well designed strategy game where the developers keep actively working on it and manage tournaments can easily push them off their throne and be the next big E-Sport game. [Grey Goo](http://store.steampowered.com/app/290790/). Not sure it is doing so hot, though. Its a great game but they priced it way too high! It needs: A name that doesn't sound like a world of goo sequel, a $30 price point, and a marketing campaign which is more than TotalBuiscuts WTF is video.  I hate to say it but this is all so spot on. Once i learned what 'Grey Goo' is, i realized its a great name technically, but from a marketing standpoint it sounds just like what I wound name a fremium iOS app.  Seriously, I had my eye on it from back when it was in development and I'm surprised they've stuck with it. That name isn't doing them any favours *at all*. Especially since they apparently have a perfectly good Protoss space wizard race. Name it after *those* guys.  Normally Reddit is good at making me feel old.  Today you're making me feel like a nerd for forgetting that most people don't know what grey goo is.  And that despite its silly name, it's scary as fuck. Ah I love asymmetrical factions designs. :)

Earth 2160 was great for that too. See, imagine if EA released that C&amp;C game they were working on an it surprisingly turned out to be terrible. I bet we would have a Cities Skylines situation on our hands. People were so hungry for a decent Sim City game that they'd take anything, although luckily, Cities Skylines is great.  hopefully whatever day9 is working on turns out amazing and/or gets blizzard to shape up Madden football. The 2K series proved that there are other ways to skin the NFL's cat in this regard. I read something about a new Joe Montana football game recently. Apparently it's a 2K studio, though I'm sure the talent building that game is completely different than previously. It also hasn't been confirmed if Joe Montana Football has an NFL license or not. They have been heavily hyping the mechanics of the game though. Bring any football game to PC and I'll buy it full price. I must have thousands of hours in the past in NCAAF games. Calling SimCity an "empire" is a little exaggerated. EA wasn't completely wrong when they said the city building genre is a niche market. It's not like the military FPS genre is going to be toppled by a small indie dev.

If this kind of thing happens again, it will be to a genre of games that has a small but devoted fanbase that hasn't gotten a decent game in years. For example, if the NFL license was open to more companies, Madden would get devoured. This was also only possible because the SimCity franchise committed suicide.  Most of these long-running franchises at least tend to produce games that are equally as good as the ones they are replacing.  SimCity managed to make a new game that was worse in every way that anyone cared about than the one before, and left people clambering for a replacement.  In most of these genres, the people buying the games are satisfied, or at least not actively angry, about the way things are.  In the case of SimCity, people were screaming for something better. You are correct, but there is a minor detail that needs a slight correction:

The latest SimCity release was not the first in disappointing releases of the SimCity franchise. Some years after SimCity 4 was developed (which we can all agree, was the last good one) EA/Maxis churned out SimCity Societies, which had an expansion pack called SimCity Societies: Destinations, which no one talks about because it was actually a huge pile of shit. With the new SimCity, you can at least say that the soundtrack is pretty good (though very samey), but Societies and Destinations were pretty goddamned bad, to the point where we blocked them out of our heads.

You're absolutely right everywhere else, but the latest simcity was the product of a steady decline in quality. Simcity Societies was Tilted Mill, not Maxis It was the "Call to Power" of the franchise. Except that Call to Power was actually pretty good. This is the main problem with The Sims series.  Sims 4 is not an awful game, but its not near what it could be and lacks a lot of features from the previous versions.  Most fans are happy enough that they have a working game that a replacement isn't really required.  Its kind of a shame, especially knowing what could be  possible were there competition. This is my problem with TS4. I have TS3 and nearly all the expacs, it plays great, has truckloads of content, and then 4 comes around and has nearly nothing....which while expected in this series because of the expacks, my sims 3 game at its core has more options and freedom.  I can go anywhere in the city without load screens, and shape the land and everything.  TS4 felt like a slap in the face. [deleted] TS4 was hardly a slap in the face. The engine is *soooo* much better. It runs smoothly, loads quickly and looks really nice. A true upgrade. 

Of course a base game has less content than a game with 10 expansions installed. Its been shown multiple times that Sims 4 base had more content than Sims 3 base. 

The two major complaints (lack of create-a-style and open world) were decisions made by the developers for the *right* reasons. I have a good computer - Sims 3 runs terribly. It takes so long to load I would avoid playing it. The trade-offs made with Sims 4 were really sound decisions. 

Loading to a different lot is just as quick as traveling in Sims 3 and I find I have just enough variation in object colors to keep me happy. Again, hardly a slap in the face. 

 The obvious solution is to hold off on playing new sims games until the NEXT one is released. Just think, you could be diving into the content of TS3 for the first time now, and by the time TS5 comes out, TS4 will have all the stuff you could want. :P Absolutely. I held off on Sims 4 until the Mac release earlier this month, but was wary of the terrible reviews it received at launch. Honestly, I was really pleasantly surprised at how good it has been. 

I'm running a fairly old 2010 macbook modded to 8Gb Ram, and it runs *so* much better on medium-low settings than the Sims 3 did on any settings, especially when you started adding expansions.

You can tell from the get-go that they were serious about optimisation this time around, and I can't fault them on it. The fact that you have to travel to visit other areas is probably annoying for die hard fans, but I really appreciate it (as a filthy casual). It doesn't impact gameplay as much as I was led to believe it would. I was also never a fan of the create-a-style, so I don't know how much its removal hinders gameplay.

The biggest improvement is that you don't spent 75% of your day doing bullshit chores, walking around slowly, going to the bathroom or cooking. All of the necessary annoyances have been sped up, and you can multi-task, which makes it a *joy* to play when compared to previous instalments. This is the first time I've really enjoyed playing the game over just cheating for cash and building ridiculous super-mansions.
 Did you play Sims 3 on release? Or Sims 2? It has always been like that. I don't get why people complain about it, there's no way around the fact that a game with 10+ expansion packs is going to have way more content than a single base game. Sims 4 is a much better base game than Sims 3 ever was, just wait for expansions and keep playing Sims 3. Literally every Sims thread someone says that but there's really no point in complaining about something that has no reasonable solution. Sims 4 is a much better base than Sims 3. Just performance wise it's absolutely ridiculous how much of an improvement it is. Sims 3 ran like complete crap in my high end (at the time) PC, it'd take almost 5 minutes to load a game and the FPS were terribly inconsistent. Sims 4 runs flawlessly on my mid tier laptop. Various core mechanics have been improved and most of the important missing content (pools, basements) has been added in free updates.

The response to Sims 4 is exactly the same as the response to Sims 3 when it came out. People hated it, now it's the better Sims game and a huge cash cow for EA. Why would anyone prefer a base game to a game with 10+ expansions worth of content? Just look at it as a long term investment. I'm glad to see that the legacy of one of my favorite games truly lives on, even in a different series!
 &gt;...left people clambering for a replacement.

I know we shouldn't be pedantic about this stuff here but honestly trying to help and I think in this case it is worthwhile.

The word you wanted is "clamoring" and not "clambering".

Clambering = To Climb

Clamoring = To shout loudly/vehemently

That said I was not confused for a moment about what you meant and I agree with you.
 Counterstike was originally just a mod. Look at how popular it has become. I see no reason an indie dev could not make an FPS that would topple a AAA one. Especially since the genre has become pretty stale. "Empire" is a metaphor for the strength of the brand. When you thought city builder, you thought Sim City. The brand was so strong that anything sort of close to it was called a "Sim City-like game." 

&gt;For example, if the NFL license was open to more companies, Madden would get devoured.

Right this is exactly was I was sort of wondering. That's a good example of a big brand franchise that could use a "Cities: Skylines" type competitor to rise up. &gt; That's a good example of a big brand franchise that could use a "Cities: Skylines" type competitor to rise up.

It had one. It was called NFL2k5, and it was so well received as a breath of fresh air over how stale Madden was that EA shoveled a boatload of money towards the NFL to lockdown exclusive licensing and push out any future competition. While EA is not totally guiltless in this situation, it was actually the NFL that wanted a single company to make their games. Yes, so they could control every aspect of the game. Hopefully Joe Montana Football 16 will change all that. It can't because it doesn't include NFL brands and logos, and therefore will not appeal to the most valuable demographic for sports games - kids who live and breathe the sport. They aren't buying Madden because Madden is getting better; they buy for the brands, and year to year they even buy the games for roster updates alone. 

Madden isn't a football game. It's a brand simulator, and people will pay for the brand.  Roller coaster tycoon. I don't even care who ends up making it. But I am jealous sim city fans got what they deserved. Look up Parkitect for one thing, that's looking pretty good. Frontier are also making "Coaster Park Tycoon" or something which may be alright too (this is not RCT:W, we don't talk about that). If you want stuff that's a bit more design than game based then there's Theme Park Studio, and for the hardcore, Nolimits 2 is professional grade for 30 or something. There is hope yet, and it's another case where a franchise is committing suicide. Most of the Tycoon genre could do with an overhaul. They were so good back in the day and then something happened and we got over-saturation of dumb tycoons. Frontier just announced a spiritual successor to RCT is in the works by them. http://store.steampowered.com/stats/

I don't know if I'd call the #6 game on steam a "niche" genre. It might have just been niche because the most recent iterations have been pretty crappy. I've been talking about Skylines with my friends who don't play games, and they have been immediately interested due to their memories of playing Sim City when they were younger.  A few have bought Skylines and are having a blast.

Just because EA hasn't found a way to monetize in a specific genre does not mean people wouldn't play the shit out of it if they could.  Over the past 30 years, it feels like we're just coming out of the most conservative period in the history of gaming.  Thank god for smaller development teams, the increasing availability of development tools and self-publishing options. Agreed. Anyone over 20 has fond memories of Sim City. Hence all the hype and articles on Skylines. Just bought a junker laptop for my wife for school. After watching a few streams memories of simcity2000 came running back. Went on the app store and tried the simcity on there and gave up. Bought skylines and am fucking loving it. Wish I could run it with higher detail but I'll take what I can get.  The #6 game on Steam in the middle of its launch hype train. Give it a few weeks/months to see if it has staying power, then say that it's not a niche genre.  If Skylines has sold over 500k copies within 6 days and Sim City 2013 tops out at well over 2 million, then I wouldn't really call it a niche genre. Sims like city builders, construction and management sims, and government sims are all very close together on the genre spectrum and have always been very popular on the PC market. I wouldn't call it 'niche' either, at least not anymore. As a comparison, CoD:BlackOps sold something like 5m on day one, but that's when you have one the industries' behemoths behind using all its might. Skylines' developer has 13 people, and it's being published by an indie studio like Paradox. This is more like a small genre breaking into the mainstream, kind of what Dark Souls did.

It might be just a matter of days before they break the 1m copies. Hardly a 'niche' product anymore. Not only that, but if you remove First Person Military shooters from the mix (due to it being an outlier), you have a way more realistic view on how good Cities:Skylines is doing.

- StarCraft II did about 1.5 million in about 3 days.
- Cities:Skylines did 0.5 million in about 3 days I think all sports games need an overhaul. This right here. I know (money) it'll never (money) happen (money), but man, I'd personally love to see sports titles turn into a once-every-three-or-so-years thing. Even have a $20 pack or something each off-season that provides updated uniforms, rosters, whatever for the new season and then supports those changes through the season.

But that'll never happen. I don't even think all sports games need to do this, if we could just get other studios access to the license to make these games. EA could keep phoning in their annual titles and another company could come along and do something like this. I would love a good PS4 NHL game. It was a successful franchise without any legitimate competitors for more than 20 years. I think "empire" is a pretty accurate metaphor. Microsoft + 2k Sports are making Joe Montana 2016, Madden is already done for.  Unless is has the NFL license. I am very much looking forward to Joe Montana Football 16.

I don't know if it will live up to the recent hype, but it can't possibly be *worse* than Madden, right? 

Hoping to see the two games actually compete and make each other better in coming years. Football simulation hasn't had that for a very, very long time.  If it doesn't have the actual teams then they might as well bury all copies in the desert.  There was a Cricket game recently which doesn't have any official licensing so no actual teams. They just included an editor where people could make their own teams and players and then upload them to be available for download to anyone. Within a few weeks all the official teams had been created by fans and the best versions rated the highest.

It's very popular and considered the best Cricket game in probably a decade or more. I actually really liked madden 15. And if it doesn't have an nfl license it'll never be a madden killer.  The Sims!! Why are no other people making life simulation games?The Sims is all there is, they have no competition and that is why they are so lazy.  Lazy? For what it is and the audience it caters to the Sims has a tremendous amount of content compared to most games. Maybe they could make a base game on a similar level as one of the flagship titles but to produce the expansion content as fast and efficiently as EA does would be a difficult task, especially without the backing capital of a huge corporation like EA. * Make it easy to mod
* Bring back open world
* Optimize it for 64 bit machines

 TS4 is mod friendly. It is? Is it as mod friendly as TS2 was or more like TS3? It's more like TS2 was. We started seeing the kinds of custom content in weeks that it took months to figure out with TS3. It released with mod support including python scripting. Mods have been coming out consistently since launch. I'd say better than TS2. &gt; Make it easy to mod

the sims 4 is mod-friendly

&gt; Bring back open world

I doubt we can for now. unless we want to sacrifice performance

&gt; Optimize it for 64 bit machines

that's something I can agree on * Stop fucking taking out basic content like realistic careers The last Sims alike i remember which was also a nifty strategy on itself, was space colony.

Man i wish that game had more stuff, i really loved the manage a small team in a the middle of nowhere while building a cool base. Technically, Nintendo's Animal Crossing series could be called a "life simulation", although it clearly goes about it in a completely different way. I'd always be down for an original vision Spore game by -or not by- Will Wright now that Maxis is over.

All the depth and imagination of old Maxis, without someone trying to make it a kids game. Universim is looking to be pretty similar, except it deals with the tribal phase onwards. Civilization.

A turn-based, 4x strategy game that lets you guide a nation from the birth of agriculture all the way up to space flight.

There has NEVER been a competitor the Civilization series. As much as I love the games, I think some competition would give them a serious shake-up. Endless Legend is a TREMENDOUSLY well-done alternative to Civ, and definitely a series to watch going forward I just wish its AI was better, though to be fair, Civ doesn't have outstanding AI either.

Love the province mechanic though.  &gt;There has NEVER been a competitor the Civilization series.

There has, [it was also called Civilization at first](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civilization:_Call_to_Power). Its [sequel game](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_to_Power_II) was not allowed to use the Civ name so it just went by Call to Power.

I loved the CtP games, especially because their take on the future was *way* more interesting than what Civ gave you. Underwater highways and cities, space elevators and orbital cities, orbital combat, futuristic hovertanks, eco-terrorists using "green nukes" to seed a target city and reduce it to a jungle... really cool stuff, all in all. *Call To Power* was most definitely in the [Civilization family of games](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civilization_\(series\)). It just wasn't part of the official "main" line (It's in the same group as Colonization, Alpha Centauri, Beyond Earth, and all the other spin offs). Considering that, I'm not sure it exactly qualifies as "competition". It is weirder in that it was licensed, not developed in-house, but it's still considered to be part of Civilization, not a separate franchise.

But yeah, CtP's future tech stuff was awesome. I'd love to see something like that in a main-line Civ game (or a competitor).  I really loved the CTP games too. They also suffered from horrendous AI problems but they had a lot of really interesting concepts. I never really got into it at the time but it seems like multiplayer CTP would have been tons of fun.

I liked the economic and cultural warfare options like lawyers that could file injunctions, corporations that set up franchises and siphon money or production out of another civilization, TV evangelists, etc. While probably not too PC in this day and age but the games also had terrorists and biological warfare. Endless 4X series? Please God let the new nfl game be true and replace Madden  CoD, Battlefield, Madden, Assassin's Creed. Really, the yearly cycle games. I would like Shadow of Mordor to take over the Assassin's Creed area. I know storywise/lore it would difficult, but I love the Nemesis system and the combat is so nice (in my opinion).

Edit: Battlefield to a lesser degree BF doesn't get yearly releases and BF4 is easily the best title in the series now that DICE LA has taken over (which doesn't mean that anyone should forget about the pathetic launch state).

The last two SimCity games, in comparison, were and still are atrocious to the core. &gt;I would like Shadow of Mordor to take over the Assassin's Creed area. I know storywise/lore it would difficult, but I love the Nemesis system and the combat is so nice (in my opinion).

What they really ought to do is "Shadow of X" games that are similar but in different universes Shadow of the Empire? Anyone know if there's a competitor for "The Sims" franchise? I'm amazed that such a successful game has no competition (that I know of). At least any plans in work?  Like...the only thing even remotely similar is Animal Crossing. Kind of a pity really. aww shit my turnips expired! Wasn't second life and a whole slew of games similar to that released way back to attempt to compete with The Sims? Not very familiar with second life, but is not a multiplayer game? I understand it's a life simulator, but I'd expect there to be more singleplayer clones or competitions for the Sims franchise.  From what I remember second life is like a life MMO that involves real cash exchanging hands. My friend told me his parents were into it and they earned a small amount of cash here and there.  I heard some are living off of it... even getting big.

Edit: Here is a full [Documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUwD7u7wwcY) about the game  Damn that's got to have some dedication.  Second Life is not a life sim. It's a "virtual world". It doesn't track things like character needs. Second Life was kind of an MMO but was more focused on socializing and customization and had no story or quests.

It was also broken as all fuck, glitches and bugs abound and was a haven for deviants and weirdos and creeps with trolls running around all over the place. People also stole (and probably still do) assets like 3d models to be sold in game. It's absolutely disgusting. Second Life and The Sims have very little in common. Games like the Sims are amazingly hard to make. To compete you'd need so many people working on animation / AI / game features just to compete with a game that has had the formula down for years. They also have a huge dedicated fanbase..... I think the reason Cities Skylines is doing so good is because no one really focused on the city building genre. The last real good Simcities game was 4, which came out on 2003, and in-between then and now, nothing really came out that filled the gap. 

I really hope this inspires other forgotten/under-saturated genres to come back.  There was Cities XL, which got pretty much abandoned shortly after with the developers re-releasing the damn game three times over. Well, it had its fair share of problems and was not very intuitive. I regret purchasing xl. Me too. It was nice visually though No, the story of Cities XL is much more a mess than that.

The original dev (Monte Cristo) made it some kind of always-online mess. (Man, you'd think the SC dev's would have paid attention). That failed and had huge backlash so they hacked together an offline version. But at that point they were broke and went under.

The game got picked up by Focus Home Interactive after that. Who either don't understand the base game source code or don't have it. Hence, they rereleased it multiple times with almost no fixes to the massive memory leaks and other issues in the game. The additional buildings weren't even new, they were just hidden in the game as part of unfinished/unreleased DLC from the original developers, they just made them available to use.

If that game actually had it's bugs fixed and a developer who'd given it some real improvements, it would have been decent. When it takes looking through a bunch of forums to even make it possible to play the game with a good-sized city without having it crash from memory issues every hour or less, it's impossible to recommend. The article mentions this but SimCity had such a stranglehold on city building games (because it did it so right) that no developer or publisher had the balls to compete against it. I'm really hoping that games like Cities: Skylines and Pillars of Eternity are just successful enough to breath a bit of life into the mid-market of gaming, and prove that there really is money out there to be made in these classic gaming genres that for years have been left to rot.

You won't make Call of Duty money, sure, but there's a market there dammit and we're dying to give you our cash. There is loads of city builders out there..

Tropico, cities xl,  banished, ect.. Extremely different, broken, extremely different El Presidente does not like you calling his game "Different" and has executed you. Things came out, they just weren't nearly as solid as Cities: Skylines. Cities XL, Cities XXL, Anno series, tropico But Anno and Tropico aren't really city builders, they are more tycoon like. Yes, great games and highly successful in their own right, just not competing directly with the likes of SimCity/Cities XL/Cities:Skylines. Here are some more stories on Skylines, including a link to a crosspost of this article on /r/gaming:

* [The 'SimCity' Empire Has Fallen and 'Skylines' Is Picking Up the Pieces -- "Colossal Order's SimCity-like game, Cities: Skylines, has sold more than half a million copies in its first week"](http://np.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2zdx0q/the_simcity_empire_has_fallen_and_skylines_is/)
* [With the Success of Cities: Skylines](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2z557p/with_the_success_of_cities_skylines/)
* [Cities: Skylines has sold 250,000 copies, including pre-orders, in the first day!](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2ysuy3/cities_skylines_has_sold_250000_copies_including/)
* [Was that so hard, Maxis? [Cities Skylines panorama of huge region]](http://np.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2ys85s/was_that_so_hard_maxis_cities_skylines_panorama/)
* [Cities: Skylines Review Thread](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2yjtfn/cities_skylines_review_thread/)
* [Simcity dev adds more comment: Simcity was developed by a small team, like Skylines](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2y8scz/simcity_dev_adds_more_comment_simcity_was/)
* [Cities: Skylines sells 500k](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2z806i/cities_skylines_sells_500k/)
* [Cities: Skylines - Bringing New Features to City Builders - Video Dev Diary](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2y4ekd/cities_skylines_bringing_new_features_to_city/)
* [Cities: Skylines - Preview by quill18](http://np.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2xtfer/cities_skylines_preview_by_quill18/)

These related stories were recommended by my topic analysis engine, in case you want to read more. I hope you enjoy them! I find it incredible how fast this game has become a hit. I had not even heard of it 2 weeks ago, and now it is everywhere. It has somehow built up a massive community overnight, and the modding is ridiculous. Has a game ever had so many mods in so short a time. Granted, right now they are mostly new models, which are fairly easy to add to the game, but still, with many games, even with good support, it takes weeks for functional mods to really come out. As good as this game is, it has a ton of problems which really need to be addressed and people need to stop ignoring. Traffic is the biggest issue. Cars pretty much only use 1 lane even if you have a 6 lane road. Emergency vehicles sit and wait in traffic instead of bypassing anything. Also, the amount of corpses that pop up is ridiculous and it's absolutely absurd that a massive apartment complex becomes "abandoned" because a dead body wasn't picked up in time. 

It's also way too easy.

I put 27 hours into it so far and for the most part I've had a lot of fun but all of these issues make it hard for me to want to keep playing it. check out /r/citiesskylines if you haven't already, paradox has a community manager there to take feedbacks (and probably already see many of your complaints). Reason for cars only using 1 lane is because your roads design is sending them all to a key destination with the only/quickest way and to get there forcing them into 1 lane to turn right.

I've had to re-evaluate my roads structure a few times before i found a good solution The problem is, if a car is going to be turning right in 20 blocks, it'll still use the right lane no matter what for that whole 20 blocks.  You can work around this with careful planning, but it's still illogical route planning.

Edit: and I understand WHY it's like this (making thousands of cars drive as smart as actual people on a normal computer is HARD) but it still kinda sucks. It is a bit too easy. But some are still finding it challenging. E.g you are still struggling with traffic problems whereas others are building mega cities with no traffic problems at all. All of those issues are from bad city design. Sure, some of it is retarded AI, but its easily fixed by proper zoning and road layouts. And you either didn't have enough deathcare or terrible traffic due to bad designs that hearses can't get anywhere.I think what a lot of people don't realize is that you can't mostly ignore traffic like you can in SimCity.  I didnt play a lot of simcity but I did get into citiesXL for a while (as bad as it was) and I totally agree with you.  Traffic in skylines is a dream compared to XL and if you get it right things flow much more smoothly.

I feel like a lot of the people complaining its too easy are playing with unlimited cash or ignoring a lot of the micro-management stuff.  The difficulty in Skylines is in planning.

I'm not saying the game isnt without its faults.  It needs more unique buildings and aesthetic stuff, and a lot more variety with buildings.  Fortunately its on the steam workshop from the get go, so I think we'll see a lot of great mods to improve that kind of stuff.
 With how small their team is, I'm glad they didn't focus too heavily on aesthetics in development. It really shows in the mechanics how fleshed out they are and how deep the simulation is. I feel like a lot of the criticisms its getting would be very similar to saying Civilization is bad because they keep losing while only having played 5 hours. Or EVE is terrible because someone blew their ship up. If you figure out the mechanics its a much more fulfilling game, the fun in a simulator is knowing the simulation to make the most of what's given to you.A lot of people need more time to learn how to properly play a city building simulator before saying everything is broken or bugged.  Yeah, with the exception of the parks taking away from retail demand bug (hopefully that'll be fixed soon), the biggest confusion I see is people who don't understand how industry demand works with education levels and property value. 

The other thing is this game has only been out for like a week now. The mod community is insane, and mods have even been spun up to deal with the game's glitches. I'm guessing it's only a matter of time before a patch or two roll out to fix some of the glitches people have discovered.

Overall, I have a lot of hope for the game and the community is already growing at an amazing pace for a small studio.

Edit: They even have a Reddit thread in their subreddit asking people to help squash bugs: http://www.reddit.com/r/CitiesSkylines/comments/2zcn2w/help_us_squash_the_bugs/ The emergency vehicles not having traffic priority is an actual game issue though, otherwise I agree. I would love to see Skylines or another sim building game hit the phone. I would pay cash money for a GOOD mobile city builder. 

I tried sim city on mobile and it was a steaming pile of unreticulated splines. 

I understand that the F2P model is profitable, and that I won't get my wish, but I am hoping that Colossal Order or another like minded dev can make this hapen.  The saddest thing about your comment is that there was actually a GOOD SimCity mobile edition that was released shortly after the iOS app store launched in 2008. It was based pretty heavily on SimCity 4, and well worth the $10 price tag. Unfortunately, development stopped on that version sometime in 2009-2010 time frame (probably when SimCity 2013's development started ramping up). 

The new SimCity on iOS is the typical f2p moneygrab. It's pretty sad.  I haven't gotten to play it, but it looks amazing. I have kinda been out of the gaming community for a while so I didn't even know what this game was until I watched a nerdcubed video about it a few days ago. Since then, I've been watching a recording of a livestream that was done before release, and it looks amazing. There are so many planning errors I see too, and it just makes me want to get the game more to see if I can do better. 


On a semi related note, they are the same dev that did cities in motion. I have had cities in motion 2 in my inventory for over a year, but I never got around to downloading or playing it. Do you guys recommend it?  I've played Cim2 for a while.

Quite good actually, until your transportation network become too large and spew shit on your PC. On i5. I'm seriously considering buying this game. I loved the older Sim Cities games, and I bought Cities XL and was met with massive disappointment, I nearly joygasmed when I found out about the recent Sim City then had my hopes immediately destroyed when I saw all the news about how its always online, and has all those bullshit limitations and problems.

I just don't know if I should get it right now to have as a downtime game while I'm addicted as fuck to Elite Dangerous, or just wait for it to go on sale. if u get it. elite dangerous will BE your downtime game. You have no idea how much I love space, you're talking to a man with thousands of hours in KSP So when will EA buy out the Skylines team? Hopefully never. That would be terrible for the consumer. Which will probably mean it'll happen pretty quickly then.  Can they resist a crapload of money? Guess its a matter of creative control vs profit. Sort of the definition of selling out. So like...now that those maxis developers are unemployed...how about you scoop of that hot talent and keep this ball rolling? The hot talent that produced Simcity5? Yea no thanks Their art team was good. The rest of the team.... How was music and sound effects? I noticed Skylines doesn't exactly have A+ sound design It was servicable but not really memorable.  They had high expectations to live up to, Sim City 3000 and Sim City 4 set the standard for great city building music.  I don't judge Cities Skylines music very harshly either because of that.  Previous Sim City games were literally perfect.  It's hard to expect that of someone.   I don't believe the rest of the team was necessarily bad, just heavily restricted by company practices. I don't buy that wishy washy "It's nobodies fault" business.  It's great to blame EA or Maxis and not name anyone at fault because it takes no effort and sounds great.  

Agents were a god awful mess.  The mechanics were wonky and poorly thought out.  Sim City 5 or Sim City 13 or whatever you want to call it, was a disaster.  Was the publisher (EA) to blame for some things?  Sure.  I wouldn't solely put the blame on the devs for outright lying about offline capabilities because the alternative would be to get fired.  Even in the face of proof that the game could run offline.  The devs were unethical but they also have to eat and it's hard to say "Why didn't you get fired for telling the truth?".  But that doesn't excuse the game itself and the failure to code a decent game. The game was not badly programmed imo, it was badly designed and that design put bad restriction on the technical. I would blame the team that put together the design document, and the one that approved it. Would wouldn't think 100% online for an historically solo game was a good idea ? I don't think the blame should be put on the programmers but with the people telling them what to do, the team can only do so much when they have been set impossibly high expectations from their higher ups. They made a game with a simulation that was fundamentally broken. It was a flawed design from the beginning. Most of the other issues come out of that (why tiny cities? Because the game doesn't scale well and the simulation falls apart both in terms of how in-game stuff works and in terms of computer demands).

That's not EA's fault. That's entirely on Maxis. Yeah I was thinking maybe jump back a few years and see where those employees are at. Its not the rest of the teams fault the game had poor design decisions Believe it or not the devs are not responsible for SimCity 5's stupid design decisions. i'm shure. i remember some one strongly defending simcity's policies at launch. Colossal Order is a Finnish studio. Not sure how many of Maxis's former developers would want to relocate.

There was a Maxis artist who started creating modded buildings for Cities: Skylines, and was invited to discuss a position, but again - relocation was an issue. He ended up opening a patreon so people can pay him to mod buildings in skylines. So there's that.  Valid point, however, yes optimistic, there/we ate in a global economy so location could be irrelevant.Then again a separate comment states that a dev is currently producing mods. Funny you should say that, a Maxis art team guy has recently started [releasing mods/assests for Cities: Skylines](http://steamcommunity.com/profiles/76561197961632157/myworkshopfiles/?appid=255710)

(I hope link is correct, at work and its blocked) this has been said many times. but most of the people who worked on the current simcity who are now unemployed, had nothing to do with the gems. I love to see the mighty fall when they become complacent. There is no room for complacency at the top, as a games developer you must keep giving the people what they want or face the consequences.  Why would you love to see that? I not certain that SimCity '13 was really a case of the 'mighty' becoming complacent. EA doesn't exactly have a great history of managing it's acquired studios and properties well, and I think the Maxis that produced SC13 was a very different team, culture, and workflow than the simulation wizards that produced SC3k and SC4. &gt; EA doesn't exactly have a great history of managing it's acquired studios

RIP Westwood Studios I think it's great that both the CEO and the Lead Designer [are women](http://otavafiles.fi/plaza/s/f/editor/images/citiesinmotion2_ensi_02.jpg). Clearly this shows women are welcome and have a future in game development, despite what some tv shows and journalists might say.

Edit: Normally I wouldn't care, but with the current reputation of gaming in the mainstream media I just thought it was notable. Cheers for the downvotes. &gt; Edit: Normally I wouldn't care, but with the current reputation of gaming in the mainstream media I just thought it was notable

You're right, it is.

I'd love to live in a world in which gender didn't matter and it was in no way remarkable that women are leading this project, but the fact of the matter is that we don't live in that world and until we do such accomplishments remain notable. Exactly. It's like when a celebrity or otherwise notable person comes out of the closet: no, their being gay *shouldn't* matter, but in the world we live in, it does, so it's good to give other young gay people an example of someone who was successful despite being gay.  Exactly. I can personally attest to that; when I was a young, closeted gay boy, it was awesome and encouraging to see stories of celebrities coming out of the closet (especially because back then, there weren't that many of them). Yeah, in an ideal world it shouldn't matter, but in a world where I was afraid that I wouldn't be accepted for being gay or that my life would be horrible because of it, I needed those people that I could look up to. It really is a good thing to see. Lots of people will say it doesn't matter or stuff along those lines, but with so much of the stuff that goes on the gaming community, it's very nice to see women being so welcome in the industry. Most people simply don't give a fuck who is making any game. As long as the game is good, it doesn't matter whether its a man or woman, preteen or senior, startup or huge company. We just want good games without all that stupid crap surrounding it.

 &gt; Lots of people will say it doesn't matter or stuff along those lines

On the contrary, this shows evidence that there isn't a bias against women in the gaming industry and that their gender was not a factor in the development of their game. There were rich black people in 1850s america. Yet obviously there was still slavery and bigotry. 2 examples of women succeding doesnt prove the absence of discrimination. It shows progress. Progress, yes. But many people here are stating that there is zero discrimination or that there is no more room for progress. &gt; this shows evidence that there isn't a bias against women in the gaming industry

That's a bad argument. It's like saying that because there are black congresspeople, racism is dead in America.  Both Colossal Order's CEO and Lead Designer are women, yes, but that doesn't mean everything is great for women in gaming. For instance, CEO Mariina Hallikainen herself said:
&gt;I was introduced to the mans world at an early age, jokes Mariina Hallikainen, CEO of Colossal Order. Since I was the only girl in school who chose woodwork over knitting and joined the so-called boys crafts class.

&gt;...

&gt;For many women entrepreneurs, that comfort zone lies in stereotypical business ventures. As Hallikainen aptly sums it up, We must break gender-defined roles to usher in a variety of talent in varied fields.

&gt;^[Source](http://finland.fi/Public/default.aspx?contentid=316798&amp;nodeid=37588&amp;culture=en-US)

Colossal Order is an exception and not the norm when it comes to women in development studios. We work closely with Paradox and they are a fantastic, progressive company, but Mariina herself jokingly admits that her studio exist in a "cave", and are very lucky to be able to just come into work every day in a relatively secure, funded, and isolated situation where they get to just make great games.

This is why we as a consumer culture should support "women in games" specifically, to allow more great women like these two the opportunity to create these incredible, artistically valuable, and quite profitable experiences. Interesting. It's great they're having such huge success with the game, and hopefully it will inspire others. I think if nothing else the success of this game proves that not only is there a place in gaming for women, but that gamers will embrace their work regardless of gender.  Some people make it sound like women are being marginalized somehow and I just don't get it - if someone makes a good game, then gamers will embrace it... period.  Nobody cares what their gender is. The problem is not how the customers treat you, it's how you're treated in the industry. So are you saying they're being abused by the "industry"?  By whom, and how? Here's one source:  
http://www.bostonglobe.com/business/2013/01/27/women-remain-outsiders-video-game-industry/275JKqy3rFylT7TxgPmO3K/story.html

&gt;Women account for only 11 percent of game designers and 3 percent of programmers...

&gt;Also, women video game programmers earn an average of $10,000 a year less than their male counterparts &gt;Women account for only 11 percent of game designers and 3 percent of programmers

That's not indicative of industry mistreatment. Men only make up about 10 percent of nurses, but I've never heard anyone say the massive gender gap there is the result of industry bias.  Men and women tend to gravitate towards different fields - that's nothing new.

The wage gap IS a potential problem, but that's common in virtually every field (including female dominated professions) and not at all unique to game development. So where's the goal post? What can I that would convince you there's a problem? Right now, I have a few routes I can take, but if I go first, you'll come back and say "yeah, that's weird, but it doesn't indicate mistreatment." Under what condition would you say "Yes, that is unacceptable and I hope things change."  Must be tough when people don't agree with you out of hand. Maybe the problem is that you're working backwards here - you've already decided that the "industry" is holding women back, so now you're trying to find arguments to maintain that position in light of this clear example that women CAN succeed in the gaming industry.  

I'm saying "look, two lead-developers (who just happen to be female) were at the helm in creating an awesome game and are getting the recognition and success they deserve... what's the problem?"  Why do we need to bring gender politics into a discussion every time a woman is in the news - can't we just celebrate the fact that these devs did something awesome?   I think we can agree on celebrating the game is great and that women were involved in creating it. 

I think this is "the exception that proves the rule." The fact that these women were involved sheds light on how rare it is that women get involved in general. That makes me wonder why women choose to pursue a career in games so rarely. Saying things like "Why do we need to bring gender politics into [it]" is a bit like saying "Talking about racism is racist." All it does is try to silence the conversation. If you want to contribute to that conversation, that is great! However, If this is not a conversation you want to have, then you can choose to stay out of it. Telling other people not to talk about it is just going to perpetuate the problem.

I think you're on the right track, you want people of either gender to succeed in what ever industry they want to work. That's great, I agree. I think we're not there yet, and women who want to work in games will tell you about it. As a woman in the industry, Marleigh Norton, put it this way:  
&gt;If you are a woman in the industry, there are all these little signals that you are not part of the club, that this is not your tribe

She's talking about "little signals" like the fact that "games for women" are about motherhood, and "games for girls" are about ponies and princesses. She's talking about industry events where a company she might work for will hire booth babes. One company even had a professional networking event where they hired topless women. There are exceptions where companies are including women more equally, but the presence of a few exceptions doesn't excuse the industry as a whole.  &gt; we as a consumer culture should support "women in games"

what do you mean by this?  We are a consumer culture. We are a culture that has built up around consumption; we play games, basically. We buy games. We spend money on games. We read gaming publications and watch gaming videos all based around the concept of us spending money on and subsequently experiencing video games.

As a part of that culture, we should do whatever we can to specifically promote "women in games"; women that play games, women that work in the gaming industry (especially important for those of us also working in the industry), women who think and write critically or academically about games etc. We should do this for reasons Mariina outlines in her comment; the gaming industry and gaming as a consumer culture is still widely very tough for women. Can't really agree with that at all. The best thing we can do in my opinion is to treat them as everyone else. 

Promoting them/their product for being by women is doing a disservice to everyone involved. Many will see it (rightly) as bias and be skeptical of the actual merits of their product. It's going to reinforce stereotypes, not reduce them. I don't really agree. I mean, I agree that we should support women in gaming. But I don't want to support them just because they are women. Should I also support them if they are shitty people? Should I support them even if they come up with anti consumer business practices?

I'd hate it if supporting women can be used as a shield for simply not being good at the job or being good in the media. If a woman in lead creates a shitty game I want to be able to express that without having people yell "Hey now, we should support women in gaming". I also hope that people support a game developer because they make good games. Not because they want to support a gender.

I'm not saying this to be anti women either. This crap can strike back later. If someone gains fame and success in the gaming media just for being a woman they might sooner or later hit a wall because they got an artificial boost. And for what? Having the right private parts? Can you name any examples of women you feel have been granted a shield as a result of their gender? Or is this more of a hypothetical? It's both actually. I got some people on my mind. But I'm not going to start a shitstorm over it here. There is nothing to gain from pointing fingers.

And on the other hand it's hypothetical. I just can't see how anyone could think it's a good idea. Even the women that will be positively affected. How can we both say that women in the industry are strong and experienced enough to do the job, that they are not damsels in distress that needs saving. And still promote that they get favored for doing *nothing!* For simply being. That must be incredibly patronizing. We don't need to support women specifically, we just need to recognize that they are obviously just as capable as men. It can be a rough transition for a work sector to stop being dominated by one gender. Yeah. I'm with you on that. I won't support a women in gaming, I won't support a man in gaming. I support good games, that is all that should be supported. Bullshit. Support good games and good game producers, don't give a flying fuck about gender. They can be little green blobs from mars for all I care, as long as the games are good. I don't think there's that much you can do as a consumer except point out when someone is being an asshole towards women and monitor your own prejudices.

Afaik Finland is culturally quite equal country compared to America (but not perfect in any way). Promoting women in video games is going to feel forced, it really should be larger discussion than that. I'm not OP, but the way I see it, no matter which "side" you're on (or if you even give a shit) it's impossible to deny that there has been a lot of shit stirred up in the past year or so about the role of women in game development. Whether you would argue that they face obstruction that men don't when it comes to finding success in the game industry or you think they don't, if you're passionate about good games being made, one would hope that you'd want all talented developers to feel welcome in the industry, male or female or whatever. Acknowledging that a game like Cities, which is pretty impressive considering (at least as far as I can tell with regards to critical reception) it beats out an entry into the genre by one of the biggest software companies in the world, and the women who are running the show, could potentially be really encouraging for other women who have the potential to make good-ass games you may otherwise see to get into the industry regardless of said shitstorm  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think it's completely irrelevant what gender they are.  It should be irrelevant, but can we not act like there isn't a reason to point out genders. &gt;  but can we not act like there isn't a reason to point out genders.

The hugbox? There is no reason to. Game devs are almost always gender less to their audience. It's not like most programmers, designers, leads or whatever are big names in the gaming community and everyone knows who they are. Could you tell me of the top of your head who designed games like Halo, Call of Duty, Battlefield or whatnot? I couldn't and I don't care as long as the game is good. It's just in the spotlight now because people try to make it about gender when it is about quality as you can see with Skylines.  I agree that it doesn't matter to the consumer, but I'm sure it matters a great deal to those that are trying to get into the business. 


 I think the point is that the only real barrier for people who want to "get into the business" is the quality of their work.  I.e., if someone makes a good game people will embrace it, regardless of gender, sexuality or whatever other identity issues our society chooses to saddle itself with on a daily basis.  The success of this game just underscores that fact. Unfortunately that's not true. There have been plenty of great female devs, and lead devs, that have made awesome games. These days it just seems like a big issue and I feel there are people on both sides who are just overreacting, mostly one extreme panicking over the other extreme. 

The earliest example I can think of is Carol Shaw who made River Raid for the Atari 2600 in 1982 which was very well received and most Atari 2600 fans would say it's one of the platform's top games. Around the same time there was Dona Bailey who co-created the arcade game Centipede. Again, a much loved game. 

Also just to clarify, I'm not saying there isn't a problem with too few women getting into the games industry, let alone computer sciences or other STEM fields since I have worked on recruitment programs to try and get more women interested, but what's going on right now in the games industry is just such an overreaction on all fronts it's really depressing.  Have there been incidents where a good game was rejected by the gaming community solely because of the dev's identity?  I'm not aware of that ever happening.  Most gamers don't know or even care about who makes the games they enjoy anyway, and most are only familiar with really big name devs like Sid Meier, Noch or Gabe Newell. Only one that can't be named on this sub  Was it rejected because of the identity of the developer, or because it was a shitty game?

Are we required to like a game simply because a woman made it?

A single game made by a woman being rejected isn't evidence of an industry-wide problem. It's not about games being rejected by the gaming community, it's that women have a significantly more difficult time getting into the industry. As a game design student I know and can guarantee that women have it harder than men, both from my own experience and the warnings that tutors have given us. It sucks, and although the groups of developers around the globe almost unanimously try to improve the chances for female developers to have successful careers, most of the sexism is hard to notice unless it's directly affecting you (which usually happens privately).  I keep hearing that, usually from people not in the industry itself. There have been countless successful women in gaming for decades, but no one has brought it up because outrage culture didn't realize they could make money off of telling women they were being kept out of the industry.

Even most recently at GDC2015, Amy Hennig (who helped create games like the Legacy of Kain series) came out and said she doesn't know what everyone is talking about. She's always been accepted in the industry.

Hell, even Randi Harper (whom is trying to milk the "tech-industry-hates-women-hurr-durr" meme right now) said 5 years ago that there's no discrimination in the tech industry.

Have you ever wondered if you were being taken for a ride? The gaming community is irrelevant. The problems are in the industry, not the customers. What problems? Do you think woman don't get into the business because they're woman? Is there any real evidence to support that statement? A quick Google search shows dozens of articles and other sources talking about the gender inequality issue in the tech industry. Does it matter for the consumer? May be not directly, but it does matter for the health of the industry.  &gt; talking about the gender inequality issue in the tech industry


This is so disheartening. that's not evidence, that's just articles, blog posts, people talking about something. Not evidence.  It's FUD that actually *does* try to scare women away from the industry.  Really really sad. Please show me one article where they actively use fear tactics to keep women out of the gaming market


...because you know how absurd that sounds right?  tech industry != game industry. there are plenty of female artists and designers. big studios hire you for your talent, not your gender.
 Gender inequality is one thing, discrimination is a totally different thing. A majority of woman didn't cared for a long time for the tech industry and now try to get into it which is totally fine. But since it's an industry which is flooded with workers anyway it for sure is hard to get into it. But that is true for both, males and females.  Discrimination isn't the issue. The OP was merely stating that it's good to see women in lead roles due to the fact they make up 52% of the workforce yet hold about 15% of the executive positions. 5% for Fortune 500. 

That's it. What are you arguing? Gender inequality is an issue and noting something like this is encouraging. That is all.  Equal outcome doesn't actually seem very equal.  I'm not saying that women are being forced out of the business, I'm just trying to say that they aren't really represented and to have two leads of a greatly appreciated game is a nice change. 

I see where these comments are leading to so lets just stop now.  &gt; I'm just trying to say that they aren't really represented and to have two leads of a greatly appreciated game is a nice change.

As I said, most people don't even know which gender the devs of the games they play have. It's just irrelevant. Do you care that there aren't more woman who work in construction? 

&gt;I see where these comments are leading to so lets just stop now.

Do you? I don't know where they lead to. I just see people making claims without backing them up.  &gt; Do you care that there aren't more woman who work in construction?

I don't, but I'm sure that any woman that wants to get into construction will care about it. That is my entire point, what are you not getting? &gt; I don't

So it's not about gender equality in general but about games because that's what news sources told you? I'm just trying to get behind the mindset. There are many places where men aren't welcome and no one gives a shit about it. So I don't get why one industry is picked and highlighted when it isn't even an industry where woman aren't welcomed at all. It's just such an important topic at the moment because of an agenda which is pushed down peoples throats by a press which has nothing better to do.  Not as much for discrimination like you suggest, but there's evidence that girls deciding what they want to do when they grow up are discouraged by certain jobs being "boy jobs." Even grown women often fear discrimination in certain fields. This happens across many careers, not just game development, and the body of evidence for it is substantial. When are we going to start pushing for gender equality for coal miners, garbage collectors, deep sea fishermen, roughnecks, roofers, firefighters, fabricators, construction workers?  The issue of gender equality is much bigger than the tech industry, yet the tech industry gets the brunt of the criticism.  You might think that because you pay more attention to the tech industry.  Gender equality is a big issues in nursing, teaching, military, welding, machining, outdoor recreation, etc.  It's everywhere, gamers just seem to get worked up over it more than other people. I agree the conversation has a bias toward the tech industry because it's a hot topic, but, on the other hand, the jobs you described are objectively more difficult for women, who have to work harder to build the same amount of strength. Those who work in the tech industry not only use high-level thinking and creativity in their regular job, but they have a bigger direct influence on society and culture than anyone except politicians and entertainers. These are the people who design the things most of us use during at least a quarter of our waking life. &gt;I agree the conversation has a bias toward the tech industry because it's a hot topic, but, on the other hand, the jobs you described are objectively more difficult for women, who have to work harder to build the same amount of strength

We are not talking about professional sports here, where you have to be at your physical peak just to compete.  Women are absolutely capable of doing any of the jobs that I listed.  So what if they have to work harder?  Some men have to work harder to build the same amount of strength as other men.  I don't see how the strength difference is even a valid argument.

  As I said on another comment:

&gt; It's not about games being rejected by the gaming community, it's that women have a significantly more difficult time getting into the industry. As a game design student I know and can guarantee that women have it harder than men, both from my own experience and the warnings that tutors have given us. It sucks, and although the groups of developers around the globe almost unanimously try to improve the chances for female developers to have successful careers, most of the sexism is hard to notice unless it's directly affecting you (which usually happens privately). Are you implying that due to gender reasons women were discouraged or discriminated against in the workplace in the gaming industry?

Not that women just didn't go for those types of positions until now? If that's true that's quite an indictment and needs to be shown with some proof but if not then it doesn't matter and you shouldn't glorify a game or give it a better reputation because women are involved. That's still sexism as you are preferring women over men.  I'm not implying that. I just think it is nice to see a female doing so well in a male dominated field, I'd have the same reaction if I saw a male doing well in a female dominated field.

Seeing this is encouraging to those that want to pursue careers that aren't typically associated with their genders.  

My little brother wanted to be a nurse, but he felt extremely uncomfortable because he saw nothing but women. Him going to the hospital and seeing that it isn't only women gave him the encouragement he needed to try and make that a goal. I imagine that it is the same for girls that want to get into gaming.  I see what you're saying and I get it, but my stepmom is a pretty big activist for women's rights and she really dislikes this type of thing because even if it has good intentions it makes these issues political unnecessarily. She hates that women get coddled like children whenever they achieve something and I agree with her. Congrats to them as people, not as women.  It's not about just praising them strictly for just being women. It's about acknowledging those that go for jobs that aren't traditionally done by their gender.  

Do you believe that people like Elizabeth Blackwell &amp; Jeannie Leavitt don't deserve praise for challenging the norm? Comparing these ladies to Elizabeth Blackwell isn't even remotely similar. While programming jobs aren't the 'norm' for women, they are very encouraged to jump into the field if they want to these days.
 There's a lot of difficulties with how to approach discussion of gender equality in any industry, but particularly gaming because of the very us vs. them mentality that has developed in forums on this topic. I think the important thing is to distinguish between the symptoms and the root cause. (These are both terms used to describe diseases, which I realise implies a negative light, but I'd like to use these terms in both a positive and negative sense.)

So, the situation currently is that there are far more men than women in game design. Some argue that this is because the industry is sexist, and excludes women, and others argue that this isn't the case. Whatever the reason for this symptom - unless you believe that women are inherently worse at making games, and therefore it's good that less women make them - I think we can all agree that it's a bad thing, and it would be better if the industry was more diverse. Therefore, regardless of the root cause of this symptom, we can agree that the symptom is a bad thing.

Now this, two women creating a vastly popular game, is a new symptom. A change from the norm. It does not prove or disprove any theories on the root cause of the previous symptoms. (Though it could be argued as evidence for some.) Regardless, we can still take this as a positive change, whatever might be the reason it happened. That's why, regardless of differing opinions on what this emergence represents for what is and isn't wrong with the games industry, we should all be able to unite in celebrating that things appear to be changing for the better. I don't think that's the same thing as coddling.

**TL;DR**: It's good that this happened, for gender reasons, and I think it's okay to feel good that it's happened. I don't think you're giving these guys enough credit. A lot of times the lead designer is the face of the game and becomes famous for decisions made in patches and content.

John Carmack, Greg Street, CliffyB, Jay Wilson, Notch, Hidetaka Miyazaki, Tom Chilton, Icefrog, Ryan Scott (Morello), Steve Freak (Guinsoo), Will Wright, Kojima, Sid Meiers is tacked onto games these days tom clancy style. Of course, the legends Gabe Newell and Shigeru Miyamoto. Do you think that regular people who just play games for the fun know any of those people? Maybe Notch, Sid Meyer and Gabe, that's about it. The majority of people who buy games don't give a shit about who made them.  r/games is a pretty specific niche in the gaming community. I assume we aren't just people who play games for fun.

&gt; Game devs are almost always gender less to their audience.

We (a gaming discussion board) are the audience in this context and to us, I presume, lead designers aren't gender less and faceless unknowns.

So while it is true the majority of people don't give a shit who made the games they buy, were currently in a place where they do so it is relevant. For all we know these two devs are about to make a new cashcow sim series and become famous game devs. &gt; I couldn't and I don't care as long as the game is good.

It's not that I particularly care about who makes my games, it's that I disapprove of a (allegedly and overall) discriminating industry. If there's video games out there being made in work environments that are unfriendly towards a group of people, then I do care, and the only way that a person like me can do anything about this is applaud games made in work environments that aren't like this. 

It's like with any business. If you disapprove of child labour, then the only thing you can do about it is reward businesses that don't use it and punish those that do by not buying their goods. I don't care who makes my games, but I do care that my games aren't made in ways I disapprove of.  But you would be falling for a complete fabrication made by some people with pretty clear motives  I can support that general statement. I just don't see any evidence that woman are discriminated in the industry since you can see, it's perfectly possible to make a game and be a woman. I think the only people who have problems in the industry are woman who want to make their gender the subject of their being as a dev. People just won't give you credit just because you're a woman and you made a game. When the game you made is good, it will be bought no matter if you're a woman or not. And about the discrimination part in work environments, again, there isn't really any hard evidence or is there? I'm genuinely curious since I don't know it.  [Here's a pretty thorough survey that was conducted exploring discrimination overall in the games industry done by the International Game Developers Association.](http://gameqol.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/IGDA%20DSS%202014-Summary%20Report_released.pdf) You know what's funny, not a single man was part of the people who conducted the survey. 

&gt;As the demographic section of the survey shows, 76% of respondents identified their gender as
male, with 22% identifying as female. 

That doesn't really look that bad, does it? 

&gt;Although diversity may have improved since 2005 with female participation in the survey nearly
doubling and modest gains in most ethnic groups, companies could be doing a better job of
implementing, enforcing and communicating diversity and discrimination policies to applicants
and employees. 

So it is getting a lot better, they don't go into detail what could be better or why it isn't good enough at the moment but the consensus is that females are on the rise in the industry.  Your are listing  off a few games made by humongous developers.  I can tell you for sure, a few things about the people at each studio that makes the games I play that are from smaller publishers and indie studios. What's wrong with learning about the personality behind the game? It often helps you connect with it on a deeper  level.  Agreed that it *should* be about the quality of the game, but with so many articles talking about how gamers exclude women from the community, I think it's important to point out the multiple counterexamples. It's about battling a stereotype that women aren't welcome in games. I agree if you just want to play the game and not care who the dev is, that's totally respectable; but I don't think you have a good counterargument as to why this can't be highlighted. Is it about battling then stereotype that women aren't welcome, or battling the *reality* that they aren't welcome! &gt; It's about battling a stereotype that women aren't welcome in games.

This just doesn't sit well with me.  It's like when Republicans attempt to fix their image by just changing their language without actually fixing the underlying issue, that their policies regarding women are just plain shit.  It sounds like you're trying to say "The problem isn't with us; it's with them!"

This shouldn't be seen as a counterexample of stereotypes against gamers.  This should be seen as an example that women are more than competent when it comes to design and implementation of games, and we should be asking ourselves why it's so rare. [deleted] Game developers I can name off the top of my head:

Shigeru Miyamoto, Yuji Naka, Yu Suzuki, Masahiro Sakurai, Sid Meier, Will Wright, Gabe Newell, Derek Smart (ha), Alexy Pajitnov, John Carmack, Ed Boon, John Tobias, Notch (Marcus Persson), Peter Molyneux, Michel Ancel, Tetsuya Nomura, Yasumi Matsuno, Hironobu Sakaguchi, Eiji Aonuma, Jonathan Blow, Shinji Mikami, Koji Igarashi, Keiji Inafune, Tomonobu Itagaki.

These are names I remember, because pretty much all of these names are directly tied to some of the best artistic experiences of my life. And  every single one of them is a dude. This isn't because I only like games made by guys, it's because for the most part female game designers are very much in the minority, and rarely if ever receive the same status as male game designers.

Is a game *better* if it's made by a girl? Hell no. Just like the president of the US isn't necessarily *better* if he's black. That has absolutely no effect on the quality of their job performance. However, it is absolutely fine to be happy when one of these success stories happen, and it is worth celebrating, because it is still so rare in an industry that's still pretty devoid of diversity. Look at DotA. We don't even know Icefrog's age, gender, or name. And it doesn't matter because he's helping produce good content. You seem to have a pretty good idea of what their gender is I hope that one day Icefrog gets revealed, and its a 80 year old grandma or something.  i feel like you have to have some sort of condition to be this naive of basic thought. imagine someone in the 50s saying "hey cool jackie robinson is a black guy and he's in the MLB doing great" and you responding with "totally irrelevant. his race doesn't matter."

it's like... do you not understand what's going on right now? we don't live in a fully realized utopia where sociological issues are a thing of the past and we all can all view things through one perfectly narrow, neutral lens. It matters for the same reason the author of a book matters. You can read a book without ever seeing who wrote it. You will probably enjoy it if its a good book. But learning about the people who created it, and the world they lived in will give you a better understanding of the thing they created (book or game). This is why its interesting to know that Kurt Vonnegut fought in World War 2 and took shelter in a slaughterhouse which inspired his book Slaughterhouse 5. 

When I read stats like : 
&gt;Women account for only 11 percent of game designers and 3 percent of programmers...  
[Source](http://www.bostonglobe.com/business/2013/01/27/women-remain-outsiders-video-game-industry/275JKqy3rFylT7TxgPmO3K/story.html)

I recognize that we're getting a lopsided view of the world. We're looking at everything though the lens of a male game designers imagination. I don't have numbers, but I suspect they're mostly white men, too. I want to know when games are made by women and minorities because I think they might offer me a perspective of the world I might not get from games produced by mainly white men.

Its *not* bad that a lot of men make games. It would be better if more women made games, too. It would be great if there were enough women making games that it truly wasn't remarkable anymore. &gt; Could you tell me of the top of your head who designed games like Halo, Call of Duty, Battlefield or whatnot?

I can't name the individual developers, but I have absolutely no doubt that those games were designed primarily by men. I think you're wrong when you say that developers are genderless to their audience. Come on, that's some really short-sighted thinking.  Why do we need to point out their gender?  Or ethnicity? Or anything else for that matter?  Can't we just let their work speak for itself?  In an ideal world, you're correct, no one would point out gender or race or any other arbitrary distinguishing features.

However, this is not an ideal world and there are a lot of cruel people out there trying to put others down. Any positive piece of news is a welcome change to a lot of the hate that gets perpetuated. Who's been putting these devs down?  As far as I know this game has been very well received. Are you saying someone has been harassing them? He means female devs in general (for the industry), not these two in particular. The sooner that the human race stops making reference to such things - negative AND positive - the better. People saying "Oh I think it's good that such and such is _____ (male/female/straight/gay/black/purple/alien/tree) etc" just highlights that there is an opposite mentality. 

Just don't say anything. Not saying anything doesn't work. It hides the problem. Young women need inspiration to join the games industry right now, and that happens by seeing others who look like themselves. The "just don't say anything" attitude is carried by the haves, not the have nots. These issues aren't Beetlejuice, they aren't going to disappear just by not mentioning them.  Ideally, yes, but theres so much shit flinging going on that sometimes its nice to point out the actual reality of things It becomes relevant when someone feels they have to say it in order to counter the loud minority over in that corner where most reasonable people don't buy into.  Who really cares? The game is fun. That is what matters. There is no reason. Really. I mean, perhaps we should then point out that the massive failure that was Sim Societies, which became societies instead of cities when the female lead insisted she had a revolutionary new direction to take the franchise in and almost destroyed it for good. You know what that means... Nothing, that means nothing. Just like this time, nothing.  There is no reason to. Their skill and talent is what matters and that's how it should be. If it was a man, the reason would be to berate them, if it's not the reason is to rob a person of their identity and reduce them to their gender?

The person heading up Cities:Skylines didn't become who they are just to become a fucking GENDER to you.

Stop objectifying them.

They're a person. I think it's entirely relevant given the politics of the past year. Don't hide from the issue and pretend that hostility towards women in the industry doesn't exist.

Women who make games should be celebrated because they challenge the boys' club stereotype. I would talk about it but unfortunately the rules prevent it. "Congratulations, you made a video game, all while having a vagina. You are now a noteworthy person." 

There.  And here I thought they didn't want to be defined by their gender, but by their merit.  Unless it's praise.  In an ideal world where women and men can pursue any career they want, we would only talk about merits. But in the real world where only 10 percent of game designers are women, gender is an important issue. Why are there so few? First lets work to make the demographics look a little more like the general population, then we can start ignoring the demographics. I'm not saying hire/promote women even if they don't deserve it. I'm saying find and change the things which are barriers to women who want to try but can't. Why is that noteworthy? Because only 3 percent of game programmers are women. It's a little better for designers, 10 percent of game designers are women. Its noteworthy when only 10% of a group shares some common feature right? I want to know why and I want to change that because I like games which come from a diverse set of view points, even if I don't read the credits.  [deleted] The people bitching about the boys' club stereotype made the boys' club stereotype. nice revisionism. just ignore decades of the game development industry's history, why don't you? Oh, yeah, I forgot that girls were banned from playing video games. The game industry is not by any means a boys club. Women are welcomed with open arms since there are generally few that are genuinly interested.  I agree. Normally I wouldn't care, but with the current reputation of gaming in the mainstream media I just thought it was notable. You are correct; however, the engineering field very heavily male oriented.  In America, it is very caucasian (yes I'm aware that doesn't apply to this game).  It can be intimidating for an African American, Latino, or a woman to look at this field and say "Yes, I belong here."

Seeing these minorities succeeding in the field simply gives hope to those that are willing to fight through the intimidation to work hard and do well.  That's why it is OK to show that the creators of this game are women.  It isn't about glorifying women; its about showing that the field is becoming more and more equal.

In a perfect world (i.e. a vacuum) we could ignore those sorts of thing, but that's now how it really works on planet earth. The majority of Americans are Caucasian, why is it surprising that the majority of American programmers are Caucasian? It isn't surprising at all, but times are changing. Historically (and keeping this purely American) whites were the only ones whose generations had enough access to education to start producing engineers. 

(*This is not an absolute rule. Charles Drew was an AA scientists whose work on blood storage in the 40s is still used today.*)

As we are in a transition period where more AA and Latino families are producing first gen college grads, we are going to see those races penetrate the various engi fields. As they do, they will see that they are among the first gen of their color while whites (who built the submarine, steam engine, the atomic bomb, and put a man on the moon) have been there (seemingly) forever. 

And to my initial point: it's not a superiority thing, it can simply be intimidating to be the only person of color among your peers. (or in OP's case, gender). It's good to see others are making it and it gives hope for the future ones.

That's it. No hidden message. 

 I feel like 'We are so beyond race that we don't care' is a better message then 'we're trying as hard as possible to accomadate to minority needs'. That first message works well in a perfect world, but that's not how it really works. 

If we pretend there are no bills, the debt doesn't go away. If we pretend the leg is healthy, the broken bone does not disappear. 

We can't pretend that race/gender isn't a factor in 2015. The problems don't go away if we do. Maybe in 2035 we can be at that level and I'd like to get there with you, but it's not the real world today.

...and that's okay. As more women developers stating making games as good as this, it'll stop nattering that they are women. (No one says "Gaben made another great game for a man!") Then it'll be based on accomplishment only.  Actually, it does work that way for some things. If a thought process in the problem, ignoring/not having the thought process *is* the solution. Computer Engineering and software development is by and large dominated by Asians, with a large portion of them being Indian. There's been a mass immigration of talented Indian devs to all the big American companies like Google and Amazon. Hell, just look at the current CEO of Microsoft, Satya Nadella. Or Google's current head of Android and Chrome, Sundar Pichai. Lots of Indians not just in the industry, but running it. Also for what it's worth, even if you're a person who doesn't care about the "politics"
behind this stuff, if you play games then you benefit from an environment where the best ideas get a chance to rise to the top and get developed. Even if it's not an absolute truth, the stereotype that most successful games are created by white males could cause potentially great game designers to shy away from the industry. If this counterexample encourages more people who could potentially make games like Cities to get into the industry, then everybody wins.  The issue is that women take so much shit in the game development community that it is just nice to point out when there are successes. People need role models.  [deleted] It is irrelevant, but many stories like to say that there aren't women in game development and don't have a future in it.  What bitbot was saying is that this DISPROVES them, and that this is a case where gender WAS irrelevant.   It's relevant to me. I'm a female gamer and a senior manager in the tech industry. I find it interesting to note that the lead designers are women. It should make no difference to the quality of the game, sure - but it is interesting to me and heartening as there simply are many barriers to entry for women in games and technology. I'm not saying it's all systemic and organised industry resistance to women, some of it is purely personal and cultural. 

But what I find weird is the need to jump all over someone who similarly finds this great and interesting and worth pointing out. What is it such a terrible thing to comment on gender? They're women, that's cool. Whatever. Where did I jump on anyone with my comment? I said it's irrelevant and it is.  Relevant to what? All the poster said was that it was great. You may not agree and may find gender irrelevant. However, I'm telling you it is relevant to me and would be to many others. Perhaps saying you were jumping all over it was over spoken (though I also refer to the multitude of comments below that say the same thing), but you did feel the need to shut it down. I just find that odd.  I felt the need because the topic is all over the place anyway.  Irrelevant to the quality of the game, yes, but it is entirely relevant to the culture of games/gamers right now. I agree; I could care less what their gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation or whatever other bullshit metric that we arbitrarily use to categorize people they happen to fall into.  I just want to play some good games. Oh god dammit thank you. I hate how people think the demographics or a game designer matters. Make a good game. I don't care about anything else.  This. Make good games, and people will respect you whether you're a man, woman, neither, both, or a blue alien from Mars.  Ha! You colorist. Everyone knows Martians are green. And from what I've read and seen about the game, they did a kickass job with the game. Or we could stop paying attention to gender whatsoever. We're better than that. I think it's sad that it matters what gender or race people are.

But yea, women are definitely not unwelcome in the industry. They may not be unwelcome, but the are definitely a minority. I'm doing a game design course at uni and there are about 5 girls out of 200 on the course. Do you work in the industry? Or have you read studies into why women are under represented in it? A good friend of mine works at Bioware, she says the environment is super friendly and there isn't any of that weird misogyny that people think males in that system exhibit. I think it's tied to certain people who may have had bad experiences with certain individuals, they ran into misogynistic men and somehow conflate that to the whole industry when that just isn't true *everywhere*. IT and engineering just isn't a field that attracts the female sex very much for whatever reason.  
  
Source: have studied in the field for several years. It is quite literally 95% all male. The "why" I've read is less that they are unwelcome, and more along society quietly steering women away from such interests and career paths at an early age.

Any company larger than a startup is pretty much specifically open and friendly to women. Can't think of a story where companies like EA or Nintendo were told they have a hostile culture as such. Well, my sister was actually going to be a Computer Science major, but she changed her degree because some guy started stalking her and was a *bit* nuts.  

I'd say that women are underrepresented in the programming fields less that there are barriers preventing them from finding a job and more to do with the fact that a degree which stereotypically involves a pasty nerd with poor social skills does not appear appealing to a woman.  This is doubly so when a woman actually FINDS someone who is poor at socializing to the point that they become a stalker.   They're under represented because not as many women are interested in the industry as men... There's no conspiracy... It's like asking why are men under represented in the receptionist industry.... Because they don't apply. Or because they're told they shouldn't be interested in it, because "women are bad at math, and should probably look into something easier for them". Hold on, women are constantly achieving higher in university, also far more girls go to university too.... No one's saying women are stupid!!!! You don't think men and women are guided toward different courses of study or down different career paths based solely on their gender? No I don't.  How many people would you need to tell you that it's happened to them before you believe it happens?  People of all sorts are directed toward various careers based on what society, or their culture, or parents think they should be doing.  I mean, just go ask a bunch of people you know.

 I know my friends very well and they all studied what they wanted to do.
Most my female friends went into law or finance, most my guy friends went into engineering or marketing.

They did what they wanted.

 Tell that to the Dev behind Amazonian Warriors  It says they can be welcome and obviously can do the jobs (which should be a no-brainer) but doesn't mean the climate of the gaming industry as a whole is super friendly towards them yet.  You're getting downvoted because one female CEO and one female lead designer doesn't mean that "Clearly this shows women are welcome and have a future in game development, despite what some tv shows and journalists might say."

It's still fantastic, though. I appreciate that - I have a daughter that I would like to see develop an interest in programming, and having a personality that she can relate to is a good starting point. [deleted] self declared progressive types are going to hate on you because you're not saying things are horrible for women.  Then the other side for lack of a better way to describe them will hate because it seems like you're saying we need women in gaming (operational word: need)

you basically stepped in a minefield. [deleted] It's really weird that you think it matters I think it matters a lot that women should feel welcome in gaming both as developers and players. Don't you? It matters because it's so notable, and it's notable because it's so uncommon. It *should* be unremarkable because it *should* be more common, but it isn't and isn't, so let's take the cotton out of ears. It's a good example to highlight, and worth highlighting.  Maybe OP is excited that here is an example of two more great female role models for a career which has previously been male dominated?  Who gives a fuck if they're women? who cares what gender they are, why does that matter?

edit: wow downvotes, so apparently it's a big deal if women is part of designing a good game? We can only hope that it serves as the kick up the ass that they need. For such an instrumental component of PC gaming they have absolutely no excuse to have utterly appalling customer service. I toured Valve's HQ a little under two years ago, we got to see their customer support room. It was basically a 900 or so sq. ft. room with like, 40 desktops.

I'm sure they've upped it since, but when you have millions and millions of users every day, you're gonna need one hell of a support room.

I did see Gabe Newell though, they've pretty much got the whole Gaben thing nailed. He passed behind our group and went out another door pretty hurriedly. most companies out source. when you call such and such and someone answers weather American or other wise they likely do not work for the company for which they are taking the call.

usually said company has a small support team and when the out sourced guys have trouble the out sourced guys call said companies small team for support.

Don't ask me how i know, i think i'm under NDA. &gt;Don't ask me how i know, i think i'm under NDA.

Well let's see.  Xerox, formerly ACS, handles both Sprint and AppleCare. Xerox the photocopy machine company?  How far they have fallen for that to be a fair assessment. They still do a LOT of non-photocopy work, but at one point in time they were one of the biggest boys along with IBM, Apple and the like. At least they managed to have branding strong enough that their name is literally a synonym for photocopying.  So much so that they had to downplay it in order not to lose copyright protection. (The same way Photoshop does: instructing users not to use their copyright as a generic verb or noun)

Edit: trademark, not copyright. Thanks to /u/Frodolas [deleted] .... Because they actively fight to keep it that way... [deleted] *trademark, not copyright. But yes, you're correct otherwise. They do more than just that.

They invented the desktop GUI, for instance. Rochester, NY native here, home to both Xerox and Kodak. Xerox missed the boat on GUI, Kodak invented digital photography and gave it up because image storage was too bulky at the time and nobody thought out would evolve info things like SD or micro SD cards.

*sigh* How different my city might be now... But yeah, Xerox had converted most of their complex into a BPO operation. at least we have Wegmans Kodak gave up on digital photography because Kodak was a chemical company. They were a specialist producer of thousands of tons of photography chemicals a year, which accounted for the vast bulk of their assets and revinue streams.

Accepting that digital photography was the future would have required them to divest or write down all those assets and be a shadow of their former self in a new industry totally outside their expertise. Instead they bet on dye sublimation printers to let people get high quality photographic prints on their own desk at home.

Inkjet beat dye sublimaiton (because it was good enough and cheaper), and specialist electronics companies like Sony and Cannon ate their lunch with cameras.

Kodak was considerably more aware of themselves than Xerox, they were just in something of a no-win situation, then they made it worse. Yeah, and they also failed to see its potential.  Xerox Parc was full of great ideas, bitmaps and WYSIWYG text editing were invented there too. The institute is still open and creating great things but they've missed so much business opportunity.  Yes that Xerox. They also have the contracts for Federal Student Loan customer service.  Have you ever heard of [the Mother of All Demoes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mother_of_All_Demos)? It was a demo in the 60's which showed off, for the first time ever, "windows, hypertext, graphics, efficient navigation and command input, video conferencing, the computer mouse, word processing, dynamic file linking, revision control, and a collaborative real-time editor (collaborative work)." Guess who the guy who made the demo worked for? Xerox is also responsible for ethernet and a slew of other extremely fundamental technologies we rely on today. When Apple tried to sue Microsoft for patent infringement when their first OS was released both Bill Gate's and eventually the court's response was, "you can't do that when so much of *your* OS is stolen from Xerox". Actually, Gate's exact response [was pretty hilarious](http://www.folklore.org/StoryView.py?story=A_Rich_Neighbor_Named_Xerox.txt). I hate having to deal with these people on important issues. Inevitably you always need to speak to a manager. Lower tier employees can't do squat they're not empowered to do so and it's obvious during the call. Some companies, the employees are literally verbal punching bags. the lower tiers AND managers can't do squat.

some companies the lower tiers can do just about any thing OR get it taken care of but, the customers are such ass holes. News flash products of all kinds new in box OR old fail or are DOA. Sorry that it can't fucking be shipped same day through multiple severe weather storms. Companies with that attitude are the reason I do everything through either the local microcenter or Amazon. They don't pull that line and they simply make things right when they go wrong. Even if I have to pay slightly more, I'll do it every single time for a company that will respect me as a customer.  Yes their support is fantastic. No one in my family has had any issue with them. They've refunded my shipping on an instance because of a delay, they've sent out extra egg cartons for my father when the company screwed him by sending out only half the order. They're just fantastic to deal with. 900 square feet with 40 computers? Jeez my studio apartment is just shy of 500 square feet, I don't think you could cram 20 of those desktop suckers without running out of space. That's crazy. Article headline is misleading: Valve doesn't seem to care about the BBB, but they say they've reached the same conclusion on their own. From the linked article:

&gt; "The BBB is a far less useful proxy for customer issues than Reddit," Johnson began. "We don't use them for much. They don't provide us as useful of data as customers emailing us, posting on Reddit, posting on Twitter, and so on."

&gt; "The more important thing is that we don't feel like our customer service support is where it needs to be right now," he said. "We think customers are right. When they say our support's bad, our initial reaction isn't to say, 'No, it's actually good. Look at all of this.' It's to say that, no, they're probably right, because they usually are when it comes to this kind of thing. We hear those complaints, and that's gonna be a big focus for us throughout the year. We have a lot of work to do there. We have to do better." BBB rating has meant squat diddly for a long time, it is a sham that they are using it to get page clicks. You are right about the BBB, but consider that Steam also has quite a few customer service complaints registered with various state government consumer protections departments, as well.

I know that Steam as a service has been listed with my states Consumer Advocate office for a couple of years now. Wow, I didn't know that!  That is actually...worth worrying about...

I'm always hesitant to judge a company without knowing how they work internally, but they certainly should consider some action at this point. It's because they don't have any direct competition.  Every other game client is niche in their implementation.  Specifically, they're publisher-run, thus only sell games published by those companies.  Origin may have great customer service, but when you only have like a dozen games in your store, Valve doesn't really have to worry about you competing for their share of the consumer pie.  And Uplay is just a giant pile of crap. For what it's worth Origin has started selling games from other publishers,and let's not forget that Steam, while an open platform, is still run by a publisher.  If Origin opens up wide enough to give Steam a run for their money, that'll be fantastic.  But until then, they just don't have the library to challenge them. Who would've guessed a few short years ago that we'd be saying this? To be honest, I would.  The hate for origin at first was similar to the hate Steam got at first.  I just wanted to play counterstrike  Well, their client is generally a bit shit too. But they **do** have refund policy I'll throw my hat in for Origin, it *has* gotten better, but I don't really use it that much... I hated it when it first came out and the DRM was waaaaay too over the top. But now I'm not entirely sure the hate for it is still deserved...

Then again, bearing in mind what I said about DRM, SimCity was only two years ago... GOG is doing a good job. Sure, but they're mostly focused on older titles, and they don't have a client that consolidates your gaming library in one place on your computer.  They're not exactly competing for the same market space. They are developing a [client](http://www.gog.com/galaxy) at the moment. GoG is great. &gt;  Every other game client is niche in their implementation. Specifically, they're publisher-run, thus only sell games published by those companies.

GoG, Humble Store are fast growing competitors. Both using DRM free as their flagship offering. Heck Humble is the only reason Steam had more than a couple games available when they launched steam linux. I commented what somebody else said about GoG [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2yzhos/valve_is_not_psyched_they_got_an_f_in_customer/cpekyrf?context=3), and the Humble Store redirects everybody back to Steam, giving away Steam keys with every purchase.

I mean, hell, if you're just looking for other digital stores to buy video games, you could say that Gamestop is in the same market.

But the fact of the matter is, *absolutely nobody* offers the same package of game client, massive selection of mainstream and niche PC games, easily consolidated game library, and consistent PC video game sales that Valve does.  And the fact that many "off-site" vendors route back to Steam by handing out free Steam keys just reinforces their monopoly in the PC gaming environment. The only reason I started using Steam is because Humble sent me there, which led me to buy several games from Steam.

I wouldn't call them "competitors"; more like business partners. Gabe probably doesn't dip his toes into the CS department but he doesn't seem the type of director to put the lack of competition before customer satisfaction and just basic corporate decency. 

The only reason I can think of is simple manpower. Staffing a proper customer support department would likely cost magnitudes more than it does currently. Someone telling the management that it would cost entirely too much, and management saying "okay we'll have to make do" is more believable than management (valve management, at least) saying "there aren't any alternatives to steam so fuck em, we aren't losing their business either way." 

At least I *HOPE* that's not a sentiment anyone in charge at valve has.  Valve has more than enough money to create a proper customer support department and not hurt their overall business. Whether they say it outright or not, at the end of the day the root cause is the same as the poster above mentioned. The costs of having a proper customer support department aren't worth it for them because they know you aren't going to go anywhere else even if their support is crap. They aren't saying it in the exact words you mention, but they are conveying it with their actions. 

 That's just bullshit. Valve is a huge company, they have more than enough money to either rework their CS department to a proper one or outsource it to a good one. There is no need to make up excuses for them, they haven't addressed that problem of their company up until now, hopefully they'll turn it around. The question wouldn't be whether they have enough money to do it. The question would be whether the benefits are worth the cost. A business doesn't become profitable by throwing money at unprofitable projects. Except that most other US companies seem to be able to afford decent CS and they don't have Steam money. 

I think the real culprit here is gross negligence. They know it's been a problem for years and years but they havent made any strides to fix it until now because, according to their handbook, Valve employees can choose what to work on so most of them probably want to make cool shit instead of hiring, setting-up and managing a full-scale CS team. Copmanies like MSoft outsource most of their online support services, leaving only most important clients/partners or super critical cases for their own support team. I think outsourcing is the key, and not a move-overseas kind of outsourcing, there are companies dedicated to providing customer support and do a good job of it. Valve can remain how gabe wants to be, and 99% of the support queries can be handled by an outsider. Contracts and support management built into steam can hold it together. Just keep a small internal team around as the highest escalation point. &gt; and 99% of the support queries can be handled by an outsider.

Except with this you lose control of *how* a customer is handled. The horror stories that come from call centers are really bad. Setting times for how long you should be on a call, after call work, etc all have an effect on how the customer feels about how the call went. Places like these want to get through as many calls as fast as possible to maximize profits (keep less staff, etc).

If its in house you can see directly what is happening, work out solutions on the fly, or long term, etc. You have far more control over what the customer experience is, which is a far better solution imo.

You might think outsourcing is a great way to save money, but when you start getting *other* crappy reviews because the guy on the phone really doesn't care about the company he is working for, because they pay crap, micromanage everything including bathroom breaks, have shitty managers, etc. That's not the guy you want answering your CS calls. The CS rep is not invested in your company, he really doesn't give a shit, all he cares about is going home and probably having a few drinks to wipe away his shitty day. So end of day you start getting complaints about the outsourced call center reps too.

Source: I work for an in house call center, but many of my co-workers have worked for outsourced call centers. Plus the many stories you read around the internet on how CS reps feel about their place of work. &gt; Except with this you lose control of how a customer is handled.

Origin's CS is excellent, and that is outsourced. I had my account hijacked from overseas. It was back in my hands within a half hour, and on a weekend!

*Anything* would be better than what Valve has for CS right now. The idea that all Valve employees are in customer service is nice sounding PR but in practice it is godawful. Even if the outsourced CS company was only mediocre it would be substantially better than what they have now. &gt; Except with this you lose control of how a customer is handled. The horror stories that come from call centers are really bad. Setting times for how long you should be on a call, after call work, etc all have an effect on how the customer feels about how the call went. Places like these want to get through as many calls as fast as possible to maximize profits (keep less staff, etc).

Not really.  You just have to make sure the contract you draw up with the support company covers these things.  If your agreement with them adjust how much you pay them based on metrics like number of customers helped then yes there is going to be pressure to keep call times low.  But if the agreement is just a "we will pay you a flat X every month for you to keep X employees staffed and handling calls" then there is no pressure to keep calls flowing through as fast as possible. &gt;  But if the agreement is just a "we will pay you a flat X every month for you to keep X employees staffed and handling calls" then there is no pressure to keep calls flowing through as fast as possible.

In which case the optimal strategy is to hire as few CS reps as you can get away with and have absurd wait times(the current situation). Hence why he included the requirement to keep X employees staffed. This is why you should include some key performance indicator (KPI) requirements, such as average wait time, customer satisfaction and first call resolution. It would clearly not be the only metric, I was simply giving an example of one metric that could be controlled based on a term in a contract. &gt; Except with this you lose control of how a customer is handled. The horror stories that come from call centers are really bad. Setting times for how long you should be on a call, after call work, etc all have an effect on how the customer feels about how the call went. Places like these want to get through as many calls as fast as possible to maximize profits (keep less staff, etc).

You don't actually know what you are talking about. Or rather - yes, that's exactly how CS works IF THE CONTRACT WITH THE CS PROVIDER WAS WRITTEN TO ALLOW FOR IT. But those exact same call centers are very capable of, for example, support FOR BUSINESSES - and you bet your ass the difference is night and day. Same here - you get the quality you pay for. So pay the fucking money, Valve, and provide the service.

But they have no incentive to. They have the capability, but no incentive to. They are a monopoly. They've had a bad rating for years now and haven't really done anything. Considering that everyone constantly complaining about it online for several years has also not done anything, it's time for someone to organize a more effective campaign like have thousands of people mail actual letters to Valve. Can't ignore getting thousands of letters showing up on your door step. you sure can when those people are still spending. I know I kind of just put a neat little bow on the whole thing...but it usually takes a company being compelled too change based on financial motivation. Even if you got 10,000 people to boycott Steam, Valve probably wouldn't notice them not buying anything. They would notice 10,000 letters. It isn't a problem of being heard. Valve has publicly acknowledged this failure many times; they know we care already, and aren't willing to make the effort to improve. Send them 10,000 letters, hell send them 1,000,000 letters; it won't do anything but waste paper if it doesn't affect their bottom line.  &gt;Can't ignore getting thousands of letters showing up on your door step.

Uhh... yeah you can.  You pay your mail room to burn them, and you enjoy the giant pool of money that you are saving/making by not having a huge customer service department. That's true, but some of the stuff on that site smells like complete bullshit. 

[This guy](http://imgur.com/9YgpdiH) added $20 from a steamwallet card to his son's account and was locked out immediately. He then tried "... followed all instructions, downloading their Steam GUI to retrieve his account back, but never received a validation code via email as it said". Wtf is this guy talking about.


Also this one: http://imgur.com/E33q9r2

He never used steampowered.com or even heard of it, but yet somehow they got a hold of his credit card information and charged him for it? It sounds like someone stole his credit card info. It's up to the bank to remove the fraudulent charges, not Valve. 

 This is very common, unfortunately.  The amount of people I tell in a week over the phones that I cannot help them because they ordered from someone that is not us, without them even knowing, is absurd.  If people see a brand mentioned on a site, in any capacity, they sometimes think it is the OEM. 

It sucks having to say "I literally cannot do anything, I know you're upset, but you're barking up the wrong tree," but this is invariably part of customer service at any level.  When I worked at McDs as a kid I had, legit, no joke, a customer try to bring Burger King food in to complain about.  It was very perplexing. yeah. i was going to say steam's CS isn't known to be very good, but the complaints on BBB seem to be total garbage from people who have no idea what they're doing.

the complaints about CD keys not working, for example. valve instantly creates and applies a key for you. there's no feasible way that process fails. what's actually happening here is these people buy extremely cheap keys from super shady third party sites and then try to yell and scream at valve when the key doesn't work (because it's already used / for a different region / etc) The second guy also needs to learn to add, but that is admittedly beside the point. My experience, several times now, is always the same:  here's a lazy response that doesn't solve anything and points to unrelated community discussion, and then no response further.... This is customer service speak for "F off".  I've never had anything but this. I think they still try to do in-house customer service when their platform has steadily grown to be over 100 million registered users.

Time to outsource, Valve. I know... it feels dirty :( [Valve are also breaching Australian consumer law by not providing refunds.](https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=554b38c3-ce7a-4a7a-99ff-2527bb7e6739) If you battle with CS you can get a refund if you have a genuine reason. The agent told me that they only do it as a one off until I schooled her on consumer rights. When I tried that (paid for game which did not get added to my account), I got my entire games library locked. Took weeks to get it back. How did they justify doing that?! Ah, let me tell you my tale. My story begins in 2011, on a cold and rainy April day. I bought Portal 2 on release and obviously couldn't wait to start playing it. But oh no! It's not showing up in my library! So I checked my credit card account and the transaction indeed went through. Oh well, probably just a small error with the handover after the transaction right? I'll just contact Valve customer support and I'm sure this lovely company will solve everything tout suite!

Well, after being ignored for a few weeks, I was getting pretty pissed off, I want my Portal 2 fix god damn it! So I went ahead and disputed the transaction with PayPal. To me, it was the same as paying for any physical item on eBay and then getting fuck-all in the mail. PayPal obviously has a time limit on how long after the transaction you can dispute it, so I couldn't give them forever to get back to me. I thought it was the only reasonable way to either get their attention or just get my money back.

I can tell you, it certainly got their attention. Turns out that Valve takes exception to PayPal disputes and told me to drop it, and they would give me my game. But I, feeling rather disenchanted by Valve by this point, considered that PayPal doesn't let you restart a dispute if you drop it at any point, and I have no guarantee that they would actually give me the game after I dropped the dispute. So I said, "no thanks, pls give me my game or my money back, and *then* I'll drop the dispute."

Valve's response? "Fuck you, your entire stream games library is now suspended. Dispute *that*, biaaaaatch! [here I am paraphrasing but that was the gist of it] Drop the dispute *now* or you'll never be able to play *any* of your games! How do you like them apples?! [MWAHAHAHAHA](https://youtu.be/uWKboDNv2MM?t=1m14s)"

Me being the self-righteous prick that I am, I refused to give in to their bullying tactics and asked to speak to their supervisor. I was told that he doesn't have a supervisor so fuck me. This obviously took another week or two to elicit each response from Valve, so I was barely surviving on cup noodles and the few remaining physical media games I still owned (thank you Supreme Commander). But I was willing to sacrifice everything for the sake of the cause.

Fortunately, this story does have a happy ending. Eventually after many trials and tribulations (I think I also escalated it with PayPal at some point), I managed to get my case looked at by some other guy at Valve who gave me a refund on Portal 2 and unlocked my steam library, dispute ended. The next day, several weeks after release, I bought a physical copy of Portal 2 from Amazon. It basically just links to steam to download the game anyway, but at least it worked. I counted that as a righteous victory for gamers everywhere.

In a fit of anger, I vowed to the old gods and the new, that from that point onwards, I would never buy another game on steam if I could possibly get it anywhere else!

^^And ^^then ^^the ^^summer ^^sales ^^came ^^and ^^I ^^ended ^^up ^^buying ^^loads ^^of ^^discount ^^shit ^^that ^^I ^^still ^^haven't ^^played ^^4 ^^years ^^later. ^^I ^^am ^^part ^^of ^^the ^^problem. &gt; And then the summer sales came and I ended up buying loads of discount shit that I still haven't played 4 years later. I am part of the problem.

The first step is admitting it to yourself.

Though I'm not sure what the second step is. Kind of stuck on the first still. Wow, I genuinely would never deal with Valve and Steam again if that happened to me. Even fucking Xbox support gave me refund on 3 months of LIVE Gold when they messed up my debit card info. Just so you know for the future - chargebacks (which is what you did) will generally get that reaction out of any business. You were in the right, but you should always be careful, as doing so will basically tell the business that you don't want to do business with them anymore, and they act accordingly. &gt; chargebacks (which is what you did) will generally get that reaction out of any business.

Doing this is illegal in my state.  You have a right to reverse charges on purchases if the product or service isn't delivered, but it is illegal for a company to retaliate by refusing you any product or service not in dispute.  

This has happened with Steam (and other online retailers) often enough that the attorney general's office in my state (their consumer protection division) has a form letter that they use whenever a complaint about Steam reaches their office over this issue. That sounds like an AG that's really on the ball. If they had persisted with suspending all my library, I fully intended to take them to court on the matter. I'm not fully informed on the inner working of PayPal, but I don't think a PayPal dispute is quite the same as a chargeback. I didn't get the money back from PayPal, rather, they act as a middle man who holds the funds in escrow to force the seller to respond in some way, otherwise the end result will *be* a chargeback.

In any case, if steam/Valve don't respond to complaints, I have no choice but to resort to using PayPal's dispute system. Whether it ends up with us doing no further business in the future is up to them at that point.

To put it in context. I have never, ever, had to get a chargeback or started a PayPal dispute with *anyone* else in my entire life, and I've been buying almost all of my stuff online using either my credit card or PayPay for about a decade. Amazon, random eBay sellers, etc etc. none of them have ever pushed me to the point where my only recourse is a PayPal dispute. So it's not like I'm hot on the trigger just waiting for an excuse to cause trouble. Valve offered me literally no other alternative at that point, so I had no choice. A nearly identical thing happened with me on Origins.

Also, yes, I have 190 games in my library, majority coming from summer Sales, and I've played about 15 games total. Honestly I'd be surprised to hear Origin customer support failing. I've had issues with them two times and both times they fixed it within 48 hours and gave me a free game. At this point I kind of wish I had more problems with them. This was a lil' far back, late 2011 I believe.

I owned about 130 worth of games and content on Origin, and I loved the service, I really did. I was also a frequent poster on the forums, too.

Up until I got banned from the forums for swearing, (though all I done was quote 2 other people who swore/were racially abusive), and then I put an appeal to get unbanned, as all I had done was quote people. I hadn't broken any rules my self.

When the denied the appeal, I put it through customer support as one of the games I had needed fixing, and the only tutorial at the time was available through their forums (which I had no access to).

The service rep asked me why I couldn't access the forums, and I sent a screenshot of the posts I had made, and then my account got locked. I could no longer access my 140+ of games, and they wouldn't give me access back, any refunds. I was screwed.

So now I don't use Origin for anything beyond their occassional free games (Like Sims 3, I believe). You think they'd bother justifying? Same in the UK too, you have to give refunds within 14 days but when I requested one after 2 hours they didn't reply for 20 days just to get out of this. 

20 fucking days! 20 days. That's 20 times 24! I've always thought valve should have an hour since first install instant refund. Until that time passes the funds don't count as "profit" but just float in the system in limbo.

An hours doesn't let you complete most games but it lets you tell if the game runs on your system. I thought 1 hour because 30 minutes feels tight to determine something definitely doesn't work and return it, and 2 hours actually lets you get in some short games.

You should **definitely** be able to return a game instantly and automatically if it has never been downloaded (within a max limit as a sanity check). 

As long as it isn't law though it won't happen, because it only ever results in a loss of sales. &gt; because it only ever results in a loss of sales

Amazon makes returns extremely easy (they pay for and supply a return shipping label), and they don't do it out of the goodness of their corporate hearts. They do it to remove that doubt that you won't be satisfied, so you buy more. Digital games have so much capacity to be an impulse buy that I think Valve could really benefit from this (plus there's hardly any overhead to returning a digital product).

They (Amazon) also do it because it's a huge advantage over their competitors, but that doesn't apply to Valve as much since they're basically a monopoly. &gt; Amazon makes returns extremely easy (they pay for and supply a return shipping label)

That's more than enough of a barrier to stop people doing it for the sake of doing it. With digital products on Steam it could literally be achieved in a button press. Amazon also sell physical product. You either return it in new condition (i.e. as I believe Valve should allow, unused) or if broken. If you've used it and it's not broken you can't officially return it (sometimes they're nice).

When they get the product they can actually see whether it was broken or not, but this isn't true on PC. Just because it doesn't run on your particular PC doesn't mean it's broken. Hence the issue of letting people play the game (for short games, to completion) and returning it.

Returning impulse buys is separate from "removing the doubt that you won't be satisfied". You can feel bad about impulse buys, but you almost always blame yourself. So it doesn't reduce Valves sales there. Steam customer service is a disgrace; they have offered several vague statements over the years about how they want to improve, but it never happens.  [deleted] [deleted] The glory of being a monopoly. The funny part is how all the PC master race kids go on about not being able to wait to switch to Linux so they can be *free of the shackles of such an evil company!(Microsoft)*


See I'm a simple guy.. I just want to play games, don't care who I get them from.. Steam, Origin, Battle.Net, Humble Bundle etc.. I think if you took away the "Valve" and the "Steam" and summed up their company people would just be put off. 

- Clunky Client
- A new system for indie games that unleashed floods of pure grade A unfiltered poo unto the platform. Because *Openness*, *Freedom*, *Scams*, *RPG Maker*. 
- A system in which the community makes in-game items and get this.. The company sells them back to the community and takes a cut! *Recycling!* 
- A company with *only* email support. No phones, no Live Chat. 
- No bosses system which eventually just turned into a highschool cliche. *Yay Accountability*. 


I'm no economist but I'm pretty Valve is being kept alive by the pure amounts of money getting shoved into their bank account in comparison to the number of employees Valve has and the corners they've cut.  "You get one refund on your account, forever, in your entire lifetime. Use it wisely!"

That's why you get an F. I love steam, fuck, it's the only reason why I don't pirate games but their customer service is probably the worst customer service I've had the displeasure of using. You got a refund? I have a game that doesn't even have an exe. Many other people complained the forum. Steam refused to give me a refund.

It was a game Dev tycoon, not the popular one, but another one. I love Steam and have a huge library through them, with that said their customer service is absolutely terrible. It takes forever to get a response, if you do get a response and it's almost never satisfying.

F sounds right imo. It's also telling that he even says the BBB isn't really a priority for them. In short they don't really care what anyone thinks about their customer service b/c they are still raking in the cash. Of course they will throw out the customary "we're not satisfied with our customer service blah blah blah" that means nothing. ive heard their customer service team is like massively under staffed. Which you would think a company that makes as much money as them could spare some more jobs for this kind of thing.  I'd feel bad for anyone that had to do Steam customer service.  I can't imagine the amount of shit they have to deal with and if they are as under staffed as i've heard it must be a fucking nightmare. I hear and read the same thing Indrid. It really is kind of baffling how a company as profitable as Steam is could be ok with that. It's been this way for quite some time though and is the main reason I just hate their customer service. It's not their actual customer service people as much as the way their bosses run it.

Customer service anywhere sucks and being understaffed would just  make it worse. I imagine a lot of their customers are hard to deal with to. Hell just look at how rude many of us can be here on Reddit. Then throw in the fact that in that moment we feel like we're being screwed money wise as well.

I wouldn't want the job. &gt;It really is kind of baffling how a company as profitable as Steam is could be ok with that. 

Because they make money, and reddit/gamers still suck their dick even with shitty customer support.  Most of the people using Steam likely have never needed to use the customer service, so they don't care assuming they even know it's bad.  It's pretty common for people not to care about things until something goes wrong for them. This is a fair assessment. I'd also be curious what the bad vs good experience ratio is, among average users. I've been using Steam since shortly after it launched, and have never had a single problem. It "just works". Likewise, nobody I know has ever had any problem with Steam, that I'm aware of.

I don't mean to outright dismiss the complaints of people who have experienced problems. I just think that when you're this big, saying something like "X users have *serious problems* with the service!", when the service covers X^10 users, may not carry the same weight as with a smaller company where that same X users is a significant chunk of their clientele. And similar across industries, not just gaming.

No customer should be left frustrated with a bad experience with any business (provided they're being a reasonable customer), but from personal experience, I think Valve is possibly the *only* business I've ever done frequent, long-term business with, which I have not any trouble with whatsoever.

**Edit:** drunken words I think it's largely because of the company structure they push of do what you want and work on what projects you want. I doubt in an environment like that customer service is a position of choice leaving it at a bare minimum.


For example I've heard of people who managed to get a support ticket response ask to bring the issue to a supervisor or higher up who can help and be told they don't have one. yea thats no excuse for them.  You have to make a customer service division when you are the biggest retailer in PC gaming and have 100+ million users or w/e number they tout to the press.  They get a pass on this a lot.  

I remember how Blizzard after WoW launched or maybe even before just put all this effort into CS.  I've heard plenty of great things about their CS over the years. I don't think its much to ask of a company like Valve to have even competent customer service you know. every team is massivly understaffed. Their global server operations team (the guys who deploy and manage the servers behind dota, steam, etc) was just 2 people 18 months ago. I think they were hiring a third at that point. And this was to manage 6000 physical nodes at that point Customer service gigs, and other types of jobs like it don't slot into the Valve hierarchy very easily, we saw the same issue when Valve fired a bunch of employees in 2013. Given their flat management structure I'm not sure how CS works in Valve. People are 'allowed to work on what they choose to', therefore no employee in their right mind is going to deal with teenagers moaning someone claiming to be a girl on the internet stole their account all day as opposed to contributing in some way to their favourite game.

If this is the case, and they don't want to hire employees specifically for customer service they should look into BPO and get it done properly. The BBB is apparently, essentially a protection racket. They approach you to join their club and if you dont pay to join, its an automatic F in their books. There have been several stories of business owners on Reddit dealing with these people. yep, there was a 60 minutes segment on it

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yo8kfV9kONw BBB is a extortionist scam, they have no credibility and ratings are achieved through paying them. Its like the original version of yelp. They only continue to exist through ignorance of consumers thinking they have any meaning to their existence. I don't know man. I don't take their ratings very seriously, if at all, but they have gotten stuff done for me in the past. 

At one point I bought a visa prepaid card to be able to buy stuff online because I didn't have a credit/debit card, mind you I was about 16/17 at the time so about 6 years ago. Apparently my card was completely blocked for no reason whatsoever and their CS was just flat out worthless. So I contacted the BBB and lo and behold just 2 days later I got a letter from the VP of visa's prepaid branch saying they were really sorry about the situation and sent me a brand new working card with twice the value. I cannot stress enough how ridiculously stupid their CS was and I made sure the complaint I filled out with the BBB had all the details of every interaction I had with Visa. 

To me the amount of "pull" the BBB must have to make a company like Visa bow to their knees is fucking incredible, plus the speed at which they were able to resolve my issue with them just makes things even more unbelievable.  No, it's horrible, especially for smaller businesses.  I used to have to deal with BBB disputes at a previous job and let me tell you how bad it was.  The customer disputes and the BBB "mediates."  You can prove everything you want, if the customer doesn't accept the resolution you get hit.  The BBB effectively forces businesses to bend and break at all costs to satisfy the customer.  This sounds good in theory, but it's not - it's horrible.

Want a better resource?  Use your state's attorney general.  Unlike the BBB, they have LEGAL pull and will mediate on your behalf fairly. Are you kidding me?  They specifically said that they were looking to improve customer service and recognized the problem.

Let me spell out something the article only alluded to:  The BBB is a fucking racket.  I'd honestly be pissed if Valve *was* making the BBB a priority.  They're an incredibly scummy organization and some very VERY shady businesses maintain A+ rating by manipulating the system.

Their rating system does not really rank how effectively the company responds to complaints, it ranks how much the company participates in the BBB conflict resolution process.  If they responded with a polite "Fuck you, we're fixing nothing" instead of not responding at all, that "F" would improve dramatically even though they'd be offering obviously worse service.   It would improve even more if they paid the BBB a lot of money to be a "certified whatever".

Valve has absolutely garbage CS, don't get me wrong.  But please don't give the BBB credibility it doesn't deserve. I'm not saying the BBB is a great company I'm just saying Steam has terrible customer service and their canned response to please their consumers means nothing to me.

It's all just PC talk. It's the same thing as Microsoft recently saying "We lost our way with PC gaming". Well no shit Microsoft, you say that every other year but nothing changes. It's the same with Steam. Actually change something and then talk to me :) High scores from the BBB are useless since you can buy them. Low scores still provide some information, though. In this case I would say there is a high probability of falsely giving a positive score, but much lower probability of falsely giving a negative score.

It's kind of like the first few (very easy) questions on "Who wants to be a millionaire". If you get them right it doesn't mean you're smart, but if you get one wrong then it's likely you are dumb.

*edited for clarity I wonder why they're not psyched, they worked really hard ignoring everyone's complaints to earn that F.  Honestly, what did they expect? They have a really unfriendly customer service system. Hell, I love Origin because of their 48 hour refund policy. To be fair, that only applies to their own games. It's publishers that are the issue here, but also devs that sell games that can be completed in only a few hours (like Limbo).

Returning games online is super easy, so more people would do it just because they can.

However Origin has this second part in their clause:

&gt;  or within seven days from the game's release date if you pre-purchased/pre-ordered

if you haven't launched the game, which I completely believe Valve should put in and automate. It instantly solves people buying the wrong game etc. This is not an anomaly - it's a consequence of a long-established business model.

In many ways Valve is an absolutely typical tech company.  In fact, it could be argued that Valve pioneered the standard silicon valley business model that we see today.

It's simple:  you **set yourself up as a middle-man**, between producers and consumers (in this case developers/publishers and gamers; **establish an effective monopoly**; then **automate as much of your business as possible**.  Valve hits all these criteria with their customary efficiency.  

Almost every internet company operates this way, with the possible exception of sections of Google and Amazon.  Ebay, Reddit, Facebook, Twitter, Tinder - they all follow this model.

Good customer service cannot be provided by machines - at least not yet - but customer service staff are expensive in wages and infrastructural costs.  In Valve's case, they've chosen to provide the absolute minimum customer service cover possible, which allows them to expend resources on maintaining and expanding their business (and consequently their monopoly on digital distribution).  

It's a kind of vicious circle, but perfectly possible in a non-competitive environment.  It's what happens when one company has 60-80% of the market and a complaint customer base.  Microsoft did something very similar back in the 90's.   Agreed 100%, but Amazon has the best costumer service I have ever experienced.   

EDIT: /r/hailcorporate If any company should be held up as beacon of exceptional customer service, it has to be Amazon, in the UK at least. You have a problem? You don't even have to call them, press a button on the site and *they'll call you* pretty much immediately. No phone costs, no waiting queues. And every time I've called, they're efficient, polite and helpful. I don't know if they outsource to somewhere, but wherever it is, other companies should outsource there too. I'm from Australia and dealt with Amazon support once. It went fantastically.

I'd trodden on my Kindle after leaving it beside my bed. Was going to throw it out but thought I'd call them to see if I could get a new screen (device was fine, screen cracked).

Used the website and they called me back in about 3 minutes. Told the guy my screen had broken and he said "How high did you drop it from?", I told him I didn't drop it but trod on it. He asked if my customer address details were current and then said "I'll ship a new one out to you, just box up the old one and send it back".

It arrived 8 days later (from LA so super quick to get to Australia). If all of my customer service encounters were like this then I would be ecstatic. People don't say trod often enough in this part of the world... and now it looks weird/alien to me because I haven't seen it in a while. (Sorry, rainy day here, and I am bored).

Trod, trodden, tread... trod, trod, trod.   Since the US is their bread and butter, their CS here is exceptional too. You can email them, do online chat or have them call you. Every time I have an issue they're pretty much able to resolve it instantly. It seems to me they're basically willing to bend over backwards to make you a happy customer.

One time I bought a book and the binding starting coming apart, which was apparently a known issue by the publisher. They sent me another copy free of charge and let me keep the old one. I have never ordered anything from Amazon, but that's because I still haven't had much reason to do since I don't buy too much stuff.

But I've heard so much amazing stuff from Amazon as a company.

If I'll ever have to order something then I'll buy it from them. The convenience is just amazing. And normally you expect some trade-off in terms of speed, quality or service, but they simply excel at all of these, at least in my experience. &gt; in the UK at least

I'm pretty sure they're like that everywhere. I've bought some RAM from them a while ago, turns out it was faulty. Made a ticket and not even 2 hours later they sent me a new one, no questions asked. Nowadays I go out of my away to order from them when I have to upgrade my PC since I've had my share of bad experiences with some other online stores. 

Also free shipping :) To be honest it's a very large reason I buy from amazon. I know if ANYTHING goes wrong, they'll resolve it quickly and with little to no pressure on me. I held off on getting prime for a long time thinking I didn't need it, but I have it now and it's incredible. I had a misplaced order and the guy said since I was a prime member they'd refund me but I'd still get my item. Very satisfied  Seriously, I could call them at 10pm on a saturday and instantly get help! Given the subject of this thread is games, I want to throw Blizzard in there as having quite exceptional customer service as well.  I've dealt with them more than Amazon and Blizzard's CS is unmatched in my experience. Amazon actually has humans for customer support, but Google acts *exactly* the same way. I challenge you to find some way to contact a human at Google right now through official means. You won't be able to. Even when developers have problems with the Google Play Store, all they ever receive are canned responses. Google can shut down your entire livelihood within the span of a couple of hours, and there is nothing you can do about it unless they realize their mistake themselves. I can contact a human at google. The trick is that you actually have to be paying them.  The big difference between the companies you listed and Valve is that they are either not selling products directly to consumers/end users or go great lengths to protect their consumers (ebay/Amazon).

This is actually where customer protection directives kicks in or are supposed to kick in. Software sales have always been kind of a gray zone between being interpreted as a service or a product? According the the EU electronic games are products which means that the customer has the right to return an unused product within 14 days or get a refund for a faulty product. EU customers should technically also have the right to resell their digital games. 

I'm kind of interested in seeing what it will lead to. The laws are not easily enforceable and Valve will most likely not comply before a court decides to fine them for not abiding the laws in the countries they operate in. It would also be interesting the see if the EU think Valve has a monopoly. Last month my steam account had a hacked item (which I didn't know about) traded to it. My account has been permanently banned from ' assisting in account theft'. I contacted valve and apparently according to the person I contacted they will never unban my account and threatened to possibly pursue legal action  Trading is funny to me. It's an entire part of Steam that they've used to amplify sales and I'm scared of it because I don't want to get perma-banned like that. And even if they stopped banning innocents holding stolen/hacked goods I'd still avoid it so as to keep a low profile to avoid being targeted by account thieves. And god forbid they let you disable your ability to take part in it, because then you can't get sucked into the Steam item economy. Had the same thing happen to me. The way they respond to your ticket really pissed me off, they kept saying they wouldn't lift the ban even after I showed them that I didn't know the items were stolen. I used to trade alot with alot of different people back then, but it's guilty until proven innocent. When they finally removed the ban they said it was "a one time customer service gesture" and "There will not be a second warning.". That really rubbed me the wrong way. Its awful valve has such a monopoly on the PC games market. This si the kind of shit that would make me swap to an alternative option Funny, I was banned from CS:GO.

I never even installed it on my account.

When asked why, all I get are copy/paste automatic 'VAC is never wrong' emails.

**I never had the fucking game installed, how can I be banned from it?!** Have you tried sending an email directly to Gabe or anyone else who work there? I remember seeing him tell someone that everyone was customer support at Valve, so you could basically do that. &gt; possibly pursue legal action 

Against you? Do you have that in writing?

 It took so much time for people to be able to openly criticize them. I remember when posting to reddit and other sites and most people reacting like "Oh, they are doing YOU a service for having so cheap games, they are busy etc." It's *really* validating for those of us that weren't sucking valve's dick for all these years. They're a company; they provide a good service, when it works; their customer support sucks. I don't know why so many people had trouble seeing it like it is. For everything Valve does right, their Customer Service is absolutely terrible. Its absolutely disrespectful. My tipping point where now I go to stores to shop for games was Shadow of Mordor. I downloaded that fucker three times at th library, probably spent 32 total hours in a library playing Endless Space while it dl'd at 600 kb/s.

The first time it finished downloading, it reset itself back almost 14 GB of data and started downloading again, this eventually led to it resetting to 0. Downloaded it a second time and when I went to install it, Steam crashed and when I re-opened steam, the game said it needed to download itself again. 3rd attempt, same thing happened.

Contacted Steam support, took almost a week for anyone to respond. I requested a refund, it is a malfunctioning product. Took another 3-4 days for them to acknowledge I should get a refund.

Thiws is the part that pisses me off the most. The CS rep did inform me that "this was a courtesy, and that Valve doesnt usually offer refunds".

Thats the biggest Fuck You any company can give to its clientele. "Hey, at any moment we can take your money and leave you suffering with your faulty product".

Thats when I realized, for all their "deals", their running a giant trust organization. Our games arent owned by us, they dont care about their customers and they only care to tell us to fuck off any day of the week. I'm absolutely terrified of having to deal with steam customer services. I've heard horror stories and as a man who has ploughed a lot of money into my library, potentially loosing my account would be aweful.  As much as I love Valve/steam..it is not wise to make such a big investment and tie all your games to their DRM.  To a company that does not take its customers seriously.  Why I think it's best to spread the net and use services like GOG, GMG, Amazon etc.  I have this sinking feeling I'll get fucked over by Steam one day (I travel abroad frequently) and get locked out and can't reach anyone.  Quit with this blind loyalty and praise Gaben childishness and protect yourselves as consumers. They got an F? That's really high for Valve. an "F" is pretty generous

their customer service borders on criminal levels, i'm surprised we've never heard of it getting taken to court I was going to sue them once, filled the small claims papers and they called me several days later wanting to resolve the issue out of court. Took like 5 minutes on the phone with some random from their legal and got a refund and my account unbanned. 

I think I spent like 2 or 3 weeks back and forth with their customer service. More people should do this. I'm sure they've always settled before that's happened. Valve's support is unacceptably terrible, literally no other company would be able to get away with support this bad in 2015, it's been this bad since day 1! Origin's support? Perfect!  Last year I contacted Steam support within 24 hours of making a purchase. After 7 weeks I got an automated response that basically told me to screw off because too much time had passed and nothing could be done. Except too much time passed because it took them 7 weeks to send a half-assed email response.  

As you would expect I no longer buy my games on Steam (and never will again). I don't need to now anyway because so many companies offer BETTER or equal prices (GoG, Amazon, GreenManGaming, HumbleBundle, BundleStars, GamersGate, Nuuvem, etc).  Too bad the games are still Steam DRM but at least Valve doesn't get a 30%+ cut.

Wost customer service I've had the displeasure of dealing with. I have friends who've had terrible experience with Valve's support too. 

A company that makes hundreds of millions of dollars in profit can't be bothered to offered proper support. Valve is one of the most anti-consumer gaming companies right now. I had a complaint once, It involved Dota 2 and the patch that introduced socketing.

I bought a bunch of couriers that I intended to put gems into so they would have particle effects.

Turns out, the courier had to have particle effects in it to begin with.  So I was putting gems into things that did nothing.

I opened a comment, said I didn't understand that to be the case, and I would like a refund.

Valve told me no, sorry.  So I said, could you please direct me to someone who can give me a refund?  I don't want this stuff, I have the receipt, just give me back the $13 or whatever it was.

They said, "valve doesn't have managers, this is as high as it goes, and we have answered your question and you will receive no additional response"

It was the first time I encountered a company telling me to go fuck myself.  Really made me mad. Valve is paranoid about hiring people that conflict with their culture.

Valve needs to create a *separate company* to handle support, so that it can have a traditional structure and not involve the elites that actually work the day-to-day. Elites don't want to deal with mundane customer concerns. They want to make games and VR headsets. Most companies hire third parties to handle support already. Valve is probably already doing so. 

The issue is that the size of their consumer base has outgrown the size of their staff.  They'll need to redirect funds to whatever agency they've hired to manage steam support. 

In other words, steam support is likely already a third party agency. The issue is funding and when you have a small corporate structure like valve,  employee relationships can tend to get personal. Layoffs in order to redirect funds would probably hurt because of that. Likewise,  reducing bonuses in an industry where talent recruitment tends to be predatory would cause many talented workers to leave in search of greener pastures. 

Needless to say it's a sensitive and difficult problem which tends to be overlooked on the Internet which tends to provide one dimensional solutions as a panacea. On the other hand,  valve definitely needs to make a move if it wishes to keep itself in good favor.  Likewise, hardware pursuits tend to make customer service even more crucial which certainly puts them at a disadvantage when compared to Facebook.  I think it disingenuous to make it sound like they'd have to fire people to afford effective Cs 

&gt;Most companies hire third parties to handle support already. Valve is probably already doing so. 

&gt;The issue is that the size of their consumer base has outgrown the size of their staff.  They'll need to redirect funds to whatever agency they've hired to manage steam support. 

&gt;

That is not an excuse whatsoever. Microsoft has more customers than workers. 

Amazon does too. 

Same with EA. 

And Nintendo. 

And Apple. 

And Blizzard. 

And PDP.  




I'm missing a lot. But all of these companies manage to pull off decent cs with a large consumerbase.   'Yeah sorry we can't spend the millions and millions of dollars on customer support that people should expect as a basic part of our service, we'd really like to but the reason we haven't bothered for the past 10 years is only because uhhh we'd have to fire Nick and Julia and we really like them and outsourcing it would make things slightly more difficult for us to find things for them to do'

The reason you don't see anyone worrying about this kind of stuff in these discussions is because it is **completely irrelevant.** If they were worried about hurting their feelings they could give their small team a big enough payoff to live comfortably until they can find new work. I recently had my Google account hacked into. Games were purchased on my Google Wallet that were part of an indie bundle that gave out Steam keys. I contacted Steam with said keys to see if they could nail down who activated those steam keys so that person could be held accountable for theft of my identity and money. 

It has been a month and they haven't even replied to my ticket yet. I just assume they never will, and I don't know why I even bothered. File a police report. That's not really even a Valve thing. My father had his Capital One account compromised via Capital One's customer service(in other words, a service agent was convinced via an online prompt that the person was my dad, so they changed EVERYTHING via the online prompt), and nothing was bought but all of his miles were spent on best buy gift cards sent to a certain address. Capital One said there wasn't anything that could be done. We told Best Buy what the codes for the gift cards were, they told us there wasn't anything that could be done. The police were told, they said they'd get around to investigating when they had a chance. 

Nobody seems to give a shit about identity theft. I had to wait 3 weeks with no response for their support team to unlock my account. I had 23 failed login attempts from all over the world and locked my account for security. 3 weeks without being able to play any online content. Total bull shit. How can they act like this is some kind of surprise that they have shit customer service, It's just one of those universally accepted facts. Valve has literally the worst customer service I've ever seen outside of hyper-extreme examples. They will take absolutely forever to respond to any issues, they will dump on you excuse after excuse, and at the end of the day, they will never help you.

Meanwhile Electronic Arts gives you a no-questions-asked refund on a game within a short timeframe of first playing it, and if you aren't satisfied with something, they'll usually give you a voucher for a discounted game in the future.

Hell, I had an issue with Planetside 2 and bought the wrong gun. I shot an email off to customer service, by the end of the day they had refunded me the money I spent and let me keep the gun. Steam made 45million alone from 2014 compendiums (55mill total/10 to prize pool) and they cant open another building in some poputlated areal like kansas city(anyone there is smart with google fiber) and hire a buncha high quality people? Blizzards ticket system is flawless, they respond in less than an hour everytime and always ask how they can solve a problem. Steam just says sorry cant help right now reply again and maybe we will have a good answer in 7-12 days. Bottom line is gaben is making 8-9 figures while we all suffer. Sadly hes just turned into another kimdotcom or somthing, a fat fuck that knows hes gonna die soon so he doesnt care about anyone but himself living in luxury. Sorry guys thats the fact. We wont be seeing any new steam changes until there is fresh blood at the helm. GABEN IS SPENT

ps also steam customer service is worst than comcast  &gt; Right now we're in a state where we're doing a bunch of technical work on thinking through how does a support issue get raised

No, this is completely wrong and that way of thinking is part of the problem.  For most problems Valve has done well by hiring a small amount of smart people and building great tools and frameworks.  They keep a (relatively) small staff and leverage the power of the community for many things.

But that is not how you do customer service.  They need to actually go out and hire a bunch of low/medium wage people to man phone lines or chat services and empower those people to give refunds and deal with people's complaints.  They don't need to spend a year designing and developing an new automated support ticket infrastructure and algorithms to better prioritize the ticket workflow.  They don't to make radical innovations in the world of customer service.  Dealing with customers is a known problem, every big company has it.  You hire support people, you pay them, they listen to the customers and fix the customers problems. They also desperately need to hire some competent UX people. Steam has been sitting on more or less the same shoddy design for way too long, and it is such a chore to use when it really has no excuse to be in 2015 as popular as it is. I doubt Valve will fix this until another major player on the digital distribution front overtakes them. As long as their revenue continues to grow, we probably will never see any improvement on Valve's front in this regard. I know Valve states that everyone in their organization is part customer service, but having worked in software development for some time, I've come to the basic conclusion that engineers should definitely not be part of customer service.  There's typically an arrogance to them which makes them counterproductive to providing quality customer service.  And that arrogance is needed to provide quality software/products typically.  But great customer service requires humility. This reminds me a lot of Office Space.  Yet the mob is still gonna love Valve always and make the same jokes they've been making for like a decade.    

I find the blind loyalty to Valve hilarious and for some people hypocritical.

 They can be not "psyched" all they fucking want, it's clear that the customer services for Steam are fucking atrocious. But they sure deserve it. Valve is a pretty great company, but it's no excuse for the very mediocre support. It takes weeks to have a response to your tickets, that's just not acceptable when it's about your money, or even your entire account (especially back when it was pretty easy to get an account hacked).

Platforms like Origin have much better support with live chat and even offer refund. Really, Valve, get your shit together. valve has a customer service department? I've never drunk the Steam kool-aid. I've never liked the idea of all my games being centralized through one provider. My online gaming experience was SO much better before all the games I play got swallowed up by Steam. 


Last year I decided I wanted to play NBA2k14 again - after not playing it for 5 months. 


I had a problem inside the game where it did not recognize the serial that steam was giving me. 


I contacted Steam CS. After a few days they get back to me. They said I had to contact 2k.I contact 2k. They say the problem is with Steam. I had to go back and forth with both CS departments for a few weeks. 


Finally, after both not helping me. I give up on the whole thing. I give up on a game that I PAYED for.

That left a VERY sour taste in my mouth for both companies. But, I know that if I was just dealing with 2k servers instead of steam there wouldn't of been an issue. Suffice it to say I'm not a huge lover of Steam.  Not saying that Valve's customer server is good by any means,  but I'm not sure I'd trust the BBB to give an unbiased assessment. Why's that?

EDIT: I appreciate all the explanations everyone. There's been reports/allegations/leaks that business who pay them money can have a better grade on the website. Kind of like yelp where you pay them for positive reviews and such. The article itself covers the major points. The biggest is that companies can pay the BBB to become "accredited," and those that do tend to see improvements in their BBB grade promptly. 

Also, much like the Chamber of Commerce, they try and position themselves to the average Joe as some kind of governmental or regulatory agency, when they aren't anything of the sort. Their grades have as much weight as those given by Grandma Maud down on the corner. EA has an A+ rating with the Better Business Bureau. Comcast has a B. They essentially only care about people who play along and respond to complaints or pay them money.   EA has great customer support, live chat, phone, email, even 48 hour refunds. In that perspective, they're pretty solid.  And in comparison with Valve, completely blows of out of the water Comcast does not deserve a B though.  Isnt it 24h returns? 48h if you don't launch the game, 24 if you do. Comcast has a fucking B?! Ha, alright I wouldnt trust those reviews either. considering it took them 3 weeks to unlock my account when i locked it due to a suspected intrustion, i got a little miffed Does this shock anyone? I've never been helped whatsoever by Steam. They even claimed I wasn't me when I tried to get my account back, I could've even proven authenticity with a damn passport if they so wanted. "We were shocked! We've been ignoring our customers for years, so how would we know they weren't satisfied?" All i know is, they responded to my complaints about Archeage, asked for evidence to my claims as to why I desired a refund, and fulfilled the refund when I gave proof of fraud. 10/10 for me I like how the article tries to discredit the Better Business Bureau. Yea they aren't perfect but lets not sugar coat things. Valves customer service is horrible. 

We'll see how quickly thing will get done, but I'm not holding my breath anytime soon. I'm glad they said something about it though. At least we know they're listening. Now they just need to do something.  The first time I needed steam tech support for my password I was flabbergasted.

I had to send an email and wait three days for a response. Then when they respond, its a back and forth conversation but it always took about three days for them to respond.

I couldnt resolve my password issue until a week and a half later. I don't know how Valve are going to improve their customer support considering that they usually refuse to directly communicate with their customers. Their management structure also discourages hiring people for a very specific purpose so I highly doubt they'll ever have a dedicated customer support team.

My guess is that they'll either try to automate it and/or they'll create some kind of built-in community-driven technical support tool. The user interface on steam is also an antiquated piece of shit that they should have redesigned ages ago. (The recent store changes didn't do much.) The library interface for example is a disgrace. It's not like designing good UIs is some dark art and they certainly have the money to hire people who know how to do better than what they currently have. The thing with customer service is that you are really only as good as your worst service. Its great that some people have had some good experiences, but that needs to be consistent, and it doesn't look like it is for many people.  The fact that the BBB's rating for them doesn't even phase them should tell us all we need to know. They simply do not care. They are popular enough that there aren't too many alternatives to their platform, so they don't even have to care. I'm just waiting for the day when an awesome startup screams onto the scene offering services superior to steam's, in addition to real customer support that gamers expect.

It honestly wouldn't take much to topple steam's empire on the PC. Someone with some startup capital just needs to do the same thing but better. If another company did that and offered good customer support, they'd retain a loyal customer base and slowly starve Valve of customers until they HAVE to change or die. It's absolutely disgusting the money they make with almost no customer support. I had a problem a couple weeks ago after rebooting my pc, and steam guard locked me out, and I wasn't getting a single email for the code. I went to customer service, took me an hour to figure out how to properly contact them, as it tells you the entire time "just look at these answers!" After putting in my complaint, I had to wait an entire week for an answer. The answer? 

"We've updated your account, and you should now be able to change your email. LOG INTO STEAM and follow these steps.."

So I try to log into my account - STEAMGUARD on both browser and application, they didn't update anything. I sent another support ticket, but didn't even bother waiting. 

I managed to remember what I named my PC to before resetting it and steam guard didn't get in my way, and I changed my email just to stay safe (it still had the correct email listed in my settings..). I left the ticket open just to see how long it would take - and 9 days later it's still open and awaiting an answer. Valve has some problems, but the BBB is thoroughly problematic, considering the time they have Hamas an A- rating:

http://abcnews.go.com/Blotter/business-bureau-best-ratings-money-buy/story?id=12123843 I've owned my Steam account since 2003.  I have a tremendous amount of respect for Valve and love the way they transformed Steam from a buggy pile of shit to an amazing, dynamic platform.

That said, I just can't get over how unbelievably slow and unfriendly their service model is.  It blows my mind that a company like Valve can receive such hate and vitriol, but then I look at all of the evidence of unhelpful/rude/late support and it all makes sense.

Service is everything. As much as it pains me to say it, Origin's superior in terms of customer support, in particular refunds. Their refund policy is easy (satisfaction guaranteed) and I have used it successfully (with very little hassle). 

When a game I bought on Steam did not work at all I tried to get a refund. Steam support flatly refused. I responded that I would stop payment on the credit charge. I was told they would lock my entire library of games. Fucking extortion. Steam acts like a startup without billions of dollars in revenue, with no money to spend on customer satisfaction. I like Valve, and Steam was a revolution as a service. But the time has long been up to start acting like the market leader they are. Valve is incredibly understaffed across the board and, in my opinion, not taking the proper steps to fix the problem because their company culture essentially forbids it. It's going to be an enormous pain point for them internally and externally for the foreseeable future. How does their culture prohibit it? They're organized much like a small business. Duties are not explicitly defined, and employees are largely able to work on whatever's interesting. As a small company, they're not really constrained to metrics like lines of code per day or tickets resolved per day. It helps them do lots of really innovative stuff, but it makes them pretty weak in the quality control section. I see it a lot in their games. They create a really nice piece of content, but then it gets abandoned when teams move on to other projects, and it takes a front page reddit post to get a bug fixed.  Thanks for answering this before I could get to it- I agree with your assessment! 

The way I like to illustrate the point, though it is by no means comprehensive, is that there're something like 15 people working on DotA2 on a consistent basis vs. over 1k working on League of Legends.

**Disclaimer: OPINIONS** Valve has an amazing developer and artist culture (although not everyone works well in their system) but a very flawed business and live services/support infrastructure. The good news is that these elements can and should be separated to keep them humming along in their own ways. I'm aware of their structure, but you haven't explained how that prevents them from expanding? It keeps them from expanding customer service, because that's not a fun job. They either need to stop acting like Peter Pan and make someone take that job or outsource it. They're too cheap and too immature to do either. [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules We absolutely should be harsh with companies no matter how great their product is, because frankly, I don't give a shit if they have hurt feelings. Companies don't have feelings like people. 

Or at least the Supreme Court hasn't ruled that they do yet.  Valve has had a BBB rating of F for over a decade now.  

Then again the BBB is just an extortion racket/PAC, so make of that what you will.

 Well I can read the countless tales of dealing with Valve so.. I'll take that F as an agreeable grade.  [deleted] [deleted] When sim city came out I was on the steam forums on a post about the server problems the game had at launch and said I am glad a lot of games on steam allow modding because a simple change was supposed to fix the problem.

I said I can't wait until the file changes to play sim city offline get released, at the point I had seen it said it was possible by changing a file but couldn't find how to do it.

**Banned from steam forums for talk of piracy**

Explain I wasn't talking about piracy I was talking about editing a file of the game I bought so it wouldn't do the check in online and I could play while the servers are messed up.

**There is a zero tolerance policy for piracy**

[Linked them to a Forbes article about it.](http://www.forbes.com/sites/davidthier/2013/03/18/one-simple-change-allows-simcity-offline-play/) Then explained again how it isn't piracy but modding.

**There is a zero tolerance policy for piracy**

I can still play my games, trade, ect just not use the steam forums so it doesn't really effect me. I just quit going on their forums at all which I already did rarely. I'm not surprised really. They just refuse to hire enough bodies to negotiate on shit like this and deal with individual cases. Instead of banning select domains from chat, they blanket banned pretty much everything. Instead of restricting sites from using steam OAuth, they scrapped OAuth entirely. It's easier to just sweepingly get rid of shit that increases customer support workload than dealing with each case, especially when it comes to account security which seems to cause the most workload.  Do you still buy games? That's what happens when people start judging companies based on celebrity worship instead of service and product quality. 

Gaben is a folk hero so he can just jam corporate dick into consumer's ass year after year, and nobody even complains. Hell, if you even *try* to complain you'll typically end up with -100 Karma points and that'd be about it. 

 Eh, to be fair, Steam changed the landscape and environment of gaming drastically for the better. Their customer service sucks for people who are forced to contact them (A very small minority of users, mind you), but it's hardly "corporate dick jammed into consumer ass" considering they're doing literally nothing to stop consumers or game publishers from using other platforms.

Also, you might end up with more karma with your complaints if you didn't put it in such a crude and biased way. I don't think I've once seen a well-reasoned post about Valve being stupid get downvoted on any level. In fact, the whole "Steam support sucks" thing has been a regular karma train for the past few years, at least. &gt;Eh, to be fair, Steam changed the landscape and environment of gaming drastically for the better

Yeah, not owning games you paid for. Such an improvement.

&gt;considering they're doing literally nothing to stop consumers or game publishers from using other platforms.

You can't possibly be this stupid. You know why they're not doing anything? Because they don't have to, they're already a monopoly. Anyone but the biggest publishers is forced to launch on Steam or go bankrupt. That's the reality of the current situation.

&gt;Also, you might end up with more karma with your complaints if you didn't put it in such a crude and biased way.

Coming from the guy who's full of mindless praise for good lord Gaben , same as rest of the sheep around this place. Hilarious. The irony is that when Microsoft tried to make new Xbox work basically like Steam, this placed exploded and instantly labeled them as next Hitler, but Valve has got you so brainwashed you can even see a dick that's up your ass, stripping millions of people of their  consumer rights, every minute of every day. 

 Who is ranked best in support? Amazon I'm guessing. They should just mimic that Amazon is also an unprofitable money pit that treats it's employees like dirt. 

Nobody's perfect.  What did they expect with a "service" that takes several days to respond if they respond at all? Of course Valve has known for years that their customer service is atrocious. They just didn't give a damn about their customers as they had no alternatives. Only now that GOG Galaxy and others are coming around, they're starting to make the bare minimum effort to serve their paying customers.
  
I'm sort of locked to the Steam ecosystem since I've already bought probably thousands of dollars worth of games for it, so I'm not going to pretend to boycott them -  I need Valve to remain in business so that I can still play the games I've bought. So for now, Valve may have my money but they won't have my respect. Once GOG Galaxy comes around I hope I can buy all my future games from them instead. DRM-free means that I won't be locked to a shitty ecosystem again. Of course they do. You have a problem with ONE SINGLE game and/or contest a payment with your bank and you LOSE YOUR ENTIRE LIBRARY OF GAMES(Thousands of dollars in many cases). You don't own any of your own games. You can't give them away or sell them once you're done with them, or even before you're done with them if you decide you don't like them.  So they were notified in July 2013 and very little has changed since then. It's all well and good to say "We need to do better" but it's pointless when they haven't taken steps to fix the underlying issues.  If they aren't too happy about it, maybe they should have done more to prevent such a view on their services At my school we are using steam to get videogames for our PC's for certain days of the year, and when we purchased some games on different accounts using the schools credit card that was given to us, we were denied several times after purchasing about 5 games, on 5 accounts, using that one credit card and they denied us to continue using it, or purchasing games at the school anymore. when we tried to get in contact with support we got no response and are still waiting. We sent in our request over a month ago and have gotten nothing back. Valve, pull your head out of your ass and do something about this. Just because you guys have an amazing platform, and service and mean shit when it comes to solving problems within your service. Hell, Microsofts Customer service is better than this guys. COMMON!!!!!! At least they're concerned, likely will take steps to better their services and games. Unlike other companies (Radio Shack, EA).

Then again, time will tell? I've been waiting 22 days for Support to unlock my account so I can go back to playing CSGO and streaming it... The typical Valve customer barely deals with Valve customer service.  I mean, I own over 200 games (probably 198 were %80 off) and I have never had an issue where I NEEDED to contact Valve.  It's the first public partner to be developing hardware on SteamVR platform. from the presentation, they claim to have room scale tracking (walk around and view objects from 360 degrees and "pick up" and 90 Hz refresh rate. Consumer edition available before end of year, dev edition coming in spring. &gt;A 1,200 by 1,080 pixel screen in front of each eye, with refresh rates of a blistering 90 frames per second, displays photorealistic imagery that fills your field of vision in all directions, eliminating the jitter common to previous VR technologies and transporting you to another world.

&gt;A gyrosensor, accelerometer, and laser position sensor combine to precisely track the rotation of your head on both axes to an accuracy of 1/10th of a degree, allowing you to look around the virtual environment naturally. Couple the headset with a pair of Steam VR base stations to track your physical location (in spaces up to 15 feet by 15 feet)  get up and walk around inisde the virtual world! 

Those specs are pretty insane. Is the Oculus even there, yet? It seems like all the final boundaries of VR, the little "not quite" things that seemed in the way are fading away incredibly quick, now that the race is on. Quite fascinating to see! Oculus did not give specifics on the specs of Crescent Bay, but in terms of features, not counting controls, they seem to be really close to being even. Which is AMAZING. 2 good providers is always better than one. 4 Providers!

Oculus Rift

HTC Vive

Playstation's Morpheus

~~Microsoft Hololens~~ I haven't done near enough research into this and it's apparently Augmented Reality rather than Virtual. Still, the tech could be cool and I suspect it could be applied to VR couldn't it?

Turns out VR could be pretty kickass with this amount of competition. Of course the Morpheus could be PS4 only but I'd be surprised if that were the case or at least wasn't hacked to work properly.

EDIT: Hololens correction, also apparently Nvidia could be doin' some stuff?

EDIT 2: Also Samsung! Hololens is AR, not VR, as far as I know. Indeed, Magic Leap and Microsoft Hololens are the only players in AR right now.

Edit: And CastAR, true! Wouldn't Google Glass also count as an AR device? Though I guess not primarily for gaming. Yep, but Google is investing in Magic Leap so it's probably going to be the technology used in the new google glass.

Edit: Google invested 500 million. I'm 100% sure these companies know way more than us about the current advances in AR and VR, otherwise we wouldn't see such crazy million dollar investments thrown around. (or billion, facebook bought oculus for 2 big ones).

Shit's bout to go down, can't wait for this new realm of visual experiences to blow up. Hololens isn't VR, but it's still an interesting technology.

Don't forget, nVidia is making an announcement at GDC that looks to be an HMD, and Apple has several patents. You forgot [OSVR](http://www.osvr.com/)?  Is Sony still working on their own set? I'd love to see as much competition as possible. Yes they're still working on their own headset. Its platform will be PS4 so it's not a direct competition to Valve or Oculus, but rather widens the "eco-system". Sony's was PS4-only though, wasn't it? HTC is supposed to be Valve's first partner in VR from what I understand, and their goal is very certainly boosting the industry as a whole, so I'm sure we'll see more HMDs from other manufacturers popping up in the near future. Or at least I hope so. The Crescent Bay prototype has had 90Hz since October. The tracking seems pretty much the same too, although I'm still unsure how exactly Valve's positional tracking works. 

Oculus has not officially told anyone what the Crescent Bay resolution is, but it could very well be the same screens since some already speculated that it has two screens (http://www.realovirtual.com/pictures/2014/09/CrescentBayLentes.jpg). Most impressions have said that it's either 1440p or 1080p with a diffusing film, and 2400x1080p would fit the bill too I guess? I thought Oculus was still targeted seated position, apparently still using a camera based tracking system while Valve's system allows movement around a room apparently 15x15. The Crescent Bay allows movement around a space, although it's more like 9ft x 9ft from what we've seen. We don't know how Valve's system works - some speculated that it used cameras in the headset which track the base stations? But yes, they seem to be a bit different (and assuming Valve's system works as well as the one Oculus is using, it should be better due to the wider area. The Crescent Bay prototype has been up there since October. Oculus is rumored to be 2560x1440p (1280x1440 per eye) so I guess we'll see. I still have more faith in FB's backing than Valve, mostly because of how much more money oculus has dedicated to it (AKA all of it) whereas valve it's a smaller part of the overall company with much less people working on it. Dunno mate. This announcment is bigger than you think. http://www.htcvr.com

Scroll down there and check out the Content Partners. (you can press that little button on the side to scroll, it's not just the 3)

Among them are Google, HBO, Lionsgate, all of which are multimilion industries. Also this one: http://wevr.com/theblu-valve
&gt; Nothing to date delivers true Presence like Valve's room-scale Vive VR headset says Neville Spiteri, Cofounder/CEO of WEVR (formerly known as WemoLab).
 Consumer version in 2015!? That's exciting; I hope this puts some pressure on Oculus for a release this year as well. I won't believe until I see it. I've heard similar promises too many times for me to really get excited for this year. That part was surprising. Thats not a lot of time to use a dev kit ._. If you assume most devs interested in VR have and are working with an Oculus devkit, then they wouldn't need too long to use this new devkit to make sure the code works on both.  

I.e. the VR work was done with Oculus kit, the HTC kit is just to confirm cross platform compatibility.   Wasn't there a push a while back to get some kind of VR standard, so that any headset would work for any VR game? Yes, by Razer. 

I doubt Facebook wants to go that way though, since it seems like they want Oculus and their APIs to become the standard. Valve already has all the leverage they need with steam. Oculus better support their platform or they're in for a rude awakening when they realize everyone just wants to use steam. &gt; Oculus better support their platform or they're in for a rude awakening when they realize everyone just wants to use steam.

people keep forgetting that the oculus is a display and some rudimentary controls you can map to anything, and can do so effectively to any game that's designed for it or allows you to. It has literally no overlap with Steam. Ignoring standards and trying to impose your own API worked well for 3dfx...

Hold on, I'm gonna fire up Skyrim on my 3dfx voodoo 16 1948000 in glide mode. Except there are no standards yet. Also, it's Valve announcing a release date. So... I mean, it'll be great but...

Valvetime is a term for a reason. That's the thing about Valve though. The reason they have the Soon^TM reputation is because they're so squirrely about giving definite release timeframes after HL2. 

The fact that they're giving a definite deadline is kinda promising. It's also HTC, not only Valve. Hardware is a completely different thing to announce time tables for. You have to have the device being mass produced well in advance, so the specs are locked in and its being built. &gt; I hope this puts some pressure on Oculus for a release this year as well.

How can you believe that this would be a good thing, If they never intended to release this year and this valve headset forces them to launch it means the product will be rushed before it was ready. Oculus have stated many times that they want to release this year - this might just push them enough to make them work harder to achieving that goal. &gt; Couple the headset with a pair of Steam VR base stations to track your physical location (in spaces up to 15 feet by 15 feet)  get up and walk around inisde the virtual world!

If you though people breaking TVs with Wii-motes flying away was amusing, wait until they start walking blindfolded around their room.  Tethered,  no less. These advancements are not enough! ONWARD TO WIRELESS VR! Depends on how good the tracking is - which is inside-out, rather than outside camera and IR tracking only. It may be possible for the user to actually see outside the headset in some form due to this unique tracking system and on-board cameras. It's called the HTC Vive and is planned to ship in 2015.

A [photo](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B_BaNCXU4AAaBaC.png) of the VR Headset

[Another photo](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B_BaRZtUQAArx6h.png)

[List of game devs](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B_BavZ0U4AArc9l.png)


[Source](https://twitter.com/geoffkeighley)

---

**[Website](http://www.htcvr.com/)**

[Trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTITJSSRUso) Let the speculation begin! 

Are Valve going to release a new game made with VR in mind?

HYPE? I think they'll just implement the headset to their already existing games. When the first Oculus came out, they implemented it in TF2, so I guess that's what they're thinking of doing although, yes, most likely, when they release new games, they'll be VR compatible surely. They need more than "VR compatible", they need "VR first" because if there is no real bonus I won't get a headset just for a game I can perfectly play on my normal display.

Ehh, who am I kidding, Imma buy this right away. What kind of 'bonus' are you expecting? The two experiences are not at all comparable. Hell even going from triple monitor to single and back is a very different experience.  Exactly this. Have you seen the VR demo on HL2? It's amazing.  My "wild speculation" is HL3 for VR. And I'm being sincere here. They mentioned that they wanted to achieve a leap, and give a wow factor in their releases. going from HL1 to HL2, the story line, and their engine achieved exactly that. Up until VR showed up, there really weren't any new breakthroughes that would allow Valve to wow us with the release of HL3 except the prolonged release. But now that VR is around the corner, that may become a possibility. There has been a drastic reduction in support of TF2, Dota 2 and CS:GO in the past several months. There is definitely some project that Valve is "all hands on deck" about right now.  They're also gonna be announcing something at 3/3 at 3 pm. Valve has already mentioned that they won't make any game require VR. Will Half Life 3 be able to use VR? Almost certainly. Will that be the main selling point of the game? No way.  It'll probably just be playable both ways with a bunch of stuff made specific for VR. I'm thinking they'll bundle it with the Vive, to make it *the* VR game. Not everyone with HL3 will have a Vive, but everyone with a Vive will have HL3, and it will be the de facto standard way to play it.  This right here. When you put two and two together it really makes a shitload of sense. No, it makes 4. Valve didn't even get to 3 yet, let's not get too excited  [deleted] If they ever release HL3 then I don't see why they wouldn't put in VR support. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Vive, not Vine. These game devs aren't prestigious at all except for Valve. Can't get excited for this to be honest. Not to mention, I don't see Valve really comitting to it. I had to look them up, but some of the developers seem to make a little sense just because they seem well positioned to make good VR experiences. 

Fireproof games makes the Room, which could make for a great experience with the head tracking. You could be in the virtual room at 1 to 1 scale. 
http://www.fireproofgames.com

Dovetail Games makes train and flight sims. Seems natural to simulate the experience even more. 
http://www.dovetailgames.com/products

Owlchemy Labs made AaaaaAAaaaAAAaaAAAAaCULUS!!! which was pretty popular considering it was released for hardware which isn't technically released yet.
http://owlchemylabs.com/games/

I think what they might be trying to do is assemble like the Wii sports of the VR world. Simple, but shows off the range of possibilities.  At first thought flight sims on VR sound awesome, but Train sims on VR sounds AMAZING. especially 15x15 feet. The only one I've even heard of is Vertigo, and I know nothing about them.  Well hot dang, this is big and unexpected especially with a mobile company in partnership. Seems oculus rift is going to have some steep competition. If Valve does get this out before the end of the year, if the screen they use is up to spec, and if they make it easy to convert Oculus Rift support in games into support for their headset, they could've seriously fucked Oculus here.      

I mean, who are gamers going to choose? A new company that has no prior influence, or Valve - the uncontested king on PC? Integrating it with Steam and making SteamOS fully compatible from boot with it, and they might have something to seriously worry Oculus assuming all those "ifs" are proven true. They could seriously steal the Oculus' thunder here. The first-to-market advantage is **massive** and even if it doesn't end up having the tech specs of Oculus it could still win. Happens all the time in the tech market.

And like you said, the brand recognition of the Valve name among PC gamers is huge. They are the undisputed champion of the platform.  Hopefully for gamers the first-to-market advantage won't be big and headsets will basically be sold like monitors with tons of companies competing, broad compatibility, and no lock-in. I'm actually really happy if they manage to do that. Valve wants to standardize VR API, Oculus on the other hand has been really protective about their software inventions. &gt; Oculus on the other hand has been really protective about their software inventions

You can consult the source code of the Oculus SDK right now, and the old HMD is open-sourced. That's true, but it's also under heavy proprietary license that won't let you actually do anything with the source code, that's not exactly what people had in mind when they made their early open source promises.

edit: With that said there's no promising that this thing will have open source (foss) SDK either, but fingers crossed. SteamOS/Big Picture could look very nice in a 3D headset, exactly the kind of interface Oculus is lacking. You can see for yourself. SteamVR is already in Beta. Its the Big Picture mode with headtracking and the sorts. 

Still need to change a lot of things though for it to be ready for the masses. Actually selecting and opening games is the one thing that has always looked a bit janky in Oculus demo videos to me.    

Having a seamless experience where the Steam client, possibly even the whole OS can be used without removing the headset could be a really nice selling point. Theres a steam big picture mode beta that supports the rift, it works pretty damn well if you ask me. &gt; if they make it easy to convert Oculus Rift support in games into support for their headset, they could've seriously fucked Oculus here. 

Done. [They presented an universal API a year ago.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vqNpZqnl1o&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=4m30s)  I don't exactly see the Steamworks VR API as being the ultimate solution. Something *similar* but not tied to Steam is what I want to see... &gt; I mean, who are gamers going to choose? A new company that has no prior influence, or Valve - the uncontested king on PC?

I'll do you one even better.

Who are you going to go with, Valve or Facebook?

I've already jumped ship. &gt;Who are you going to go with

The better product. Time has shown that the better product isn't what always gets picked; look at betamax and VHS. Partially true.

Betamax had superior video and audio to VHS but Sony monopolized it so there was very little variation in models and features and it was a lot more expensive than VHS. VHS also had higher capacity and was cheaper.

 It was porn that secured vhs. Porn is always the decider.

Double edit: for the love of god, if you want to debate hddvd, blu ray, porn, or anything else about this joke, just expand the comments.  IT WAS A JOKE.  Jesus titty fucking low resolution christ. Porn was on betamax, porn was on vhs, porn was on hddvd, porn was on bluray, porn was on the Internet,  in magazines,  painted on caves, porn is everywhere and I get it!

Edit: There have been about 12 replies about porn and HD DVD. This was merely a joke. I understand that porn supported HDDVD. Porn was also on beta max.

I also understand porn is not the only thing released on physical formats, so thus it is not the sole reason for a formats success. Its a large demographic, and any format that ignores it will lose money because of it. 

Porn follows the market of sales fast, very fast. they abandoned HD DVD faster than any other entity, hardware, software, and video included. Porn only cares about profits, and short term returns mostly. Porn is not (largely) an investment industry.

It was a one line joke, not a macro economic dissertation. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Porn sided with HD-DVD, so I wouldn't say they won out there.

Porn doesn't care about physical media anymore anyway. If I remember correctly, it wasn't so much that they sided *with* HD-DVD, so much as they sided *against* bluray. Sony didn't support the industry.  Better is relative. Betamax was way over-engineered and too expensive. Time often shows that the product that gets picked is about bang-for-your-buck. VHS was the better product for consumers.  There's lots of ways to quantify "better" though.

Case in point, VHS vs Betamax. Beta had much superior picture quality, but it was more expensive, and at launch the tapes only had a capacity of 1 hour of video. It was impossible to fit an entire movie on one tape. They later made Beta tapes with longer capacity, but by that point the (at the time, brand new) video rental industry had already sided with VHS, as it was the superior technology in the areas that mattered to them, even if it was inferior in different ways. [deleted] Nonsense. Apple has proved for decades that's wrong. We could just wait until one of these HMD's is actually out and then decide. I very much doubt HTC and Facebook will be the only ones in this field.  Oculus and Valve are the only HMDs so far with comparable/competing feature set ie integrated audio, inside out tracking, hand tracking, etc

edit: As Agentofdoom suggests, I think I'll throw Morpheus in there as well. I think people seriously underestimate the benefits of a locked spec platform and more critically a well established one.

Its the middle man in terms of pros/cons between PC tethered VR and mobile VR. Theyre the only ones announced. But as I said, we know there are many companies developing similar things, so why not wait until theyre actually out to decide?

No reason to fanboy over one or the the other. NVidia actually just announced they were entering the VR-sphere and have a big announcement for GDC regarding that this week. It's a good year for VR! Most consumers will look at two things; quality and price. If Valve can make a better/cheaper Rift then it will get more support. However if the Rift is more expensive, within reason, but is higher quality and a better experience then it wins. 

That's just business.  Not only that, a lot of people got alienated by the Facebook buyout of Oculus. I don't know if people are still uneasy about that, but if they are they are much rather going to jump on Valve's solution as well. Plus HTC, while making some questionable software decisions, have always had fantastic build quality, especially so in recent years. I can't imagine this headset being any different in that respect. You are right but you got to remember the vast amount of people who don't actually play games or talk about them online. Facebook has a large audience and if they find a way to tap into that market, then they could have a bigger install base over valve/htc.  Having the larger install base wouldn't matter as much because any hardware discrepancy would effectively separate the markets. If the Oculus hardware is limited to meet a casual crowd pricepoint, no one looking for the enthusiast experience is going to consider the Rift. It's the same reality behind expensive alternatives in any market. They have their own clique of buyers who aren't looking for anything that is't above average in quality or performance. I'm still uneasy about it. I love that I can get a cool headset from someone else than Facebook now.

However, Carmack and Abrash are at Oculus... &gt; and if they make it easy to convert Oculus Rift support in games into support for their headset, 

Oculus has some people from Valve, and they've been generally in communication about the whole thing. They've also said that they want to set a free and open standard for VR usage. That means that all games will be developed to use that standard so that all devices will work the same, like DirectX runs on both ATI and nVIDIA cards. Apparently the dev edition has two 1080 by 1200 screens with a 90~~m~~hz refresh rate. 90Hz*, milli hertz would be a very slow slideshow. That sounds pretty fantastic. I was completely excited until I thought of the announcements of the stream machines and the new controller. If I can purchase one I will but honestly that's a big IF, historically speaking. Who cares if they fuck oculus? It got bought out by a shit company, let it get fucked. Please follow the subreddit rules, guys. We've already removed two dozen low effort comments in this thread. 

Comments like: 

* "HTC - Half-life Three Confirmed" 

* "Half-life Three Confirmed!"

* "DEAR LORD"

* "HOLY FUCK"

* "So now we know what's going in with HL3 "

* "DON'T YOU DARE SAY IT!!"

* "Half-life 3.... D"

* "V-GINA"

* "i knooooooooooooooooooooow"

* "HTC 3 letter. You know what i mean."

* "H=Half. T= someone else come up with t please. C=Third letter of the alphabet."

* "TEAM FORTRESS THREE-DEE HALF LIFE THREE-DEE LEFT FOR DEAD THREE-DEE PORTAL 3...DEE GET HYPE."

We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules &gt; * "HTC - Half-life Three Confirmed" 

&gt; * "Half-life Three Confirmed!"

&gt; * "DEAR LORD"

&gt; * "HOLY FUCK"

&gt; * "So now we know what's going in with HL3 "

&gt; * "DON'T YOU DARE SAY IT!!"

&gt; * "Half-life 3.... D"

&gt; * "V-GINA"

&gt; * "i knooooooooooooooooooooow"

&gt; * "HTC 3 letter. You know what i mean."

&gt; * "H=Half. T= someone else come up with t please. C=Third letter of the alphabet."

&gt; * "TEAM FORTRESS THREE-DEE HALF LIFE THREE-DEE LEFT FOR DEAD THREE-DEE PORTAL 3...DEE GET HYPE."

Is this what you guys have to deal with on a daily basis? Sadly, yes. Those comments are actually pretty mild compared to the stuff we usually remove, but almost all threads have at least some low effort or totally off-topic comments in them.

There are sadly users out there that resort to death threats, stalking, harassment and doxxing just because someone else didn't like a game's art design or game mechanics. The mods here are awesome. Thank you so much for keeping an amazing subreddit.  They really make what this subreddit is! For the sake of your sanity I hope you have set Automoderator to remove all comments with Half-Life Three mentioned in it. We have set up a filter to automatically remove such comments, but it's far from being foolproof. We usually have to remove at least 1/3 of the rule breaking comments in a thread manually. 2015 for a consumer release? Wow. How long have they been developing this, then?
 It was known for awhile that Valve has been working on different variations of VR and AR simulations, with software and stuff. But it is safe to say that I think we were all expecting Valve to let The Rift pave the way. 

Guess they got tired of waiting.  Or maybe Valve is unhappy with Facebook acquiring Oculus, and are uncertain about the future of VR unless they step in. Or maybe they have some seriously cool shit planned, like VR + Steam OS or something.  They were pissed with the implications Windows 8 + Windows Store was imposing and jump started the SteamOS. Stands to reason this would field the same avenue.  Yep. Once the network effect starts it can't be stopped. If they failed to act now, Facebook and Sony could have easily gone proprietary and locked everything into their own ecosystems. 

With pressure from Valve even if the Vive isn't the best system, we should see much more openness.  I work in QA for one of the companies listed and I had a go on the valve headset, it's incredible. I have never used an oculus rift so I cant compare them but I didn't feel any motion sickness whatsoever except briefly when one of the demo's crashed. The best thing about it is the full position tracking, you can lie down on the floor in the real world and your character in the game will follow you. Could you comment on the tracking station and FOV? Is there any screen door effect?  Hopefully Valve has their own release because the dev list isn't the most robust. Probably the best known devs on the list are Bossa Studios (Surgeon Simulator) and Fireproof Games (The Room). Not exactly a AAA lineup. I would be very surprised if we didn't see an announcement for one of the 3s (HL, LFD, Portal) as a VR supported release at E3 this year.

&gt;A gyrosensor, accelerometer, and laser position sensor combine to precisely track the rotation of your head on both axes to an accuracy of 1/10th of a degree, allowing you to look around the virtual environment naturally. Couple the headset with a pair of Steam VR base stations to track your physical location (in spaces up to 15 feet by 15 feet)  get up and walk around inisde the virtual world! 

Definitely is the most interesting piece of information here. Oculus is still targeting a seated experience which is going to seem pretty stale in comparison. A 15x15 base station? Really curious on how that is going to work.

&gt;Ergonomic VR game controllers in each hand allow you to use virtual objects and interact with the virtual world. The position of each controller is tracked in space, allowing developers to simulate a wide range of activities and interactions.

Also more pressure for Oculus to release some sort of input device. They won't be able to rest with a traditional controller input at this point. Valve is really throwing down the gauntlet here.  They have HBO on there too which makes me really excited. 

I know they are not a game dev, but that's still really cool. Could 3d movies be viewed through a VR headset for the same effect? Or in this case, TV shows... &gt; Could 3d movies be viewed through a VR headset for the same effect

You can view 3d movies with a VR-device on a big movie theater-space. It doesn't magically wrap around you though. You need 360 degrees 3d cameras or rendered scenes to make that happen all around you.

 Ah. I would definitely get a device to view 3d movies (like in the cinema) Imagine everything you ever watch is in your own personal cinema. Thats what I wan't What, like looking through the vr goggles is a virtual cinema, and you still view a "virtual screen" that has the movie on it? Yup. For Tv shows and Films not originally intended for VR. Cinema content made for VR will hopefully blow the virtual cinema out of the water, but for now being able to choose a movie and sit down at home but feel like you are in a living breathing cinema would be pretty sick. Valve vs Facebook

I could get used to this rivalry.  (I understand there are more companies making VR, but just humor me)  I believe Sony is making a PS4 exclusive VR headset called Morpheus.  I really don't see how Sony's headset will succeed when most of their games run at 30fps.. The difference is that Valve is not in the hardware race, that's why they partnered up. They most likely did this to prevent Oculus/Facebook lock-in with VR technology on PC. Or maybe no-one was just doing what they thought VR should be. I never expected Valve to partner up with a cellphone manufacturing company. But still, I am pretty fascinated by how this could potentially turn out.
 
Edit: Thanks to anybody that replied to my comment. I now understand why Valve would partner with HTC. I never thought it would have to do with smartphone technology.  Considering the size of the technology involved, it makes a lot of sense. The Rift uses consumer grade mobile phone screens, so it's not an unexplored avenue.  Cell phones are pushing small high-res displays, lately, which is pretty much the core technology of VR. Not that surprising, really! Why not? Oculus partnered with Samsung. Oculus and Valve are very different companies. Actually a smart phone company is a logical partnership. High res screens, movement tracking, and small but powerful hardware are just some of the things a smart phone and a vr device would have in common. Smart phones are now just basically tiny computers with radios Small high resolution screens, accelerometers, manufacturing, Cell phone companies do all of this on a regular basis.

Valve has never worked with hardware, and a partnership with such a company clears many of their obstacles. Every time I read about one of these VR things like Rift, Morpheus or whatever I just think to myself...Im never going to even attempt at playing a horror game with it. Especially something like P.T.  Is there a recorded version of the presentation? Yup, here: http://youtu.be/BWhM_oHr558?t=55m45s
 Whats with the audio? Thanks! Virtual reality, is definitely going to be a reality, in 2015. This year.

The Oculus Rift was already planned for this year, unless "something was very wrong", according to the people at Oculus. But this makes things even more so.

I'm not sure how popular it will be, at first. But I'm sure that VR will be really big, someday. And I wish it the best, this year.

I'm ready for the future. I'm sure that many of us have been dreaming of it for a long time. And this year is that year that it starts to become a reality. Virtual reality is finally going to be popular, not just in books and fantasies, or Youtube Let's Play videos. But for millions of us. Being completely serious, do you think there's actually a chance Valve is working on a VR-enabled Half-Life 3? There is a lot of interest in VR right now and if they position themselves right and debut Steam VR with an absolutely amazing game, they could easily capture the PC gamer market for VR. Valve always likes to revolutionize the FPS genre with Half-Life, so I assume that is the plan.  You say that as if it happens regularly  2 for 2 Revolutions don't happen every year, that why it's called a revolution. Except the earths revolution around the sun :D I think so, but not for a long while yet. The old JIRA leaks seemed to show that L4D3 is the furthest along in development, with a sizeable development team. Wouldn't surprise me if that is in VR and is a bit different than the usual L4D series I think this may be the case. I remember when talking about HL2 then were working on new details to make the game more interactive. One of the biggest examples they gave was how the eyes of the NPCs moved. This VR headset would also count as a huge leap forward in terms of immersion. I know it's pretty much the worse clichee on the market right now, but I do think we could see HL3 using this VR headset. What better way to launch it? Their announcement is at 3, on the third of march.

3PM, 3/3.

I'm not usually one to engage with the HL3 hype, but Valve can't be oblivious to this. They're either trolling or it's an actual announcement. Given that they have dropped the bomb of the headset already, along with specs, they must have something interesting they're going to drop.

Each HL game has always been revolutionary, it has been impossible to really do that for a long time now. But, with the advent of VR it represents a very real moment in time for Half life to again be revolutionary. It's the strongest moment for them to do it, there isn't going to be a better time after VR has become established. If it's going to ever happen then it's going to happen with this.

Valve haven't really trolled with the numbers before, so there's that too.  Normally I completely ignore all the silly number conspiracies around HL3, but I have to admit there are quite a few big 3s revolving around the Valve conference, without needing go reaching to find them. This has way more 3s related to it than any previous Valve event, it's almost too good of a coincidence. People are looking at this wrong. The partnered companies will probably make games that take advantage of the exclusive features offered by this specific headset. Other VR games which work on the Oculus most likely work on this too. Thank goodness there's someone making sense in here. It's not like Unreal Engine 4 or Unity or the other engines supporting VR are going to be oculus exclusive. Given Valve's early involvement in the current VR scene, with things like their prototype, partnership with Oculus, SteamVR, I'm pretty sure the VR games made on those engines will also support Valve's headset.

The questions that remain are:

- Is it better in terms of motion sickness? (The DK2 gave me nausea after 15 mins of use)

- what's the price point? Coming holiday 2015? Valve might have just forced Oculus Rift to be released this year. The various VR companies need to get together NOW and adopt a shared standard so that whichever headset you get, any game that supports one will support them all out of the box. I do not want to get into a situation where some games are "VR exclusive" to one headset. Standards can actually hurt when you thow them in a field that isn't clearly defined yet. Innovative features may get pushed aside because "nothing will support it". They can be adaptive standards, ones where new features can be added as all hardware supports it, but I don't want to be a few years down the line and having some multiplatform games that only support one of the VR headsets. 

They can also be flexible standards, so if only one hardware can do some fancy trick then maybe that trick would only be available on that hardware, but the game should still run using basic functionality on all versions.  Something that has always weighed on my mind is how will this new Vive and the Oculus feel to me with thick glasses (both frames and lens). I have -13/20 in both eyes so my lens are thick and I have those "hipster" black rectangle glasses.  Good point. Same here.

This looks big enough where it would fit my frames, though. If not, I'll wear contacts just to play games.

Your eyes are worse than mine, I think, which is pretty impressive because mine are bad. I just hope it won't fragment games too much, but instead make VR experience more universal. Exactly my first thought. Imagine how it would be if games were 'Oculus-Ready' or 'HTC-Revive Ready', like how we have AMD and NVidia competing to have games integrate their propriety tech and push to give the best drivers. Really interested to know what the FOV is on it.  I love my Oculus, but to really immerse yourself I think you need &gt; 110. Why link to a neogaf thread when you can just link the actual website on the thread itself? 

http://www.htcvr.com/ I bet Valve announces a bunch of VR software at GDC. I'm thinking the *Dota 2* VR mode along with *Left 4 Dead 3* being fully VR compatible. This is really exciting.  Dota 2 is the last Valve IP I would expect to see utilizing this tech Probably be used for Spectator mode, not competitive play. Also DotA 2 is adding custom mapmaking support, so if it is implemented, many talented mapmakers could use it to their advantage. Dota 2 has had VR demos already from Valve.
https://www.reddit.com/r/oculus/comments/274uao/pics_and_impressions_of_the_valve_hmds_at_boston/ People really have no idea how far VR goes beyond 'first person shooters'. Yeah, but the competitive mode in Dota 2 has an intentionally limited viewing window, VR would be overpowered. Pretty sure the fog of war could be adjusted to match the requirements. VR could be another category too. IIRC they were testing with a kind of augmented reality style spectating system, where you could look down onto a table with a miniature game of Dota happening in real time. So is this THE Valve VR headset? If so, it's weird that they let HTC completely own the brand, like it's just HTC Vive, average consumer won't ever know about Valve. Not really. I don't think valve wants to get into hardware manufacturing themselves. HTC are a reliable OEM who've shown that they can design great hardware to bring the best out of multiple software packages in the phone space. I'd bet valve want this to be a nexus style device. E.g. an example to follow for other OEMs. 

This leaves valve to concentrate on software and ecosystem support which is what they ate specialised in ATM. This gives them the control and possibly the volume too in future.  Exactly this. First and foremost Valve is a software company. To be fair HTC are more well known to casual consumers than Valve due to HTC making phones Average consumer don't even know about Valve most likely. Its a software + hardware partnership, I think/hope it will work out.  I'm glad quite a few companies are announcing VR. Competition will be good for the market and could push for big improvements in the technology. Specs look awesome, but I don't see a true FOV spec anywhere? I've read a bunch of comments but I'm not tech expert really, so I have to ask from what is known... how does it compare to the Oculus as is? We'll find out in a few days. I wonder how easily (if at all) games designed for the Rift will work with this.

I should hope pretty easily, otherwise it's going to be hard for them to gain traction against the Rift. Considering how fast VR seems to be coming along now, I feel safe in predicting that Nintendo's next console will utilize it heavily. I'm sure someone has probably already mentioned this but I think this could possibly explain why half life 3 hasn't come out yet. Valve may have been waiting for a decent VR headset in order to make the experience more unique. It would definitely be the first notable game to release on the new medium and could potentially kickstart it if it plays well VR is nice and all but....what games can we expect from this? 

I've seen a shit ton of indie stuff but all of them seem more like a novelty then an actual game I would like to sit down and play for countless of hours.  Anyone else want a game (using VR tech) that simulates echolocation as a game mechanic?  (press the button to send out a wave of sound that highlights anything it hits for two seconds, making it visible for a short time.  You use this to navigate!)

It would make a bitchin' horror game.  (The enemy is giant wolf spiders.  Those eyes....) The most impressive thing here is just how badly Oculus is dropping the ball in failing to get a consumer release. Hasn't it always bee nestimated to be mid2015 or later? We don't even know what the consumer specs of both are like and until reviewers get both in their hands there's no point speculating which will be better, particularly in prices and **custom service**, something Valve are absolutely shithouse at. Even if Valve's were slightly cheaper I definitely wouldn't go with their headset solely because of theit track record of hating to oblige by consumer law. In so far as they announced a date yes that is true, but that was only done last year. The project was announced with working prototypes in 2012. In that time they've been dragging their feet trying to perfect the design, but seemed to be making little progress towards a consumer release. This is a dangerous cycle many products fall into, by the time the project is approaching a release worthy design, technology has advanced so much that they can do a much better design. So they start over. Finish, realize they can do better, start over. Eventually the money runs out and there's still no product, or worse someone else has beaten them to it.

Oculus has a big head start, but they are not alone here.

The important thing here is to realize that there is little special about Oculus. What's made this resurgence of VR possible is not anything they've done, it's all about the rise of the smartphone. With the rise of the smartphone came demand for large scale, low cost production of small high resolution displays. It was this primarily this missing display technology that caused the initial failure of VR. The secondary problem of head tracking has likewise been solved by cell phone driven accelerometers.

Oculus's consumer release has already taken so long that competitors have been able to sit and wait to see if it'd take off(via oculus dev kits) only then designing their own VR headset and it's unclear today who is going to be first to market. If Oculus misses their release target by much they're going to wind up little more than a footnote.

At this point the demand for a viable headset is so high that the first company to get one to market at a reasonable price is going to utterly trounce the others. For Oculus, with their huge head start, to be so far behind is shameful.
 &gt; In that time they've been dragging their feet trying to perfect the design, but seemed to be making little progress towards a consumer release

This is completely not true. Oculus has been a company for 3 years and has already released 3 VR products so far (Developer Kit 1, Developer Kit 2, and Gear VR), as well as showed off 2 different prototypes (Crystal Cove, and Crecent Bay. It could be argued pre-DK1 Rift and the HD prototype count as well.). They also say they end up making at least one new prototype a month, and Crescent Bay was first shown off 5 months ago. They hinted heavily at a 2015 release at this past CES and said there would not be a 3rd developer kit. They aren't just scratching any previous work and restarting their design every half a year or something, everything they have released so far has been an improvement on something before and it is very evident they are progressing. They know what they are targeting for CV1, and even if they have already reached that for the most part, they need to wait for developers to create software and games for people to play. You could have the greatest headset in the world but without content that means nothing. 


But I do agree with you, if Oculus doesn't release CV1 within a short time-frame around Valve, and these other HMD manufacturers getting in the game, they are going to either have to have a clearly superior product, or be in big trouble.  I'm excited and skeptical. Sometimes I feel like Valve isn't all it's cracked up to be. 

Steam OS is just Linux, Steamboxes are just prebuilts with a Valve sticker and SteamOS instead of Windows, they make money by recycling community made items and selling them back to the players, Support is non existent, no phone, no live chat. They barely release new games or even work on any. 


I love future stuff, I love technology but I'm having a hard time putting my faith in Valve.  The problem is that you're conveniently leaving out all the good things that Valve has done. The push for more Linux compatible games was sparked by Valve. glNext is being worked on by Valve. The games they have released are of the highest quality and continue to be very well supported. Not to mention the fact that pc gaming is the way it is today because of Valve.

The points you made are valid, but there are a lot more reasons to put trust in Valve. I dont know, ive been PC gaming a while.. Doom, AoE, Blizzard games, The sims all exist without Valve. Credit where its due, they made the drm game library that works and have great games themselves but they could and maybe should only be a footnote in PC gaming history. Rabid fans who have gabes face as a wallpaper aside.. the direction theyre taking is scary to me. Everyone gets in Greenlight, no support, the new steam "features" are superficial, the last big game they put out was Portal 2. 

If all the time theyre taking not being involved in the actual steam platform, game development, support structures,etc means some crazy futuristic VR headset? Count me in. I just know about big promises in this industry. Well, there's always bad things about something and there's always good things. At present point, Valve's good things far outweight their bad things so I find it reasonable to be generally optimistic about them. This has to do with small company size and where they prioritize their resources. Many of these issues could very well be considered by valve "backburner" compared to things they find more important. [deleted] &gt; all while running the biggest gaming digital platform

That is a valid point... for the other person's argument. It's absolutely ridiculous that Steam Support is the way it is.

Valve have done a lot of good for PC gaming but that doesn't make them immune to criticism. Really? "everyone complains that they have no customer service! try again!" 

It's a BIG issue. They ONLY answer emails and even then people have more success complaining on Reddit. They want to be the future of gaming but they can't even implement Live Chat or *Phones*. 


And why? because of this system where they can all do what they want. No one wants to do support. 

And look, I'm glad Valve exists I spent a few hundred on Steam sales and all that but just because Gabe fanboys are the loudest doesn't mean they're right. Like all this Linux stuff.. Who cares? Until Windows completely crashes and burns no one is going to switch from a system that is regularly updated, plays ALL games, is easy to manage and *still works well*. They also have the added bonus of connecting multiple devices, having the best controller etc. 


It's a freakin' OS, working great us good enough for most of us.  &gt;Until Windows completely crashes and burns no one is going to switch from a system that is regularly updated, plays ALL games, is easy to manage and still works well. 

Not that I disagree with you, but Linux *is* regularly updated, more so than Windows is. The goal for SteamOS is for it to play all games, and whether or not they succeed, you can't deny they've made significant progress in that direction. SteamOS is Valve's attempt to make Linux easy to manage and work well for the average user. 

I don't think SteamOS is going to succeed though unless, as you said, Windows crashes and burns. Windows has to fail to a spectacular degree for your average user to turn away from it. Very few people buy Windows. Most buy computers, and most computers come with Windows.  I honestly have nothing against SteamOS or Linux, I love free. Like I said though, I already have Windows 7 and 8 discs (recently updated back to 8 from 7.. Already regret it) 7 is phenomenal, 8..Works.. I don't know.. I've got more blue screens with 8 than I've seen in my entire life. GRANTED it's like 3 (two for me one for my brothers PC) and I think Windows 8 is just super sensitive.. Like a hypochondriac "oh a driver problem? SHUT DOWN EVERYTHING". 


BUT Windows 10 has people happy as far as "people who are allowed to test Windows 10" say. 

Like I said before though.. I REALLY want Linux to work. Never having to deal with product keys and paying a hundred bucks for the low tier versions of Windows? Yes please. But it's just no there and I'm not sure it will get there because it's not like Microsoft is going to let it take over.  And that excuses the absolutely horrid costumer service they have? I love valve and have been playing CS for 15 years but stop acting like his points aren't valid just because other people have mentioned him.  His point ARE invalid partially because other people have said them. That's because people like to parrot shit they have no idea about just because they heard someone else say it. I.e. the released games bullshit when valve releases a game pretty much every year for over a decade. 

The "horrid" customer service is little more than a reddit circejerk too, most people never even need it and most people who whine about it are cheaters that lie about why they got banned or idiots who need to be cuddled by live chat because they cant be bothered to read the faq. 

Valve is hardly perfect, but here in reddit there's a huge "hey people like this company, and that pisses me off, its not *that* good, lets find some trivial shit to pick on" sentiment.  Do people over exaggerate how shitty comcast is? Just because something is talked about as bad by a large group of people doesnt mean it's being parroted around, it means it's probably true. your logic is terrible, the more people say something the less true it is? lol. I love valve but they have notoriously bad CS for a reason, BECAUSE ITS BAD. &gt; Steam OS is just Linux

And you have no idea what you're talking about.  Is SteamOS a Linux distro? Can and will other devs take it and make their own? Ok so is VR going to be an actual thing? I feel we now have three major players ( sony, valve, occulus) putting some serious money into this technology, yet I feel like it's been years in the making. Maybe it's because it's so hard to market this thing since it's all user base but is there any indicator that we will be seeing this in the next few years that isn't a dev kit?


I would love to start tinkering around with movie making and whatnot Who's really the player, Valve or HTC?  HTC is clearly the bigger company with all of the hardware.   Valve is experimenting with VR for a longer time now. I think Valve contacted HTC and then worked together on the product. 

I think HTC will get the way bigger share of the income. They produce the Hardware and will sell it to the public. Valve wants VR to be a success so that they can sell the software to people. 

 



 &gt; I think HTC will get the way bigger share of the income.

I think that depends on whether Valve charges a licensing fee for SteamVR or if they want release it as a free open standard to try to dominate the market. The tech for delivering workable screens at a reasonable price has only just came around, hence why they are coming out now and not 3-4 years ago when the screens just werent there.

People seem to forget that things like this take time to develop, it's not some software you can just throw more coders at, they're having to overcome major hurdles developing hardware that provides quality, quantity, and at a decent price point. Any best guess on the price?  Oculus and Sony seem to be targeting the $250-$350 range. Though the price of the PC you'll need to run an HMD will be the main cost. To run smooth and avoid VR sickness, you'll need at least a GTX 970, since these headsets will have to keep steady 90fps+, render in stereoscopic 3D, and use a higher resolution than 1080p. Does anyone know anything about the price of this thing? I mean, people were pretty hyped about the Steamboxes, but didn't they all turn out to be extremely expensive for what you got? I really hope we can just have all these headsets work plug and play after all the slugging has finished, otherwise VR will never take off...
If a game supports VR it should work for all headsets :( I think it has to be at this point. Valve is giving devs less than 3/4 of a year to use the Vive Developer Kit, and that is hardly any time for a developer to start, finish, and release a game, especially in a fairly new medium. I think all these new HMD's can be thought of as "fancy monitors". Just like how anyone can use computer software on any monitor 720p, 1080p, LED, LCD, Samsung, Dell, etc. etc. VR games and software will work, or at least be easily portable, to other HMDs, each one with some variations. There's not much a developer have to do to support VR. It's just another monitor with a tiny driver for getting the tracking data out. You'll have a to render two viewpoints but the SDK has stuff for this, it's not really complicated nor does it require major engine changes. im not sure how to feel about this. HTC has had performance that is both good and bad in the last few years.

guess we'll wait and see. i'll just have to believe in them and hope for the best. How hype would it be if they were making HL3 For this and this was the revolution Gabens been waiting on. To create a experience as dramatically unique and mind blowing as the 2nd game. Everyone seems to be missing the part where the listed screen resolution is for the dev kit, not the actual consumer Vive. but 1080P? whaaat?
valves original demo was almost certainly higher than that

and oculus' crescent bay is 1440p 

the current DK2 is 1080p and its widely accepted as being 'not enough' 
so what gives with this resolution? 

is there more they arent telling us? could it be using cascaded displays? I've read that it's [impossible to read text](http://www.reddit.com/r/hoggit/comments/2wk00a/do_we_have_any_hoggiteers_who_use_the_oculus_dk2/) in flight sims like DCS using the Oculus DK2, so I'll probably be skipping the Vive. this is exactly the kind of thing thats making me question the resolution, im a flight/space sim fan and if i cant read my instruments and mission texts then its kinda not very practical, so i think when making a choice on HMD ill be looking at the best resolution and in headset performance, fancy inputs and huge tracking volumes are not very interesting to me frankly All current VR flight sims are designed for standard monitors with VR tacked onto it. When VR takes off (heh) it's likely that simulators will be designed around the hardware. Whether it's by increasing the font size on instruments or finding a new solution altogether, they'll figure it out. Hell, on most instruments you don't even need to read the numbers if you're familiar with them; the needle position alone is enough. 

Also, the resolution on the Vive is actually better than the Oculus (1080p x2), and you'd need insane hardware to run much higher resolution than that anyway, so the point is moot. You could have 8k per eye, but if your hardware can't drive it, it doesn't really matter. dude.. for each eye! 

&gt; A 1,200 by 1,080 pixel screen in front of each eye its still 1080p same as dk2 just wider  DK2 was one 1920x1080 screen, shared over two eyes.  This is a 1200x1080 screen per eye.  2MP vs 2.6MP. its still 1080 pixels tall Interesting to see the language of "war" evoked here, as there isn't a whole lot that Bungie can do about the situation aside from disguising their updates to make the datamining more difficult in the future.

Something similar has been happening with ESO, where players have been using datamining to predict future updates. At a certain point Zenimax had to answer the obvious question about the legality of what was going on, and they admitted that players were 100% in the right for what they were doing. The caveat being, of course, that the info datamined might be in an early stage of development and therefore subject to change, but otherwise everything was on the straight and narrow as far as datamining went.  

So it will be interesting to see how Bungie proceeds with this because the redditor shouldn't be at risk of reprisal, legal or otherwise.  WoW is a much bigger game than either of these and all content the devs release in any sort of patch (PTS/Live) is nearly instantly uncovered and pasted around. This is pretty normal in MMOs, and most developers embrace it, because it gets content out there without them having to announce it officially - that is, in a way people expect to be non-final. 

DotA2, Wildstar, Guildwars2, Planetside2, EQ:Landmark, and plenty of other games are the same.

Really, it is entirely on Bungie's head if they put something into the game client and push an update. They are sending data outside their control, it's going to BE outside their control.

Edit: So yea, I agree.  The biggest League of Legends blog started as a dude just data mining patches of the public beta environment, and now it's a huge news site for the game with a staff rolling in cash.  Moobeat's site right? That guy works around the clock though with how committed he is to covering the info i'd say he deserves the success S@20? Love that place. Since I don't have a PBE account the site keeps me informed about upcoming changes Cyborgmatt has been doing the same since beta on the Dota 2 client as well. He stopped recently as updates normally hit too sporadicly.

But yes, the blog was pretty much a friendly interaction between devs and fans. Er, "staff rolling in cash" is a wee bit optimistic. They make enough to get their own branded shirts, sure--for however much that's worth. As someone who works at a major wholesale printing company - about $10/shirt  &gt; This is pretty normal in MMOs, and most developers embrace it

Background: I worked at MMO-Champion for several years as data miner. (I am still affiliated with Curse)

MMO developers embrace it because they *have* to. But they don't like it at all. Blizzard has spent a lot of resources making data miners' jobs harder. Before MMO-Champion was acquired by Curse, they tried really hard to get in our way. Now they don't do it because it doesn't make business sense to.

But I can tell you that the same isn't true of Blizzard Europe. My guild master is the co-owner of a french official fansite and if they do *anything* with the game files themselves (even as much as reading the databases inside them), Blizzard threatens a kick from the official fansite program - which at this point is a fairly meaningless program.. but whatever.

I think it's a stupid situation and Bungie is just digging its own grave here. They'll spend resources and PR to achieve absolutely nothing. But other devs aren't necessarily better - at least Blizzard. Ah the notion of an official fan or an unofficial fan makes me squirm.

For just 9.99 a month you can get an official Blizzard brand right on your ass of Chris Metzen in sunglasses.  Yeah, it's pretty pathetic isn't it? The "official fansite program" used to be the hot thing to be in. You'd get a link from the official website (gasp). And you would get flown in to Blizzcon and the like. Now they barely even do that anymore, and BlizzEU still enforces some really stupid rules... Bungie's completely lost touch with everything if this is the biggest of their concerns. Someone might found out there's no plot in their game! as if that wasnt apparent 10 minutes into the game....."you died....ima ghost i brought you back to life to do somthing" what is it? "just....somthing lets go *zooms off*" "What an old ruin...let's examine it and say nothing about it." It drums up hype too. Mmo champion is the best hype train Yea..... MMO-Champ does this all the time with WoW. Blizz wasn't always supportive tho, since earlier alpha/beta stuff would be leaked even tho it was under NDA. But now they have a good relationship and follow the rules and Blizz basically supports them as the unofficial source of all WoW news. 

Datamining is just part of the MMO scene. &gt; But now they have a good relationship and follow the rules and Blizz basically supports them as the unofficial source of all WoW news.

Hah. If only! &gt; there isn't a whole lot that Bungie can do about

Bungie already installed a backend developer tool to change things on the fly.  They changed Xur's stock even before the article was published. Yeah, war is over. Being able to predict Xur wasn't really what made the community freak out anyway. Bungie having actual control over Xur's inventory when they said his stock was random was the real kicker. Voidfang Vestments and Sunbreakers were the only things sold for months. Bungie said it was random which was hogwash. Pseudorandom number generators are predictable once you are able to determine the seed value. It's how researchers are occasionally able to predict [certain lotto cards](http://www.wired.com/2011/01/ff_lottery/) or [online casino software](http://www.cigital.com/papers/download/developer_gambling.php). And despite the output of both of those things being out of the developers' controls, there's nothing stopping them from changing the *input* to their algorithms to make the output harder to predict. I'm not defending it as random, but if anything the same item being sold over and over presents randomness more than never having a repeating item.  Yeah truly random generators are prone to outputting the same result over and over again. 

When they were making the Shuffle feature for iPod, people complained it kept picking the same songs or artists every time and they actually had to make it less random so it's now more likely to alternate between bands every shuffle. Truly random number generators are not prone to generating any arbitrary sequence. The human observer is prone to seeing patterns in the output and ascribing poor randomness incorrectly I think that the reality is that when it comes to anything except what essentially amounts to dice rolls, people don't want random, they want exclusion.  They want something that is different than what was selected before, whether it is an item drop or the next song on a playlist, and how related or different that something is depends on the taste of the user.

So in reality developers shouldn't be using RNG as much, they should just be using a list that excludes the selection of the last choice when it picks the next one. There's no such thing as a truly random number generator in a deterministic computer without some form of noise for seed. Once you have that, it becomes a question of determining the seed, so again, not random.  He meant they were more prone than humans to generating repetition, who almost never do. Enjoyably, this lead to itunes having a "randomness slider" for many versions.  You could choose your favorite flavor of random (I always went with a low value lol) &gt; but if anything the same item being sold over and over presents randomness more than never having a repeating item.

You aren't wrong. There's actually a human bias where we perceive the lack of repetition as being more random, when in reality that additional constraint of not being allowed to repeat makes things less random. There are a bunch of [iTunes-related articles](http://archive.wired.com/entertainment/music/commentary/listeningpost/2005/09/68893?currentPage=all) about the topic. &gt; There's actually a human bias where we perceive the lack of repetition as being more random,

A mathematics teacher gave us homework to flip a coin and record the result on a paper and stop when the page is full. A week later he told us that he could tell who actually did the homework and who just filled the page at random. 

The point was that when people were randomly making up results they tend to never have long chains of the same side because that would not feel random enough while it just tends to happen at some point when you have hundreds of samples. Yeah RNG isn't really the problem. Bungie hilariously joined in with the community for months at mocking Xur for his bad stock, all the time never admitting they had final say. Moreover they had months of Xur stocks planned so they saw the pattern, pretended they didn't, and joined in the ruckus. 

It's another in a series of lame moves by Bungie. It's also not the first time they've blatantly lied to the community and after the general lack of content, this shit is getting really ridiculous. I mean... it is very possible that they do have it set to be random, but still have the ability to change it if they need to for any reason.

I imagine that is the same for most games. I'd be surprised if WoW admins didn't have the ability to force a boss to drop whatever they wanted. That doesn't change the fact that the drops are set to random for everybody. &gt;dataminer *decimates* Bungie at their own game

&gt;warrior *demolishes* developer in a fight for justice

This title is so so awful, also Bungie should have known people would data mine What year is it?

People have been datamining games for over a decade now. MMO-Champion was a site dedicated to datamining WoW, Dulfy Datamines SWTOR, Guild Wars 2, and other games. Surrender@20 datamines League, etc. etc.

Its been shown that these sorts of sites are a net positive for communities because it allows community feedback to the developer before things go live on a wider range than just the beta environments. It also builds up massive hype for upcoming patches.

Why is any developer fighting this? &gt; Why is any developer fighting this?

Playing devil's advocate here, it's because datamined changes can be wrong or in need of context.

Let's say you as a developer want to test out your amazing wizard class dealing 10% less damage with fireball. Let's also say that you ultimately revert the change through internal testing.

Now even despite there being no actual change to the game either now or in future, you still have the amazing wizard class community in uproar.

I wouldn't be surprised if companies like Blizzard run internal servers just for this reason.

Secondly, it's because developers want control over *when* changes are released. Seeing incomplete patch notes with nerfs your favorite class or hero can be pretty needlessly jarring, and the community reacts accordingly. People datamine Diablo 3 every time there is an update.  No one cares because the updates are free and actually deliver solid content.  The datamines really only work to make people excited about the updates.

On the other hand, Bungie must be pissed because their datamine shows that they don't have very much to offer with their De$tiny updates. And not only that, they're going to charge you $20 for their piddly offering.  They don't want people to know how little they are going to be getting for their money, or else they wouldn't care about the datamine in the first place. Based on my experiences with datamined updates from Diablo 3, those datamined change logs actually made me return to the game when there are some interesting changes being done to the game, like Patch 2.0's PTR that eventually convinced me to reinstall the game because there are some strong evidence that the game is finally going to be improved tremendously. Exactly the same thing has been going on with SWTOR. Datamining is frowned upon by the devs, but they've started actually responding to datamining posts with clarifications to ensure that people are aware that datamined info is heavily subject to change. Wow, that's ballsy. Bungie could just make their event vendor's stock ACTUALLY random and it would cost them nothing. Instead, they would rather purposely fill it up with crap to fuck over their players.

Looks like now that Bungie is on their own, they're taking their cues from the dark side of the gaming industry. &gt; there isn't a whole lot that Bungie can do about the situation

Did you not read to the end of the article?  Bungie did fix the situation.  There was a small patch and the guy doing the datamining said he was no longer able to predict the stock. Yes, sorry. I was saying that Bungie can't really reprimand the guy for it, thus the whole "war" analogy made by the article falls a little flat. 

As I said in the OP, they can make it more difficult for players to datamine in the future (and, evidently, already HAVE done that), but they can't really penalize people for datamining in the first place.  &gt; Something similar has been happening with ESO, where players have been using datamining to predict future updates. 

People have been doing this with World of Warcraft for a decade. Bungie and maybe Zenimax should troll data miners with bogus file names and .txts like Blizzard is fond of doing on occasion. Overkill studios embraced all the data mining their fans do. They started releasing cryptic information....messing with achievements. The works. They have great fun with it and it shows. I wouldn't exactly call putting in achievements that are publicly listed on Steam as embracing datamining.

It is a neat hype generation tool, however.  Unfortunately as of late that hype has mostly led to disappointment for many. You know something is wrong with the company when it treats its fans as enemies. Well, at least this one. I prefer Valve's approach to sneeking information about future updates that people can freely discover. Bungie has every right to control the flow of information about future content updates and releases.

Don't let this article's THIS IS WAR tone fool you. How the fuck could bungie claim to have no control over a character in an online only game that they themselves have made?
 how the fuck did people believe that shit too? "thankfully" after the christmas bullshit with the ddos, bungie made it so xur stuck around for an extra 2 days and people started asking, " if they can choose when he comes and how long he stays then doesnt it stand to reason they can decide what he sells? "

yes it obviously does I was confused by this. Did people think Bungie made some type of self-aware character that did what it wanted? Nope but a character based on a random number generator.. If you say it that way it doesn't sound like scifi.. And people believed that at launch because he gave out the same piece of warlock armor for weeks &gt;he gave out the same piece of warlock armor for weeks

That sentence could be said in the same context as many other MMOs and still not mean anything.

I can remember the weeks and weeks on end where the same fucking cape would drop from illidan  Exactly, list of places he can spawn and a database of items he can sell and then use an RNG to decide which. I don't think most believed they couldn't, I didn't, but rather that they choose not to. I fully believe that Xur's stock is randomised every Friday, because obviously Bungie can code him to pick randomly from the pool of Exotics. However, believing that Bungie truly has no control over his stock is fucking moronic, if anyone really believed that then please send me your email addresses, I know a wealthy Nigerian Prince who is in desperate need of your help. It's less people believing it and more the fact that bungie ever claimed it that's the real kicker.  Yeah, re this quote from the article:

&gt; Bungie has explicitly and repeatedly claimed that Xrs stock is both random and out of their control. Megamanexe4 seems to have proven otherwise.

You can have something be random but still predictable, via a [seed](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_seed). Surely that's most likely what's happening. Like how Minecraft worlds are random but you can use a seed to always get the same one.

e.g. Imagine the selection of goods is randomly generated but the seed is predictably incremented by one every week. If Megamanexe4 had the code he could tell you exactly what the items will be, but Bungie could still say with some honesty that they have no control over it.

Of course they could change how the seed is set, or change the whole code if they wanted to. It's not that they have no control over Xur's stock. It's that they've made the design decision to use an RNG to decide the stock. So when you see Sunbreakers for 4 weeks in a row it's not because some dev is trying to fuck you over. It's just the RNG doing its RNG thing.  Even the interpretation most generous to Bungie, "random" just means a slot machine.  The long term outcomes are predetermined, what shows up on the next pull can be as random as possible, but doesn't matter.  Of course they wouldn't take the time to plan out the items on a week to week level.  The fact Bungie went on record to say it's random is just a distraction in an attempt to skirt responsibly for making the random options in the pool so unsatisfying. I don't play Destiny, I'll have to believe the article is correct, doesn't Bungie feel shame? I mean, you got uncovered, just admit your mistake and move on. It's looks so ridiculous they keep saying it's a random vendor when the guy can obviously read the data Article is correct. Mentioned redditor was able to *"predict"* weekly strikes [3 man instances] and Xurs stock rather far into the future with 100% accuracy.

*"Predict"* because he data mined backend by using game client, afaik.

Also Bungie once asked on twitter what gun people would want to see next Friday in Xurs stock. I think it was either Suros Regime or Ice Breaker that got most votes, but point is that most wanted weapon was in Xurs stock that Friday.

Bungie has total control over Xur and his stock.

Edit: There also has been areas and assets locked away that will make appearance in game over next first 2 DLCs, since day 1 of release. Story mission areas, strikes... &gt; Bungie has total control over Xur and his stock

Not a Destiny player; but, I work with systems enough that the claim they couldn't just seems like bullshit through and through.  While the game has it's own elements, at it's heart its an online MMO shooter.  This means that it's a really fancy interface to a database sitting on a cluster somewhere under Bungie's control.  And while there may be policy which states that they shouldn't be making database edits directly, I have very serious trouble believing that it is technologically impossible.  Put simply, this is what the server does when the client asks it to.  There **must** be interfaces for modifying inventory as this is a basic function of the server software (you can change your own inventory, right?).  So, this Xur character has an inventory in the database somewhere, there are interfaces to change inventory with all of the business rules attached to that change, and yet, somehow, Bungie cannot issue a change inventory command against this particular character?  Tell me another one, this lie ain't working. It wasn't that it was technologically impossible, but that it was initially claimed that Xur's inventory was decided at random. ~~It wasn't random at all.~~ It didn't look random at all. People have a hard time understanding randomness. 



&gt;"In response to complaints from users, Apple CEO Steve Jobs changed the programming behind the feature: 'We're making it (the shuffle) less random to make it feel more random.' 
In other words, each new song now has to be significantly different from what came before, so as to conform to our expectation of randomness. Which isn't really random at all."



http://www.dailymail.co.uk/home/moslive/article-1334712/Humans-concept-randomness-hard-understand.html Got really big into chaos theory for a while and this article did a fairly good job of demonstrating visually what randomness looks like http://www.wired.com/2012/12/what-does-randomness-look-like/ ( scroll down to the two images with dots then read above/below them ). Great link. I have never seen this before and it really helps because I am a very visual person. Thanks a bunch. Find it fascinating that truly random data is the opposite of what we would expect. &gt; Apple CEO Steve Jobs changed the programming behind the feature

I like how this implies Steve did it himself. It was still probably randomly generated. Just because someone can check the database doesn't mean the items in the database aren't random.  I'm not saying that it wasn't random to some degree, only that bungie was modifying which items were eventually being sold. I remember someone calculating the odds for a single item to be sold over the course of weeks, taking into account all of the items that Xur could sell, and ended up getting a ridiculously small chance. While that still falls into the realm of 'it could still be random' this was all coming out about the time that players were realizing that much of the promised content from the game was missing. And if bungie wanted to keep players playing longer for that sweet loot, altering inventories was one way to do it. I suspect Bungie started dictating what items were sold after Sunbreakers were being sold something like 5 weeks in a row.  [deleted] Did they calculate the probability that that particular item would appear over and over, or did they calculate the probability that *a* item could appear over and over.  That makes a huge difference.  The latter is the method that should be used. [Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/DestinyTheGame/comments/2u6pbk/probability_of_xur_selling_the_exact_the_same/) is the thread in question.  The first reply in that thread already pokes several holes in OP's claim to the odds, but regardless TheChainsawNinja appears to be correct that OP calculated the odds of that specific item appearing several times rather than the odds of any given item appearing several times. &gt; taking into account all of the items that Xur could sell

And making the implicit assumption that all items Xur could sell are equally likely, which is by no means a requirement for random generation. But they're modifying the database. Just because it's determined weeks in advance, doesn't mean it's not random. Whoops, I meant to say it didn't look random. To be completely fair to Bungie, it could be "random".  They may just be using a crappy psudeo-random algorithm.  You run into this in cryptography on a regular basis, many "random number generators" aren't.  They will create a random enough number; but, if you know the algorithm, the seed and can predict the next seed, the randomness is broken.  I can't seem to dig up the article at the moment; but, there was an engineer for a slot machine company who recognized this in his company's products and then went on to fleece a number of casinos using the exploit, until he was caught.  
So, maybe this use just managed to suss out the PRNG and was able to predict its next output. You might be thinking about this article?

http://www.cigital.com/papers/download/developer_gambling.php

&gt;&gt;The shuffling algorithm used in the ASF software always starts with an ordered deck of cards, and then generates a sequence of random numbers used to re-order the deck. Recall that in a real deck of cards, there are 52! (approximately 2^226) possible unique shuffles. Also recall that the seed for a 32-bit random number generator must be a 32-bit number, meaning that there are just over 4 billion possible seeds. Since the deck is reinitialized and the generator re-seeded before each shuffle, only 4 billion possible shuffles can result from this algorithm. Four billion possible shuffles is alarmingly less than 52!.

&gt;&gt;To make matters worse, the algorithm of Figure 1 chooses the seed for the random number generator using the Pascal function Randomize(). This particular Randomize() function chooses a seed based on the number of milliseconds since midnight. There are a mere 86,400,000 milliseconds in a day. Since this number was being used as the seed for the random number generator, the number of possible decks now reduces to 86,400,000. Eight-six million is alarmingly less than four billion. But that's not all. It gets worse.

&gt;&gt;The system clock seed gave us an idea that reduced the number of possible shuffles even further. By synchronizing our program with the system clock on the server generating the pseudo-random number, we are able to reduce the number of possible combinations down to a number on the order of 200,000 possibilities. After that move, the system is ours, since searching through this tiny set of shuffles is trivial and can be done on a PC in real time. It's impossible to create true randomness with a computer unless the computer is hooked up to an external sensor that detects a random event in the universe (Alpha Particle Decay, etc.) Well, according to the interview by the dataminer.... there are two versions of Xur. One that he can see and predict the items, and one that Bungie directly controls which he can't see. So the Xur he can see could possibly have randomized items, but the item rolls are done ahead of time and predict several weeks. For example.... if there is a major patch every 2 months, once the patch is applied and server loads, Xur's item list for the next 8 weeks is each rolled and saved in the game, so you can see his list for the next 8 weeks, but it was still kinda random. The other Xur that Bungie controls they can add items on their own like stuff that is voted on or whatever for special events. 

So who knows... maybe they don't control it, but its just randomized earlier on and not when he spawns.  &gt; Also Bungie once asked on twitter what gun people would want to see next Friday in Xurs stock. I think it was either Suros Regime or Ice Breaker that got most votes

Well even if they couldnt if you already know what would likely win that poll, and you know that weapon is next weeks weapon then opening it up to a faux poll is smart community marketing. And if the gun you thought should win the poll comes a close second, people aren't going to be all that disapointed when thats the weapon that shows up next week.

Even if they couldn't alter it knowledge of whats coming can still be exploited. &gt; Even if they couldn't alter it knowledge of whats coming can still be exploited.

Knowing for what to save those strange coins, what bad exploit! a lot of companies dont like smart shoppers. theyre detrimental to the business!... of digital game items and fake currency  I think you misunderstood what I meant.

If the system were truly locked out and bungie truly couldn't alter it.

The fact is they still wrote the algorithm that determines it's randomness. Because it won't be truly random, true RNG doesn't go down well.

So if they know what's coming up(Just like the info the guys was able to datamine)

They know that 

Week 1 = Weapon 1

Week 2 = Weapon 3

Week 3 = Weapon 42

Week 4 = Weapon 25

If they know that the most desirable weapon at the moment is weapon 42.

Then following the week 2 weapon reveal's they can go on twitter and be all like "Hey guy's what weapon do you want Xur to sell?"

Knowing that odd's are the weapon that they already know Xur is going to sell in week 3 is one which will likely take top spot in the poll due to it's desirability, and if it doesn't will still be relatively high on the leaderboards.

As a result of this it makes a fun game for the week that keeps the community engaged. 

And when the weapon is revealed, it makes it look like the poll might have had some effect on what Xur decided, or that Bungie decided to be nice.

Regardless of the reason people come up with to tie the two together. It allows Bungie to utilize the knowledge of the future Xur weapon sales to create a community event.

----

Your argument was that Bungie has total control over Xur's stock. With evidence being the twitter poll.

My argument is that it works much like insider trading would. If you already know what the result is supposed to be(For example a Product release or company aquisition) then you can utlize that information for your benefit.

Maybe Bungie have always had the capability to change Xur's loot table. Or maybe they simply know what the future holds and can utilize that in their community interactions.
 That House of Wolves content has literally been locked away since the Beta.

http://www.reddit.com/r/DestinyTheGame/comments/2btxnv/the_moon_traitors_ketch/ So was good amount of 1st DLCs, Dark Below, content. Yeah but people need to realize is just because the geometry is there doesn't mean it's finished content. Geometry is one of the first things worked on and finished, the artists have stuff finished for years to come probably but in no way does that mean it's *finished*.

That's game development. There is content that was hidden away in World of Warcraft at launch that still isn't in the game, ten years later. The Emerald Dream zone... Though it's no longer in the game files. Lots of areas already had enemies in them. A few areas also had dialogue triggers IIRC.  Which ones? The mobs in Kings Watch are pretty obviously placeholders. Terminus, Seraphim Vault, Chamber of Night, and Traitor's Ketch are all empty when you glitch into them. Guys, the stock IS randomly generated, just weeks in advance and then patched in. But yes, Bungie does have control to insert custom versions or changes to the existing one, why are we crucifying them for this? It gives them the ability to address community concerns or any potential bugs/exploits that may occur, without crippling the player economy.

This is not a big deal...... Because there was a bug that could have been less annoying if the vendor had heavy ammo packs permanently. Bungie knew this but there was "nothing they could do"  because the vendor was random. Except it wasn't.  Community loudly demanded for heavy ammo synthesis packs to be permanently in Xrs stock until bug related to heavy ammo was fixed. Bungie did no such thing or even lower price of said synthesis packs. *"It will be fixed soon"* for months was their only response to that particular bug.

Also if I remember right few weeks ago they even removed heavy ammo synthesis from Xrs stock after hour or so them being available on that particular Friday.

So yes maybe they have ability to tweak Xrs stock when needed, but obviously they don't do that in order to please community. Because Bungie said they had no control over Xur.

Also, his stock doesn't seem to be random at all. The poll is a good example, where they asked what weapon people wanted to see, and Xur magically had that weapon in his inventory. 

So, what does it matter if Xur's stock isn't randomly generated?

Because it means Bungie has not only been lying through their teeth, again, but they've been trolling the players with Xur's stock.

Let's accept for a moment that Xur's stock isn't randomized. Now look back on Christmas when Xur had the worst exotic weapon in the game and nothing else. Bungie intentionally did that. Or let's look at the ammo item that people needed for the most powerful weapons, especially since there was a bug in the game causes that ammo to disappear randomly. Xur only rarely kept that ammo in stock. If Bungie had control over Xur, which they did, they were actively holding back an item players needed to combat a bug they wouldn't fix. It almost feels spiteful, like a troll pretending to be RNGesus when really it's just some dick trying to give you the illusion of bad luck.

By the way, this is all in the article. You should read it.  the point is the community was told it was random, so we believed bungie had no control over Xur until Friday when he showed up. When it was found out that he was pre-loaded and his inventory could be changed easily BEFORE Friday, it means Bungie COULD have made it so the very, very, very necessary heavy ammo synthesis could have been added into his stock every week.
The whole reason the community wanted this change is because of the bug that makes you lose the heavy ammo when you die. 

Combine that with how RIDICULOUSLY glitchy the high end PvE content is in that game where the boss glitches out and hits you when he shouldn't b able to, or enemies are able to randomly shoot you through walls, and you have a pissed off community because bungie won't just admit THEIR mistakes and provide the community with a temporary solution the the glitch. 

And if you don't believe me on the myriad of glitches, go take a look at YouTube.  There are so many videos of glitches on the end game raids that it's outstanding how bad it is.  And it's not even rare bugs that can't be duplicated.  They all happen consistently and way too frequently.  

These bugs cause players to die, which caused the heavy ammo bug to take away heavy ammo, which caused players to need to buy heavy ammo, which caused players to have to grind for glimmer for hours at a time.  THIS is why the community is pissed, not just because we found out he wasn't random.  But because it means Bungie very easily could have put in a temporary solution to the very oppressive bug, but just chose not to buck they are trolls. 

You really have no idea the anger the community feels over this if your not a part of it.  Hopefully this right up kind of gives you an understanding of just how troll this looks to the community as a whole. The argument I've seen is that the vendor is random, but his random stock is generated long ahead of time, not at the time he arrives.

Not sure if that's true, but that's just the explanation I've seen. I don't know what is up with Bungie, ever since Destiny's launch they've demonstrated a kind of arrogant attitude that has continually put them at odds with the entire community.  Game is doing well, but not that well.  And the reviews were okay, but not glowing.  Yet, they seems hell bent on continuing doing exactly what they were doing. There are plenty of people like me who bought into the hype and quit early. I haven't touched the game since September. It's an MMO without the story. What's the point? It has story, but I don't have time to tell you why I don't have time to tell it to you. That line was a loogie in the face to the people who bought the game on Bungie's words of it having an epic story, compared to Lord of the Rings. :/  Also:

"Have you heard of the Black Garden?"

"Yes, but only legends."

No we haven't! This is literally the first time we've ever heard of it, ever. Our Guardian has been dead for CENTURIES. When did we hear this legend? What legends are we missing out on!?

And they pull this trick so much, it's absolutely ridiculous. "Loogie in the face" is exactly right. It feel like an insult. At least community got few decent memes out from that non existing story. They even promised how 1st DLC would improve on storytelling and give what people want, it really didn't.

Was it better than core game at telling its story? Marginally yes, but it still was lacking. It just didn't feel that epic. The story of Eris being Crota's ex who just wants to kill him and his new squeeze is way better. Do you at least have a companion app that I could download, so I could piece it together on my own time? It's kinda hilarious how community has compiled very interesting and detailed backgrounds for factions, exotic gear, events etc. by using Grimoire cards [accessed via website or app], but game never tells any of it. Yea, it boggles my mind. I can understand why telling us the background to the Gjallerhorn would be irrelevant or a paint in the ass. But at least let us look at the cards in-game. Some of the writing is actually pretty good, it is a shame that they are buried where no one wants to/gets to look at them. NO fuck the cards in game, TELL US A FUCKING STORY with out requiring me to read stupid ass cards.

If they made cards to tell me details on stuff not important to the storyline that just give me a better view on the world as a whole...okay great. But when you give me jack shit and the only way I can kinda piece together a story is to spend time reading stupid fucking cards on my phone or in game? That's horse shit. Putting those cards in the game changes hardly anything. Use the lore on those cards to give me a fuckin plot.


Lots of games use a system ingame where you can read up on more indepth lore stuff, but continue a story with out them. You don't have to read any of it and still get a story. I'm so glad I sold it. Not only will I not play Destiny again, but it will take A LOT to get me to play any Bungie game again. Since launch they have consistently made decisions that are so baffling that I can't believe any professional game design team would make them, let alone the almighty Bungie.  Just remember this is not the same Bungie that made Halo.  Most of the people who were there during those development years are elsewhere. No actually about 10 or so people who worked on Halo have moved on from Bungie or been unceremoniously fired. Most of the old crew is still there. What people forget is that no matter what Halo title Bungie made, they stuck to their guns throughout the entire lifespan and only made adjustments to melee systems and ranking. This is the same old Bungie, but their game is substandard.

It's a good thing Destiny is fun to play otherwise Bungie would be completely screwed. For me? Gameplay. I played the Halos obsessively through high school. Something about the running/aiming speed, jump height,weapon handeling just feels right.

I was hyped to shut for the game. And once the Alpha came out I lowered my expectations. The worst part is that even with the realization of what the game is they could implement some small changes to greatly improve the game.

Transmogs are talked a lot in the sun, and it wouldn't affect the overall game and is a small change. Weapon rerolling would greatly help with the loot grind frustration. MMOs without stories can be absolutely fantastic (EVE comes to mind), but the core issues is that the game was designed around completing campaign missions co-operatively while the content didn't support that. As an old school Halo fan, it doesn't even feel like the same studio. The monetization and design decisions just blow my mind at how questionable they are. The game is a gigantic cluster fuck of missed potential. It is the best feeling shooting engine I've played in years hampered by a poor story, unfathomable QA, a shitty monetization model, and an inability to admit when they're wrong. It's not really the same "bungie" that we had with halo I think. The design philosophy and effort level is just so completely different from halo... Feels like they got replaced by a bodysnatcher to be honest.   They've been like that since Reach. They can't really do much about it, the plan was probably set up a long time ago. They can't just cry about the meh reviews and disappointing sales. Also, Bungie's always been kimd of arrogant, just that their Halo games were fantastic that we weren't bothered by it They always had a certain aloof secrecy about them, but the industry has changed and I honestly don't have time for their shit anymore. When you look at the transparency so many other companies are providing and the honest interaction with fans about game issues, the work they do in that area is unacceptable, and it's merely on top of the enormous pile of grievances that seemingly surround the game and the company these days.  I'm disgusted by what Bungie has turned into.

I still have my 7th column shirt and I look at it wondering where it all went wrong. Agreed. Bungie is a relic from a different time in my opinion. They're too dead set in their ways.  Traditional games press were gobbling that game up at launch like they'd never seen a generic skinner box driven MMO before. Their reviews were correspondingly overhyped. And the game has sold exceptionally well. 

I only play PC games and dislike the very concept of Destiny, but still, don't know about "meh reviews and disappointing sales". In the AAA console world a 7 or 8 is a meh review, especially when you consider the publications' track records of giving out 9s for annual franchises. 

 &gt; It's looks so ridiculous they keep saying it's a random vendor when the guy can obviously read the data

They could very easily (and probably are) telling the truth. It's just that computers are never truly random.

They've probably just got a seeded RNG defining his stock, pretty damned random, but as soon as you know what the seed is, you can know what the outcome will be at any given point.

This whole argument is pointless. There's nothing to be ashamed of. I don't think you understood the article. 

Bungie uses a random number generator to decide Xur's stock. The stock is determined before Xur appears in the game, so a player has been able to data mine the game to "predict" the stock.

Its like Bungie rolls a pair of dice behind a curtain, then reveals the dice every Friday. One guy figures out how to peek behind the curtain but that doesn't make the dice any less random. But that means that Bungie also knows what Xur will have before he appears. And they obviously have the ability to change what he has, since they have done so in the past. So they have the means and opportunity to fix him, but don't. They've taken the stance that Xur's stock will be random and they won't adjust it. They could rig the dice but they choose not to. 

How is this difficult to accept? I'm indifferent to the issue at hand, but it's difficult for players to accept because Bungie simply lied about it, according to the playerbase. Bungie is capable of deliberately altering Xur's stock, and yet according to the article, "Bungie has explicitly and repeatedly claimed that Xrs stock is both random and *out of their control.*" The problem is less about whether Xur's stock is RNG or not, but more about Bungie being disingenuous about it. [deleted] [deleted] Cyborgmatt did things like this with dota 2 and became a highly-respected community member, as well as not drawing any real heat from valve. didnt valve  even hide little messages for him at some point? All the time. [deleted] Matt also became goddamn insufferable because he constantly acted like he had secret insider information that no one else did, and essentially pretended he was a unofficial valve representative. Then he pissed off the entire community by acting like an asshole outside of his patch analysis, quit doing the patch analysis altogether, and became a professional team manager that stays as far out of the spotlight as possible. 

He absolutely demolished a really good thing he had setup. It was impressive really.   And now, if some other person besides the main guy posts the patch notes everyone gets pissed off. That community can be so dumb sometimes. Yeah, the whole SirBelvedere vs WickedPlayer thing was insane as well. I never followed SC2 at all, I've just heard of their ridiculous drama, but the /r/dota2 subreddit has to be in the upper echelons anymore, and it doesn't show any signs of getting better. Thankfully there are subreddits closer to /r/games quality for Dota2, while the main one continues to spiral into /r/gaming quality.  /r/gaming is a plague that spreads. Compare /r/Games now to /r/Games from even a year ago, there's a distinct difference, for the worse. It's still better than /r/gaming, but by not so big of a margin as before.  So, from what I gather in the article:

* Worst case scenario is Bungie have been manually selecting what the vendor sells, and have been purposely picking awful items. When a dataminer proved that items were selected in advance and not random, they patched the game so they could tweak the stock at the last moment and make the miner look incorrect.
* Best case scenario is that his stock *is random*, but the dice are rolled some time before his stock refreshes. Bungie have since added a patch to manually tweak his stock if the dice rolls poorly.



It seems that it's a very big either/or scenario, where Bungie are either complete dicks or just the victims of their own game design. Why would they manually do this? To increase DLC sales so that you have to get it to get better weapons?  Yep. Same reason omnigul is the weekly/nightfall every other week.  Exactly, For lots of players xur is the only way to get high level gear/weapons and if you don't have the dlc that option is taken away. Not better weapons, but since the DLC came out I'm pretty sure Xur has sold No Land Beyond and Dragon's Breath more than any other weapon, and you have to have the DLC to get them. The DLC does not have better exotics. The best weapons are still from the base game.  The DLC exotic weapons are laughably bad. Blizzard have been getting their games datamined for so long they put a mob called "The Dataminer" in the latest Diablo expansion. Yeah, and Blizzard (and most other companies to which this scenario is applicable) is completely fine with this. The largest WoW fan site, Wowhead, is actively listed as an official unofficial Blizzard source (WoW item pages link to the Wowhead pages, GMs will tell you to check Wowhead if you haven't completed an achievement, etc.). Wowhead is the largest datamining source of new builds as well.

Specifically, before Siege of Orgrimmar came out a destroyed section of Stormwind was datamined. People got **really** pissed off thinking that even though Garrosh would die he would still destroy part of SW, which would be utterly ridiculous. The CMs all just said "You're taking this out of context, you have no idea how this is going to be used, calm down". Turns out it was part of the heroic SoO fight and not a real version of SW.

So yeah, Blizzard is totally cool with datamining, they just have to remind people that everything can change from build to build. I don't own any next-gen consoles so I have no say on the matter. However, as a day-to-day bystander who likes to check gaming news, I seem to rarely see Destiny news that portrays it in a positive light. Disappointing :/ Destiny suffers from quite a few problems.  A lot of the negative news you hear is partly because Destiny was portrayed poorly on /r/games when it launched.  It doesn't help that almost nothing positive has happened within Destiny, and the 'Dark Below' expansion didn't do much to outsiders opinions.

This article is a good example of making "something out of nothing."  It's not unusual for game developers to use a seed for a random number generator, where the seed creates a predetermined list of random items.  Just because you see a predetermined list of items doesn't mean that they handpicked that list in the most dastardly way possible.  It's very likely just design error and was not intended for people to discover. All of the news that come out are negative because you don't get news stories about "Om_Nom_Zombie played through the vault of glass and had the time of his life with 5 strangers" or "Destiny gun play still as good if not better than at launch" Honestly, it's not as bad as the news article makes it sound. It might be because I only picked the game up like a month ago, but I'm still having loads of fun. I think people were expecting something different. If you don't like repetitive content or don't have friends to play with, the game is shit poor boring. Also, outside of the visuals and gunplay, the game is not well made. Everything related to the story or lore is either bad or not in the game and the level design is linear but not in a good way. It feels like they built half of every zone and dropped the rest off a cliff or behind a wall. Enemies are all underwhelming in design(especially the vex). I was expecting them to be destructible akin to Binary Domain but they are just bullet sponges aside from their head. The expensive content DLC has been designed as a requirement rather than an optional bonus(Not to mention that it should have been free in the first place as the game is lacking to begin with). However, if you have money, like the stingy grind, and have friends on the same platform as you who have it(and don't own a Playstation console or PC to play Final Fantasy XIV) Destiny is the best game for you.  How does one data mine a console game? Neither of the guys mining ever said exactly how they did it, but the impression that I got was they used some sort of packet injection to trick the destiny servers into thinking that it was many months in the future, then you could just go to xur and see what he had, or see what weekly strike was available.  And since it was all 'rolled' in advance, the info stayed accurate. My belief is that there are "template" tables on the disc (or patched in) of Xur's loot table that are were generated for that week (and the next, and the next, etc.). Those tables are what Megamanexe4 see's (probably due to a modified console).  I know in Guild Wars 2 theres a few people who do Data Mining on future patched but in general they save the secrets till patch day. Most things that they ping are items and locations, they never spoil the story.  [deleted] What the fuck happened to bungie? What happened to cool shit like ilovebees.com, community driven events, user-created content, free expansions, marvelous storytelling, all that shit? I miss that bungie. Let's be clear here, because we have yet another article posted with a clickbait title.

I am both a Destiny player and a programmer, with some idea of how things are implemented.

These are the facts:

Xur is not "random," at least not in the colloquial sense. His inventory can be updated before he appears, and his time in the tower can be extended at whim (if necessary [XBL &amp; PSN outage]). It was not this way before a recent patch that allowed this.

There has been no Bungie developer that has claimed that Xur was entirely random. The only person to every say that was DeeJ, Bungie's community manager, during a livestream of Destiny shortly after the game was released. DeeJ has stated on multiple occasions that he did not know how Xur's inventory system worked - and to someone that isn't a software engineer, it seemed initially to not be controlled by the dev team. So to a layman, 'random.' That was easily seen as an assumption by DeeJ. 

Now, from the software side. Even before the patches that allowed a backend for Xur's inventory to be updated at will, it is not correct to say that his inventory was completely controlled. Did Bungie devs know what he would be selling? Yes, much to the dismay of DeeJ who thought otherwise. Xur's inventory was likely pseudorandomly generated, and placed into something like an XML document that could be deciphered by the game as Xur's inventory. 
Just because Xur's inventory could be mined, does not mean that it was not pseudorandomly generated in the first place.

So, Bungie is not at "war" with anyone. They've since addressed and fixed these issues, and Xur's inventory can no longer be completely predicted. Case closed.

As far as the heroic and nightfall strikes go, those are on a schedule. Bungie could force them to be hotfixed in, but there's no real reason to do so. This is something that I've argued since /u/Megamanexe4 came out with a ton of predictions, and that is that Bungie baked in Xur's loot table, and that loot table was initially developed from some sort of random item generator. What Megamanexe4 sees is that table that is put into the game, but Bungie is able to go in and modify that table on a case by case basis. 

It's that initial loot table generation that I don't think a lot of people understand. And it's probably good that Bungie went in and modified that table (sunbreakers anyone?). And the last two weeks have seen some pretty good loot tables that haven't been seen since launch.

Also, I believe that the strike playlists follow this same order of generation as the loot table. 

So much hyperbole and quasi-understanding lead to a lot of unnecessary flak for Bungie. Mad props to those guys though.  [deleted] As a software engineer in the cryptography space who also has a passion for indie game development, maybe I can shed some light on some possible reasons this is happening.

The first thing you want to understand is what a "Item" usually is in most mmo's/games. A lot of you already know this, a item is usually a collection of "Modifiers" or "Attributes". With "Modifiers" sometimes being subclasses into things like "affixes" "prefixes" or "core", etc. Each defining a different group of modifications to an item.

This list of modifiers probably exists in the game executable as a simple enumeration. It can also exist perhaps in one of the data files for it. In addition some items, like "uniques" etc, are also defined in static lists in data files and executables. Item base types, like "Gun", "Helm", etc are also in such a list.

Now that we know how items are stored lets think about how we would select a random group of items with each item having a random set of eligible modifiers. We would probably do something like:

-&gt; Select a random element from the list of item base types
-&gt; Select a random eligible affix from list of affix types
-&gt; Select a random eligible suffix from list of affix types

Now lets think about something here that is rather important, the fact that we have a need for a cheap way to keep all the items in the vendors being generated for users in our massive mmo world WITHOUT doing some kind of background job and tossing them in all sort of persistent (expensive) storage system.

The common thing to do here is make the algorithm for selecting our random eligible items "deterministic". To do that we use a seeded pseudo-random number generator. That is a algorithm that generates a random number that will always produce an deterministic set of numbers given the same initial seed.

This allows us to each time a user opens the vendor, to quickly give him the same list of random items by simply knowing what the seed is. Often times when a vendor has to product something different for each player, developers can do something like "seed = SecretBigConstantInteger + Some derived integer from the current date + UserId" this is mostly pretty safe in practice, as long as SecretBigConstantInteger changes each day. However it is much better to do something like first hash the UserId given another secret constant, as UserId is often sequential. But what happens a lot of times as well is that SecretBigConstantInteger doesn't change every day.. it is hard coded on there servers. Worst, sometimes those servers are 32 bit. They end up being pretty small. See where I am getting at?

Why does this matter? Lets look at it by replacing the words, with actual integers.

seed = (C)=1,123,456,789 + (D)=10102015 + (I)=186231

How could we begin to guess that? Well, we know the date. We can also guess that I is under 10 million. We also know D! So lets try to brute force the seed by starting at 1 and going to the max signed 32bit int "2147483647", for C, after we tried all combinations of C we will increment I from 0.

Try:
seed = (C)=1 + (D)=10102015 + (I)=1
seed = (C)=2 + (D)=10102015 + (I)=1
...
seed = (C)=2147483647 + (D)=10102015 + (I)=1
seed = (C)=2+ (D)=10102015 + (I)=2
seed = (C)=3+ (D)=10102015 + (I)=2
...

And so on! For every try, we check to see if we were able to predict the item generation using our algorithm.

This is a clue into some of the common patterns for this kind of stuff but it is very unlikely that he simply found C + D+ I, don't take this as "this is how this was done", it's simply a look into how his research and hard work did find _THE_ way they do item generation. 

It's also likely that bungie made a mistake and have some of that item generation code sitting in the client- simply sending the client a "seed". Sometimes MMOS that do a lot of client side prediction can have a bit to much stuff make it's way the executable. This would be really awful and not likely, but you never know. It is however likely he did get a lot of clues into the algorithm from various places in the disassembled executable. 

This post is longer then I planned. Oh well. Have a good morning all.
 The funny thing is, Bungie hasn't said a peep about any of this. So the "war" detailed here is basically a fabrication by the author, at least until we some degree of confirmation that Bungie is actively working against megamanexe4.

The other funny thing is that everyone overlooks why this all got started: megamanexe4 was pissed off at Bungie for A) Not treating Japan fairly (later release date for expansions, no Season Pass, sporadic-at-best updates to the Bungie Weekly News in Japanese), and B) deliberately misleading the community about how certain systems in Destiny work.

I think if those two issues were resolved, none of the drama would have occurred. This has been fairly common in EVE Online (and other MMOs I'm sure), too. Players have been able to guess what's coming next by digging through things like art assets and item descriptions for things that aren't yet available.

The developers figured out that, if they want something to be a surprise, the best way to go about it is to not deliver the assets to players until they're ready to be unveiled.

Granted, that's a lot easier with a MMO that's constantly updated than it is with a console game that ships with DLC assets on the disc. People finding the "supernova" file in EVE before the Caroline's Star event happened is definitely coming to mind. Not only did it ruin the surprise of a supernova happening, it also ruined the mystery of what the bright spot was. I'll never understand the attraction people have to this game. I played the alpha/trial/beta event thing and was blown away - by how bland and not fun the game was. Then, the game comes out and is revealed to have a ridiculous lack of content with built in mechanics to make the game extremely grindy to get the best loot. But STILL, tons of people grinded through everything and are still playing the game. If anyone else listens to the giant bombcast - you know this has been brought up a ton. Why are people subjecting themselves to such a poorly implemented and miserable sounding game? 

Seriously, this quote. Like...this is a video game that is played for fun?!

&gt;The bug caused players to lose heavy ammo  ammo for the games hardest-hitting tier of weapons, and thus a valuable commodity to have for the games most difficult content  on death, after a cutscene, and when you leave a map. The on-death bug was finally patched after months of it wreaking tedious havoc on the gameplay (though it still persists when a cutscene loads or you leave the map). Destiny employs [a lot of the same tricks that MMOs use to keep you invested in a grindfest](http://www.reddit.com/r/DestinyTheGame/comments/2oa30h/destiny_is_an_mmorpg_get_over_it_heres_a_list_of/) and has the added benefit of targeting an audience (console FPS players) that for the most part hasn't been exposed and desensitized to those tropes yet. 

Besides that, a *ton* of copies were sold on day one due to hype alone (***THE BIG NEW GAME FROM THE LOGOS ON THE BOXES OF HALO AND CALL OF DUTY!!!!***) and there's accordingly a lot of community inertia - sure, Destiny may not necessarily offer much (if anything) over, say, Borderlands as an experience, but it's good *enough,* very well-produced and all your friends are still playing it, so why not get that DLC? I've been trying to get my friend who plays Destiny into Diablo 3 on the console, since it has the same addictive gotta-get-more-loot gameplay, but seems like it'd be a lot more fun. I personally love D3, but have never played Destiny.  Ha, D3 is still just a tedious grindfest in my opinion. Although, D3 has far more going for it as far as diversity in character builds.  Yeah but in D3 the characters are actually different with different gameplay based on builds (obviously there is only few of them viable on the endgame). When you get legendary it will be identified into a legendary and not crafting materials or some useless currency. And you get legendaries on somewhat regular basis.

In Destiny at launch Legendaries could decrypt into not legendary items (GG bungie) and it wasn't that rare. They obviously revorked it after some time but legendary engrams are still super rare and currently the best way to get end game gear is grind reputation, then grind bunch of currencies so you can buy items from a vendor, then grind some more so you can upgrade them, and then hope that you will be lucky and get something usefull in a raid.  It works. I have 2 buddies that are hooked on Destiny. They normally play COD, but both are completely enamored by Destiny. I keep trying to play and like it, but I get bored to tears every time I play or watch them play. It is simple really. The game has a great community and is fun as hell. The gunplay is good. Everything you said about lack of content and the grind is true. But it is still just an all around fun game to play. 

Maybe it is because I play it heavily (on hold now til dlc as I have several max level characters), but I've found a good group of people to raid with. And from there you get more people etc. Best community since halo 3 IMO. And the best parts of destiny are the end game raids.

I know it isn't for everyone. But it is fun and there is a wonderful online community the likes of which only come around once in a blue moon. All the games I love seem to have a vocal majority of players mad about lack of content.

*Terraria*: there are no more bosses to fight.
*PSO:* all there is to do is grind the same areas.
*Just about every other game:* more more more

But I feel like I play an unhealthy amount when I get into a game, but I barely tap the top half of content, these people must be super dedicated.

Just about the only games I cleared out were saints row 3 and 4 and I didn't feel ripped off I felt accomplished with a twist of ashamed. The funny thing about your PSO mention is that Destiny IS PSO. It's actually scary how similar they are. The base gameplay is different (One is an Action-RPG, one is an FPS), but everything else is from PSO. I KNOW, that's why I'm so upset by the *well maybe* in regards to the PC port.

I love shooters, I love pso - I need this to happen!

And Defiance wasn't cutting it, but I gave it 40 hours according to steam. And 60 for Warframe, and that has mags, but still not the same. Destiny 2 is slated to come out on PC. I also wouldn't be surprised if there's a Destiny PC release with all current DLC in September when they release the huge expansion Plague of Darkness. The gaming community is outrageously not self-aware.  People clamor over a new game, eat it up in a couple of days because they have no self-control.  Then they start complaining about the game because they feel like they're entitled to new content every week for them to grind for hours upon hours.  Only to start complaining again next week.

Based on the little info you give, I would guess your gaming habits are much healthier than the average gamer on this site. The community is cool, and the raids are really well done. It's not too surprising that it's popular.

Plus any game with some sort of loot grind is usually pretty popular  &gt; after months of it wreaking tedious havoc on the gameplay 

I don't want to overly defend Bungie or this game in this thread, but this is a gross exaggeration of the issue. Was it noticeable? Of course, during endgame content. Did it destroy the gameplay? Absolutely not.

Secondly, a ton of gamers live to fufill that MMO itch, constantly having something to strive for but never *quite* getting there. Destiny does this well while having top notch FPS gameplay. Hence the love-hate community it now has... It has solid gameplay and a great incentive system. I enjoy getting on and always having an objective.  You know, I thought the same thing at first but then I actually got my hands on the game. A lot has changed since the alpha/beta and honestly I'm really addicted to it. I don't know why but I come back everyday because of how much fun it is.  Same. I'm a huge fan of Bungie, and Destiny, at its core, is still a very fun shooter. 

The whole attitude /r/Games has towards Destiny is its own thing. I would stick to the /r/DestinyTheGame subreddit for more substantial content. Yes, there are things that people gripe about with the game. That's any game out there. 

I think there is a pervasive mentality of wanting companies to fail that has caused this sub to become a bit toxic.... Users complaining that pre "Dark-below" gear is worthless now and Bungie not knowing what to do about a data-miner.  It's almost like this is the first MMO that's ever been released.  Plenty of other games have dealt with this before and it comes with the territory. The guild wars 2 devs are smart about this.

They only add things to the game that we KNOW about. They leave things we don't know about out of the patch before the actual "release".


They tease things and add it to the game, we know it's coming so they can put it in but make it not accessible yet.  You can even link them into chat and preview the looks of them before they can be found in game anywhere. It's cool.

 I think part of the problem is the console development environment. To make sure everything goes smoothly on release days they need to minimize patching in content and other bugs, and reduce the amount of content they patch so that they can pass through both sony and MS qa/qc. This requires them to pre-patch content and code where they can.  &gt;  They leave things we don't know about out of the patch before the actual "release".

If we would know everything they wouldn't had so much shitstorms like Commandertags and WvW changes in that update or the gem currency trade system change.

 A lot of stuff can't be previewed in game as well, these items normally take a few months before they are released (like the new hairstyles, some outfits)

They do however go to great lengths hiding stuff they really dont want to show (encrypting strings with RC4 or replacing them with placeholder text) Can he predict when it'll be a game worth playing?  Okay seriously I couldn't take this anymore after a few paragraphs, are there any destiny players here because I'd like to ask something: 

"The bug caused players to lose heavy ammo  ammo for the games hardest-hitting tier of weapons, and thus a valuable commodity to have for the games most difficult content  on death, after a cutscene, and when you leave a map. The on-death bug was finally patched after months of it wreaking tedious havoc on the gameplay (though it still persists when a cutscene loads or you leave the map)."

WHAT THE FUCK?!! Why do you put up with that shit, it takes them months fix the bug but only for 1 of the 3 instances in which it occurs? Bungie you are fucking despicable. Former Destiny player, here.

We didn't really "put up with it". We were loudly pissed off about it since launch. Bungue's reasoning was "Well, these things are complicated, and fixing this big could mess with a whole lot of other things so we need to be thorough about fixing this" which no one bought. We just assumed they had no idea how to fix it. Looking at BF4, where some patch bring back old ones, I can understand  Also there were two weapons (thorn and bad juju) that were of the rarest item quality that were just garbage. Bungie said like two weeks after release that they were going to buff them, it took almost 3 to 4 months for that to happen.

They have that problem with other guns now too thanks to the new expansion. It's pointless to even complain about them because bungie knows they're bad but it'll take months for them to fix that... Another thing: before the first raid was released, Luke Smith, the lead Raid designer, was quoted in an interview basically saying "We're excited to see the strategies players come up with. We want the Raids to be tough, to require a solid team and a solid strategy". Cool, right?

Except the community quickly discovered that the final boss, during the battle with him, always teleported the 3 furthest players from him into another dimension. And so the prevalent strategy became "We'll have a dedicated teleport team, and a team that opens the portal out". And Bungie, in all of their infinite wisdom, basically told the players that we weren't playing the Raid right, that the teleportation mechanic was "broken" and/or a "bug" (even though they obviously deliberately coded it that way), and they changed the final boss fight a couple months in. But they did that before patching invisible enemies, or Atheon teleporting 4 people, or only 2 people, or the invincible Oracles, or any of a few other bugs that would screw Raid groups.

The newest Raid, specifically Hard Mode, has been really buggy, with certain essential enemies not spawning, or getting stuck in unreachable spots, or the final boss bugging and not going down when he's supposed to, etc. Lots of those still haven't been fixed. 

Honestly, Bungie just sucks. It seems like every day they make some bone-headed decision that eats away at the faith people had in them after Marathon and Halo. 

EDIT: spelling is hard That's kind of funny. Also reminded me of the first boss fight in the first raid of the current World of Warcraft expansion. There's a mechanic where the *closest* players get thrown to an area outside of where you fight the boss, so you'd have designated players stay in close at the time that would happen. I've been watching Bungie and Destiny for awhile and it's sad how things have been going. The game looks like something I should want to play but everything I've seen, and discovered myself when researching the game, has been a huge turn off. I didn't, that's why I stopped playing. That and the blatant skinner box design of the game turned me off completely.  This was a big part of why I left destiny. Not Xur, specifically,  but the seemingly constant misleading statements by bungie. IMO xur ruined the game. Instead of playing to get unique drops we wait for the weekend and hope he has something worth while to buy.

The game should have endless drops like borderlands or diablo. Instead we buy our gear and nothing is uniquely our own drops or keep playing to get better ones.

So we log on once a week and  and spend coins and log right back off again.

The next iteration of destiny better have a different loot system and an actual storyline or you'll see lots of fans not returning. &gt; The next iteration of destiny better have a different loot system and an actual storyline or you'll see lots of fans not returning fans

they'll buy it, moan about it, then never play it again. 

which doesn't matter at that point, activision already got their money. ;) Without Xur exotic equipment would be infinitely harder to obtain with the current drop rates. Exactly, change the entire drop system. This is why I stopped playing Destiny. In the immortal words of Chuck Berry, "Too much monkey business for me to be involved with you." Agreed. The game is fundamentally fun, but time and time again it felt like there were features in there actively trying to prevent me from enjoying myself. It's such a shame, but I've really grown to hate that game. So the people who make and develop the game are trying to say they have no control over what a vendor sells??. 

Yeah ok. Reminds me of when Valve claimed drops of the coveted Golden Wrench were random, then a hacker and his friends predicted and won a bunch of them in a row. I don't think Valve ever admitted they lied. As a former destiny player (finally got rid of it recently), the amount of effort spent to thwart megaman was well, sorta rediculous when they pushed out DLC that was, what? 3 missions, a strike, and a raid that you can now blow through in under an hour? Bungie is like the J.P. of gaming. Yeah, they did a bad ass job with Halo, but their douchebaggery has gone to new levels ever since Destiny came out. (Wonder if anyone will get the reference?) I don't want to spoil the surprise so A+ on your reference. So does that make "Demonic" 343-industries version of the halo franchise? (staying within your reference theme)
 If the client knows it, the user knows it. This is security 101, the fact that the user in this case is a player changes nothing. Do we know that Xur's stock isn't decided by a [pRNG](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator)? If Bungie was using the date as the seed, that would explain why the stock is "random" but predictable. 
 
It doesn't explain why Bungie couldn't quickly patch Xur to have whatever supply they want - that's just laziness. But modern games are incredibly complex, deploying new code is a huge risk, so I'll give them a pass on that one. Non-mobile: [pRNG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) Man, Destiny was one huge disappointment for me and my friends. I was a loyal bungie fan since Halo and this game has soured them as a company for me. Where was the story? The game was nothing like they said it would be. 

The biggest bummer for me was I went in thinking they'd allow the traditional 4 player co op like halo only to find out that one of our friends would be left out all the time. I also wanted better multiplayer. We needed capture the flag and big team type games. Yet, we only got the few same repetitive game types and maps.

If I had one word to describe Destiny it would be repetitive. That or disappointing. This is just one fans opinion. Hey, at least the shooting felt right, I totally agree that, for the game everyone was expecting, Destiny sucked. But for the game that it actually is, it's great.  

I bought it used, and went in with zero expectations. Nearly 200 hours later, I'm still hooked and eager for my next chance to keep grinding.

I'm jealous of the people who haven't played it yet, but will buy the inevitable "Complete Edition" next year with all the content that everyone is currently clamoring for.   The first paragraph hit the nail on the head.  In my experience, I played it for a month, stopped, redownloaded it on Xbone, played it for a week, stopped, picked it up again about two months ago and now I've been playing weekly if not daily. Every time I hear something about this game, either in person from a friend who plays it or an article online, it leaves me with the impression that Bungie is an asshole developer.  That's because the Internet loves to create villains, point fingers, and raise their pitchforks.

Bungie isn't an "asshole". They are just an FPS developer that got in over their heads and decided to create an MMO without having enough first-hand experience on how to cultivate and curate it. They didn't understand how much extra work it was to build an MMO that truly delivers and didn't understand how to communicate that big misstep to their audience. 

So while the game actually gets better and is actively getting patches, they stepped on their own dick enough times at launch that people refuse to give them a break or cut them any slack. At this point, people act like everything Bungie does is "bad", regardless of whether it has merit. Xur is actually infinitely better now post-patch. The article is pretty hyperbolic and definitely sensationalistic. I'm confused. If he can predict the results, that means it *must* be a pseudorandom process. If a human is picking items or changing the order, then it wouldn't be very predictable.  Bungie lying? Say it aint so! They've been lying about there games since Halo, and probably before, Destiny has just been the most painful to watch since it just seems to be a continuous stream of bs from them. There was a datamining kerfuffle in Warframe some time ago (last year, I think). A droptable for Void (high risk, high reward instance with a one-time key needed to enter. Keys are rewarded for certain missions and are pretty much random) was datamined and some of the items had droprates around 0.2%. Incidentally, said items were being sold in the game's cash shop.

Needless to say, the droptables are encrypted now :\^) &gt;Your downloaded songs will work through console families, so PlayStation 3 content will work on PS4, and the same with the Microsoft consoles.

&gt;He estimated that over 95 percent of Rock Band's library of songs will make it over into Rock Band 4

Excellent news. This is the only thing I was worried about with Rock Band 4. This alone pretty much guarantees I'll buy it. God dammit. I wish I could make a Harmonix account or something to transfer my xbox 360 songs to ps4. I have over 150 songs :C I think they'd have to charge a licensing fee if so. I think $50 would be fair given the amount of DLC I've bought. Or even $1 per song if they need the license for a different console manufacturer. It wouldn't be cheap but it beats having to rebuy all your old songs. I'm pretty bummed about it as well.  Yea. GTA V did it. So it is possible. I guess the problems would be retroactively making an account, and liscensure through consoles. GTA V was able to do it because of their separate Social Club program, which was linked to your multiplayer character. Rock Band has no such thing. They could certainly create one. They may have to charge a licensing fee of some kind (like they did with disc export in the past), but they could do it.

Basically patch Rock Band 3 with a cross platform export tool. Open Rock Band 3, choose export, link yourself to a harmonix account. Load up Rock Band 4, link the account and choose import, pay the fee and Harmonix sends you a redeemable code for unlocking your DLC on the new platform. I'm down, over 300 songs over here I know, That's what I meant by retroactively making an account.

I'm sure it is possible to implement, just if they want to use the resources to do so, or if MS/Sony would be okay with allowing DLC that they did not get proceeds from to be downloaded. That's fantastic news and something I'm mildly surprised they were able to pull off.

I'm stuck in a tough spot though, I switched main consoles this generation. I went from Xbox 360 where I purchased a ton of DLC to PS4. I'm in the exact same boat. It's probably going to be cheaper to get a Xbox One then start over! There is no way it would be cheaper for us. We have purchased hundreds of songs! I guess we will just wait for some sort of holiday bundle. If we could get xb1 + rb4 for less than $500, we'd probably do it. (And then listen to all of our relatives call us crazy for spending that much money on a game, even though they go on trips, buy guns, hunting equipment, boats, fishing supplies, sports tickets, and whatever else they are into and easily spend that much a year.) I try to equate my entertainment time to dollar ratio using the movies as a standard. In my town, it's about $10 for a movie ticket, and a movie lasts about 2 hours. So my entertainment to dollar ratio baseline is 1 hour to $5.

If I spend $40 on a game, I should expect to get at least 8 hours of entertainment from it. Rock Band has by and large surpassed that threshold, with hundreds of hours of entertainment. You should be less stringent since movies are entirely passive experiences and games are interactive. 2 hours of film should need to work harder to entertain you than 2 hours of gaming. [deleted] Wow I'm even more stringent than that - when it comes to videogames it should be a one to one ratio. Although I buy a lot of games and don't always pay attention to that.  I have that same problem, but if I ever feel guilty about not finishing a game, it makes me feel better to see it fit into my ratio (although often it doesn't). I'm right there with you, my target zone is 1:1 since that can easily offset the other costs associated with the system it's for.

My wife is happy about it, it's cheaper than going out for beers all the time and it gives her uninterrupted time for her activities.

Not every game makes to that ratio, but most do. If I am on the fence I just wait for a a sale. While that works, I just have a REALLY hard time justifying the $15/movie and so I generally don't go and see movies any more!

That said, it's a good metric.  RB has the added bonus of combine man hours.  I mean, I play RB by my self some times, but generally it's entertaining 2-10 people at a time, which is pretty fucking impressive. &gt;If we could get xb1 + rb4 for less than $500, we'd probably do it.

Considering an xbox is $350 and rockband will likely be $60, you probably won't have to wait for a holiday bundle unless you need new instruments $60 plus instruments.   Instruments should carry over. So says the article. The article says they're "working on it" for Xbox 360. I really hope they figure it out. I love my Beatles Rock Band Gretsch and Rickenbacker fake guitars! While moving my Beatles rock band guitar was destroyed, I almost cried.  Did you at least gently weep? I don't know about other people, but my instruments got worn out after a year... I've gone through 5 guitars for rock band. New instruments better be decently priced and come with a warranty. I know the feeling.  I've been planning on getting a PS4 for Bloodborne soon but all my DLC for Rock Band 1-3 is on Xbox 360.  I might end up with a Xbox One after all based on this news. If it makes you feel better, I have an X1 and it's great. Lots of great games to play, even if Bloodborne isn't one of them. Both consoles are excellent. Agreed! I was just trying to say that getting an X1 is not any sort of punishment. He seemed kinda bummed about the idea, and although he'll miss out on BB, there's plenty our other very fun stuff to play, and I've had tons of fun with my X1. As a media center it is awesome. I don't even hardly need a remote anymore. I just tell my xbox what channel to watch, or what show to watch on Netflix. As a PCMR person, if I were to live in the US and would buy a console it would be the Xbox One.

I already know I'm not expecting graphics, but all the extra features and support it gets means it might be the better console.

Nintendo only has their games going for them, but they're so ass-backwards in certain things (recently mostly everything that touches the internet, no chargers, and scalpers) that I refuse to buy from them.

PS maybe did the best machine that plays games, but they don't have any real console-sellers (yet, but still not guaranteed Bb will be that). Some of their ethics are shady and their negligence to add basic stuff like DLNA until recently means it wouldn't be as useful in the future as it may be. Also their Vita treatment just pisses me of to no end. Is it possible that the DLC is linked to the rock band account in general? For rock band 3, you had to create an account with Harmonix to play. Maybe it would work like GTAV did with cross console account transfer?  Nope, they were explicit in the interview that it was tied to the same console-family.  I have over 500 DLC tracks downloaded for previous RB games, this is a massive relief knowing my investment is still viable for the new platform. 

Harmonix delivers again, one of the best developers out there. Cannot wait for Rock Band 4. same here, i think we hit around 300 DLC songs. For me, it would have meant the difference between buying RB4 and not buying it. No way i'm spending $250 on new controllers if i need to rebuy all my songs. I have over a thousand tracks.

I intentionally haven't gotten a PS4 or XboxOne because I was waiting to see what Rock Band 4 would bring. Have an upvote for your dedication to the band. Ha thanks - that was the deal my friends and I had in college. I was the Rock Band guy, but it meant they had to keep up with the newer releases on the system for me to borrow them. Same here, looks like I'm getting an XBox One now!

I hope there's a new and improved drum set like the Ion Drum Rocker for Xbox One! I can't find one now for 360 at any reasonable price, but I guess I can wait a few more months for RB4. I'm really hoping Ion will sell an updated brain to hook up the drum set to the XBox One. Or that Microsoft will allow certain XBox 360 controllers to connect for Rock Band purposes. Oh dangit.  That means my library is stuck on the wrong console, since I bought all my guitar stuff on the 360, but I don't own an XB1.  Now I'm going to have to decide if I want to keep my library bad enough to buy an entire console for it.  I somehow doubt it.

(And the other exclusives on the console factor in, of course.) I started a new PSN account when I upgraded to PS4, so I'm in the same boat.  I could always log into my old account on PS4, but then I'd have to upgrade it to Plus and all that... really wish there was a way to merge accounts. Ps4 plus is shared between all accounts on the console so you should be alright. For example my account is primary and plus subscriber but my housemates have all created their own accounts to play fifa ultimate team online. downloaded content is shared between accounts. Unless there is some account DRM you would be able to use the songs on your new main account, as long as you redownload them on your old main  Thanks!  This makes me optimistic.  Now to figure out how to make room for all that DLC... Hijacking top comment to make people aware that /r/RockBand exists and has a lot of enthusiastic Rock Band fans! We're still growing as a community and would love for more people to join us. 
There are also a lot of people with lots of knowledge about Rock Band so any question you have, you can ask them whenever you like. I went ahead and subbed despite not having a next gen console (and now am really torn... All my DLC was on 360 but now all my friends have PS4). However, looks like the sub could benefit from a make-over. Not the most appealing one in terms of looks. I have a question. How does the Rockband drum kit compare to the Band Hero drum kit? I've never played Rockband, and for some reason I was always put off because the drums look more basic (i.e. they only have 4 pads, compare to Band Hero's 5 pads, as well as the more "realistic" layout of the Band Hero drums). I know this is a ridiculous reason to be put off, and I'm very excited about this announcement, but I'd just like to know what to expect. I found the Rock Band one way better. I owned that one and the Guitar Hero: World Tour one (same layout but looks slightly different I think). Having only two toms makes doing some fills really awkward, and it felt a bit weird to me when I had to do a lot of subsequent hits on the cymbals. The pads on the Rock Band set can act as any drum/cymbal, so a lot of things felt more naturally charted. Plus you can get a cymbal pack for the Rock Band drums, which added up to three cymbals. They weren't great, but at least they let you play Pro Drums for cheap. Hopefully they do a better job making the drums work better, because that was my main gripe with them. &gt;(i.e. they only have 4 pads, compare to Band Hero's 5 pads, as well as the more "realistic" layout of the Band Hero drums).

Rock Band 3 added "Pro Drums" mode where you have to use the cymbals at the correct times, so that's 7 pads (or 4 pads and 3 cymbals).  I think it's dantastic, but I haven't played much band hero. [Dantastic!](http://fc08.deviantart.net/fs70/i/2013/034/b/b/dantastic_logo_b_and_w_by_killjoy_101-d5tqq9t.jpg)

Oddly specific picture came up on GIS for that.  Looks like I'm buying an Xbox One after all. Can't let my $300+ in songs go to waste!  Dammit, I'm conflicted by how great it is they can do even this, an how absolutely useless it is to me since I really just don't see mysef buying an xb1, and I'm not going to buy RB4 on a console I can't transfer my songs over on. The fact that they are launching this as a platform and not single titles has me pretty excited. I know it always was this way in a sense but fully embracing it is awesome. Carrying over dlc and attempting to carry over instruments? Thats how its done. I am completely excited for this.

What I am NOT completely excited for is that surely Activision will be piggybacking on this and announcing some half-thought-out Guitar Hero game that will probably bring all the market saturation problems right back to the forefront.

I just want Harmonix to do their thing and let it be beautiful. That would be a shame if Activision tried to get back onto the Guitar Hero game just because Harmonix is getting the Rock Band kit out again. They're trying to make this game *the* game to have for this sort of genre. Hopefully there's enough factors in the way to discourage Activision from doing it. One game is enough for this, and if Harmonix can do a great job of it, it's the only one game needed. [Bad news for you](http://www.kotaku.co.uk/2015/02/24/new-guitar-hero-game-coming) That's Okay, I preferred Rock Band as a group game, but much prefered the Guitar Hero guitars. Good point... i love my old flying v and the wireless les paul from the old gh games. If rock band guitars didn't have the recessed buttons and mushy strum bar, i would be much more willing to use them.  Also,  the GH games tended to be a lot more difficult than rb, which was good for tryhard guitarists like me. I could 100% almost every rb song other than the final 5 songs or so.   
  
Green Grass and High Tides can still go suck a fat one. I haven't played any instrument games (besides rocksmith) since like ps2 guitar hero 2, but holy shit. They had green grass and high tides? That's my favorite outlaws song. It's seriously one of my favorite tracks ever. Outlaws kind of got forgotten over time unlike the more popular James Gang and Lynard Skynard. I would love to play that song! Was it a dlc? Would I be able to play it in RB4? 
Edit: also was it the 9 min album version?  It was a core song on RB1. Yeah it's a good song, but a bitch on guitar. Fuck guitar. On the drums it wore me out with the kick non-stop for 9 minutes. The flying v was actually made by Harmonix, they made Guitar Hero 1 and 2. The Les Paul is awesome though. As for Guitar Hero being harder, that's usually because Guitar Hero overcharted songs and made them a bit silly to play. There's lots of nigh-impossible to FC DLC songs on Rock Band now.  I liked the GH drums more too, because it had cymbals. I can't imagine Activision not putting a game out to compete. Which is a good thing, no one should have a monopoly, but concerns over Activision running it into the ground are valid. Hopefully it hurts them more than harmonix.  The thing is that by the time Rock Band 3 came out there really wasn't any competition. Rock Band was always two steps ahead of Guitar Hero. GH only served to run the genre into the ground. I don't see Activision doing more than trying to make a quick buck. What? Guitar hero was first. The first guitar hero was made by Harmonix.  And every release of Guitar Hero after GH2, which was also made by Harmonix, is shit compared to Rock Band, which was /u/Cygnus_X1's point. Pretty much. I thought GH3 was really good. I enjoyed battle mode and the setlist was incredible. Then it jumped off a cliff. GH: World Tour and later just felt like a cheap copy of Rock Band. At least warriors of rock tried to be its own thing but it still suffered from some poor design choices and it was too little too late by that point in the game. I bought Warriors because 2112 was on it in full.   Within the series, GH3 was definitely the best, no disagreement there. Your comparison being drawn between GH and RB, which is relevant starting with GH3 (released within a month of each other), lead to my excluding only the first two games.

The best of the genre followed Harmonix, and while GH3 was very popular, it was also very formulaic after the first two and certainly riding coat tails. Rock Band brought something new to the table, and it did it extremely well. In almost every way, with the exception of an established player base, it was most definitely "two steps ahead of Guitar Hero".

GH3 certainly wasn't shit in it's own light, but I would stand by "shit compared to RB" just because RB was *that* good. They already said they were working on a new guitar hero for new gen. It'd be cool if Activision brought back Guitar Hero as actually Guitar Hero and not Band Hero. When they made games focusing on a single instrument, they were able to deliver songs that were much more interesting for the player; the band-focused songs tend to have pretty dull guitar party, until they dump one of those "guitar god" songs on you which are borderline impossible on expert for us plebs. GH 1/2/3 had a great balance and selection of pure guitar songs that just disappeared in the later games. You probably liked the earlier ones because they were developed by Harmonix (who now develops Rock Band). I'd be totally OK with a new Guitar Hero so long as they actually put some thought and effort into it, rather than just piggybacking like you said. Warriors of Rock was awesome, in my opinion, and they could do something awesome if they kept going in that direction.

I'm really hoping this'll be a revival of the genre, with an effort to not repeat past mistakes, of course. I've always preferred the Guitar Hero guitars to Rock Band guitars, so this would be welcome to me. Don't care about the game though, bought warriors of rock for the guitar, still have the game in the original plastic somewhere. Dude WoR is really good. Play it. It's possibly the hardest of the plastic instrument games and will make you good if you get well at it I thought they'd been talking about making a new guitar hero for the last month or two I have heard multiple outlets (mainly Giantbomb) talk about the rumors, but naturally nothing concrete has been announced. If you simply search "new guitar hero" there are multiple sites mentioning the rumor, but again nothing definitive.

I imagine there will be a competitive guitar hero service. And I also imagine it has been in development for a similar length of time (as I have been hearing these rumors for almost a year now).

Time will tell if this competition will help foster innovation, or if it will lead to saturation and my biggest fear which is each game getting exclusive music catalogs. I expect that Activision isn't just hearing about this new Rock Band project now and are going, "we need to get in on this!" It's probably already in development.  As someone who has Rock Band on the 360 and now has a PS4, I would have to essentially start all over again with DLC and instruments. A shame but unavoidable. It may even be cheaper to just buy an Xbox One.

I have a bit of a dilemma here.  I have exactly the same predicament, 360 was the most popular platform for RB last gen so I think a lot of people will encounter the same issue. I hope new instruments are better built, I have goodwood mods on my 360 set which improved the pads 100% but the pedal is just awful and not made to be used on expert. My brother got a metal plate that screwed into the plastic on the base pedal. He plays on expert and said it made the experience so much better. I can upload a picture if you like. 

Edit: Here's a pic http://i.imgur.com/xHRUw3a.jpg But my beast mode drum playing style still managed to break through the plastic underneath the metal bit. I ahould just mod an electric drumset to work with rockband You don't even need to mod an electric kit to work with it. I have an electric drum kit and all i needed was the Pro controller for rockband, plug in the MIDI to the output of the kit, and the usb into the PS3 and it works great! Early on after the release of Rock Band, a friend of mine who is a drummer just hooked up his actual pedal to a practice pad and wired it up with a reed switch. Considering the pedal is literally just a switch wired up to a miniplug jack, it's easy enough to make your own. Needless to say, it was a big improvement.

(Eventually he hacked apart his drum controller and made a converter box to allow him to use a full midi drum kit instead. Then with Rock Band 3 they actually released an official box to do the same thing.) &gt;a friend of mine who is a drummer just hooked up his actual pedal to a practice pad and wired it up with a reed switch.

I did this. It worked well. Although it led to me forgetting my pedal for band practice once because it was at home in my living room instead of with the rest of my kit... I don't know how it all works, but are they not able to link an xbox account and a PlayStation account to a separate, new rock band account? Technically? Probably. Legally? Probably not.  This was probably the best interview I've ever seen with a game developer. There was no bullshit, he spoke his mind and answered all the major questions there are about this game. Rock band 4 sounds fantastic. It seems they're an indie studio now that doesn't have a bunch of management and PR people in the way. Sounds like a huge improvement. Sounds like they're ditching keyboards? Probably the right call. It was always kind of pain when the vast majority of DLC songs and songs from previous releases didn't have key parts. Playing guitar parts on the keyboard wasn't very fun either. Couldn't they just do a synthesia type thing with all the songs. Where people can just play piano covers of the song in a midi type of file. That's the basis for how it actually works. A midi file is created, which helps vastly with getting started, but there is still fine-tuning done, animations to match, and so on.

Not to mention that keys are not exactly 1:1 with the real thing, especially if you're not talking about Pro Keys, which only have 5 notes.

Pro Keys are mostly a one-handed version of the real thing (and yes, [what you play is actually what you hear](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ltKFv68Zw0A)), but they only have two octaves to work in and often have to re-jig what you play so it's not exactly the same as what the right hand would play in the real song. That's correct. They're ditching keyboard and pro guitar however keeping pro drums (so I assume any e-drumkit will be compatible for this title). Disappointing how underutilized the keyboard ended up being, because it's the only reason I bought Rock Band 3. I'd love it if there was accordion support for Spanish songs. The Accordion Hero April Fool's joke actually made me realize how fun that would be. What I'm not all that disappointed about because the instrument really was a halfstep when it came to gameplay and teaching the thing. IPro guitar, that is disappointing however, I wanted to see if they could get a version of the rocksmith model working. 

I hope they kept harmonies, if they drop that, then I'm kind of mad.  I have to say, even though I'm an IRL keyboard player, I never had fun with the RB3 keyboards. This is the first announcement that makes me want to upgrade to next gen. I love Harmonix games and would be really happy to get back into Rock Band. Making old instruments and DLC work on the new consoles is absolutely critical, Harmonix knocked it out of the park. Plus it sounds like this game will be a platform, instead of having Rock Band 5 or tons of spinoffs every fall. Really looking forward to this. I can't imagine the 360 instruments will work on the XB1. They use the wireless hardware from the 360 controller, and unless the receiver is in the XB1 and just needs to be activated, I can't see it happening. It sounds like they're working on a peripheral that'll plug into the XB1/PS4 and kind of translate the signals. PS3 and PS4 were/are Bluetooth, so there's no real issue there. It's just the 360 to XB1 that's going to be a pain. I wouldn't be surprised if a few months from now, Harmonix says "sorry, we really can't port the wireless 360 controllers over".

Edit: apparently they used dongles. I guess that's part of why it's so easy to just move them to PS4. It helps to read the story. Shouldn't be a huge problem, you can already use a proprietary 360 with PCs using a peripheral. Maybe it won't work in the end, but at least they're working on it. I think they know a sizable amount of people won't buy the game for $60 if it means spending more money on instruments. I didn't expect a DLC transfer and backwards compatible instruments. 

Good on them. I'm buying for sure. Any word on PC version?  Yes, they're saying that they may look into it if the market is big enough. Source: Ars Technica article. So probably no. Or a bad port 1 year later.

I loved guitar hero / Rockband for my Xbox 360. But then 2 games and the console broke. I would really like to play guitar hero again but there is just not a good version to play with 4 players. The good version for 4 players is called Rock Band. Does Frets on Fire still have a communty going, or is it dead? I think it's mostly moved to [phase shift](http://www.dwsk.co.uk/).  While the website looks terrible, the game is extremely well thought out and works great with all the instruments from rockband(360 wired versions) and even keyboard if you want. FoF is still very going! I make charts for it often and the community is still there. I usually get 100-200 downloads within a day of uploading, so surely people are still playing.

I just made my 500th song actually, and people are still sending me messages on forums and YouTube asking me to do x song, revise charts, or just telling me thanks almost daily

Others are saying it is dead and I have no idea what they're talking about. From the official forums:

&gt; Q: Why not Wii / Wii U / PC?

&gt; A: Due to shifting production priorities and capabilities of the studio, we dont currently have plans to release RB4 on the Wii / Wii U / PC simultaneously with Xbox One and PS4. While we genuinely appreciate the support of Wii Rock band users over the years, and the increased interest from PC gamers, the truth is that we had to prioritize opportunities on other platforms with historically larger RB audiences.

This is a pretty bad move, especially with the new SteamBox movement.  If Rocksmith can do it (and do it well), there is no reason Rock Band cannot.  I bought a 360 specifically for Rock Band 1, I WILL NOT purchase an XB1 for 4. Noooo, my 400 songs will forever be stuck in the Wii. This is an objectively smart business move from them. They know the market and pc is just too small of a group to prioritize. 

And you can drop the idea that there is any semblance of a "steambox movement." That has been entirely stagnant since it was announced. 

EDIT: Just as a note,  I'm a pc gamer exclusively. I am just realistic about what to expect.  For a lot of the market Rock Band is party game, and a series that has appealed heavily to the casual market along with Guitar Hero. It is something you group up together in front of a TV to play in the living room. That isn't nearly as large of a market on PC, and I can't blame developers for not wanting to bank on PC-on-TV stuff like Steambox taking off. What "movement" are you even talking about? Almost everyone is approaching Steamboxes and SteamOS with a huge degree of pessimism it seems.

Besides, if they are truly releasing this as a platform and not going to just punch out a million sequels there is always the option for them to drop it on PC a few years down the line if it turns out that everyone does wind up with a PC connected to their TV in the living room (however unlikely that may be). No it isn't. If it were a bad move they wouldn't do it. Do you really think your market research is better than theirs? If they're not doing it it's because it doesn't look like it will be profitable. They're not a charity.  This is my biggest pet peeve on reddit. So many commenters think their "common sense" is more accurate than the market research done by these giant companies.  What steambox movement? I think it's more about all the streaming devices that are coming out now for $100 or less. Valve themselves announced one that would stream 1080p 120fps for only $50, along with razer's streambox and the recent growth of android TV and similar services.  Granted, this is a smaller market because you make/buy a PC that can play the games along with the added cost of the streaming devices.  

Overall, It seams many PC users just want to kick out the need for consoles at all, and hope devs realize the benefit of steam boxes or streaming devices in place of consoles. I'm pretty disappointed, too. After being a PC gamer all my life, I just recently bought a WiiU. Since I really wanted a guitar game, I now one Guitar Hero 5 (which was the only deal I got which included a guitar) for the Wii which I play on my WiiU.

A native game for the system would've been great. May just be delayed a bit.  It does specifically say they only dont have plans for a simultaneous release.  Im sure if there is profit to be had in a wiiu version, they will go for it eventually. I really don't see the Steambox blowing up that big. Especially with how awful their customer service is. Pray yours doesn't have an issue lol. &gt; A: Due to shifting production priorities and capabilities of the studio, we dont currently have plans to release RB4 on the Wii / Wii U / PC simultaneously with Xbox One and PS4. While we genuinely appreciate the support of Wii Rock band users over the years, and the increased interest from PC gamers, the truth is that we had to prioritize opportunities on other platforms with historically larger RB audiences.

Translation: If we put it on PC, no one will buy the DLC since they can just mod it all in.
 If that were the case, I don't think there would be any legitimate Rocksmith DLC. That's partly because the main custom content site for Rocksmith disallows purchased DLC to be on their website, not because it's impossible.  I imagine DLC sales aren't that great though with the exception of Cherub Rock.  It's not that extensive and the only song I purchased was The Pretender because Foo Fighters. Personally I've bought loads of Rocksmith DLC, probabably about 100 worth.

While it's less applicable to RB or GH, the mod versions seemed to be a lot less fine tuned to use dynamic difficulty than official songs. As a novice player none of the modded songs I've played were very playable at all, while I can have fun attempting any official song without issues. Might have improved since I last tried though. I dunno, Rocksmith has both modding and DLC (which is a lot more expensive than RB or GH DLC was) and the main modding community seems to have been pretty good about only listing songs that aren't included in official DLC. There's plenty of people who either can't be bothered with modding or prefer having the official versions. Isn't "simultaneously" a key word here? This doesn't seem to exclude the possibility of releasing it on Wii / Wii U / PC on a later date. Very cool. I fell off the music genre back when guitar hero was run into the ground but this should be a fun return. Hopefully we get a great selection of music The problem with Rock Band is that we got so many in such a short amount of time. I hope they treat this as a base, and instead of releasing a new game, release the setlist/new world tour as a 20 expansion. I feel like this would definitely be more appreciated than a new game every couple of years. From the article:

&gt; There will be no more ongoing sequels, no yearly releases. The arms race is dead. Rock Band 4 will launch Rock Band as a platform. Not having any marketing experience myself, I'm curious as to why they didn't just call it "Rock Band" if they have no plans to release sequels. My guess is to probably keep any confusion to a minimum. After all, it's technically not a reboot. Oh what, you mean like throwing the word "New" in front of a console or something and not expecting confusion?

What kind of idiot would do that... When I worked in retail, I hated Nintendo for that. "New Super Mario Bros", then a few months later, there was another Mario game. Customers would come in "can I get that new Mario game?"    
"Do you want the newest Mario game, or the one *called* 'New Super Mario Bros'?"    
\*blank stare\*    
"Do you want to use our phone to call your son?"    
"Please" Hah, I had the exact same problem when I went to go buy 3D World. I knew it was called something World and I knew it was the newest release, so I asked for "The new Mario, something World, whatever the dumb name is."

Guy seemed like he had this problem often before, and he figured out a good solution: "2D one or 3D one?" "Oh, 3D one, like Mario 64." Of course they're both 3D but it boils it down well.

Nintendo's naming scheme is fucking idiotic. I have never seen someone screw it up as badly as they have.  [deleted] Or calling something One even though there was already a first console. I am sometimes concerned that marketing people are getting dumber. Or calling Windows 10 "Windows 10" even though there was no Windows 9. Apparently it has to do with how there was Windows 95 and 98 so there can be issues with programs seeing Windows 9 and expecting it to be one of those operating systems.Im probably missing some details but I honestly didn't feel like looking it up. Yes, that is one unsettling explanation.

    If versionNumber.startsWith("9") {
        // Windows 95/98 code
    } else {
        // other platforms
    }

I get nauseated just thinking that some developers can be this sloppy. &gt; I get nauseated just thinking that some developers can be this sloppy.

It's a very naive solution to a problem, but it was effective at the time. Bad programmers tend to stick to a naive solution that works without considering the technical debt they accumulate because it allows them to move to the next task quicker. And there are a lot of bad programmers; far more than good ones. Also the number 9 is unlucky in Japan.

But the whole thing is kind of silly anyway. Windows 7 wasn't the 7th version of Windows either, they just picked it because it sounded good. &gt; Windows 7 wasn't the 7th version of Windows either, they just picked it because it sounded good.

Well, it's more complicated than that. Windows NT was called NT 3.5, NT 4.0, etc, back to NT 3.1 which expanded on the existing Windows 3.1. 95 was Windows 4.0, NT 4.0 was Windows NT 4.0. Then things get weird - Windows NT 5.0 was called Windows 2000, Windows XP was basically Windows 2000 with some user-friendly features - but same drivers, largely the same under the hood, so XP was 5.1. Windows Vista represented a major shift, with a new driver model, but based on NT still so Windows NT 6.0. 

Now, Windows 7 WAS *theoretically* the next major version from Windows NT 6.0 (Vista). In reality, for some reason, internally Windows 7 is actually NT 6.1, Windows 8 is actually NT 6.2, Windows 8.1 is actually NT 6.3, *and now* they are unifying them and fixing it and Windows 10 will be, internally, NT 10.0. Yeah, like Windows 10, or Xbox One, or the Kinect Two for Xbox One. ... Wait. Calling it Rock Band 4 suggests continuity, which they are hoping to achieve with the DLC and instrument compatibility. having two games in the same series with exactly the same name is the worst trend and i'm glad they're not doing it Maybe they are going to call the PS4 version Rock Band 4 and the XBONE version Rock Band ONE. This sounds cool, like they will be updating rock band 4 for years to come. They liked doing this with rock band 1 and 2, but back then it was more expensive to patch games.  Did we? There were nowhere near as many Rock Band games as Guitar Hero, and each main game added something pretty huge. It was like one main entry every 2 years or so, and some spinoffs (Beatles, Green Day, LEGO, PSP) between them. Definitely wasn't as bad as Guitar Hero. Outside of PSP (which all the exclusives ended up as DLC) and Beatles (which because of the licensing agreement couldn't be DLC), all of the songs from Green Day, LEGO, and the Track Packs were all also treated as expansions to be added to the main game.

Besides that, the LEGO one was actually pretty fun on its own thanks to combining the RB engine with TT's sense of humor. Besides RB3 I think LEGO Rock Band was the game I had most fun with. The story mode was very well made imo. Although it was a bit of a bummer that some of the DLC couldn't be used in that game because of age restrictions, but it was meant to be a kids game, so I can understand why. I think the problem was that there were too many rhythm games flying around, with too many accessories required to play them. They saturated the market, and people grew tired of them.

I feel that waiting a few years for everyone to cool down was a good idea. There was Rock Band Beatles and Green Day, which kinda felt like them trying to keep up with Activision's releases but still nowhere near as bad. I think they wanted a yearly release to stay relevant, maybe? Or EA could have required it. Plus I'm pretty sure The Beatles having their own game was the only way their music would be in a rhythm game. Yeah the Beatles felt like the only Rock Band game that was a spinoff. The others just felt like track packs that had a game mode with them, which is a good way to do it. And the beatles was goddamn amazing.  Damn right it is. And I think those were treated with a lot more reverence than the Metallica or Van Halen versions of Guitar Hero. I'll admit I didn't play much of Green Day, but it seemed pretty good if you're a big GD fan, and Beatles was a fantastic game all around. Replace Rock Band with Guitar Hero and you have a true statement.

Rock Band releases were 1 per year, if that. Not only that, most RB games were backwards compatible. It's nice that they're focusing on what made them big, i.e. the drunk local co-op with people of all skill levels. I'm still not convinced I can go back after picking up Rocksmith and a real guitar though, since they're purposefully ditching "pro" modes and controllers.

One thing I really expect to see is an open poll for the community to vote on songs they want added to the game. It was heartbreaking to search the song list, find an artist you love, then realize they picked a lukewarm track when there are at least a dozen others that would be more fun to play and listen to. I'm sure Harmonix knows what tracks are good. Getting those good tracks licensed is the hard part. Not only that, but a poll would basically just be every radio hit from each artist. Rock Band purposefully picked deep cuts in some cases, which was to their advantage in my opinion. I have been playing guitar for 17 years.  Rockband is still a lot of fun.  You might still have fun too Please, no. 
~EB Games employee I had a 360 and wanted a PS4, but this will likely get me to buy an Xbox One. I sincerely hope they still support cymbals and pro drum mode though. No mention on the article other than 'keeping added peripherals to a minimum', but there is a picture of someone playing drums and they have the cymbals attached, so hopefully there's still support. My biggest concern was pro drums, as well!

Q: What instruments will be playable? Wiill RB4 have Pro guitar and keys?
A: Rock Band 4 will focus on the core experience and the roots of the franchise  guitar, bass, drums, and vocals. There will be no Pro Guitar or key support in Rock Band 4. We will continue to support Pro mode for Drums. 

source: http://forums.harmonixmusic.com/discussion/257486/were-ready-for-our-encore-rock-band-4-coming-2015 No more keyboard? Damn, that was one of my favorite bits in RB3. My favorite bit was GameStop selling decently capable MIDI keytars for $10 last year because nobody wanted them for rock band...

I don't even own RB3 &gt;_&gt; I would hope so. They coded Pro Drums in to every track starting with Rock Band 1. I don't see any reason why they would stop now. Ahhhh yes I'm happy about this. I've been playing it consistently since 2007, still have my Guitar Hero 2 guitar hooked up to an adapter on my PS3.

Maybe NOW we can get some Zeppelin up in this bitch Sad news for you. Led Zeppelin still refuses to give them the rights to the songs, even if they got their own game. No love for Wii U, I could see the gamepad working as a virtual instrument if you don't have the drums for example, or somebody using it to select the next song, show the lyrics or even as a soundboard. The gamepad isn't multi-touch, is it? That would be a pretty sub par substitution for an instrument.  I think third party support for the Wii U is dead, probably permanently Indie games are still getting released on the Wii U. But yea, not many AAA game ports.  This is disappointing to me. I'm in a Wii family - I was super excited to be able to load this up on our Wii U and experience the magic with my little sister again. I'm disappointed with Harmonix.  It's just not worth investing the time and money for it. It won't sell anywhere close to as many copies on Wii U compared to the Xbox One and the PS4.  Kind of surprised not to see support for the Wii U here. I know it's not going to produce the biggest sales, but considering all the talk about compatibility, one would think that it wouldn't be too much of a challenge to port the game to a system that likely has the least challenge in integrating the old peripherals. A quick peek suggests RB never sold as well on Wii as the other consoles, both taking total console sales into consideration and not. The top console for RB sales was always 360. 

This same quick peek revealed that RB never really sold all that well anyway, though. I always thought it was a runaway hit. It was not, and margins are probably pretty thin. Hence trimming off last-gen and Wii U.  Not to mention Wii U generally focuses more on local multiplayer,  and the previous Rock Band games were ported to the Wii with minimal downgrades. Very disappointing.  In FAQ they said they had to focus on platforms with biggest existing RB communities. Although they haven't said "no", they still might pleeeeease release RB4 in the future, especially when it's becoming a "platform". If they're making graphical elements for a XB1/PS4 level, a Wii U version would have to be a true downport of all those elements to work on the hardware. RB games were never graphical powerhouses but the playerbase of people with Wii instruments and the bad history of Wii versions in terms of DLC make it a bad investment for a smaller team to try to put that second level of effort into.

This is pretty much the sum of the third party on Wii U all gen because of it's hardware and environment, I'm in no way surprised a Wii U version wouldn't happen. While we are on the subject, could someone point me to a chart for compatibility with the various Rock Bands? I have seen a chart for instrument compatibility, but I have no idea how the songs work. Or better yet, maybe someone knows: we want to get Lego Rock Band. We have rb1, rb3, and beatles, and lots of songs from the market (no pro versions). Is everything we have going to be compatible with the lego version? (At least the stuff we've purchased?)

 From their FAQ:

&gt;Q: Will my old DLC work on the next gen console of the same type, i.e. PS3 -&gt; PS4?
&gt;
A: Yes! Content purchased from the store or exported from a disc will transfer over to the new generation of consoles at not addition cost as we make that content available. 

Lego Rock Band was exportable to Rock Band 3, and since that answer includes the phrase "or exported from a disc," you should be good. I'd like to thank Harmonix and Activision for bringing me into a world I never thought I would know.

I played Guitar Hero/Rock Band from their first iterations, and last year I picked up a guitar of my own to *really* learn what guitar was all about and still play it adamantly. 

These games hold a special place in my heart and always will, and this new version will be a definite buy for me. If they bring it to PC, that'll be even better. I like "back to basics". Back to basics means hopefully the game won't have a 50% chance of freezing or crashing at the title screen, unlike the travesty that was RB3 on the PS3.  Although I can see why, I am kinda sad there is no sight of a PC version. If the Steam box is going to ever succeed at delivering a front-room PC console experience, this is the kind of game it needs. At least we've got Rocksmith 2014, which a better alternative if you want to learn how to play real instruments It's not really the same concept though, Rocksmith is more of a training game where as Rockband is an arcade game where anyone can play it, even without ever touching a real guitar.  I want DLC that lets me buy concerts. You play real recordings of that specific live performance. You play as the band members on the same stage and all the events still happen. I want to play the 85' live aid Queen concert.  Are there any words on a PC version? I skimmed the article but couldn't find any signs. I don't see a reason why they wouldn't work on a Steam release. They said at this time just PS4 and Xbox, but they know about the wanting of it on other platforms, especially PC. If they said this time, but don't plan on releasing another one, this basically means we're shit outta luck. I think it can be somewhat tough to play drums in front of a monitor, you can't get close enough. I disagree :)

I've been playing RB and GH on a monitor for years. It works fine. That's great if true.
You played drums? Absolutely no issues? None at all.

I'm not sure I have any photos of my various setups with the drums visible.

I just set up the drums in front of the desk and then pulled the monitor forward. I use 24" 1920x1200 monitors, and they are fine at that distance. I've played on much smaller monitors as well.

Actually, [here's an old photo from a few years ago](https://i.imgur.com/wYkX9lF.jpg). The drums are off to the side, but imagine them right in front of the desk, with the monitor pulled forward. The screen is plenty big enough to be used at a viewing distance of up to 10 feet for something like single-player Rock Band. Obviously closer is better, and more important for multiplayer where your chart is compressed to save space.

**Edit:** Here's another shot from a couple months later with a new desk and a second monitor. https://i.imgur.com/KntvFQ0.jpg

I'm still using that desk, but with a third monitor now. Here's a pic from my flight sim setup, which puts me at about the same distance away as I would be on the drums. https://i.imgur.com/WA7qjOh.jpg

See what I mean? It's not an issue at all.

**Edit 2:** Hell, I play Rock Band [from the treadmill](https://i.imgur.com/3Z8NaJ0.jpg) and it works fine! (I walk at ~4mph and play guitar for an hour). This was taken before I got the third matching monitor. I think many people already hooked up their PCs to their TV but yeah, on a 22" LCD it might be a little harder. Maybe the calibration on Instruments I think , like if you buy the game and you need these Instruments Controller to play

(Im not sure if RB not allow to play on Controller like GH [After WT]) PC supports pretty much any controller in existence, that isn't an excuse.  I think intruments wouldn't be a problem, be it via bluetooth or USB like Guitar Hero did. I have an old GH guitar lying here and that one works fine still. My buddy, when apprised of this situation, immediately said it would be the one reason he'd buy an Xbone. 

Too bad you can't transfer DLC from 360 to PS4. When are we getting double bass pedals? You always could get double bass for rock band, it just it wasnt very good at all. Guitar Hero's drum kit had an amazing double bass set up in comparison. Actually, the double bass setup for RB could be excellent if you were willing to buy actual e-drum hardware and either an adapter or a wired kick pad.

That was the biggest problem: Getting a reliable drum kit for Rock Band pretty much required you to buy an actual e-drum kit for hundreds of dollars. You had to be pretty serious about drumming in general, or have a lot of disposable income. Hooking my actual e-drum kit to Rock Band is an amazing experience. I can have fun playing a game while using my actual kit and learn rhythms at the same. It's awesome!  The charting wasn't there even if you had the pedals.   you can but not all song are supported  True, but even with the "expert+" double bass mode, I could never enjoy GH drums after Harmonix came in with the far-superior pro drums in RB3. When you look at the Pro Drum Kit for RB3? It's got two separate bass pedal ports. I actually played some guitar hero 3 about two weeks ago and realized how much I missed these games. A little bummed that my songs won't  transfer since I played on the 360 but made the switch over to a PS4. Either way though, exciting news!  I love Rock Band games.  ***LOVE*** them.  I spent a shitload on DLC through RB 1, 2, and 3 on my 360, but there's no way in hell I'm buying an XBone.  I've actually been planning to skip this console generation completely and build a new PC, but I would buy a PS4 ***today*** if my DLC could transfer to the PS4 from my 360, and that is no exaggeration.  Suppose I'll just have to dust off the old 360 and rock out with my old box out. I kind of hoped a Rock Band 4 would come to last gen consoles as well.  I already have a gaming PC and a Wii U, so there's pretty much no reason for me to buy another console. I really want to commend Harmonix. They could've just pumped out clone after clone after clone, but they waited until they felt like they could improve the series and not simply make a few extra bucks.

That perspective is sadly lacking in big-budget video games these days. 