This is brilliant... Not only is it a good- probably effective- way to discourage drunk driving, but also a good way to encourage people to get plastered (and people buying more drinks=more profit) More living customers = more money What are you trying to say? You think just because someone is undead they're not going to pay their bill? That's just racist. Shit, you're right.  Privilege checked. I'm so sick of people like you. I bet you never watched Casper the friendly ghost.  I don't have anything against dead people, in fact, some of my best friends are incorporeal memory-imprinted former humans.

The intolerant reddit hivemind on this subject is getting overwhelming. You can't use incorporeal, that's our word.  My father is incorporeal, so I can use it. I'm sorry for your loss Are you saying that's a bad thing? So insensitive... F U An undeadbeat father.  Typical Didn't you see that he has some friends who are inc... Permanently not alive. Caspers white so it's ok Spooks don't tip *Dude*!! No no no. He's saying it's physically impossible for them to tip, considering they aren't tangible, and thus, don't have wallets.

^^^^Cheap ^^^^ghastly ^^^^bastards. Sweet... /r/ledootgeneration

thank mr skeltal Why, why does this exist? Don't question. Just thank. Thank mr skeltal  What the hell is voidspace? Thank you for helping me spread awareness about [Voidspace](http://playvoidspace.com/?a=1&amp;sr=rdt.vdsp.sidebar)! Except if you are a mortician :) Morticians customers aren't the dead people, technically. Having a liquor license also keeps your bar in business! More people your customers don't kill, more potential customers too. But it only works when it's unexpected.

If you actually advertise that, people will park on your lot intentionally to get free parking overnight with no intention of driving home. They could just not give it out every single time.  I've driven home drunk before because I didn't want to get my car towed for parking overnight. That shouldn't happen. If a restaurant has control over the parking lot they should let people park overnight and start towing cars at like 11am the next day. I've never been drunk enough to leave my car somewhere and be awake by eleven the next morning. Well, you really shouldn't have to be very drunk to leave your car somewhere. In most countries just a couple of drinks will put you over the limit  In college we'd leave our cars at bars for days.

I actually can't believe it, looking back. So irresponsible, but better than drinking and driving I've never been to a bar that had its own parking and wouldn't let you park overnight. Don't make excuses or blame the bar for your decision to drive drunk. You drove home drunk because you didn't plan beforehand and still insisted on putting your life and the lives of others on the road in danger to avoid an inconvenience. A popular bar I used to go to had a bank with a big parking lot next door that people would park at (wasn't much else available).  Even though the bank wasn't open on the weekends, they still towed people who left their cars there overnight.  A lot of people drank and drive to avoid getting towed. &gt; A lot of people drank and drive to avoid getting towed.

Maybe they shouldn't get drunk if they drove?  Or not drive if they're planning on getting drunk?  Is it really that hard of a concept to understand?  If you can get home drunk without a car, you can sure as hell get to a bar sober without one. People, in general, aren't great at making plans that are reasonable and intelligent. In case somebody does succeed in doing this, they still have to follow through with those plans by making a decision. Decision making is a another thing people, in general, aren't great at. 

People shouldn't kill each other, but it happens, and we should try to take every precaution that we can to prevent it. I think a bar that lets to drive there and park overnight is a fantastic way to prevent people from drunk driving. Banks don't like to have cars parked in their lot when they're closed. It's a security thing. If it was any other shop it probably would've been cool Or a great way for cheapskates to steal $5 coupons off people's cars so they can use them on their own bar tab. /r/frugal It's a nice way to let people know you'll look out for their cars too and that it's a safe place to leave it overnight! Also, they don't necessarily want to be known as a DWI hotspot. Cops hanging around all the time is bad for business. And with that will come more inspections and audits that they really don't care for. It also disproportionately targets drunks, people who both drink a lot and are sensitive to changes in price. So it really is brilliant. On the opposite end of the spectrum there must be a bar out there that lets you cash in your AA chip for a free drink. Rumor has it the bar "13th Step" does here but I'm not giving up any of mine to find out hah.  NYC?  I prefer this NYC?. It is one upvote less popular however give one to me and i'll find out! Dude, they hand em out at every meeting. Don't be lazy. There are at least a dozen church rectories within five miles of each other in my town. Put on some good walking shoes and collect them tokens!  

Also, the Surgeon General has implied that heavy drinking could potentially lead to good times and anonymous sex. &gt;Also, the Surgeon General has implied that heavy drinking could potentially lead to good times and anonymous sex.

OH FUCK, thanks for the warning bro. The first (and last) time I went to 13th Step it was around 7pm on a Friday. I was ordering a drink at the bar and some guy started throwing up on the floor behind me. 

That place is the worst.  NYC? Yes that's the one I'm referring to.  I've been to a few that gave me free fountain soda when I told them I was the designated driver. Here in the UK 'soda' can actually cost more than beer in pubs/bars. Annoying Where I live theres a local bylaw stating the cheapest drink on a bars menu must be the local cider-like applewine. Coke costs ten cents more than this in most bars! Soda is free at every bar I've ever been to that wasn't a restaurant.  Water is free, never seen free soft drinks. I get free soda frequently. I found out the trick is to order it right off the bat to establish you are being the responsible friend and taking one for the team.  Damn those are some stingy bars. I've worked at five bars and none of them charged for water or soda during night hours (after dinner if it's a restaurant during the day). I can only think of a handful of bars I've been to that did charge for sodas.  I think you're supposed to tip for a soda and even a water.  They're not *free* free. Water is *free* free. Nooooobody wants the expectation of tipping to make the person who's too drunk not get water after water at the bar.  Well, I didn't say you don't tip. I will tip on a (free) soda, but not if they charge me $2 for it. I don't tip on a glass of water though.  I've seen free red bull for dd's I'd DD a lot more if I got free Red Bull. That shit's expensive.  1. Pretend to be DD. 

2. Receive free Red Bull. 

3. Have hip flask of vodka. 

4. Mix. 

5. Don't drive.  4.5: Apologize to your heart/liver 4.75. Repent for future sins in advance.  I've seen people get a lot more for DD's. Or maybe it was *with* DDs... On the contrary, I've always been charged $2+ for soda in a tiny ass cup with lots of ice when my idiot friends were drinking.  The Meat Rack in Tucson does this. When he gives customers a tour of his bar, God (that's the name of the bar's owner) proudly shows off a wall of AA buttons/chips/badges that people have turned inincluding one that he alleges came from someone whose parents spent $80,000 on trying to help him recover from alcoholismand that's probably the *least* horrible thing he'll show you on the tour. So I live no where near AZ and looked this place up on Yelp.  How the fuck does it have such positive reviews?  It seems like the worst bar imaginable.

First off, like you said, the owner calls himself God.  Tip-off to his personality right there.

Secondly, every review is like "Walked around, got called a slut and a whore, but then realized they do this to everyone. 10/10 would go again".  

"Got demeaned by owner, saw them give out free beers to people who claimed to be alcoholics.  Hilarious place, you need to check it out!"

What the fuck.  This seems like legitimately the last bar in the world I would ever visit.  What is the appeal?  The owner and workers all seem like complete scumbags.  It's horrible, and I don't think they try to hide that fact, but it's an experience. It's not very close to most of the other nightlife in Tucson, so people don't generally just stumble in when bar-hoppingit's a place that most first hear of through word-of-mouth, complete with all of the sleaze and dirt and awfulness that the bar's reputation entails. People go there with friends because it becomes a "wow, that sounds awful we have to check this place out" kind of adventure. It sounds like Ed Debevic's in Chicago. The point of the restaurant is the staff is kind of sassy and will joke with you, be rude to you, or just plain insult you. It's the restaurant's gimmick, and a lot of people love it. The bar you're talking about sounds like it might be the same kind of thing, or they could just be assholes.  So it's like Weiner Circle? 1 chocolate shake pls Ed Debevics won't call you a slut or a whore. Yeah, I live in Chicago and actually referenced Debevic's above.  Just think that there is a big difference between a place like that where they just make jokes that don't even really relate to you personally (mostly sex/erectile dysfunction jokes on guys, slutty or fat jokes on girls) and a place that encourages relapse.  God is an asshole, but he's still the kind of guy that will go out of his way to give all of his customers "the tour" and talk to you. He's not so much of a jerk to people specifically, he's more of an asshole in the sense that he (allegedly) used to walk around the bar completely naked during operating hours because he did whatever he wanted, "fuck The Man" style, until he was threatened to be shut down by the health department. Former military guy. Old now (70s, I think?), but still works out daily. That's just as shitty as the dope dealers who hit up people they know are trying to get and clean offering them some free bags so they can continue getting rich off of them. Do want you want but it's wrong to encourage people to fuck up like that. http://www.thetokenshop.com/?gclid=CjwKEAjw0LmoBRDHuo7UkaKXhn8SJADmDTG0dq4jiHP1oTF4Z9b1Gs5IKKfYlY1zgcAvTgX_-NA4axoCQZ3w_wcB

Somebody in Tucson needs to buy a bunch of these chips and hand them out to EVERYBODY until the owner loses so much money he is forced to revoke his fucked up policy. Whoever does this is my hero Meh, anyone can go to a meeting and get a 24-hour chip for the free drinks. That doesn't sound worth it. Unless you're homeless. Nevermind. As a person in recovery in another 12 step fellowship, I can say that I would totally have done that sort of thing when I was still using. Fair enough. Sorry if I came off as insensitive. Not at all! I appreciate the apology, but I actually laughed at your comment. You're good, mate. Also from the other fellowship, yes if there was a dealer that accepted chips and keytags for my drug of choice, I'd be ordering them online in bulk... A bar called "The Retox Center". there are a lot of bars that do this. Pretty messed up if you ask me, but whatever Actually. The way AA treats addiction as all or nothing and black and white is pretty ineffective for most of the spectrum of drinkers--with the exception being alcoholics on the far end of the spectrum.

For everyone else, research shows AA can actually end up causing heavier binges when attendees fall off the wagon.

Not to mention if you look at success rates (other than those published by AA themselves in marketing material), it does not look good. Something like 20%.

If someone has a problem they should get help, and there are many places to go that don't involve somebody's best guess at a solution from the early 1900's--many of which are OK with an occasional drink.

I know saying the 12-step is not the answer to everything is not very popular, but I think it needs to be said more and more, so that people can find the right can of help, and start getting help based on science and research--of which is almost impossible to do within AA because of the whole Anonymous thing.

Edit:
I am not saying that the motive behind the bars is altruistic, but it wouldn't hurt if more people realized there are other options besides a 12-step, many with much better results, and many which will still let you go out and get a drink with friends and live a normal life.
 It baffles me that AA is legitimized and often mandated by our court system. Why not seek help from a doctor with a program based on actual psychology and research instead of a glorified sunday school class. "Give yourself to a higher power?" Yeah, I'm sure it feels good to shove responsibility on something else, but it's not going to truly help the root of the problem. I'm not saying it doesn't help people, but there are so many better options. The higher power thing can be taken many ways.  My higher power was looking up to a better version of myself, and while I dived and flipped off of the wagon, I took quite a few good things away from the program.  I can actually confirm this. I worked at a rehab and the bars close to us would give you a free beer in exchange for a 24 hour sober chip. Had a coworker who would take one with him every so often. You can just [buy 24 hour chips](http://aacoinsonline.com/) for like $1.50. Where's is that bar?  I'm going to move in to an apartment a block away and park there every night. free parking AND $35 of free beer every week? brilliant /r/theydidthemath  /r/plsnomonstermath damn Let's do it I'll co-mod /r/plsnograveyardgraph /r/usingsubredditnamesashashtags If it's the one in Philly... That means it's Rob McElhenney and that bird lady's bar! /r/IASIP  And this whole situation is like when they gave Paddy's dollars to all the people leaving their vehicles parked outside their bar. It's a god damn shanty town! "Dude we made all of our paddy's dollars back!" "The Gang Solves Drunk Driving" I dont understand how the U.S. economy works much less some sort of a self-sustaining one. Thats Mac's tavern not macks its not robs. They own a bar in real life?  Thanks to a show about owning a shitty bar in Philly, they now own a shitty bar in Philly. yup
 You don't even have to park there. Just take them off the other cars. This is why we can't have nice things Or you could just print a bunch out yourself; it's not like they are using obscure graphics or font.

That's a straight-up Word document. "here's $400 off your bar tab"  Weird. I made all the coupons but don't remember this one. Huh. Well it's got my bar's name on it. 

So your tab comes out to be -$203.45. Here's your chance.  Thanks! Now where's my change? They should really put a code or a number or something on it Well that beats a ticket.  Seriously a bar I went to in undergrad had no overnight parking. Where I live has a city ordinance that says you can't tow a car left overnight in your parking lot if you serve alcohol. 

Edit: Replied to the wrong comment. Leaving it here anyway.  That's how it should be. In some places parking is scarce, telling businesses that they can only offer a minimum amount of parking just leads to them offering none. [deleted] I feel like flyers with this type of thinking from certain towns should be passed around nationwide.  Would you mind saying the city?  If not, through PM?  That sounds like an incredibly sensible law.  I might try and make that something like that happen in my city and it would be great if I could mention a specific place.   Thats great I know that wouldn't in my area without more modifications/restrictions. I think I'll bother some local politicians about it now... Nice.  I've been towed before :/ Yup. My local bar towed my fucking car a few years back.  What? This person was trying to be *responsible*? Fuck them! The town next to where I grew up has the cops go through overnight and ticket all the cars parked on main street.  Main street is essentially all bars and restaurants.

I've even left a note saying I was too drunk and took a cab, and promised to have the car gone first thing in the morning and still got a ticket. Good thing the system encourages drunk driving. As a Brit, I find this shocking. You'd be hard pressed to find a single pub car park on a Sunday morning that isn't filled with the left over cars of drinkers. I'm reading through this astounded at how leaving cars is even needs a second thought. This is a very standup thing to do on the bar's part.  

My wife and I used to live in Grand Haven, Michigan, it's in western Michigan right on the shore of Lake Michigan.  They have a great little downtown area with some wonderful restaurants, and great downtown bars right near the water.  The downside is they would practically force people to drink and drive.  There wasn't off street parking allowed anywhere within 15 blocks of the bars, and all the businesses parking lots would have your car towed if you left it overnight, and taxi cab service was hard to find in that area.  If you wanted to hang out at those cool bars you were left with 3 options, either get a parking ticket/have your car towed, always have a DD, or drive home drunk.  

Kudos to this place for encouraging responsibility.   Are there no buses? Is walking impossible? I find it strange that drunk driving is so accepted in the US. In my mind it's literally not even an option.  I've lived somewhere where there was literally zero public transportation and walking home from the bar could take 3 or 4 hours. Not that it excuses drunk driving by any means but such towns aren't very uncommon where I live.  You just described 95% of America.  Whoa whoa whoa let's not bring Phoenix into this. haha well I'm from the other side of the country but I think you might be helping me prove my point. I guess it depends on where you live, but in my area (USA) walking home from a bar, or taking public transportation, is not an option. It's semi-rural I guess; things are spaced too far apart. The closest bar to my house is about 11 miles away. The closest operating bus is 25 miles away. Sadly, a lot of people I know have driven drunk. I usually opted for bringing a DD or being the DD.  My point was, with things set up in that manner, drunk people will say fuck it and drive rather than have their cars towed.   My local offers rides home in the owner's Mercedes, it started as a gimmick, but now it's just to stop drink drivers! All the bar staff are insured on his cars (the owner has a penchant for swanky cars and parks them outside all the time anyway, to "make the place look respectable") Joke's on them, he drove his friend's car home. For people saying non bar goers could abuse the system.... no not really. The drunk customer could be required to tell the barkeep/manager that he/she will be leaving his/her car on premises and just leave name, car description and even plate number.

If I was too drunk to drive home I would want the management to know just so I know it won't be towed off.


*** I know there is a strong possibility of the customer being TOO drunk to give full info before leaving, but I believe an easily visible sign in the bar would have people thinking ahead. Also, usually said person has atleast one friend soberish enough to say, "Dude, tell the bartender about your car first" before leaving. Ah sober you thinking for drunk you always makes perfect sense ! I wish I could think like that when I'm wasted I knew I would get called out for this...
I was thinking that too... Also if you don't go to the bar then you can't use the coupon.

If you do go to the bar because of the coupon, then trap sprung: now you're a customer. Yeah, I think they probably make money even if you abuse the system.  Think it would be too much of a hassle for the majority of people.  Yeah theoretically the bartender could write down the license plate number of every person who came through and expressed an interest in leaving their car there.

Or, if you've ever been to a bar, the bartender was too busy actually serving people beverages to give a fuck -- someone else involved in bar operations put these on all the cars to encourage repeat business.

They did no validation because why the fuck would they care? You can't lose money offering a $5 coupon to a bar. Although, it might be in a legal gray area since a lot of jurisdictions have strict regulations on discounting alcohol. I cant see a cop being too angry about this, even if it is technically illegal in some way.
 That's my opinion too, everyone is talking about all these ways to abuse the system, but is it really worth $5 to leave your car in a parking lot all night and have to take a taxi home (or back the next day to go get your car?) if you need the $5 so bad, maybe just drink at home... Cheaper alcohol and you can keep your car there overnight for free! My local bar had two "initiatives", but both were pulled due to people abusing the system

- breathalyser was installed, and was for free. But people kept using it for drinking competitions, so they made it coin operated
- free soft drinks for designated drivers. People would just go to the bar with their car keys and get free soft drinks all night. Nobody drank, so they cancelled that scheme Why go to a bar if all you plan on drinking is soda? Exactly.  Any bar that offers free soda and sells alcohol is still going to sell a shit ton of alcohol.  "Nobody drank cause there was soda"?  huh?  Where was this?  Must have been Utah...

Well wait they don't drink soda either... I just can't relate. A bar serves free soda and doesn't sell alcohol as a result.  I do not understand. I want to know where.  I think more than no one buying alcohol but more that after soda became complementary the bar filled up with soda drinking cheapskates there for the social experience but not the financial obligation. I have  two words for you: Hip Flask. [deleted] Those breathalyzers are a gimmick anyways.  I think I blew like a 5.0  on one of those before.  Same goes for the personal ones, if you trust that to make the decision to drive home you're gonna end up killing someone/yourself.  The ones police use have to be calibrated all the time and even then they're not always admissible in court. &gt; I think I blew like a 5.0 on one of those before

did you wait 15 minutes&gt;? OK Sure but I can also guarantee that this: "The drunk customer could be required to tell the barkeep/manager that he/she will be leaving his/her car on premises and just leave name, car description and even plate number." is not happening. Some dude roofied me last night and all I got was this lousy coupon.     Some dude roofied me 
    last night and all I got was 
    this lousy coupon. test test test test test test test test test test test test test test test test test &gt; test test test test test

&gt; test test test test test test test

&gt; test test test test test eh, I guess that's good enough.  I've left a note on my windshield saying I was too drunk to drive so I took a cab home, and promised to have my car gone by 8am.

When I arrived at my car at 8am, I still had a ticket for leaving my car on the street overnight.

Cops aren't paid to do the right thing, they are paid to enforce rules.  They punish you for not letting them give you a bigger ticket. I don't understand why more bars don't allow people to leave their vehicles overnight. I understand it can be abused, but most bars don't open until around lunchtime the next day. I bartended and worked in restaurants, and drunk people didn't want to leave their cars to get towed. 

As a culture we shame people for drinking, and driving. Alcohol is everywhere, and we don't teach/ learn how to use it responsibility. We treat it like a joke, until someone gets hurt, and then break out the blame game. 

I'm not saying people aren't responsible for their actions. 

We're responsible for each other. We can't have bars that are open late, and have no option for people to get home. Want to walk home? Fuck you. Public intoxication. Want to take the bus? Fuck you, bars are open later than all public transportation. Want to leave your car, and take a cab? Fuck you. We'll tow you. Pay a few hundred to get your car back for not endangering anyone else. 

What's the solution? Prohibition? Abstinence? The punishment system hasn't eliminated drinking and driving. A lot of people do it, and don't get caught. It doesn't make it right. We need better solutions. I think if a lot of people knew they could leave their vehicle, and it would not get towed, it would help. People are going to drink. I'm not saying it's okay to drink and drive. It's fucking awful to do. We need a better solution than what we have.  &gt;I don't understand why more bars don't allow people to leave their vehicles overnight. 

* Liability - their insurance won't allow them
* Rent restrictions - their landlord won't allow them
* Shared parking - they don't control the parking lot

&gt;We're responsible for each other.

Not everyone has this attitude.  Many people view the world divided into "us" and "them".. and if you're not one of "us" then you don't deserve help.  Some people limit their circle of "us" to their immediate family or even just themselves; others limit it to whatever groups or organizations they're in, or the activities they participate in.

Harm reduction, or giving a little for a large benefit to all of society isn't compatible with that mindset.  It's viewed as taking from "us" and giving to "them". Why would anyone do that?

Applied to this particular problem.. "I have a car, so I don't want to support public transport for other people"; "I don't drink, I'm a good responsible person, so I don't want to support *those* kinds of people"; "I can pay for a taxi, so everyone should just do that". You did a great job of explaining the counterargument, but it still makes me mad.  http://imgur.com/Kd5hoKT
 When you leave your car in a bar parking lot in Dallas all you get is broken into.   I remember when I turned 21 in college. Thought I had done the responsible thing by leaving my jeep in a local bar's lot and walking home. Woke up nice and early at about 8 a.m hungover as fuck. Walked back and waddya know they tow all cards left in the lot at 6 a.m. Fuck me right. It's not necessarily their fault, but it cost me like $90 and a couple hours walking trying to find the impound lot so I kinda stopped trying to be responsible about it after that and went the other way completely. I drove home from bars several times after that, but mostly just stopped going to the bars alltogether.  You should crosspost this to /r/drunk. I think they would've enjoyed it HTC one? Wish i had one of those for every time my truck got drunk and stayed at the bar...would have paid all the next days bar tabs and then some  At least put a number on the coupon. This coupon is so easy to copy, Jokes on them he was so drunk he forgot he drove there That's awesome. Every bar around here would just call a tow truck. I live in a town of about 15,000 people and there are 9 different companies that offer towing services because of the precedent that has been set here. There is plenty of parking available here but you better not leave your car overnight anywhere but your own house. every dad who saw this was like "why isn't the lot filled up with cars left by people trying to get 5 dollar coupons for the bar?" I do hope they reward the designated drivers. Every bar should have a scheme where if someone identifies themselves as one, they should be provided with a certain number of free soft drinks.  Generates responsible behaviour and business. Caring capitalism.  What is it with American pubs even having a parking space?  shitty public transportation. my town has 2 bars and no buses, taxis, etc. Doesn't Mac from Always Sunny own a bar (in real life) called Mac's Tavern??? This is awesome. If a bar did this to my car, I would intentionally go back, just to give them more business.  This is a win lose or a win win. Either your customers understand you are looking out for them or you open up a chance for people to take advantage.  I've been drinking and I know if I ever went to a place that did this I'd be back. Whoever thought of this should get a medal of some kind maybe a 7 foot tall trophy. Either way thanks for the parking.   In downtown Orlando they tow your car after 4am. Sometimes I wonder why I live here.  A bit of marketing common sense here. well played bar owner Faith in humanity restored. Also more $$ in the company's pockets.

Win-win for everyone. If you park on the public streets, you will also get a piece of paper stuck on your windshield with a certain amount of money printed on...but it is not a coupon. This bar is in Centerville, OH. Just opened up weeks ago. On St. Paddy's Day they did a [157-shot domino](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwjS3ZaVJsc) of Irish car bombs around the bar. Last time I left my car at a bar parking lot, I got back at 8 am to find a ticket because it's apparently a university parking lot.  Fuckers. Parking tickets going to be less than a DWI ticket + lawyer fees + insurance increases + lost time off work dealing w/ that bullshit (especially assuming you didn't end up injuring someone otherwise) I agree.  Not saying I should drive home, and I still won't.  Just fuck those guys for their deceptive parking lot and damn 8 AM enforcement. So we've gotten to the point where we are thanking people for shit THEY ARE SUPPOSED to do  Mack and his tavern coulda only given OP $4.75 off. What's wrong with that? Im really high right now and I think that's the nicest thing ever You know what? Now, I want to go to Mack's Tavern. Coolest bar ever, bar none I bet they write the license plate, make, model, maybe even colour, on the bottom part that got torn off. Then when you redeem it, they can match it up. Else, too easy to forge.  You could so easily print off a counterfeit stack of those yourself.  and encouraging people to come back and drink more, that's responsible... ny car hasnt movd in 3ree weaks!  I lov Marks taverb! Dat purple tint... I guess you have a HTC One Couldn't anyone just print these over and over again to have a lot of "5$ off your tab"? Am I a bad person for thinking how easily this would be to copy?

No serial number / regular printer paper.... photo copy fold a few times and done.  My phone refuses to open the picture. Can someone please tell me what is says? Thanks  It says, 'Sort your phone out, dummy!' ;-) I used to ride my bike to the bar if I knew Id get plastered. Its way less conspicuous to cops if youre pedaling home, safer too. Just dont leave home without the bike lock.  It's illegal to bike drunk where I live. A shame really, riding a bicycle intoxicated is insanely fun! I only drink at home. I rarely go to bars these days because everyone's out to fuck you over via over-priced drinks, car tows, police tickets/potential DUI, etc.. Fuck going to bars. You should print this out and put it on your car yourself, then. You'll feel like you've won something  Hi OP.  First, I'm kind of disappointed with whomever made you those glasses. There are several things they could have done to make them more aesthetically pleasing, less thick, etc. 

You have a very strong prescription characterized by a very thin lens center that increases a lot as the lens size gets bigger (i.e., your lens is concave).  Because of this, you should always try to get the smallest, ROUNDEST frame you can tolerate.  There is a reason John Lennon wore "John Lennon" glasses. He was nearsighted as well and small round frames made the lenses much less thick on the sides.

If you don't like that look though and want to stick with small square frames, then they are going to grind the prescription only in the center of the lens (like they did in the picture).  The edges will be beveled thinner (like in the picture again) and will not have a prescription, **however**, ask them to polish and round-over that outside edge anyways. Adding an anti-reflective coating on that lens will keep the rounded-over edge from causing annoying reflections.  All of this will give the illusion of a thinner lens and give you less of that "coke-bottle" look. Done well, a polished and rounded lens looks no thicker on the edges than the frame itself.

You can also "hide" some of the outer lens thickness by selecting a frame with a thicker edge itself.  Plastic frames are good at doing this. A variation on this is to have a black frame, and then paint the very edges of the lens black as well to make them look like part of the frame.  Again, this is just aesthetics, it just minimizes the look of a thick lens.

Another thing you can do to increase the aesthetics is to have the entire lens coated with an anti-glare coating. It will minimize the reflections coming off the lens.

Finally, there are lens materials that have a high index of refraction. That simply means that they curve light more, so you don't need as thick a lens to get the same prescription.

Of course, the best way to deal with a prescription this powerful is to wear contact lenses, if you are capable to doing so. Naturally you can't keep your contacts in 24/7/365, so you should always have a pair of back-up glasses. Wow, haha. This is very informative. These glasses are clearly not aesthetically pleasing, but you know, I assumed there was no other way and I'm just happy to have sight. I intend to get new glasses soon so I'll show your post to the optician. I wore contacts as a kid but they just began to be really uncomfortable. OP!  I work in one of the few optical labs in the country that can do this.  Just talked with our president, we'll hook you up for free.  Send me a PM.

Edit:  Contacted OP.  We'll get to work Monday!

Shameless plug: http://cherryopticalinc.com/

[Pause](http://imgur.com/ldq95Qn) the office dog.

Gilded!  Unnecessary, just glad to help.

Additionally, I'll take pictures of the entire process, as OP's post is getting a lot of attention.  From lens blank to finish.  I think it would make for a good post.  Probably too interesting for /r/mildlyinteresting though.  Ha!

Edit 2: For those of you with the remind me posts, our turnaround time is generally 2 days, however, we still have to wait for OP to send us the frames (from another continent) and this is a specialty job so it's going to take longer.  Ballpark 2-4 weeks.  I'll keep you updated here. You guys are very close to me - how would I get my lenses sent to you in the future? 

Also what's special about your coatings/materials? Well there are a few things that make us stand out.

First and foremost, 100% unlimited warranty policy.  Glasses get scratched?  Send em back, we'll replace them for free.  Any problems you have, no questions asked, we'll replace it.

As far as materials go, we have partial ownership of the largest lens warehouse in the country, it's a couple miles away from us.  We have access to every material and brand available to best cater to the prescription and use needs of our customers.  Trivex, plastic, impact resistant, polycarbonate, transitions, polarized, Hoya, Essilor, Carl Zeiss, Sola, Younger, KB Co, X-Cel, we've got instant access to them all.

We also have an on site anti-reflection coating lab.  Hair nets, HEPA filtering, lint free lab coats, it's a crazy clean lab.  You will not see any pits or dust particles in these lenses.  Nothing we do is outsourced so everything has to pass our quality control before it leaves the lab.  Because of this, our return rate is less than 0.1%.  If it's not perfect, it doesn't ship, period.

We are 100% Schneider digital milling as well, we can do crazy things with these machines.  I don't work in the lab so I can't get too specific with it, but this is the most accurate and flexible way to make a lens.  Our second machine is actually shipping to us right now, we're in the process of doubling the size of our facility.  Exciting stuff.

Because of our high standards, the bigger comanies send employees here from time to time to train them in our process control.  We also do calibrations for other labs as accuracy is our #1 goal.

If you live in Green Bay, I know ~~Eyemart Express  is one of our accounts.~~ (we don't do chains, only independent offices, I'll update this when I hear back)  We are wholesale, so we don't have a storefront.  If you are wondering where else you can go to have lenses made by us, give us a call!  More than happy to point you in the right direction.  Tell them Erik sent ya. Hello!

I have a moderate prescription with mild astigmatism.  I am looking for the highest quality lenses I can find.  The current chromatic aberration in my lenses are driving me crazy. 

Is glass the way to go?  Or a good plastic lens?  I have heard good things about trivex.

I have prescription safety and sunglasses so my daily wear could be glass or non-impact resistant. 

Currently I have a set of Maui Jims with their lenses and I love them, but my glasses do not have the optical quality, and the chromatic aberration is nuts. 

I'd love your advice! Glass is definitely not the way to go.  What you need is low refractive index.  You won't be able to go down to CR-39 (type of plastic with very low refractive index) with your prescription.  Trivex would be the next (most popular) option, low index material.  Your trade-off is lens thickness basically.  Low index = thicker lenses.  But if you don't have a crazy high prescription, you shouldn't even notice.  Ask your optician about spectralite, trivex, or 1.6 plastic. Awesome thanks!

My prescription is:

-3.00 / -0.75 / 175
-2.75 / -1.00 / 175

I have $500 in my health spending account, if my top concern is quality what's your end recommendation? Get your eyes checked if it has been over a year, get your PD measured, buy your frames online and go for AR-coated digitally surfaced trivex. Thanks!  I actually get a free refraction each year, so I'll definitely get that done. 

I'm keeping my existing frames as well.  So that $500 is pretty much just for lenses and maybe a fun pair of glasses. 

Is there any best brand of AR coating?  Or is it mostly marketing? This is why I love reddit, because you are guaranteed to find a specialist in any field, no matter how mundane the original post was, you always leave with some nice information and in this case, free glasses.  Glass is usually not used anymore because of weight and safety reasons. In terms of optical quality, cr-39 and trivex will be closest to glass. However, depending on your prescription, using these materials may result in a thick lens. You likely have polycarbonate lenses, which make the lenses thinner, but have worse optical quality than cr-39 and trivex. Most patients don't notice the aberrations, but some like yourself do. 

I'd suggest using trivex to make sure the lenses are light. Thickness should be okay if your prescription isn't too high. You could also ask for custom digitally surfaced lenses. I know you must be exploding with popularity right now and probably very busy, so don't worry if you can't answer my question (since as a Canadian I doubt I can purchase your products):

Is an anti-glare coating really a necessary part of having glasses and if so, what can I do to make living life with it easier? Ever since I started getting glasses that weren't meant for kids (probably around the age of 12-14), I've been getting the anti-glare coating on them as it's usually recommended as a good thing to have on glasses.

My problem with it however is that if I want to clean my glasses, I MUST use a microfiber cloth or else cleaning my glasses will cause them to smear all over the fucking place. Even when I do use one of the cloths, it still smears around 50% of the time. When I was younger I was able to clean dirty glasses with my shirt if I really had to, but now I live as a slave to these goddamn cloths since if I don't carry one I can possibly have to remove my glasses until I get home (a fingerprint can be physically painful in the wrong spot).

Can I ever get freedom from this oppression? Aspiring CEOs see: how to run a business in the modern world The ol' Oracle vs Sun debate on how to run a business. expand Johnathan Schwartz of Sun Microsystems had a hippie mentality of fostering open ideas and community involvement.  He opened up software and specifications and even gave free licensing for people starting out.

On the other hand, Larry Ellison is a major league asshole that would sue to clear cut his neighbor's lawn if he thought it would improve his view.  But that is just his personal life.  When it comes down to business he is a much bigger asshole and makes Frank Underwood seem like a boy scout.

As the other guy pointed out already, Oracle bought Sun as it's stock price plunged. I'm sorry we hugged your site so hard.  You, sir/madame, are the least terrible optician on the planet.  The shameless plug worked so well that your site is apparently out of bandwidth (just got that error trying to click on it: 509 Bandwidth Limit Exceedd). Reddit is beautiful Happy to help.  Here are some other tricks that help people with REALLY strong prescriptions, like yours...

Pince-nez Glasses: these are ultra small and round glasses that don't have arms that go around your ears, instead they grip just to your nose. Morpheus wore some in The Matrix. Their very small round size means the lens can be made as thin as possible. With your high prescription though, ask to try them out first.  Not always easy to find this type of glasses.

Another suggestion is multi-lens arrangements.  This is when you wear a more comfortable soft contact lens that only partially corrects your vision, and also prescription glasses on top of that.  Because the contacts correct a portion of your vision, the glasses don't need to be as strong a prescription.

Finally, you've probably heard the term "PD" or "Pupillary Distance" before. This is the distance from the center of each of your pupils to the other.  Ask your optician what your PD is. Now, when you are shopping for glasses, look on the frame for the "frame size". It is usually two numbers separated by a box, [like this](http://dqqzjdqmiszdy.cloudfront.net/sites/default/files/uploads/frame-size2.jpg).  Take those two frame number and add them.  You want to find a frame size that equals your PD. Why? Because that means they don't have to grind your lenses slightly "offset" of each other so that the lenses are in the middle of your eyes.  This keeps your lenses from having to be thicker on one outside edge than on the inner edge.

Good luck! I'm sorry but this is so goddam hilarious. OP has tiny niche problem, knowledgable guy comes in and illuminates all of us. Everyone's in awe of his expertise. Then, the next post, this guy recommends OP gets arm-less Morpheus glasses. Reddit: "knowledge without style" Also, a TIL about John Lennon. Is amazing how a vision problem become a fashion icon.

&gt;  There is a reason John Lennon wore "John Lennon" glasses. He was nearsighted as well and small round frames made the lenses much less thick on the sides.

 There was a bit of a political statement in it too - he started wearing them while acting in an Anti-Vietnam War movie.  They were army issue.  [deleted] What statement would that make? I see it more like Pawn Stars. "Let me give a friend of mine a call  who happens to be an expert in extremely high prescription glasses." Yeah, I think starstar lost a bit of my trust once they described [pince-nez](http://www.deadmensspex.com/media/catalog/product/cache/1/image/9df78eab33525d08d6e5fb8d27136e95/g/a/garyoldmandracula92_1.jpg) as "cool as hell, especially when turned into sunglasses." They are certainly distinct, but mostly give the vibe of someone who just time-traveled from their apothecary in a steam-powered dirigible.  &gt; just time-traveled from their apothecary in a steam-powered dirigible

&gt; cool as hell

I fail to see the disconnect. http://i.imgur.com/i0w5WVG.jpg I love the hotel doorstop-as-jewelery on his lapel. I love that his ruffled shirt is drawn on. And that his steampunk goggles are swim goggles.

This guy is a totally fascinating mix of lavish costuming attention and do-it-for-a-buck steampunk! I get the feeling you haven't seen [this](http://www.break.com/video/key-and-peele-break-down-steampunk-for-you-2805405). Constable Reggie? BLIMEY, Inspector! LOOK OUT INSPECTOR, BLORGONS! Oh my god, the baby rattie.  I just about died. for real. you can't get cooler than [this guy](https://msdollydecorator.files.wordpress.com/2012/03/jimihendrix.jpg) *Extremely* unique exception.  [Classic Redditor](http://blog.roopevintage.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/Bill-Murray-as-FDR-in-Hyde-Park-on-Hudson.jpg) [Bitch, please.](http://www.photosmadeperfect.com/Genealogy_%20Corner/Photo%20Dating%20Other%20Methods/1909_pince-nez_boston_dated.jpg) [Bitch Please] (http://www.technovelgy.com/graphics/content06/pierced-glasses-detail.jpg) That's a level of commitment I'm not ready to go to for my glasses. Pretty sure contacts is a better option at that point. As someone who hates contact lenses, I'd do this. I mean.. I guess if you already have a ton of other piercings this isn't much different. Ever seen the girls who get the spikes in their wrists?

You could remove it about the same as a tongue or nose piercing I'd assume.

Hm.. if I was the type for facial piercings I'd consider this. I've known people that have had that part of the nose pierced, but never with glasses.

Although I think this is really cool, I'd be concerned about two things:

1. Piercing migration - it would suck if it moved or became crooked over time.
2. Easy removal - the glasses can't be difficult to take off before bed. Imagine playing dodgeball with those. No thanks. If you can dodge common sense, you can dodge a ball. Holy poop is that a piercing? Does that mean he can't take then off? IIRC the usual way of doing this is to have the piercing, with flat stainless steel surfaces on either side of the bridge of the nose, and have a magnet on the frame of each lens that magnets onto the piercing. Why have enough people done this for there to be a "usual" way? [Teddy "Gangsta P" Roosevelt thinks otherwise](http://i.imgur.com/8eDLVT9.jpg) That's teddy... he can wear whatever the fuck he pleases.  He could wear poop on his head and it would still be cool. Did.. Did he do that? Because I swear I'll start wearing poop on my head if he did.  [deleted] Time traveling in a steam powered dirigible? FUCK YES I NEED MY PRESCRIPTION IN PINCE-NEZ FORM RIGHT NOW.

Brb playing Guns of Icarus. Pince-nez coming back is way less objectionable than big 80s glasses imo. http://thehundreds.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/jack-bedwani-armless.jpg

idk they don't look too bad. 

This is why I love reddit. There are people who are experts in certain fields and are willing to share their expertise to help out another redditor and to educate the rest of the population. Thank you /u/starstarstar42  those arent even pince-nez glasses the fuck man Hey man, what are they pincein if they ain't pincein the nez? I never knew optometry was so cool.  [deleted] I never knew the linguistics surrounding optometry was so cool. Linguist here, finally, I have a dog in the race so to speak. Lexical semantics would be the correct term here, not linguistics.  Lexical semanticist here, I have to say that I am disappointed in the linguist, they know full well that terminology is an issue of linguistics, and the rest is just semantics. Linguini here, I don't say much, I'm pasta. Pastafarian here, may his noodly appendage touch us all! Anti-semanticsist here, why does everyone think I'm a nazi? Is your comment itself lexical semantics? I have a cat on the couch, so to speak. It's just Turtles all the way down Listen to the Optician, I'm very blind also and my glasses are also look normal.  Now you need a grammarian so your sentences are also look normal! But wouldn't he need a visit to the grammarist first, to determine the current state of his skills?  You can't rule out the major intervention of the grammarologist at this point either. Hopefully he doesn't need a grammothologist for surgery. Or a Grammaton Cleric if anything goes wrong. I'm trying to ring my PD but the optician at Costco wouldn't give out that information. Is there a way to measure it myself? They wouldn't tell you your own PD? That's bullshit. They assume he will just take that information and order glasses online; therefore, they won't share that information with him. Kind of sucks. I went to an optometrist who wanted $25 to make a photocopy of my prescription. Needless to say I don't go there anymore. The optometrist gave me my PD when I asked, but was a little snippy about it.  I was like, Dude, my insurance covers the exam, not your super expensive glasses.  Either I get my PD and buy glasses from zenni, or I don't get new glasses at all. Zenni optical sent me [this](http://imgur.com/ysylGyH) last time I ordered glasses. I think you can download a printable one on their site and DIY.  [This](https://pd.warbyparker.com/) is a really cool online tool for measuring PD. I was a little skeptical, but I used a printable ruler with mm to double check and it was right!  Several of the sites that offer discounted glasses offer a printable measuring guide so you can do it yourself.  Zenni optical is one that I remember, but I'm sure it's not the only one. [deleted] Doesn't matter what state you're in PD is not considered a part of the written prescription. It's needed to order a pair of glasses yes. But doctors aren't  legally bound to right it on there for you.  Now I know im not the only person who just took their glasses off to find their PD... Keep in mind, that's not your PD exactly, it's what it would be if the "center" of your lens is actually in the middle of the lens diameter.

IE: You can have a PD of 60 or 69 and still use the same set of frames.  I tried, but I couldn't read it without my glasses. So then I put on my glasses to read my glasses. Genius. Take them off, fold the arms back to their closed position, read the numbers through the front of your glasses. C'mon now, it's like you've never had to McGuyver anything. http://imgur.com/M19KxvS Pince... pince. Just been googling Pince-nez glasses.

Anyone know where I could order a pair like [this gal's](http://www.photosmadeperfect.com/Genealogy_%20Corner/Photo%20Dating%20Other%20Methods/1909_pince-nez_boston_dated.jpg)?
 How old are you now? Contacts feel like they've come a long way - when i first got them in highschool they were kind of a hassle (less than glasses though) - but now, like 12 years later, there've definitely been some developments in lens comfort. If it's been a while you might want to try them out again. My eyes don't dry out as much as they used to, I haven't lost a lens either inside or outside my eye, and I can use the same pair for like twice as long without needing to break open a new pack. Optometrist here, the issue here is that similar to the glasses lenses, his contact lenses would be extremely thick on the edges. Of course even if they reduce the edge thickness by whatever technique necessary but he's still going to have issues with oxygen transmission, lens centration and significant discomfort from his eyelids smacking against the lens edge on a blink. Unfortunately, I predict he would still be uncomfortable if he were to solely wear contact lenses but with partial correction as /u/starstarstar42 suggested, he may have more success.  Haven't tried contacts in 10 years. Haven't worn them with regularity for 15. I would strongly recommend trying them again. I've heard a ton of people say the same thing, that 10+ years ago they were so uncomfortable, but then they try the new ones that they have out now and have no problem. My mother hadn't worn contacts in probably 20 years before I convinced her to try again, she loves them and wears them every day now. You can always ask to try out a trial pair to see if you like them, they may charge you a few bucks because they'll have to special order them, but IMO I think it's worth a shot. Contacts don't work too well for people like me who are absolutely opposed to touching their eyeballs. I tried it and hated it, my eye wanted nothing to do with my fingers trying to touch it. 

I enjoy being able to remove my glasses in less than a second of effort, put them them down, pick them up, and put them back on (easy like putting a cap on a pen) without ever needing to put my finger in my eye. I might be able to do that with contacts given I've had them for a long time, but I couldn't ever justify contacts over glasses in convenience and ease of use. Only downside is if you don't like how you look with glasses. &gt; Contacts don't work too well for people like me who are absolutely opposed to touching their eyeballs. I tried it and hated it, my eye wanted nothing to do with my fingers trying to touch it. 

That's a natural reaction. There is [a reflex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corneal_reflex) that prevents you from touching your cornea by closing your eyes.

If you want to wear contact lenses, you just need to ignore that reflex. Believe me, you get used to it. Yeah, I figured my reflex was something that could I could probably get past, considering so many people wear contacts that no longer have that problem.

For me, it's just resistance to changing from something I'm so used to. I tried contacts when I was 14 or so and had an extremely strong reflex to not touch my eye. Wouldn't let the doctor try either. So it's not unusual. I actually overcame it in a roundabout way- I had to learn how to swallow pills. For some reason after I could do that, contacts were a cinch! I love my glasses. They help my get out of bed in the morning, I don't consider myself to be awake until put my glasses on and the world comes sharply into focus. And at work when customers are being douches or just when things are a little bit shit I take them off and the world goes all soft and fuzzy - people are less frightening when their faces are just soft blurred ovals and you can't see the angry lines. 

Hard to do that with contacts! Everyone is different, but for what its worth, I wear contacts and the idea of touching eyeballs freaks me out. It took me hours to get them in and out when I started, I've since perfected a technique which is a combination of looking at the contact and "not paying attention" to the fact that my eye is involved, and touching ONLY the contact and never my eye itself. I still get incredibly squeamish if I ever have to have someone else touch my eye (I hate the glaucoma test!) And I absolutely cannot stand to watch someone else touch their eye for any reason. 

Tldr; never say never! It's amazing what you can get used to. Listen to /u/starstarstar42 he/she knows a thing to two, and by a thing or two, I mean a lot.  I've worked as an Optician before and if you find a good one they can honestly do wonders for you.  Some states require license and others do not.  If I had your RX I would always ensure that the Optician I speak with is licensed, which I'm guessing Star is, or they have just had a very experienced career.  Might want to try contacts again.  I live in mine.  Good luck and happy hunting for new frames/contacts. The high index refraction materials are definitely the best bet.  My eyes are only half as bad as yours, but still very significant.

The materials make the glasses quite expensive, but beyond being like 1/4 or less as thick, they also have FAR less distortion and a much much larger viewing area. It's also the only way I could use nice designer frames with wide lenses. Also the only thing that got me to stop over wearing contacts all the time

Get nice chunky plastic frames and you'll look attractive instead of looking like bubbles. Another optician here. Listen to this, it is correct in just about everything (not sure about the prince-nez, though, I'd be worried about weight). A very small, plastic round eye is what you need. Also, go to a different optician. A competent optician should know all this from training and experience, and it looks like yours does not. Hi, another optician here, I think that the advice you are giving here is mostly sound but you are overlooking a lot of things. 

First, a roll on these lenses is great but a polish? Absolutely not. All of that material, especially if they are actually able to get a higher index material, is going to be reflection city. It would be extremely distracting to anyone with that RX.

Next, a plastic frame, no matter what, is never going to hide the thickness or severity of this RX. Myodiscs are quite apparent to even a casual observer and without a frame around 17mm thick at the edge, perfectly round and perfectly centered on this patient's PD, choice of frame type doesn't really matter. Your variant in this department is actually a good idea, less light coming in from the edge of this lens is better.

High index may not be an option in this level of RX. Without being more handsy with these lenses, I could not speak to what material they are but there are not a ton of extra thick lens blank options out there in 1.67 or 1.74.

Long story short, these look good for what they are. Could they be better? Maybe. The roll is absolutely spot on. Someone who actually knew what they were doing did the hand stone work on that. There are far too many variables at play here to actually do any real critique of the job that was done here. Optician here also. Have to disagree about the polishing. A lens like this is FAR better left unpolished. Can you imagine the amount of reflections coming off something that thick if it was given a hi-luster polish?

Also, it looks to me like there is AR. See the slight greenish hue to the reflection in the first pic? Hard to tell though. The material is most likely 1.70 or 1.74 so those aren't offered without AR, to my knowledge.

Of course, a small, round, plastic frame would have been ideal, but all in all I think the lab did a good job on what they were given. There are only a small handful of specialty labs in the country that would take on something like this, anyway, so it wasn't made by someone who didn't know what they were doing.

EDIT: If OP or anyone else wishes to Google further, the technical name for the lens type done here is a myodisc. Nearly every time a high myopic patient or hyperopic pt gets an edge polish, they come back and complain that they are getting too much glare and we have to rough up the sides again. The most i recommend is a light satin polish to get rid of the chalkiness of the edged lens. I am also an optician, and I certainly agree with the advice given above. I would offer a bit of a caveat, though: some people (especially highly myopic folks, such as yourself) can have problems tolerating highly polished edges. When the edges are frosted, as yours are now, it creates an area that you cannot see through. While it is certainly less attractive, you will quickly learn to almost subconsciously ignore this unusable area of the lenses. When you polish the edges, that same area now allows light to pass more readily through, but what you see through it will be extremely distorted. It is also much more difficult to ignore. Complaints about severe nausea are not uncommon.

This decision boils down to aesthetics versus function. If the lenses are polished, they can usually be frosted fairly easily again. The reverse is often not true. There is a definite limit to how much a lens can be worked. To be honest, this can take quite a bit of time and effort in the lab (especially for those of us who care about our craftsmanship, not everyone does), and can sometimes be costly. And it is not a job everyone can handle.

All that being said, some people in your situation tolerate polished edges perfectly well. It is a completely individual thing that can be hard to tell beforehand. If you have had trouble adjusting to glasses (that were properly made and fitted) in the past, you are probably more likely to struggle. The best thing to do would be to sit down with your optician and discuss in detail what you've read here and above. They should be more than happy to discuss all of this with you. If possible, also talk to the person who does the actual lab work, if they are on site.

Again, I concur with the commenter above pretty much completely. I only offer this advice because I've been doing this for longer than i would like to admit, and I've seen this exact situation go south a number of times. I have also done more than my share of lab work in an office that focuses largely on geriatric patients, who tend to have extreme prescriptions more often than others. Best of luck, and I hope you find the best possible solution for you.

Sorry, one more thing: While high index (thinner and lighter) materials are available, it may be difficult or impossible to get them for an Rx as high as yours. Labs start the process of making your lenses with material called blanks. They are limited to what they can use depending on the availability of the proper blanks from large manufacturers or specialty labs. Just so you know, the basic plastic used is called CR-39. Pretty much every lens made is available in that material. The best case scenario would be if you could get any of the various materials referred to as "high index" plastic. You want to avoid polycarbonate like the plague (it will cause severe distortion and chromatic aberration with a prescription as high as yours). http://i.imgur.com/kZsGbOc.gif Not an optician, but someone with comparatively moderate myopia compared to you.

I would strongly suggest that you DO NOT polish the edges on your lenses - keep it unpolished and "frosted". Extra light tends to come in from the edges and cause unnecessary reflections and shit. It may look good to some, but I do not think it is worth it. With your level of myopia, you should be concerned with practicality first, aesthetics second. 

Totally agree with the smallest, roundest frame possible. To avoid the thickness on the temporal edge of minus lenses, try to find a frame where the frame P.D. closely matches your own P.D to avoid excessive decentration. Plastic frames may help hide the thickness of your lenses.

I guess that your glasses would be quite heavy from the lenses. I would suggest that you try larger sized nose pads - maybe 14-17mm. Soft silicone pads tend to be more comfortable than PVC or other harder materials. Frey and Winkler (avoid Chinese-made silicone nose pads  they are poorly moulded) make excellent "Air Active" type nose pads which allow air to go in and out, like a cushion. There are other silicone nose pads that have a cushioning gel in, but I havent tried those. Alternately, try a saddle/strap nose bridge to help distribute the weight evenly on your nose. Consider nose pads to be consumables and replace them as required because some nose pads (PVC?) become harder and yellow with age.

Somewhat related  I would suggest that you have a spare pair of glasses on hand in a familiar place. I presume that you rely heavily them and it might pay in the future to have a spare pair. Whenever you get a new prescription, opt to purchase a totally new pair of glasses instead of reglazing your old frames. This means you acquire a spare pair and you also relieve the old frame from excessive wear (especially if they have spring hinges!)
 Correct me if I'm wrong, but these look like lenticulars to me, in which case for full correction this is actually a pretty good job.  
 Haha, I didn't expect this to blow up the way it did. I like that I've started a debate among opticians/optometrists. I have [Marfan Syndrome*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marfan_syndrome#Eyes) so I guess the technical problem with my eyes is 'partial lens dislocation'. I really don't see out of my weaker eye (except if I close my good eye, and even then it's really awful - like I couldn't live like that), I just notice when there's light or movement.

*If you're very tall, very skinny, and have bad eyesight, go get checked out, Marfans undiagnosed is dangerous. how tall are you Come on op, you can't just scare us tall, skinny, half-blind folks and walk away!! 198cm &gt; 198cm

6.5" for the rest of the americans

Edit: 6.5' and I"m dumb FTFY: 6'6"

You're not very good at this, are you? Ophthalmologist here. There are several eye findings characteristic of Marfan's. The near-sightedness (myopia) results predominantly from axial lengthening of the eye from weakened connective tissue. With such significant myopia, I would also wonder about the presence of a staphyloma, which is an outpouching of the wall of the eye that can make the eye longer. The lens can play a role too, but lens dislocation usually causes astigmatism, and hyperopia rather than myopia. The lens contributes 1/3 of the refractive power of the eye, typically, so when it shifts out of place it is not as powerful and the eye requires more power to refract light properly. A dislocated lens would certainly be reason to consider or at least discuss surgical removal with placement of an intraocular lens which could cut down reliance on glasses. The surgery would best be performed in the hands of an experienced anterior segment surgeon or vitreoretinal surgeon. If that's not an option then a good contact lens fitting would be your best bet.  Shout out to a fellow redditor with Marfan.

Have you had to have any heart corrective surgery? Not yet. I've defied the odds thus far, I guess I'm overdue!  Do your actual eyes look different at all? If so, care to provide a pic? Wow. What happens if you look directly at the sun? Do both of your eyes instantly boil? reverse cyclops. New superhero: Self-Destruction Man. Lasers shoot backwards, claws retract deeper, can only fuck with his own mind. Also a raging alcoholic and opioid abuser. But those aren't his real 'super' powers. The reason he is a real hero is that despite all this, he is *still* alive, happy and positive about life. That sounds like a terrible movie. In this movie you are praying for the villain to put the hero out of his misery. Those glasses use diverging lenses so they would have the opposite effect of a magnifying glass. so...his eyes would destroy the *sun*? rad. Op is Goku Superman.  Goku Superman. Gokuman Superku.  SuperkuGokuman I want to see this fight. Superman should have an insane power level and after Superman kills Krillin Goku will have to go all super sayian on him. Energy blasts wont be very uselful against Superman, and for effect Superman should be able to channel his laser eyes into some kind of kamehemea. Would be a more epic fight than freeza. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyl97TG8jbA Precisely. So it'll drain all the warmth out of his eyes, ending up with frozen eyes? http://i.imgur.com/xUHMz.gif I always wonder how the hell he managed to record all of those episodes with those things on. He doesn't need the glasses, he had to be basically blind with them on. I might be misunderstanding something fundamental here, but couldn't he wear contacts beneath that balanced out the effect of the glasses? So the contacts impair the vision and the glasses correct it again? Idk but the logic checks out. To be sure, let's ask that nice optometrist from a higher up comment. Well, how bout it /u/starstarstar42? *optician *Decepticon He didn't though. He said he was blind as a bat while filming. My friend has glasses like those and a few minutes wearing them gave me a headache, I can't imagine wearing them and focusing on acting.  Optician here, yes you could do this.  I've heard him say in interviews that, yes, he is basically blind and it gave him headaches, but he eventually got used to it. Those are for far sighted people. The lenses near sighted people (like OP) use make their eyes seem smaller. Shit dude, I thought I was bad... I always hear from people "I have the worst eyes, there is no way you have worse eyes than me" and I always do, by a lot.  But you, sir, you take the cake.  Sorry... 

For those interested, I'm -10.5, -12, they don't make contacts past -12 apparently.

EDIT: Thank goodness I was wrong about them not making contacts past -12... Thank you Reddit for putting my mind at ease! At -5.5 I've got the worst eyes I've met. I can't imagine hitting -10.5.

When I saw OPs title, I assumed he was typoing somehow. Same. My worst eye is at -4.75 and I've never personally met anyone worse than mine. I didn't even know it went that high. -8 in my bad eye... I've never known anyone with worse eyesight than I.... Until I saw OP's picture, holy shit! I thought my -3 was bad. You guys make me feel much better about my eyes! Hey me too! I mean almost.. -4.25 Same here, no one I know has worse eyesight than me. Good to know there are others out there. Same here at -6.5 Are you sure they don't make contacts higher than -12?  I am -10.25 and -12 and my optometrist has never indicated that I might not be able to get contacts if my eyes continue to get worse.  Now I am all worried!!  FWIW, I have Intelliwave Aspheric Toric lenses (Definitive SiHy) and they are pretty comfortable

Also, if you have VSP, once your eyes get past about -10, you may qualify for medically necessary contacts.  I used to pay $500 a year for mine, but now I get them for free Damn. I'm -9, it sucks. I laugh when people say "I'm so blind! I'm -3!" Or they are so not-blind they don't even know their prescription. 

I'm getting LASIK as soon as I can I'm -14, I feel you &gt;i'm -14 and what is this Same with me at -10 and -9.5.  Never known anybody with higher, much less two to three times.  I had no idea that was possible.  I can see objects clearly about three, maybe four inches away.   Those feels. I'm at -12.5 -12.75. Just bought new glasses this week. It's like a bra for your eyeballs. I read this in Tina Belchers voice Holy shit, if a guy with 20x20 vision wore those he could see through time! 20x15 / 20x200 vision here

I could see parallel dimensions and the end of the street!
 I thought I was bad at -8. Damn. -7 here. I'll not complain again about my script.  I am -14, So officially i now know of someone with a higher prescription than me.  What a world I just got the same excitement and sorrow for OP. I am -16 in my left eye and +8 in my right eye. Yes, before you ask it is a total mind fuck to have vision like that. But can you see why kids love the taste of Cinnamon Toast Crunch? Bubbles? I'm not a pessimist, I'm an optomitrist You could probably look right inside a fuckin' kitty with those things! 'how many fingers son?' My friend is at -10 and finds her glasses if she drops them by sweeping around with her hands.

I have never even heard of -33. I dunno how that is even possible.

I want to know what their pre-corrected vision is... 10/600? She might find it effective to open up her phone camera to aid in glasses searching. It gives you a crisper zoomed in view of the area around you and can be helpful in a pinch!  I've got just over -10 on one eye. You couldn't tell though, because I paid for the thinnest possible lenses. The frame is a plastic Ray Ban pair. I'm -10 in one eye and -8 in the other and it's pretty obvious. I used to work retail and one day this kid walked up to me and said "WOW! Your glasses are THICK!!!" and proceeded to stare at my glasses. I wear plastic Roberto Cavalli frames with the thinnest possible lenses but they're still probably half an inch thick.

Considered LASIK but apparently I have flat corneas and it's not an option for me. 
 Dammit Bubbles! Are they heavy? At this point you should probably just get a new pair of eyes. Damn bro,  how magnified do your eyes look with them on?! Diverging lenses actually make your eyes look smaller. Then how small do they look with these on?!  . . http://imgur.com/ZtdPQqy The centre lens part doesn't magnify my eyes, the 'outer' part of the glasses does magnify. http://i.imgur.com/plVT5EY.gif Excuse me sir, do you have a moment to talk about our lord and savior, LASIK? From what [op said](http://www.reddit.com/r/mildlyinteresting/comments/2y9r0d/im_very_shortsighted_and_these_are_what_my/cp7qiio), it seems that this is not usually correctable by LASIK. OP I have to ask you the real question:

How do you feel about kitties? OP, you should look into implantable contact lenses like [Visian](http://visianinfo.com) or [Verisyse] (http://www.amo-inc.com/products/cataract/refractive-iols/verisyse-phakic-iol). 

My script for glasses was -12. I was not a candidate for Lasik, but had Visian implants done four years ago; best $$$ I've ever spent!

The surgery itself is very similar to cataract surgery, but they don't remove your (eyeball) lenses. Competent Dr's will do each eye surgery about a week apart. 

Con's: expensive, might need reading glasses (I need +1.25), may have constant dry eyes (I can get by without eye drops, but my eyes feel better with drops 1x/day).

Ideal age is for implantable contacts is age 24+.

 In Finland, having -14 is considered being blind. You are _very_ blind on those standards. I'm lucky to "only" have -7 in both eyes. That's fucky I'm generally not one to suggest laser eye surgery on a whim but... damn, you might want to consider it. [Reminds me of this](http://www.israellycool.com/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/jerry-seinfeld-glasses.jpg) Is it just me or is that a lot of gum? For some reason I thought that looking through the lens of the first picture while wearing my glasses would cause my head to explode. 

Just a momentary worry.  That you Bubbles ? I feel for you my friend. I had an -18. As I got older I also developed keratoconus so could no longer be fitted into RGP's. What I ended up doing was getting PRK to move my prescription down to about a -9, at which point they actually made disposable soft contacts in my prescription. 

Starstarstar42 had a lot of good suggestions. I'll also mention that you might want to look into Scleral contact lenses. They're really just over sized RGP's that sit on the sclera (the white of the eye) instead of the cornea. Maybe they'll be more comfortable for you then corneal lenses. 

Whatever you decide to do, good luck. And here I was thinking mine were [thick](http://i.imgur.com/mD9FaAT.jpg ) Thats what mine are like...we aren't alone. mine too! We should start a club! You guys are cute... That's not even close to thick! &gt; I'm very short-sighted and these are what my *binoculars* look like Optician here, and I have no idea what to do for someone who is short-sighted.  Wear pumps?  Plan ahead next time?  I'm just glad I could contribute to the discussion! you made me forcefully push air out of my nose Professor Farnsworth? If you look at a map can you see little people waving at you?  op is a mole. Hi, op! Thanks for sharing. 
I'm nearsighted as well, but I had "only" 10. 
Went through lasic, worked like a charm. Two years later my eyesight is not perfect, but good enough to drive work with a computer without glasses. 
I still have light sensitivity and my vision in the dark is worse than in daylight. And I'm still using eye drops to not to get red eyes. 

I think that at your level of nearsightness you would not be able to get perfect vision through an operation, but you could make your life easier when you're not wearing glasses. (It's wonderful to be able to easily find stuff when you're showering). 

Lasic costs, but if you'll try to follow all the advices on a better lenses, it gonna cost you.  How many fingers am I holding up? Just one, and fuck you too! HA, tricked you! I'm only holding up 3 'cause the pinky and thumb aren't fingers! Just one! Squint, is it the middle one?  say "near-sighted" because "short-sighted" could mean something different. Are those glasses processed to make it thinner? Dont know the term, but making same-number-thinner-glasses process.  High index lenses? Almost definitely.

Edit: nvm, they aren't but definitely ought to be. Dear lord, get new nose pads! Those are disgusting. Yo, no need to be rude about it.  It's not like I insulted him. Those pads are disgusting. I was literally disgusted when I saw them. Ah fair enough I guess. I would just personally feel like I could never tell someone that to their face in real life, but the internet is different and I briefly forgot. He didn't ask you to eat off them, or touch them. But he showed them to me. That was enough.  So when you see someone with horrible teeth do you tell them, "Those teeth are disgusting!" No, because teeth are personal, not easy to change, and people are sensitive about them if they're bad. Changing nose pads is nearly free and super easy. And no one's sensitive about their nose pads. Obviously you're sensitive about other people's nose pads. In all fairness, OP can't see them.  He's nearsighted. That means he can see things that are close to him, like his glasses as he puts them on. Did NASA have to launch a special space shuttle mission to install those lenses? that joke doesn't even make sense Huh.  I've never stayed in a hotel that provided reading material other than the TV channel list. Not even a bible? Oh, yeah, forgot about those. 66 books in 1! What a deal! That's why it's the best seller in history.

"SUCK IT, ROWLING" - Jesus I mean Jesus didn't really write the Bible, half of it was written about him.  I think a more accurate comparison would be "SUCK IT, POTTER."  A little bit of magician-main-character to magician-main-character rivalry even makes it a little better. Jesus is still waiting for his share of the royalties.

"I swear to me, Matthew, Mark, John, and Luke are worse plagiarists than Vanilla Ice."

 Nah, he was more like "Mark, write this down. Just give me a cut when you get to heaven", but then Matthew wanted in and wrote it to make it less offensive to the Jews. Then John wrote the commentary, and Luke wrote the university textbook. 

And Jesus and Mark are just sitting their scratching their heads wondering how it blew up so fast.  Is this in accurate ELI5 for those books?  I didn't realize how much I wanted an ELI5 for each book of the bible. "You were in the lame half, well besides Revelation" -Moses I'm not a fan of the Rashomon shit they did with the Jesus arc. *Revelation Publishers hate him! And if you're Catholic, there's even more! I like em leather, and bound, and it's 50 pounds! Not sure if Bible or altar boy 73, to be exact! [deleted] tl;dr Jesus wept.  Yeah man, what else do u roll your joint with when your on vacation? The last pages of a bible. Theyre blank and i heard jesus put them there himself just in case we had nothing else to smoke with. "And he rolled up the scroll, passed it to him, and sat down."

-Luke 4:20

(I'm not kidding) Well I'll be damned! Saw a bible in a hotel room once and inside the front cover someone had written. 
&gt;Jesus dies...... But there's a twist. 

It made me chuckle.  Gideon's provide those. Just ask Rocky Raccoon.  I'm gonna catch me a Gideon. Yeah, that's one classy stay, man. I dig it. They're just full of liquor and if you try to read them they charge you. Maybe the hotel owners and managers are assuming that most people who booked with them are those who treated [TV as their literature](http://dailytwocents.com/books-not-first-literature/#content). Almost positive this is so they can identify which specific book is missing when you check out and charge you accordingly. 
Source, work in an upscale hotel and our books go missing all the time. Wow, that's very clever.  thats mildly interesting as fuck You might almost say it's very interesting.  COOL YOUR JETS MAN! You can't go around saying stuff like that in *these* parts! Why? All you need is a list. This shelf/book set makes it extremely obvious if a book is missing.  So, 1.) people are far less likely to steal a book, 2.) people are far less likely to forget to return a book, and 3.) staff will immediately notice if one is missing (vs. a list that may or may not be checked thoroughly and every time) 

So it must cut missing books down just incredibly, but looks just like a cool novelty - a room perk, and not at *all* like an anti-theft/loss device. 

That's why it's very clever.  Agree with everything you said, and I'm sure they've done the math (hence why this exists), but man just imagining the labor cost for these shelves in all the rooms. I wonder how long it takes for this to be worth it. &gt;labor cost

The exact same labor cost as installing any other bookshelf? I can't imagine checking into a hotel and casually finishing all 720 pages of The Fountainhead. You've never suffered insomnia on a week-long business trip, I can tell. I polished off *The Hunt for Red October* between bedtime and breakfast. Based on page count *The Fountainhead* would be a two-night book. I can tell you from experience that it is a long 720.  I can finish off a traditional 3-500 page novel in one sitting under the right conditions, but The Fountainhead took me the better part of a week. Damn, i wish i could read How does everyone finish reading so fast? It takes me like a month to finish a 700 page novel Sub vocalization is a curse Reading quickly is a curse in its own. You really get into a novel and then before you know it its over. Wait, everyone doesn't imagine they are saying the words out loud in their head?  I actually really liked The Fountainhead. I finished it in 3 days, and it was for a project in AP English in high school. 

I then tried Atlas Shrugged, I tried 3 times, but I couldn't make it past 100 pages. I really enjoyed it too.  I just couldn't read it fast. From a shelf that also has *To Kill A Mockingbird*, *The Count of Monte Cristo*, and the poems of T.S. Eliot on it, why would you start reading *The Fountainhead*? Even *Moby-Dick* is more readable. Imagine: you just got in from a 13 hour flight, and pick up the fight book you see in your hotel room. You fall asleep 10 pages in because you're really tired. When you wake up in the middle of the night, you order up some room service. A nice steak, with some homestyle fries and a dr pepper with freshly crushed ice. After you finish eating, you see The Fountainhead on the bed and think, perfect, just what I need to fall back asleep. However you just slept for 7 hours and you read until the sun shines through the cracks of the curtains. You get up, shower, and get ready for a long day of meetings and more meetings and meetings with lawyers. The nitty gritty of M&amp;A, but hey, that's why they pay you the big bucks. You go out with drinks with your co-workers, but retire early cause jetlag is killing ya and you'd rather start the next day fresh. You see the book on the table where you left it. You think - it worked last time - and yet again, you get 10 pages past where you left off and fall asleep.  This repeats for your entire 5 day trip. As you are packing your bags, you accidentally put the book in your suitcase because by now, it isn't just a hotel book, you have started to think of it as YOUR book. You arrive home after delayed 20 hour flight, and find the book in your bag - and the hotel has charged you for it. I can't imagine doing that with a gun to my head. I can't imagine starting it without a gun to my head.  You haven't spent enough time in the same hotel room. I was on a long-term temporary assignment for work once where I had time to read the entire ASoIaF series in a hotel; beat Halo ODST,  Reach, and 4; take three different college football teams through at least two seasons in NCAA; watch all of Drunk History; beat Ryse: Son of Rome; watch enough Simpsons that I'd seen about half the episodes on any given FXX Simpsons programming block; and watch basically every movie on HBO 1, 2 and Comedy for about 4 months. 

Point is I spent way too much time in that hotel room.  This seems like something you'd read in freakonomics. Because it's interesting and probably not true? Wouldn't it be so much cheaper to just have a list of books for each room?  That way you could even change the books.  What if somebody stole a copy of the book and you bought a new one that wasn't the same edition so it didn't properly fit in the shelf? Cheaper to have a maid hunt for all the books in the room and then verify by list? Rather than just look at the shelf and see which would be missing? I think you might be discounting the price of time.

They also probably have a few extra on hand, in case they do get stolen. Or they have the knowledge of where to get the specific book edition. The maid's still gonna have to hunt for the books in the room if they're not put back on the shelf. Yeah, it's not like they're not going to look around the room for it. Not specifically, no.  If it shows up while they're cleaning, then they'll put it back. Is the cost of all the stolen books more than that of making custom bookshelves for all the rooms and having maids carefully catalog and sort them nightly? I'd think you could just save a lot of time and effort by just factoring the cost of stolen books into the cost of the room. An extra $ .10 per guest per night,say? I find it hard to imagine they'd bother pricing the books differently.... just one price mark it up or whatever... /r/oddlysatisfying + /r/mildlyinfuriating /r/infuriatinglysatifying I was kinda hoping that this was a thing. There's always /r/blatantlysatisfying, but it's not really taking off*. Ah... Reddit, where something 2 days old can be considered a constant in life. 4 Readers
338 users here now *Shhhh....*

This isn't a place where things make sense... 

*Shhhh* Huh?  Isn't it 5 months old?  A 5 month old sub that had its first post just 2 days ago. holy shit do they not know what "blatantly" means? /r/thatsubredditdoesnotexistanditmakesmesad OR /r/oddlysatisfying+mildlyinfuriating if you want to turn your blood pressure into a roller coaster.  I had no idea this was possible. My mind is blown allows for some nice combinations like /r/askscience+shittyaskscience I find oddly satisfying that /r/oddlysatisfying seems to have a lot more posts than /r/mildlyinfuriating does I find it /r/mildlyinfuriating that you left out the word "it" near the start of your post. No, just /r/OddlySatisfying. It's just so perfect. It has a book by Ayn Rand though The Fountainhead is a reasonably good book separated from objectivism, though. Or at least the first half of it is, which is probably all you'd get to read in the time you were at the hotel. Now the King Vidor film, that is kinda just bad. Vidor's direction is great as ever, but Rand herself wrote the script (and demanded that nothing be changed), and it is truly just God awful. If ever there were an argument for auteur theory, that movie would be it.  I agree, not everyone agrees with her philosophy but that doesn't mean by any stretch it's a bad book. I really like Howard Roark. Great opening scene to that book. I don't know. I read a bunch of her other stuff after the Fountainhead. Anthem was weird but I read it after Atlas Shrugged so the paint was already beginning to peel for me. I really didn't like Atlas Shrugged. The Art of Fiction was an interesting one too. I liked that one a lot. It was like watching someone spin a sock out of fishing line, really slowly and beautifully but like, what? Wow.  Christ-to-all-Fucking-Hell, I am not a fan of Ayn Rand's beliefs but *The Fountainhead* was an enjoyable read. 

I like *Atlas Shrugged* when it's viewed as a Dystopia. Her antagonists where annoying whiny brats who could never accomplish what they did in the book but I thought the premise of *Crony-Capitalism v. Narcissistic-Libertarianism* was an interesting battle. 

The "Tramp on the Railroad's" speech is also unique and I did enjoy the "Downfall" on the Twentieth Century Motor Company.   It's just that one book, isn't it? I was always the weird OCD kid aligning all of my school supplies so that everything was neatly organized and parallel. Surprise, surpriseI grew up to be a graphic and web designer. But this really pisses me off and I have absolutely no idea why because it's kinda neat. On the surface it seems like I should love it. But the more I look at it, the more I hate it. It must cross some over designed threshold for me. It makes sense for a hotel, though. They probably won't be adding to/taking away from this collection any time soon (all the books are classics, at least fifty years old). The hotel can easily see if a book has been taken so that they can charge the customer. Customers also can't swap out the books with a design like this. So I don't really see it as "over designed" -- it serves a function! *And* looks pretty cool. Streamsong Resort?
 Yes! Ahh yes, Moby dick. Written by the great Whale Melville. In case you aren't being facetious, the full title is *Moby Dick or The Whale*. It just got cut off in the glare. THANK YOU. I was wondering what that was about. I'm going to refer to it as 'The Whale' from now on, now that I am aware that option is available to me. I think it's actually *Moby-Dick; or, The Whale*. Can't have a book title from the 1850's without at least two punctuation marks :-) The full title is *Moby Dick; or, The Whale*. The sunlight is obscuring the title. Just in case you weren't joking. I'd like to believe that the obscured bit is "... y'know,". It is to remind people that it's the one with the whale... It's always the one about the whale.  I can't find the version about the electronic musician's penis anywhere. Ah yes, the literary classic Moby's Dick They forgot the colon in the title. "Moby Dick: Whale". Melville's brief foray into descriptive non-fiction.  Apart from the brief thing you aren't half wrong. I love the fact that an Aynd Rand book is kept on a shelf that makes every book equal height...  "And the trees are all kept equal / By hatchet, axe, and saw"

-Rush

Edit:  http://youtu.be/wZiDME3bajU?t=11s Hell of an appropriate reference god, i love that song. I've added you as a friend, because you're obviously fucking awesome.  I think even Ayn Rand would find that amusing.  Ayn Rand + amused.....DOES NOT COMPUTE. [deleted] Ah I did come across one funny thing she said:

&gt;Playboy: Do you have any personal political aspirations yourself? Have you ever considered running for office? 

&gt;Rand: Certainly not. And I trust that you dont hate me enough to wish such a thing on me.

&gt;Playboy (2012-11-22). The Playboy Interview: The Essentials.

That was pretty funny. True, she had some good ones. Maybe dry is a better word. That is true, but at the same time it's refreshing to have someone that wants to discuss serious things. Makes me wonder if "popular" TV and news would know what to do with her. Most of the questions they ask are completely nonsensical, and they only want soundbites, not real, meaningful answers. I get the feeling that wouldn't fly with Ayn Rand, but it seems like that's all readers (or even watchers) are equipped to deal with anymore. 

It's an interesting clash I'd like to see play out. Mainly because she definitely wasn't a people person. There are intelligent people that speak well and can mesmerize an audience for an extended period of time, but I want to see a blunt object wreck into popular culture and tear it a new asshole every once in awhile. Finally a comment on Reddit about Ayn Rand that isn't either an immediate slandering or an immediate glorification.  Who could read Moby Dick in less than 2 years?? Just skip the parts about the history of whaling unless you're *real* interested in the history of fucking whaling. The abridged copy is 25 pages long, and half of that is facts about whales.  I have it. Didn't know it was the abridged version in 5th grade. Teacher assigned a book report. I asked if I could do Moby Dick. She said that was way too advanced for me. I was confused because it's a pretty easy read. I did it anyway and she was super impressed. Didn't know until much later. In 4th grade, my older brother was on a 12th grade reading level. He read Moby Dick that year (I forget how long it took, but he's a fast reader), and would read parts to me at my bedtime. The first half is the most boring thing in the world. It put me to sleep every time.  Was it the "Great Illustrated Classics" one? 

http://imgur.com/Zs0aT8V

It wasn't til a couple years ago that I realized I never read the real version of Moby Dick, haha. Thank you, you have subscribed to *Whale Facts*. The *Whale Facts* Fun Fact of the Hour: Whales belong to the order cetacea, which includes whales, dolphins and porpoises!  



Whale Facts!
 The *Whale Facts* Fun Fact of your life: The blue whale has a larger penis than any living animal. It is commonly cited as having an average penis length of 8 feet (2.4 m) to 10 feet (3.0 m) and a girth of 12 inches (300 mm) to 14 inches (360 mm).

Whale Facts! Unsubscribe We found the word "subscribe" in your post. Now subscribing you to *Whale Facts*!

The Whale Facts Fun Fact of the Minute: Whale oil is derived from whale blubber, and was once used as motor oil in the US.  
Whale Facts! STOP

CANCEL

FUCKOFF From Moby Dick, Chapter 95 The Cassock, in which a sailor takes the whale penis ("the grandissimus") and wears it as a coat: 
&gt; Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and assisted by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners call it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as if he were a grenadier carrying a dead comrade from the field. Extending it upon the forecastle deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pelt, as an African hunter the pelt of a boa. This done he turns the pelt inside out, like a pantaloon leg; gives it a good stretching, so as almost to double its diameter; and at last hangs it, well spread, in the rigging, to dry. Ere long, it is taken down; when removing some three feet of it, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two slits for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full canonicals of his calling. Immemorial to all his order, this investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the peculiar functions of his office.  The best part is how official the language is. The guy is wearing a whale dick, but if you're not paying attention it sounds like he's just on the daily grind. (pun intended)  My body is ready The *Whale Facts* Fun Fact of the Hour: Because of there large size, adult Blue Whales experience time slower than us! One hour to a whale is one half-hour to a human!   


Whale Facts! Now on Whale Time!!^^tm I had a book of edited classics for children. It had a picture every three or four pages and cut the length of most books in half or so, editing out the really long metaphors or updating language.

For a long time, I thought I loved Moby Dick, the thirty six page short story. Then as an adult I picked up a copy and learned that no, I did in fact not love Moby Dick the whale encyclopedia. Those are the best parts Unfortunately they are.  I found the chapter about sharing a bed with Queequeg to be fucking hysterical. I remember a lot of descriptions of rope.  well i am interested in whaling history ...you think you are Those are actually some of the best parts. It's supposed to be read more like a journal than a straightforward romance. Or The Fountainhead for that matter. Rand's prose doesn't exactly roll off the tongue I never read the fountainhead, but in Atlas Shrugged it really bugged me that *every* bad guy was fat and sweaty while every good industrialist was tall, angular, and had piercing eyes. It felt like a story for children. The kind that's designed to make them want to smoke cigarettes and hate poor people.  There were good and bad guys? I hated everyone. [deleted] Or did they choose the books to fit the bookshelf? ........no. "Yes" If so it's weird they happen to get some solid choices.... It's probably a pre made set. Those books are all well very well known/classics, they probably sell them on those shopping channels. "Why not buy this charming set of classic literature, complete with custom made bookshelf, order now and we'll even throw the Ayn Rand in the bin before we send it you. Only 79.99" Don't you think it's more likely that the books were written specifically for the hotel bookshelf? Pro tip:  if you hate a novel (or Shakespeare) in highschool, give it another try years later, when there is no pressure to do so, and more importantly, when there is no homework involved. I'm going to try that. When I was in school, I loved most of the required reading but I did hate *A Separate Peace* with a passion.  You can buy one for a grotesque amount of money from anthropologie [here](http://m.anthropologie.com/mobile/catalog/productdetail.jsp?id=23744972&amp;catId=HOME-NEW&amp;pushId=HOME-NEW&amp;popId=HOME&amp;navCount=36&amp;color=095&amp;isProduct=true&amp;fromCategoryPage=true&amp;isSubcategory=true&amp;subCategoryId=HOME-NEW-GIFT#/) Or you could make one if you're not interested in very specific out of print books.  That's so very nice to look at. I'd love to have a bookcase that morphed itself to fit the books I put in it. So dope. This should actually be doable. springs! The Fountainhead but not Atlas Shrugged? 

I'm sorry to inform you, but you're clearly staying in a Communist hotel  That's very satisfying. Now mix them all up! Muhahahahaha Replace one of the books for one slightly taller to irritate people Those clacking scissors all over Little Women (possibly a combo of it and Good Wives, since it looks fairly thick) make it look very threatening indeed! If you move a book, does it automatically charge your folio through a pressure switch?

Because my girlfriend did that when moving all of the food to one side of the minifridge (to fit the leftovers). And we unwittingly acquired $100 worth of snacks, that was added to our bill overnight. The Count of Monte Cristo is probably my favorite story! The Count of Monte Cristo is legitimately one of my favorite books of all time. I'm always saddened when people ask me what my favorite novel is, because I know the likelihood of that person having read it is so low.

Yes it's long, but it's such a good story! Ugh. Go read it, all of you! "A place for everything, and everything in it's place." [-Rosie](http://likeletterprojects.com/2013/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/928250_801211209889167_607371912_n.jpg) its*, btw Yes, your correct. Its like a subliminal message to read Moby Dick. The book sticks out like a site thumb. Sticks out like a white whale. Good. I read it every winter. Whenever you get the urge to walk down the street knocking off everyone's hats? sticks out like a bunch of sexually repressed sailors That is impressive. But are you allowed to take the half finished book when you leave?  Ha, yeah. A separate peace is one of my favorites; I've decided to give it a re-read Upvote for Light in August. Fuck yeah. Extremely underrated Faulkner book. Whoever chose these knew their shit. Where can I find that version of Catcher in the Rye? In his hotel room apparently. Just looks like a hard-cover book with the dust jacket taken off. What is this? A hotel for high school English classes??? Leave answers to the review questions on the desk for housekeeping. Be sure to use complete sentences. What are the titles of the book? (Would be nice if you can order it from left to right too.) From left to right

Title|Author
:----|:----
 *The Catcher in the Rye* | J. D. Salinger
 *A Separate Peace* | John Knowles
 *The Count of Monte Cristo* | Alexandre Dumas
 STEVENS| Everyman's Library Pocket Poets
 *Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn* | Mark Twain
 *Moby-Dick* | Herman Melville
 *Invisible man* | Ralph Ellison
 *Light in August* | William Faulkner
 *Collected Poems 1909-1962* | T. S. Eliot
 *To Kill a Mockingbird* | Harper Lee
*Little Women*| Louisa May Alcott
*Fountainhead* | Ayn Rand

 &gt; A Separate Peace

One of the few things I remember from High School literature is the one kid "jouncing the limb" and making the other kid fall out of the tree. Fucking spoilers bro, not all of us have made it through the 8th grade. I really did not enjoy that book. I can't place any one reason, I just didn't like it.  Thankfully no one steals things from hotel rooms. Otherwise this could be problematic. Just commission extra books and charge the room at a premium for taken books They fit that way so they know which book you steal.   This is just so beautiful. This is the first comment I've made in like... a year. This is the best /r/moderatelyinteresting post I've ever seen. HIGHLY INTERESTING! You should skim that T.S. Elliot book for The Wasteland, it's such a great poem.

...and if it *does* have The Wasteland, you should smuggle that book out with you. I bet each of those slots has a sensor like the minibar.

If you pick up a book for more than a minute they'll charge you 8 bucks.  Some executive really enjoyed sophomore English at boarding school.  Well what would you put on there? Don't worry its just an edgy college freshman who finished their first lit course. Most of those works are pretty highly regarded. I was an English major in college, and some of my favorite books are up there. Too many people strive for obscurity, as if it makes them seem more advanced. To Kill a Mockingbird is so widely popular *because* it's an amazingly well-told story Various authors best collections of short stories from different genres, shit like nine stories by Salinger, or anything from Asimov, Poe, or King, because that's what I would want to actually read if I was staying the night in a hotel.  *Hamlet, The Great Gatsby, and The Sun Also Rises!*

And Steppenwolf, love me some Steppenwolf.  So, junior English course material then? Why not? Those are books few people would call bad or worthless. House of Leaves is great, but few people would like that. Not a bad reading list. All books I'd recommend.  Was this hotel really nice? I've never seen anything like that, it's really cool. It's a pretty upscale place, yes. Streamsong Resort, Florida Not paying attention to the sub Reddit, I saw the pic and thought, "mildly interesting".  And here I am which actually might be /r/notinteresting, I guess.   
Hey /u/ObjectiveSee,


This is now the top post on reddit. It will be recorded at /r/topofreddit with all the other top posts. Are they actually books? I have seen almost this exact thing, tey were fake books, it was all just a facade.  Are those real books? Not just some props like in IKEA? /r/books in a nutshell.  Based on the cheery selection (Twain notwithstanding), they might as well have included a noose and a bottle of cyanide with the room as well. There must be something wrong with me. Much like more modern Frank Underwood and Walter White, I find Edmond Dants to be a very admirable character. I'm actually reading The Fountainhead right now! I feel like I need to be alert to not miss anything though. The writing style and way emotions are conveyed is really enthralling.  but don't you know Ayn Rand is the devil?  /s

Yeah it's a good book.  It doesn't age well. I can honestly say that the Fountainhead was one of the best books I ever read, and that's before we get into her philosophy. Very few books I've seen were as ambitious and succeeded in their aims as well as Fountainhead did. 

As a piece of fiction, it's her finest work.  /r/Perfectfit  Was hoping this was a porno subreddit.  No, but we do have /r/lipsthatgrip which is kind of what you're looking for. Could use Steinbeck. Just finished reading Grapes of Wrath for the first time &amp; I'm legitimately sad that it took me 30+ years to finally read it.  A perfect book in my opinion.  Also fuck depression era California &amp; everyone in it, fiction or not. But but... /r/politics taught me that Ayn Rand is the devil! I don't really like her, but reddit's circlejerk makes me want to become an objectivist out of spite.  Definitely the best way to adopt a philosophy.  I'm a spitevist  So for the usual reasons? I join in on the Rand hate. I wouldn't even feel the need to if people didn't think she was some kind of genius philosopher. There are some very highly educated Americans that put a lot of stock in what she said and wrote because it justifies bad behaviour and poor regulation. The rest of the world though, thinks she was a bit of a kook that sold a lot of books to Americans. Personally it pisses me off when people throw her in with Melville. I mean seriously?  If you restrict yourself to philosophers that everyone agrees with you're going to be looking for a very long while.
 That misses the point. I think even calling her a philosopher, let alone one of any merit is a massive overstatement.  Right, but you're talking about the same society that obsesses over Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, "reality television", and Democrats vs Republicans. Kinda hard to raise my expectations to the level of fine-tuning everyone's understanding of Ayn Rand. ;-) She was a great philosopher. I mean, I disagree with a lot of her philosophy, but she's still a great philosopher. Read through this: http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/ayn-rand/


People didn't put stock in what she said and wrote because it justified bad behavior and bad regulation. They put stock in her because they agreed with her ideas, and ideals. And stop it with the American solipsism. I'm from outside of the US. Just about everything Americans attribute to being some special kind of American stupidity is to be found in just about every other country. 
 She was a genius philosopher. The logic behind many of her arguments is rock solid and her epistemology (which borrows heavily from Aristotle) is first-rate. She also had severe psychological trauma and her writing style was somewhat inaccessible. Many of the great philosophers were strange people.  If her epistemology was rock solid, Huemer wouldn't have had to write [this.](http://www.owl232.net/rand.htm) I'm also curious to know why you think Rand's philosophical stuff isn't taken seriously by the vast majority of current professional philosophers if she had everything right?   &gt; If her epistemology was rock solid, Huemer wouldn't have had to write this. 

I tried reading his first two points and found myself rolling my eyes as he engaged in trivial semantics. And his defense of *a priori* knowledge equally absurd. Mathematics and logic may be *a priori* systems of thought, but what makes them useful rather than abstract mental exercises is the ability to *apply them to our observations of reality*. That is the art of reasoning.  Without empirical observation, *a priori* systems of thought like logic and math only produce trivial solutions - things that are technically valid, but meaningless. Does a meaningless truth have the same value as a rationally constructed truth derived from empirical observation?   

[Furthermore Huemer's criticisms of Rand are themselves not uncontroversial.](https://utilitynussbaumrand.wordpress.com/2006/09/27/mike-huemers-8-objections-to-rand-a-response/)

&gt; I'm also curious to know why you think Rand's philosophical stuff isn't taken seriously by the vast majority of current professional philosophers if she had everything right?

Well first because she called most of today's academic philosophy and the thinkers they reference hacks and frauds. Fortunately, academia does not have a monopoly on philosophy thanks to thinkers like Rand. If they did then we'd be well and truly fucked. 

And the second reason is because Objectivism is utterly incompatible with postmodernism and deconstruction. Which I don't view as a bad thing. Most of the postmodernists were disgusting people (like Heidegger the unrepentant Nazi) advocating sophistry and nihilism.  &gt;trivial semantics  

If you read what follows, you can see that what he does by differentiating between meaning and sense vs. reference leads to entirely different conclusions about *a priori* knowledge (including logic, math, and ethics) than what he takes objectivists to maintain. That doesn't seem very trivial to me.  

&gt;but what makes them useful  

Huemer doesn't care what makes it useful. He's asking whether the ability to know something without external evidence *exists*. It seems that if you buy into that idea (like you have with math and logic) then you disagree with the Objectivists.   

&gt;Does a meaningless truth have the same value as a rationally constructed truth derived from empirical observation  

"Meaningless" in the sense you're using it isn't incompatible with "rationally constructed." Furthermore, a truth derived from empirical observation isn't necessarily applicable. That said, I take it the question is which has more value, a claim which is highly unlikely to be applied or one which is likely to be. If application is something to be valued, then obviously the latter. But that's neither here nor there. The likelihood of its application doesn't at all affect the truth of a claim.  

Some thoughts on the reply to Huemer:  

&gt;His first objection is with her first premise: Value is agent-relative; (in the sense that) things can only be valuable for particular entities. His objection lies in the fact that he calls this a bald assertion of Rands, since she offers no argument against those who believe in absolute value. But does she really need to do so?  

Well, yes. Intuitionism as Huemer describes it in section 5.4 is a standalone theory which needs to be refuted to put Objectivism in the clear. Changing the premise to "The [intrinsic, absolute] value *that matters* is agent-relative" like the responder does doesn't solve the problem. In fact, it isn't even coherent. Suppose something is intrinsically valuable, but (as it's suggested is possible) an individual happens to not value it; according to this principle, because the value that matters is relevant to the individual, the intrinsically valuable thing isn't valuable. But that doesn't make sense.   

About the attempts to save premises 6 and 7 and ethical egoism in general -- I think Huemer addresses that fairly well with the argument from Moore:

&gt; Let A be an egoist, and let B be the egoist's next-door neighbor. The egoist regards his own life as an end in itself, and he says B ought to regard B's life as an end in itself. But, insofar as A is concerned only for furthering his own life, A can not, himself, treat B's life as an end in itself. A's sole value is A's life; therefore, A can value B's life, if at all, only as a means (i.e. if B's life furthers A's). Similarly, when A recommends to B that B should be an egoist, he is recommending that B should regard A as being only valuable as a means. This necessarily follows from the supposition that B should regard B's life as the sole end in itself, which is the meaning of egoism. A therefore seems to be caught in a contradiction: A holds that A's own life is an end in itself, but at the same time A thinks that no one else ought to recognize A's life as being an end in itself. In a parallel contradiction, A holds that other people are valuable only as means, but he holds that other people are correct in regarding themselves as valuable not merely as means but as ends in themselves. In other words: Each individual is correct in a belief which directly contradicts what every other individual correctly believes. A is correct to believe P, but B is correct to believe not-P. Is this not, in Moore's words, "an absolute contradiction"?

Given that one of the central tenets of Objectivism appears to be "always follow reason and never think or act contrary to reason," is certainly seems to be.  

&gt;she called most of today's academic philosophy and the thinkers they reference hacks   

If you look through the history of philosophy, you find a *lot* of people saying "Everybody's been doing it wrong the whole time! Here's how it's actually done." Some of those are pretty central figures. So you can hardly blame Rand being sidelined on how reactionary she was.  

&gt;Objectivism is utterly incompatible with postmodernism and deconstruction   

Seeing as how the dominant tradition in American and UK philosophy is analytic, not continental, this doesn't count as much of an explanation either. 

 

 &gt; If you read what follows, you can see that what he does by differentiating between meaning and sense vs. reference leads to entirely different conclusions about a priori knowledge (including logic, math, and ethics) than what he takes objectivists to maintain. That doesn't seem very trivial to me.

He's still playing head games. Of course one's faculties for reasoning and defining the meaning of objects are limited by the knowledge one has at hand. Rand argues that all rational people, when given the same information, will arrive at convergent rather than divergent conclusions because of the internal consistency of rational logic. A sound logical argument cannot produce two mutually exclusive conclusions - A is A. Huemer is basically paraphrasing Plato's cave allegory which I regard as trivial - the brain in a jar argument. One cannot think rationally if their senses cannot be trusted and logic depends upon axioms (which are either tautological definitions or basic premises that cannot be evaluated to a certainty *a priori* but must be assumed to be true in order for a logical argument to move forward). Which is why Rand defines one of her fundamental axioms as "existence exists". Descartes' fundamental axiom (I think, therefore I am) is similar but not identical. Descartes defines sentience as proof of one's own existence, while Rand applies the same logic to external reality. Which makes her epistemology rationalist in method, but empirical in foundation - resolving the contradiction between the two. This is why Rand uses a hierarchy of knowledge to say that all true knowledge depends upon reason, and all true reason depends upon sensory perception for reality contact. 

Which addresses I believe any criticisms Huemer could make of Rand's epistemology. 

I'd address the rest of his criticisms, but I like to believe I have a life. 

&gt; Seeing as how the dominant tradition in American and UK philosophy is analytic, not continental, this doesn't count as much of an explanation either.

I view the analytic vs continental divide in today's philosophy as a lame retread of rationalism vs. empiricism. The continental philosophers are hard empiricist to the point of near-mysticism, while the American style is hard rationalist to the point of brain-in-a-jar. The only way to win that game is not to play it, which is basically what Rand called for decades ago.  &gt;One cannot think rationally if their senses cannot be trusted and logic depends upon axioms  

Because those axioms might be arbitrary, right? No way to double check them? Huemer avoids this by arguing this way:

&gt; Some principles of logic might be knowable by inference - if they could be supported by reference to other principles of logic. But it couldn't be the case that all principles of logic are known by inference, because this would require circular reasoning.

&gt;The principles of logic say what is and isn't a valid inference. If we didn't know the principles of logic at least implicitly, then we would not be in a position to find out anything by inference, since we wouldn't know which inferences were valid.

&gt;For example, to try to infer that modus ponens is valid by using modus ponens would beg the question. To try to infer it by some other kind of inference, would just push the question to how we know that other kind of inference to be valid. And so on. If we are to avoid either circularity or infinite regress, some principles of logic must be foundational.  

Instead of this, Rand opts for circularity and makes everything empirical:

&gt;all true reason depends upon sensory perception for reality contact.

And what sensory perceptions verify this claim? You can't verify the verification principle. This is what wrecked positivism. 

&gt;Which addresses I believe any criticisms Huemer could make of Rand's epistemology.  

I can't help but disagree. She can't avoid Huemer's criticisms (which, by the way, are not trying to undermine knowledge claims, like an interpretation of Plato's cave or the brain in the vat thought experiment might, but are trying to make a case for something Rand's gotten rid of) by saying "things just *are*, let's be reasonable about them." Even if existence exists, or whatever tautology you prefer to start out with, that doesn't refute the existence of *a priori* knowledge.   

In terms of escaping the criticisms of the skeptics, Rand doesn't seem to be doing anything more interesting than what philosophers like [Moore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Here_is_one_hand) or [Wittgenstein](http://www.iep.utm.edu/wittgens/#H8) did to address them, and she does so by making a tangle of or unnecessarily jettisoning a bunch of supported philosophical material on the way.



 Outside the U.S she's barely a footnote. This is a very American issue. Nobody even gives a shit about Rand anywhere else. I love Michael Huemer! I really need to read Ethical Intuitionism. At least she's not the Austrians. lulz Doesn't mean she didn't write some books. On the plus side, /r/coontown will have you loving her. The devil is *far* more interesting  Wow, nice collection they have too. Wouldn't mind sitting down in that hotel room with a cup of tea and getting my read on. Probably a bit out of place here, but The Alluvian in Greenwood, MS has a lounge on the second floor(iirc) with comfy chairs, a fireplace, and a modest library filled with the best authors MS has to offer. You just reminded me of it. &gt; getting my getting my read on.

\&gt;:( fixed it just for you, I don't know why I do that sometimes. Those "Everyman's" editions are so beautifully bound. I own three of these. somewhere there's a warehouse of these specific release sizes. but like the sun moves during the day, someone explain to me this mustve happened fairly quickly, since if it took too long youre right, the shadow would move and no longer protect the remaining snow.

but you can actually see that some of the snow is no longer under the shadow, so the shadow has already moved slightly Also, the layer of snow must be very thin and the sun is probably blocked by clouds throughout the day. This is what I couldn't figure out, thanks. You're welcome, Mr. Anal Fire. Senor Anal Fire sounds like an awesome hot sauce.  The Tacobell Fiery Rosetta with spicy special "Seor Anal Fire" sauce. This probably happened in Texas where it snows in the morning and is melted by lunch.  Well you'd be wrong there. Opposite side of the country: Wisconsin I was way wrong.  Yup. Dallas here. We just got hit with a winter storm and it's been melting the past couple of days. Howdy neighbor! I live in Fort Worth!  It requires some pretty specific conditions. In particular:

1. A thin layer of snow is deposited over night
1. The temperature is just below freezing
1. It's dawn

So the sun rises, the light warms the snow, and it melts. But in places it doesn't hit it remains frozen.

It's a lot more common to see this with pine trees (and houses) since their shadows keep the snow frozen longer.

Edit: Just realized I screwed up my formatting. wouldn't the melted snow dilute and further melt the snow touching the water? It's not like it flows. There's very little water. It also could have happened mid day if it was cloudy all morning. It seems very likely that it might have happened this way due to the amount of solar radiation that occurs at midday would melt snow much more quickly than the amount at dawn. So the shadow would have less time to move.  But shadows are also the shortest at mid-day, so it's not as obvious. I see that quite a bit where you'll get snow beneath pine trees even though it melted everywhere else, though that's a lot more common.  In winter the shadows aren't that short in Wisconsin.  Fair enough. The morning cloud cover burned off so the shadows only appeared when that happened.  Then the exposed snow melted, and the snow stuck in the shadow of the tree didn't. Maybe the sun was blocked by the clouds except when it was behind tree for those few moments and it went back behind the clouds Photons, how do they work? I thought the sun stays in place while the earth rotates. Nope, Copernicus was wrong; we live in a geocentric universe now.  unmelted snow. or as we call it out here, "snow" "Unmelted snow in light-provided shadow of earth-held tree" http://imgur.com/gallery/aAuTHLe [deleted] Hey, thanks! Somebody understands! The reader is fucking stupid if he can't figure that out... just saying lol Holy shit you are everywhere Kim  Luv u Dtf? Yes lol But it is of interest because it hasn't melted, so it was a perfectly valid thing to say. Mild interest.  This isn't /r/science, brah. And it definitely isn't brah science  All you need to know is that it's a pinching/snapping motion. Go in confident and don't take any more than a quarter of a second, and you can get that shit unhooked, even from outside the shirt. /r/evenwithcontext

EDIT: okay, I misunderstood, I didn't get the comment and thought it was something totally unrelated boo I'm not sure bra removal constitutes something horrible enough to be funny not only out of context, but in it as well, mate. Broscience* My word play did not find its audience it seems.  Hey! You got your karma back though :) It's a festivus miracle! It's unmelted the same way you are still undead for a while.  What color is this snow? blue and black?
 [mother FUCK](http://youtu.be/ZyBa3cYx6ZY?t=18s) White and gold is all I see. [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/j4FXxNl.jpg)

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/YUlM3iT.jpg) So... What happens as the shadow moves about during the day?

Edit: To clarify; Did the rest of the snow melt faster than the speed of which the shadow was moving? [They move it on over](http://i.imgur.com/xi0NlSf.jpg) I hate when I'm standing and this happens but with prostitutes It all melts...? The rest melts.. Gorgeous. It looks like snow painted some white shadows. Should I be concerned that I find most things posted on /r/mildlyinteresting interesting?  Well, "mildly interesting" is still interesting.

Picture it this way. Would you post this image to /r/pics expecting it to be wildly popular? If the answer is no, but you still find some peculiar detail to be mentioned, then this is the perfect sub. No, it just means you're a boring piece of crap. /s 

Seriously though, I thought this sub would be full of dumb stuff, but it's failing it's namesake. More like fairlyinteresting".  You're looking for /r/notinteresting Linked sub does not deliver  Oops. My bad. Fixed /r/notinteresting Thanks for your review /u/FISH_AND_CLITS It means you're a mild mannered person. The type of person that gets mentioned on the news about keeping to themself.
 As of lately, I feel like /r/mildlyinteresting has turned into /r/holyshitthatspossible? Really? Snow in a shadow didn't melt, holy shit that's possible?! Yes because all people do on /r/mildlyinteresting is post pictures of melted snow! "Unmelted snow" Where I come from, we call it stationary steam.  [deleted] No, that's Potassium I'm really disappointed that Potassium Oxide is K2O. I'm really disappointed that you can't reach 0K level that easily. No compound will ever be OK, because metals always go before non-metals. I wash my hands with melted snow The snow washes itself with my melted hands. savage. I think the op is just trying to differentiate between that snow and the snow that used to be around it, but melted.  It also explains how the blue/dress looks white and gold to people... check out the blue of the shadow. Unthawed water. Treepy As  Chain Fucking neaaat for real, sometimes I'm not sure if I'm on /r/mildlyinteresting or /r/woahdude  The thumbnail kinda looks like a river of poo.

This is super cool anyway though. Lol, that's what my wife said The very definition of an ASSHOLE is someone who rips off my publicly shared facebook pictures and shares them on reddit without attribution. banana-nou. You suck. Also, it was adjusted in the Photoshop Express app to bring out the natural contrast that my iPhone didn't capture, and was posted from the very spot that the picture was taken, in Madison, WI on March 1st. Thanks for liking it, and fuck off banana-nou. Why is the snow that's not on the path not melting? Because the ground is colder than the pavement.   That makes sense It's actually because you don't have as much snow left after plowing the pavement. Some of it is, you just can't tell because there is more snow there from a previous snowfall. The path was cleared after a larger amount of snow, and then later there was a light dusting, which is really only noticeable in places that didn't have any snow before (like the path). The older snow underneath the fresh snow also helps keep the new snow from melting as fast as the snow on the bare pavement. They shovel or blow the walkways....duh The snow is thicker on the grass, probably from previous snowfall, but if there were similar amounts of snow on both, the snow on the pavement will still melt quicker because the asphalt is a darker colour so it absorbs more heat from the sunlight. Was this in Wisconsin by chance? wow this is cool and gorgeous This title sounds like the title of a Nepalese epic or a post modern rock album. I was going to leave a comment about that god damn dress until I saw the other dress jokes getting down voted. Thanks for taking my chances for me, guys. Fantastic picture OP This is art! Nature produces the best kinds of arts.  Since the sun moves all day I highly doubt it's from a shadow. Probly low lying cement of cracks beneath the snow http://i.imgur.com/YJ1Rf0f.jpg
This made for such an awesome ipad wallpaper.
Thanks ! You stole this picture , jerk Yes, stolen picture.  Props to the real photographer Mike M in Madison, WI.   There must be no greenhouse gasses in that shadow I must say, tree skeletons are the most amazing thing that winter brings.

Don't give a fuck about you guys, and how much you invest on proper grammar. Did the Sun take a smoke break? Oh my. *That* is beautiful.  That microclimate Most racist thing I've seen in a while fuck you guys are bored....! Isn't this how photolithography works? Looks a lot more like frost than snow. I'm a tree guy, and this happens because of science or something neat. That is more than mildly interesting! [Here's a better one.](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2fe0em/so_the_sun_came_out_after_a_little_snow_and/)

 *another Are the snow and sidewalk blue and black or white and gold? Looks bluish white and goldish black to me. This just in, the sun melts snow. It also sublimates snow. I like the gold and white color pattern. Where do you live that your roads are made of gold? this picture is a good example of a purple tone being interpreted as white. everybody knows snow is white, but in the shadow you can see a purple hue. this illusion is what makes people see that damn dress as white. Unsublimated snow. I read this as "Shadow Tree" and thought it was an awesome name for a city. Slightly disappointed. This is not the same dress... Looks white/gold to me That's really really stretching the reference. I don't disagree with that Is that snow blue? Or white? Well as according to The Laws Of Physics' *ElectroMagnetic Radiation*, then, nothing on Earth is really that color which we see when we look at it. roflmao, what a lame ass post Wow, look at that blue snow around a black path





(sorry) For a minute there I was going to ask what that blue shit was all about. I'll just sit in the corner quietly now.... I see it as gold and white snow. But does everyone see white ribbons of snow on gold rocks or blue snow against black rocks? stop. I think there is just a tree pattern in the cement that the snow is melting on... Not blind but I want. Not blind, but I own one. It's a very clean-looking watch, and it's neat to be able to tell the time without giving that impatient-dude-looking-at-his-watch vibe. Same (own one and have perfect vision). I collect strange/uniqie watches and saw their kickstarter last year and knew I had to own it. I get asked a lot about this one when I wear it. One guy at a supermarket checkout even asked where to get one as his wife was partially blind. 

Definitely one of the nicest pieces in my collection. Should really get round to uploading my full collection to /r/watches.  Yeah, pretty much everyone that I've spoken to while wearing the watch has asked about it (unless they've heard about it from someone else asking, obviously).

At one point, it let me give an unintentional pun of: "How do you read the time?" "Hands," when I meant actually using my hand to feel out the time, and not, you know, the hands on a clock. [deleted] SPEAK FOR YOURSELF BUDDY. Sure, just reach down and feel your two balls... Right? How badass is that? It's on sale here. 

https://www.touchofmodern.com/sales/eone-d8876f5d-aa6d-4d9b-8e4f-b03e2db53656/bradley-black?sale=1&amp;utm_ [...and closed](http://i.gyazo.com/676fe09d829790692cec35ff50973a97.png) It's times like this I take on my alternate persona, lskdjflsdkfj@lskdjflkdjf.com

Edit: it's $259, btw. I tried "GoFuckYourself@blowme.com and it asked for my user password.. So there's that. You da real MVP Really want this thing. Buuuut don't wanna spend that many dollars. Seriously. I just wanted to look at the watch, but the log in pop up makes it so I can't even do that and there's no way to remove the pop up. /r/crappydesign Even the price says login to see price. Kiss my ass In chrome: right click -&gt; inspect element -&gt; delete Well that's a new trick. Neat. Wow, way to turn people away from your "sales" website. 

I wonder what marketing genius had that idea...  As someone who designs websites for a living, screw that guy. I've never visited a sales website before and had to fill out a form just to look at something. This isn't just bad designthis is one of the worst I've ever seen.

I was actually interested in buying one too. They're missing out on so much Reddit traffic right now. I hope they see how awful their conversion rate isbut considering how bad this design is, they probably don't even look at data like that. What a great site to not sell any watches. Fuckers. And here - http://www.watchelements.com/collections/eone-watches and I'll give ya 15% off with code "reddit15" &amp; free worldwide shipping... shameless post, my husband and I own the store :)  [More info](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZiNHDF2e54s) It's a silent video for a watch for blind people? O.o Well if it had sound, how would they hear it anyway?? By tasting the video obviously. Duh. Joke is kinda on you, [scientists have developed a way to hear by your tongue.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1bgmmJr2ILg) Scientists have too much time on their hands 

Edit: wtf, Ty  That's why they made the watch! If only they had more time on their pockets, then we could have pocketwatches this cool. There's hope for our planet after all! Plant powered batteries 
 http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view/309384/pug-licking-screen-o.gif Didn't even need to click this one. I could feel the URL. Was it the pug-licking-screen.gif that gave it away Nope. Probably was. It works for Terezi Pyrope...  Why does she need glasses of she's deaf? What? WELL IF IT HAD SOUND, HOW WOULD THEY HEAR IT ANYWAY??

Obviously you're deaf if you can't see what he wrote. They really should have named this the Helen Teller model.  Hellen Teller?  Is that Penn's partner's name when he's in drag?   Didn't you hear that blind people have better hearing than the average? They can listen to silent videos and understand it really well /r/shittyaskscience Twist, video does have sound it just plays at a frequency only blind people can hear with their super hearing. Don't play the video with your dog around.  Well at least it has subtitles for them. Just cause they're blind doesn't mean they can't read.  I'm an idiot. I was listening to music, read your comment, and then muted my music to listen to the video. For some reason it really bothers me that the hour hand is further from the center than the minute hand.  I own one of these watches and actually it makes a lot of sense.

The outer ball is harder to find and is harder to precisely tell where it is. By making it the hour hand, they made that problem irrelevant.

You almost always know generally what hour it is, and, once you feel that ball, you can easily distinguish the general hour (3:00 vs 4:00).

By contrast, you can very precisely -- to the minute -- discriminate the inner ball's position by brushing your finger between the ball and the raised markings.

This means that you can quite easily tell the time to the minute.

And, since you generally don't need to know what hour it is, you can quickly find the time just by brushing from the middle of the face outwards, instead of having to first feel around the edges for the outer ball.

It was counter-intuitive at first, but after a minute I was used to it and realized it made much more sense. I'm not blind but I like watches, can you tell me how long the battery life is please ?
 Dunno. Mine hasn't run out since I got it a year ago. It should be roughly the same as a regular watch, and the battery is replaceable. maybe the reason you're bothered is because every single fucking clock in the world has the small hand being the hour and for some odd reason this one is different. Well considering blind people have never see any clocks I doubt it would bother them. If they were blind from birth. Touch. What if they're blind from death?
 I had an uncle who died once and couldn't see shit afterwards. Which came in handy because he was buried in a cesspool. True but the minute hand is at a larger radius for the added granularity needed for minutes versus hours  Granularity is a beautiful word.  I think it makes sense. You check the minute hand a lot more than the hours and this way the hours move more slowly, so you already know basically where on your wrist it should be. If you check and it's 3:07 and your friend is late and you check again 5 minutes later you don't need to start fiddling around your wrist to figure out where the minute hand went. Or if you have no idea what time it is but you know it's the afternoon you don't have to fish the whole way around the wide part looking for the minutes. Also you get more accuracy from the larger circle, and being able to tell two hours apart is very important for the proper functoning of a watch Top youtube comment "Silent video for a watch for blind people" At work. Turned the volume way up because I couldn't hear anything. Then I decided to watch that "Two New Magnetic Toys" video from the featured list - of course forgetting about the volume being turned all the way up. Mistake.

Edit: I can't stop watching this guys' videos.

Edit2: [Definitely my favorite one so far](http://youtu.be/4zY7Wv0sUyI) Grand Illusions is the shit. Dope. [Neat](http://x3.cdn03.imgwykop.pl/c3201142/comment_qs3gMUDlfsAmHjgLUh4fS4iniNi4WVFi.gif) [How neat is that?](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hm3JodBR-vs) &gt; This is an aspen. You can tell that it's an aspen tree because of the way it is. Wow! That's pretty neat! people downvoting this are not so neat, you can tell by the way it is. For those wondering, here's what the guts look like: http://imgur.com/4D0O8S9

Mine broke, so I took it apart to see if it was an easy fix; it wasn't with the tools available. E-one did offer a free and quick repair, though. Kudos to them. OP, does your friend know you took this picture?

Edit - Jeez, was not expecting this turn out. Thanks for the laughs everyone. And thanks for the response OP! OP have been following this blind dude around for a while now, calling him his friend. They're only friends because he can't see how hideous OP is Hey now, Smeagol is in desperate need of a friend. Aww, that's precious Isn't that kinda the plot of Frankenstein.  Barnaby Jones!  My new best friend! Let's take a nap. He will once he sees it posted. I see what you did there. Unlike OP's friend. Upvoted the post for visibility Okay, now we're blindly making puns for karma now.

I took a stab in the dark there. ^^I ^^suck ^^at ^^puns More puns than you can shake a stick at. ..:..: ::.: .-:: did you just braille at me Fuck yeah! Hahahaha! I mean... what? "If you read this you're gay" Oh shit I actually am gay. How did you know?! oh no Just follow the signs. How dare you! OP's mother was a **saint**! I spent too long trying to figure out what this says and I still don't have a clue.
 It's not real braille, just a bunch of random periods and colons. Real braille is three dots high, not two. ( o  o) I get it. I'm going to be checking regularly to see how long it is before google returns this page as a search result for "..:..: ::.: .-::" I know you jest but there actually is a [Braille Translator](http://www.brailletranslator.org/) online. http://i.imgur.com/w0zkcgd.gif I fail to see how making pun jokes about being blind is funny

 He may have one of the new braille computers. There is a magnetic reddit, you know that right? I asked her if I could take a picture of her watch and she said sure. I didn't tell her that I was gonna use it for karma tho :)


EDIT: I posted a [picture of her]( https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2oadgw/my_wellhumored_friend_michelle/) a few months back the idea of taking a picture from someone who can't see is now an interesting concept for me. I got into photography because my mother was losing her vision, but i never thought about people who haven't been able to see having their picture taken. Explaining what a photograph is for someone who will never see it. Then again i guess many things are like that. Driving is a good example. "It's like an MP4 but is paused on one note and for your eyes"

Damn it is hard explaining that. Still tying to word that better That was actually... somehow understandable in some kind of weird way.. Mp4s are videos.  Not for a blind person, they're not. Nothing more weird than a recording of a song or whatever for a deaf person, I think? And you can explain one with the other. They probably grasp it a lot better than you think they do. [You misunderstand, he **blinded** his friend so he could take this photo](http://i.imgur.com/1zpNcm6.gif)  So is that showing 10 o'clock or 11:50? 11:50, bearing on the watch face is for minutes and the side bearing is for hours, according to the YouTube video linked elsewhere 11.50. The pic is upside down Well... yeah. Duh.
 That seems backwards to me. The ball bearing closer to the center SEEMS like it should be the "short hand." 

Probably because I'm used to looking at a standard analog clock. My dad got that watch after supporting the kick starter, it's pretty cool.

He's not blind though, he just likes collecting watches. Ya, my dad has one too. He's not blind either.  My dad doesn't have this watch and he's dead so he's kind of blind I guess.
 My dad doesn't have this watch, isn't blind, and isn't dead, so I have no place being here. Grandfather clock here.  My son is a watch for dead blind people. Username checks out  Well if he ever goes blind at least he is prepared! omfg does ~~he~~ she know how cool that looks? That raises the question, "What *feels* cool to blind people?".  Ice. No, that's cooler than cool.  Ice cold. Alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright! OK, now ladies. ya? Pm me ur tits Smooooooooth I'm literally crying laughing. I have no idea why this is so funny to me There are only 15 "alright"s in the song, not 16. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qMtsir0l9k 30 minutes of lyrical blue balls Thank GOD he says, "ok now LADIES" at the end. rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino rhino I said, what's cooler then being cool?  Ice cold.  I can't hear ya!

I said, what's cooler then being cool? #ICE COLD!!! Cooler than Freezer? Next time on Dragon Ball Z!! Having your girl say "I love you" and responding "Shut up baby, I know it"  How does this work? Does a small magnet rotate around the watch during that day or am I missing some obvious physical phenomenon that makes this watch work?  From the youtube video:

&gt;Eone has created a wristwatch that doesn't require a vision or a sound. Instead of traditional watch hands, time is indicated by two ball bearings  one indicating minutes (top), and one indicating hours (side). 

&gt;These two ball bearings are connected, with magnets, to a watch movement beneath the watch face.The magnets make it so that even if the ball bearings are moved when touched, they spring back to the correct time with a gentle shake of your wrist. So much crap would get stuck to that watch.  Can't keep my magnetic drill bit holders clean no matter what I do.   &gt; Eone has created a wristwatch that doesn't require a vision

Surely they had to have had a vision to develop the watch in the first place? How would you teach someone who can't see or hear how to tell time?  There's a sign language which involves making hand symbols on the persons hand so they can feel what you are saying, and once they have learned the sign language, you can teach them how to use this watch by explaining it with the sign language How do you teach them the hand face language? Wouldn't they think it's weird you're feeling their face? It's the same way as teaching spoken language or visual sign language - starting with matching the symbols with physical objects, so the child learns the hand signs for food, drink, bed, chair, bath, mother, father, dog etc etc, and the verbs like walking, sitting, swimming etc etc, and the more abstract words like here and there and up and down etc, and then the grammar which makes sentences http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Keller I assume that's why you have the triangle and the different sized lines so they can feel those. Small watch gnomes rotate the crank from inside the spherical gnome holder ball. Duh.  Seriously. Some people don't know *anything* about gnomes. Everything I know about Gnomes, I learned from [Gnomes](http://www.amazon.com/Gnomes-Wil-Nuygen/dp/B000O2RSBS/ref=pd_sim_b_3?ie=UTF8&amp;refRID=1KX5XEDGGA757B85WZM9). It should be required reading.  Well to be fair it's better for us to keep our shit on the d-low. Cops hate illegal worker gnomes. It doesn't help that we like to burn. The ball bearings rotate around the watch so that you can feel the time

http://www.dezeenwatchstore.com/shop/the-bradley-stainless-steel/ Time flies at the North Pole. Fruit flies like bananas. Bananas don't fly. How do I get one in America? Links people, I know you can do it http://www.dezeenwatchstore.com/shop/the-bradley-stainless-steel/ I got mine here : http://www.sportiquesf.com/products/eone-bradley-watch-classic-canvas-leather-black

Located in California, got the watch in less than a week (live in GA).  Sitting at an Orlando courthouse and that link is blocked for illegal downloads... 

You wouldn't download a watch http://i.imgur.com/jbmifm6.jpg

I totally would  Am I the only one that talked to a pop-up sales/cust. support person right of the bat (after clicking the link)? Thought it was a bot, but ~~it~~ he responded to my math test/questions hesitantly but correctly. Perfect grammar too.  Honestly, I thought that was www.sportqueef.com.

I'm sorry, internet. Americans and Canadians probably get better prices buying from them directly.

http://shopna.eone-time.com/ Crap, that's expensive. :/

EDIT: Okay, not that expensive for a watch. But still expensive for the poor college student that I am. You know for a watch, not really. The regular watch right below it is almost 500$. 
175.00 ex VAT (rest of world)
210.00 inc VAT (UK and EU) About $261. More like /r/interestingasfuck  fucking magnets, how do they work? yes please explain this magnetic device I'm compelled to purchase! I think magnetic watch sales are going to increase because of this. See you on the front page. This is more than mildly interesting. The Bradley is named after Brad Snyder, a 2006 Naval Academy graduate and former Naval Officer who lost his sight in Afghanistan. One year after losing his sight, he earned a gold medal in the 400-meter freestyle at the 2012 Paralympic Games in London. I graduated with him and am obviously very proud of his heroism. He went blind from trying to take pictures of things where the sun reflected directly into his eyes. Bought my adventitiously blind Pops one of these for his birthday.  He uses an Amazon Echo when he's home to get time and other info but when he's out it provides him with more freedom in not needing to rely on his company for the time or sometimes rudely pulling out his phone to query the time.  

He uses it for yardwork and gardening also, the ball bearings are surprisingly sturdily-held in there.

The hour dashes are all tactile and you can 'flick' the ball bearing help guage what hour slots are nearest.  Really cool kickstarter that was overfunded by a couple mil if I recall correctly.

*edit: "rely on" What if he puts it on upside down by accident?

"Oh man, 6 o'clock already? I'd better get going!"

"Jerry it's noon." I know these guys! They're good people and all around awesome entrepreneurs running the dc-based startup, eone. The black bradley is my favorite (feels like you've got the batmobile on).  Check out their [site!](https://eone-time.com/)  Buy here: https://eone-time.com/shop.php# So it's more of like a 'feel' rather than a watch??? What sorcery is this? magnets. How do they work?! sorcery. Miracles everywhere in this bitch My wife got me one of these a few months ago. It's a really neat watch, and it's definitely a conversation starter. It also makes it easy to tell the time when you're in a meeting or talking to someone, without rudely looking straight at your wrist. Note, I am not blind.  [I've got one too!](http://i.imgur.com/tlcQEnK.jpg) I'm not blind though... How does she know if it is AM or PM?

Edit: Gender I would assume that's what the sun is for I think that's a real cool watch for *anybody*. I think this is more interesting than just mildly! That's really cool.  http://shopna.eone-time.com

There's where you can buy them.  http://imgur.com/gYmiFvn that took balls to make Comedic comment not involving vision puns or otherwise unoriginal blindness jokes. Thanks for taking the less obvious route. glad someone appreciated it, cheers i'm so utterly baffled at all the people itt who seem to think you have to see the words 'am' or 'pm' to know if it's night or day holy shit

there are other clues, guys

it's pretty damn hard to misplace 12 entire hours This post feels suspiciously like astroturf since I *just* got THIS ad in my Facebook feed and know I can't be retargeted based on Reddit browsing.

http://imgur.com/DGO1Q0e

...so I think this is part of a larger awareness and marketing campaign for this watch.

Nice try. Or it is already commercially available, and a blind person bought one.  The timing (HA! Puns) is too coincidental.  I never viewed the kickstarter for this watch, never visited a page about it, only saw it here in a thumbnail.

Then suddenly, it pops up on my newsfeed for the first time the same day this is on Reddit.  Too coincidental for my taste. I'm involved in events and activities with people at the CNIB (Canadian National Institute for the Blind), never have seen this watch, everyone I know wears a talking watch. I think this is more if you want to discretely find out the time My magnetic friend has a blind watch. It's called The Bradley and it's kind of an expensive watch 

http://www.watchismo.com/bradley-black.aspx

 It wasn't though. I'm not sure where you got those facts. It was named after Bradley Snyder who was a naval officer who lost his sight after an explosion in Afghanistan and has since gone to the Paralympics to win gold in swimming. 

The watch was designed to serve the blind and those who are interested in the design. It was then named after Snyder, not designed by or specifically for him. Furthermore, it wouldn't serve well in special operations anyway. It's a well designed watch that can handle some wear but definitely could not survive intense situations close to that level.  False. It was developed by EONE for blind individuals. The creators met Brad (the Naval officer) through a friend and he became the spokesperson/namesake after competing in the special olympics.

Source: my SO is friends with Brad.  I agree. Source: I know the creator. Whoever is running the company is amazing! My boyfriend bought the black watch when it first came out and messed up the band trying to adjust it almost immediately. 

I sent an email because the black band was not listed for sale as an individual item on the website. Not only were they able to send me the new band, they also sent the tool to adjust it and I had it all to me in time to get it fixed for Christmas. 

I am so greatful. They're awesome!  Awesome! At around $280 it looks to be cheaper than the other alternative usually worn.  The [Tissot T-Touch Silen-T](http://www.tissot.ch/products/tissot-touch-silen-t/T40148651.html) is the other one.  I think it's around $480.  It's still kind of a niche watch, my bet is the Tissot would hold up over the years much better though.

I'd still be concerned about keeping the actual mechanism clean.  They say it's resistant enough to handle splashes, but it'd need to be able to survive a toothbrush or such being taken to the grooves the bearings ride in to keep it clean.  That's always the catch for watches made for blind people - the very need for tactile feel makes it hard to have them resistant to dirt/water and being cleaned. That;s actually the reason for the magnetic bit, I think. The actual mechanism is entirely enclosed, interacting only magnetically with the balls. And it looks like it's fairly weakly coupled, I expect the mechanism would decouple from the ball before it'd break from being forced.  Yeah, I've got one and the ball-bearings are weakly coupled, so they spin around the watch when not attached to the hidden magnet. Kinda fun to play with absent-mindedly. Clean often and use a little bearing oil and you should be fine I think you heard the guy was a navy officer (and not that he is blind) and made up the rest. You think somebody would do that, just go on the internet *and tell lies?* &gt; no watches with luminescent hands

I feel like that's a little excessive. U.S. military ain't playing lol Still can't night land nav You wouldn't think that if your life depended on not being seen. Just saying. I wouldn't anyway. But I plan on dying in a terrible orgy accident, not in a war.  [idk, i'll take gently dying in my sleep](http://images2.fanpop.com/image/photos/13100000/Pulp-Fiction-pulp-fiction-13185677-1920-810.jpg) It is. I'm US military, know plenty of guys who do night ops, and all of them have backlit watches. I own one "military" watch which has a red backlight instead of the standard green, but I think I'm the only person who I've ever seen wear it.

**Edit: Edit your comment and then downvote us, eh? Mature.** Interesting edit. that's awesome.

how acute of a read can your friend get with this?  Like, can they tell the exact minute reliably? Well, the markings on the watch are by 5 min but there is space between so I assume that the margin of error is about two minutes /r/watches Not made by Seiko and no NATO strap.
0/10 [deleted] copy cat That's pretty badass.  I want one and I'm not even blind....and I hate wearing watches. WTF!? Why no braille for the numbers?! Shit would look like something out of Predator. I see the minute 'hand' and hour 'hand' but.... how does the wearer know if it's AM or PM?  That's not something marked on normal watches anyways I have never known any blind people, so I'm speculating, but I'm pretty sure even if you can't see if it's day or night, it's pretty hard for your circadian rhythm to be off by 12 hours except for in cases of jet lag. Must be made out of acrylic; acrylic has a refractive index close to water, so it is nearly undistinguishable. This is why underwater cameras use acrylic domes, because in the water, the scratches nearly totally disappear. Must be what Chris Angel walked on through the pool. Also didn't think of that... Damn he's goosm

Edit: I meant good, but goosm works.  Goosm: when it's so good you get an orgoosm. More like *"What a fucking goosm"*. dude goosm is an adjective orgoosm is the noun shit yo Of course it is, you know...I goosm, you goosm, he, she, me, goosm! Goosmology, the study of goosm!! It's first grade, Chazzy_dude! Conjugoosm. He's really not that good.  Mostly relies on restrictive camera angles and actors.  But on TV if I turn off my brain he blows it.  &gt;But on TV if I turn off my *mind* he *freaks* it. 

 He walked on magic through the pool.. Are you saying that the tray in this photo is made of magic? Either magic or something indistinguishable from it. Bullshit? He walked on bullshit across the pool. Makes it more believable IMO But what about the smelly smell that smells smelly? Its only smellz Acrylic has a refractive index close to magic, so it is nearly undistinguishable.

 Did no one get the Arthur C Clarke reference? That is impossible! At an hour old, it has 34 net upvotes. Definitely some people got the reference. [reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sBQLq2VmZcA)
 240p. Good god. It was a different time back then. The woman fucked it up by blowing the bubble as she swam under... it didn't reach the surface like it ought to have done. Notice how no one in the water ever tries to swim in front of him amd throughout the video no one ever swims in the path he takes.  Ami missing something or does a woman walk right in front of him around 1:15? [deleted] Not god, Grodd. He used plexi glass, not sure if its the same thing. You can try this with glycerine and glass as well. Stick a glass rod into the solution and it will completely disappear. Wasnt there an Agatha Christie story where someone was stabbed with a glass dagger, which was then hidden in a crystal flowerpot filled of water? Get outta here with your reasonable explanations! Probably made from faerie eyelashes.  Bonded together with glue made from unicorn hooves. [deleted] Wha... what dishes are there to wash at Little Caesar's??? *indistinguishable Was totally ready to answer this after taking a fiber optics course. Sorry.  Haha. Now I can hide all my pastries... hehe Careful. Hiding pastries leads you down a sticky road. I usually just hide my pastries in my stomach  http://i.imgur.com/XbUrRzT.gifv http://38.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_ldwsovvCEW1qbtchoo1_400.gif I hide them in my rectum! Rectum, damn near killed em.
 Hector is that you Hector's Rectum is Real!  Hector's Rectum can't melt steel beams How can Hector's rectum be real if our eyes aren't real?? How can our eyes be real if Oprah isn't real? How Can You Guys Be Jaden If You Don't Capitalize Letters? Do these pastries taste like ass to you? (   ) Or you could say...does my ass taste like pastries?  Passtries Let me guess... someone stole your sweet roll. Water you hiding them for? Your sense of humor wets my appetite.

*SPLOOSH* No no no. It's ba dum sploosh  If you like that, [check out these balls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPmJGsTtBO0). That seems like a great way to poison someone in some sort of Hamlet-like wine goblet scenario. OR, you could just use actual poison. OR,        

Bees Better if they're tiny little spheres though so small they don't realize they're swallowing them - complicated, but opens up a wide range of colorless poisons that you would otherwise taste. That seems like a choking hazard :o If tapiocas were invisible it'd be a hidden strike to the tonsils. These two posts combined.... /r/nocontext heaven. "Guys, we need to talk about phrasing" They're really squidgy and pop easily. Squidgy? Squidgy. Risky click Risky comment, considering the other guy who said it is -16 I'm on my way down. Tell them what happened. Tell them I regretted nothing.  The other guy also had a grammar error ;) He is the chosen one, he will receive our upvotes. Thank you for my new pickup line Hooray for refractive index! http://i.imgur.com/guN8MBv.jpg http://i.imgur.com/DzunlyM.gifv This didn't need to be a gif.  Yes it did! How else would I be able to have a hard time seeing what's going on with a shakey camera! Could someone explain this?

Edit: please stop explaining the refractive index to me. I'm a physics undergrad. I'm asking about the picture I replied to. It's just a picture of a girl, how is it relevant?

Edit 2: I'm so sorry, I'm on mobile and its comes up as a jpg not a gif.  Magic Thanks Yer a wizard /u/Masters_in_PhD I'm a wat? A lizard! From the Watlizard gaming forums? But I'm just Harry FER FUCKS SAKE /u/smashthefunk WE'VE BEEN THROUGH THIS I'LL FUCKIN' KNAW YER ARM OFF, HAGRID! *Mr Bean snort* I see a gif but it has jpg as the extension. Maybe it isn't moving for you? Yep, thanks. [deleted] https://i.imgur.com/Pmxoooa.gif Water and glass have fairly differing refractive indicies, 1.33 and 1.52 respectively. It's a gif, not a pic. Apparently, you got the least relevant frame of all. When light passes from one medium to another it bends. This is why if you stick a stick into a pond the stick appears to bend at the surface of the water, because the light coming to your eyes from the stick beneath the water is coming at you from a different angle.

If you put a see-through thing in water which bends light in the same way as water does (this is called having the same refractive index) the light passes from water through the clear object and back into the water without being bent, meaning the edges of the solid object aren't visibly defined since both are transparent. This means that you can't see the object when it's submerged int water.

Is this clear enough? "Is this *clear* enough"

Oh, you. Fuck sake, I understand the post. It's the picture I replied to that I'm curious about. 

I don't know what I'm supposed to be looking at. 

Thanks for the reply regardless.  It's a gif. It shows up as still in the preview and if you click through it moves. Relevance is obvious when you see it move, which is why people don't understand what you're asking.  A test tube being put bottom first into a beaker of a liquid.  It "disappears" when the mouth of the test tube gets submerged and the tube fills with the liquid, leading to the refractive illusion that everyone else is explaining.  I'm guessing you're not seeing it as a .gif? It's a gif of a woman with a glass tube, she has her thumb over the top of the tube, and puts the tube underwater, she then releases her thumb, so it fills with water, ans it appears to disappear I'm pretty sure it's a hollow tube (so you can see it being submerged) and then it gets filled with the same liquid (and "disappears") The plastic of the tray has the same [refractive index](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refractive_index) as water.  If objects have different refractive indices (such as water and most types of glass and plastic), light gets distorted when it moves between them, so you can see the shape of the submerged object.  You can get materials with a specific refractive index for the purpose of having them be invisible in certain fluids. For anyone who wants to try this at home: it's Pyrex glass and Wesson oil. What is wrong with this gif? It is so so terrible. [Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OZxtwIc3ieM) What is that? An animate JPEG? Imgur doesn't care what extension you put in the url. It's a gif. Which I fucking hate since that way it plays as a gif instead of gifv and takes forever to load. On the flipside, many mobile users can't see .gifv format, and gfycat can be unreliable on some mobile devices too. You think I know what a Jay-Peg is?? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QEzhxP-pdos To expand a bit, the refractive index measures how a given substance bends/refracts the light. If you match the refractive index of the two items, there will be no difference in the way light bends and you will get this visual effect. Water has a RI of 1.333 so we can reasonably conclude this tray has an RI very close to that. Using a refractometer is probably the part I loathe most about my job and the fluid to use it is ~$50/40ml. You should sell that fluid in dark alleyways around MIT. Could make a killing. Your refracometer runs on printer ink? Well it is expensive but I've had the same bottle for three months now and probably have 30-35ml remaining. So at least it's not a frequent purchase. You also have to consider that RI fluid has a narrow application so different formulas are used by different industries. There aren't too many people out there measuring the RI of gemstones so the manufacturers have to charge more to be profitable. I have to pull RI on every stone since I import stones that usually have dubious (at best) paperwork. Your average jeweler will probably have a refractometer but they will usually trust their suppliers and the certificates enough that it isn't standard procedure unless other evidence of counterfeits is present. Eh, that's interesting. It's although still worthwhile for you to import those, I presum ? If the paperwork are dubious, how do you know they're not illegally obtained (and I mean, bloody-level illegal) ?  Well as a rule I don't deal with diamonds which make up a significant portion of the conflict-gemstone market. It's not a moral decision (diamonds in general, conflict diamonds are abhorrent), the market prices are hyperinflated (in my opinion) and it is virtually impossible to be profitable. I also carry out due diligence before doing business with any supplier, and I am continuously evaluating my supplier's performance.



When I'm buying I would prefer to always get legitimate stones, but usually the most competitively priced lots are at the highest risk for fraudulent activity. It's very rare to encounter a truly counterfeit gemstone shipment, however it is very common for enhancements to remain undisclosed, the weight/clarity is misreported, or in extreme cases I'll get synthetics/simulations billed as natural. These stones are worth less than their natural, unenhanced counterparts but they still have value. As long as I catch and disclose these discrepancies to customers I am legally allowed to sell them. I can generally tell by the price and the underwriting laboratory if a shipment is likely to be fraudulent, and I adjust what I'm willing to pay accordingly. If a shipment comes in and winds up being fraudulent I usually end up selling them for enough to cover my expenses and will sometimes get a modest profit. Jewelers prefer to deal with somebody like me because I am beholden to FTC regulations and Federal Law, I am heavily incentivized to find and disclose all relevant information and to provide a warranty on the validity of that information. Thank you for you answer, it's an interesting insight. Yeah, I suppose by buying at the lowest price available you take some risks, but if you manage well it pays off. Although, you must always be extremely careful not to let slip something, that must be somewhat stressful. Were you ever in trouble because of some gemstome you bought but didn't notice some fraud ?  It is stressful, but that's mitigated by a fund devoted to paying warranty claims and the way I handle these issues. It only becomes felonious fraud if I refuse to remedy the situation. I've only had one case where I really blew it, but the fact that I had a shipping label generated for the return and a full refund processed in under 24 hours actually made them one of my best repeat customers. Reputation is *everything* in this business, and customers generally hold the person who immediately fixes mistakes in higher regard than the person who claims to never make them. &gt; or in extreme cases I'll get synthetics/simulations billed as natural.

I might be misunderstanding the terms... I would assume that simulations are very similar to actual gems, but a different chemical structure.  I would assume synthetics are the actual gems, grown in a lab.  Is that correct?

If so, how do you tell the synthetics from the mined gems?  I bought an emerald necklace recently that was advertised as "created emerald" which I understand to be a lab-grown emerald, with the same chemical formula and properties of a mined emerald.  (It's a beautiful gem, large, clear, great color, she was very happy with it.)

The main thing that comes to mind is that the grown gems would ironically be *too* perfect, without the inclusions and imperfections you'd get in mined gems.  Am I close? You are correct in the simulation vs. synthetic distinction. Synthetics are chemically identical, but there are specific inclusions and features that can be identified that will make it clear they are synthetic. [Here is one of many guides in identifying synthetic emerald.](http://www.gemrockauctions.com/) Simulations are a different chemical structure but are the same in appearance as their genuine counterpart. You are also correct that synthetics are sometimes too perfect, 10x zoom is standard for judging clarity, to identify synthetics I usually use a 100x-200x zoom microscope.  Are you a gemologist? What do you do exactly?

How can I get some moldavite without being ripped off, I'm afraid to buy it off ebay because I think a lot of it will be fake. 

Cheers. I'm not a gemologist yet, but I am in the process of taking the classes required. I haven't dealt with Moldavite personally so I don't have any great sources. The best way to guarantee it is genuine is to pay for a GIA/EGL certified stone, EGL is for-profit and known to be "looser" with their underwriting as a result, but both are very reputable laboratories. These certificates cost about $85.00 so you can expect to pay a premium to get these in a similar amount. If you do go with Ebay, be cognizant that there is a thriving industry around selling accounts with near-perfect feedback. [Gem Rock Auctions](http://www.gemrockauctions.com/) has stricter merchant requirements than Ebay, so it is a bit safer, but there is still risk involved. Are there any solids/liquids with the same refractive index as air? That would be cool to see, an object that only becomes visible when placed in water (or whatever else you'd like to place it in but you see the idea) "Almost all solids and liquids have refractive indices above 1.3, with aerogel as the clear exception. Aerogel is a very low density solid that can be produced with refractive index in the range from 1.002 to 1.265."

Wikipedia [Here's a list of RI for many common substances.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_refractive_indices#List) Most of the substances with a similar RI to air are also gaseous and further research couldn't find solids and liquids.  To be more accurate, the RI measures the speed at which light travels in a material. RI of 1.33 means light travels at 1/1.33 the speed it would in a vacuum. It is differences in RIs which cause light to bend. +1 for Snell's Law Wanna try some refractive index science for yourself at home? Check out [this short video](https://youtu.be/UIovk_LgHRA) showing you how to turn things invisible. I can kinda sorta see parts of the outlines in the water. Basically a superhero  If I ever need to find a submerged pastry tray, you're my man.  And if I ever need to find beef in the dark, you're my man.  And if I ever need to pop a willy, yo- actually I can do that myself And my axe! What do you need me for? If you look closely you can still see the top half above water Fill it with water, pick it up and take a picture Makes me wonder, is there anything with the same refractive index as air, thereby making it invisible? Other gasses. You probably won't be able to see a cloud of helium or argon or something like that. Just because something isn't visible doesn't mean it has the same refractive index as air. It doesn't? Care to explain?

As far as my understanding goes, for something to be 'invisible' it must

- Have the same refractive index as the medium
- Not adsorb or scatter any light (it must be transparent)

Am I wrong? You know how you look over a hot car and you see the air shimmering?  Hot air has a different refractive index than cool air, and when they mix turbulently, they disrupt the light passing through.  I've personally observed similar effects when releasing pure gases from a pressurized container.  I'm not sure if it's all due to temperature, I find it perfectly believable that different gases could have different refractive indexes and thus be visible by their effects on the light passing through the cloud before it dissipates and fully homogenizes with the ambient atmosphere. Totally right, but that's what I said?

I said that things need to have a the same refractive index to be invisible. /u/Vladimir_Poonani said that not all invisible things have the same refractive index as the medium. So a counter-example would be a material that is invisible, but has a deviating refractive index.

Your example is in line with what I said: hot/pressurized gas has a deviating refractive index, and is thus not invisible. I had to reread what both of you said about ten times before I finally got your point.  You're right, carry on. plot twist:  It's actually only 1/3 a pastry tray and OP is invisible allowing him to hold it above the water without being seen. If you change the angle, I wonder if it will be visible. nah, it's because the refractive index of the tray is the same as that of water so light passes right through it undisturbed. This stays constant regardless of where you look at it from I think the US army is just testing their new camo water [deleted] I remember when I was young and thought "acid" was just a specific kind of liquid that magically melted everything. It doesn't help that that's exactly how it's shown in most cartoons and such. Acid is a lot quicker way of saying Hydrochloric acid. Which also doesn't melt everything. Nothing melts everything because if it did there would be no way to contain it. Unless we made everything out of steel beams  Hydrochloric acid can melt steel beams! TIL HCL=/=Jet Fuel Ahhh,  I've been wondering for ages what that hilarious story was I read that one time, and your username reminded me! but those suck at containing jet fuel 
lava melts everything. ^except ^the ^furniture This is how planets get a liquid core.  SCIENCE Fluoroantimonic acid comes pretty goddamn close. &gt;PkA -25

Holy fucking shit that's terrifying.

And, as so many terrifying compounds do, it has fluorine.  Of course. How can acid be real if our containers aren't real? Who let Jayden in here? If there was a substance that could melt anything it would just neutralize quickly. Like antimatter is completely possible but we never see it because there was slightly more matter in the universe so all the antimatter got annihilated. So to get high on acid, all I have to do is drink some HCl? I prefer [magic acid](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_acid), and no, not LSD. &gt;This conjugate BrnstedLewis superacid system was developed in the 1960s by the George Olah lab at Case Western Reserve University, and has been used to stabilize carbocations and hypercoordinated carbonium ions in liquid media. Magic acid and other superacids are also used to catalyze isomerization of saturated hydrocarbons, and have been shown to protonate even weak bases, including methane, xenon, halogens, and molecular hydrogen.


http://imgur.com/gallery/q6vCApt /r/childtheories And now that I'm older, I know acid is a magic square of paper you eat that makes everything melt. Probably a base, assuming it's in a sink of sanitizer. Sanitizer is rarely acidic, IIRC. Your point stands though. What acid can dissolve plastics? Not an acid, but [acetone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetone#Solvent) can dissolve plastics.  

It's usually found inside of nail polish, paint thinners, etc. LPT: So are knives, so don't leave them in there. What pastry tray? What sort of sorcery is this?  It just has the same refractive index as water.  Oh, that explains everything. ooh i know this one, the light traves in that tray at approximately the same speed as in that water. thus the light doesnt refract much while entering/exiting the tray thus you wont see the contours. a dish in a tub of water ... TO THE FRONT PAGE WITH YOU!!! I know right.... Never thought it would get more than a few views. Witchcraft! If you live with someone, you should fill the sink and leave that at the bottom. Here is an explanation for this phenomenon
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D9CvH388K3s So ELI5...why can't we accomplish this with the refraction of light in air ? Video or it doesn't happen. It's white and gold. Or is it the water that is invisible on the pastry tray
 It's Pyrex! We only see clear things because of the way light bends when it passes through them, and this is measured by a substances refractive index. Pyrex has the same refractive index as water, so it becomes completely invisible when submerged. 
Edit: I'm a dufus. It's oil that pyrex's refractive index is super close to. My B.  Sorry, but that's not correct. [This page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_refractive_indices) lists water at an index of 1.33, while pyrex is listed at 1.47. And [this classroom experiment](http://www.exploratorium.edu/snacks/disappearing_glass_rods/) suggests dipping pyrex in water and then in Wesson brand oil, and noting that the pyrex is harder to see in the oil than in the water.

edit: clarified with a few words. Not to mention, anyone who's owned a Pyrex measuring cup would have noticed by now if it suddenly went invisible (except for its measuring lines) like some sort of Cheshire Cat cup. I thought it was acrylic that had the same refractive index as water? I've seen this done with pyrex in vegetable oil, but I don't remember it working with water. Wow front page.... Never thought this would make it here. Thanks yal! Made my day! Busy at work and a friend Texted me saying I'm on the front. Didn't believe him. It looks like it's half of a tray sitting a cm into the water All of my dishes are made of this according to my roommates.  Patent it quickly before someone sells it to the military Now I understand why the poor turtles get their heads stuck in the six pack holders. Same refractive index. Any time an object in a transparent medium have the same refractive index, the object is rendered nearly invisible.  This happens because there are no horizons between different RI's to refract the light, which just carries on in straight lines like the object isn't even there.  Microscopists use this effect all the time in a process called "clearing".  If you replace the water in a biological specimen with toluene or methyl salicylate (even glycerol), then embed the specimen in epoxy medium or canada balsam, the specimen is rendered translucent, allowing you to see internal anatomy, while "freezing" the specimen in a durable hard material.  This makes for a permanent, cleared specimen that can be referred to for years, like ants trapped in amber. [These specimens](http://inkedanimal.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/100524_15_transparent-specimen.jpg) combine this approach with bone and cartilage stains for fantastic effect

Source = I is a biologist
 You are a wizard, pastry tray!!! 10+ BakersVille! Quality Post Plot twist: actually acid, and the other half of the tray just dissolved [Fixed that for you](https://imgur.com/Lr2JwHI) And this is why glass isn't allowed near pools. Oh. Must be Romulan. I'd say Klingon Touche. This is obviously just a broken tray.  Right guys?

...guys? Camouflage pants. It's refractive index is the same as water's The tray is white and gold. I KNEW IT Its in the water, and I can see it just fine.  I can see it still. Dat refractive index Good job on keeping everything so clean What would the process look like to make that and would it be possible to make one on your own? My buddy helped with this. Here's how they did it: [http://i.imgur.com/gDlabsc.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/gDlabsc.jpg) I'd be poopin bricks when it came time to remove that support. Blimey that's really cool  Similar to making an arch, I'm guessing. Some sort of form or frame to hold the stone in place until the keystone is placed causing it to take its own weight.

http://www.drystonejoe.com/2014/04/06/build-arch/ I know drystone Joe! He's a great guy, worked with my dad on a lot of projects. The Curved stepped retaining wall in California is one my dad worked on. 

http://www.drystonejoe.com/installations/retaining-walls/ Yeah, it's an arch. The difference with drystone techniques is you're not using mortar to hold the stones together. Another term is Cyclopean, unless I'm mistaken Well, Cyclopean is a variety of dry stone building from Greece. You get it all over the world, Scotland's famous for it, bits of Machu Pichu are built with drystone techniques, etc etc. It's found basically anywhere rocky. Hopefully someone can chime in with a source but I *think* there would have been a wooden (or similar) structure in the centre. The stones are stacked around it and when the centre structure is removed, the pressure that each stone exerts on its neighbor is enough to hold the whole thing together. 

Edit: like this http://youtu.be/P9pWrULZgk0
 Oh right never thought of that and you don't want to know what I was picturing in my head lol.  Please make a crappy MSPaint drawing of what you were picturing in your head. see here - https://www.facebook.com/ProfessionalStoneworkbyBrian/photos_stream
 I don't get it. &gt;A Moon Gate is a circular opening in a garden wall that acts as a pedestrian passageway, and a traditional architectural element in Chinese gardens





&gt;Dry stone is a building method by which structures are constructed from stones without any mortar to bind them together Thanks for the education.  I didn't get it either.
 Thanks! This should be the top comment but apparently Reddit likes Stargate references and anus jokes better. :( Well, yeah... No surprise there  So is the mildly interesting part the fact that it has no mortar and is simply held together by gravity? That's fucking impressive. I bet friction has a lot to do with it too. The 16 year old shithead in me wants to push on it  Stop having sex with shitheads while posting on reddit. It's twenty tons of stone, but you're more than welcome to swing by and push it if you'd like.  The base is four feet wide, and each of those monoliths are 6,000 pounds.  I promise it won't move. There is no "glue" holding the stones. That's what I understand at least. Yep, that's why they are called "dry stone" walls.

They are really common in the UK for separating farms and fields, but they are also prevalent in other parts of Europe.

[They look like this.](https://www.google.nl/search?q=dry+stone+wall&amp;safe=off&amp;espv=2&amp;biw=1920&amp;bih=955&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=s0sAVZWXGezU7AaiqoGwAw&amp;ved=0CAYQ_AUoAQ) We have lots of those around my parents' house. It's forest now, but used to be all pasture land. It's amazing what can happen in 50-60 years when nature is left to its own devices.  more like 150...those walls were put up from the first farmers tilling the land.
EDIT: nevermind..i get what you are saying about the forest...not that the walls were put up 50 years ago. Since you might know, I recently found a pile of stones stacked similar to the dry stone walls (it was a few hundred yards from a wall), but it was 6 feet high and 5 feet by 5 feet square. Any ideas?  Could be a cairn? They're used to mark trails and summits and stuff like that.  no clue...maybe a pile to be used later that was just abandoned?  maybe they were planned for a foundation and just left there? It was stacked too well to be random. I like to pretend it was some sort of altar used for ritual sacrifices. probably lots of virgin blood around if you look. [Which makes this is a lot less impressive.](http://youtu.be/jtV0uTDHdDI?t=1m) I feel like that would be too easy to vandalize, couldn't you just push a brick out and then watch? I believe the amount of tension on each stone makes that fairly difficult to do.  Compression is the correct term I believe. It's the friction holding it in, obviously but that is proportional to the compression, yes. The most important piece is called the "key stone". It's the one in the top middle. If I wasn't so incompetent, I would make some clever picture with an arrow pointing to it and possibly a joke about Keith Stone. Someone hook a brother up. Might be mistaken, but it's important only from a construction standpoint. Once you remove the building aids the weight is distributed equally, so the keystone is just another brick.  You're right. Close the iris. This is the third Stargate reference I've seen on reddit today!  I should re-watch SG-1.

Again. A quiet voice somewhere in the back of my mind utters that sentence *every single day of my life* I love this series, and have been telling myself the same thing every day for .... awhile.  My only issue is that while I don't hate the first two episodes I often don't enjoy them.  I often think of skipping them, but I can't because then I didn't rewatch the whole thing and it would drive me crazy if I skipped em. I've set myself the goal of rewatching the series as well. I'm right to the point of the first season of Atlantis. I am dreading the point where sg1 gets replaced with the cast of farscape, because it becomes nearly unwatchable. I didn't mind Vala, but not a huge fan of.. guy who I can't remember the name of.  I really need to finish Atlantis.  I think I've seen up to the last season.  I also haven't watched SGU yet.  I'm a slacker.. Ben Browder was the actors name if anyone was wondering.  Thought it was John Crichton Didn't he write Jurassic Park? I feel the same way about roughly half the first season of Farscape. It's not until John starts to lose his mind, and Zhaan becomes a bit of a cunt that the series gets really good. Have you watched the remastered version on the first episode? They released a separate DVD titled Children of the Gods. Much better IMO.  I have not.  I will have to check that out.  Thanks! Dude. 2 hours for days of entertainment sounds like a bullet worth biting. I'm willing to help you through this. This sounds like an intervention.. Indeed. I just get pissed its no longer on netflix You might like the director's cut more. It's not much different, but it's cleaner. Plus, it's Stargate, what have you got to lose?  /r/Stargate is doing a full rewatch of the series with discussions!  [deleted] This sentence is false. don't think about it don't think about it don't think about it.... Um, true. I'll go with true. There, that was easy. http://www.smbc-comics.com/?id=3657 Its the only show I can watch without getting tired of it.  We have the special collectors box set, and we are going to hold onto it until our family line is destitute. My wife and I have finished SG-1 and we were almost done with Atlantis. We haven't been able to watch it lately because my kid freaks out when a Wraith comes on the TV. I enjoyed Atlantis a lot.  My favorite of the Stargate series.
Until.
One day.
I realized...

The Wraith are 'Space Vampires'.
...series ruined.  =(

I wish there was brain bleach to remove that thought.   Indeed.gif _raising one eyebrow, nodding head slightly_ Chris Judge is so fucking awesome. I'm currently past the half way mark of season 6 of my rewatching  &gt;  season 6 

The Not Daniel years  Weird times. http://i.imgur.com/zrX578k.gif http://i.imgur.com/NdDTS7N.jpg That's when he ascended to another plain of being right? He temporarily ascended to the Plane of Renegotiated Contracts.  After receiving the gift of Revised Terms, he rejoined the mortal world in season 7. Season 6 was my favorite. Why, look everybody,Lobreeze loves Coombs!! 

Seriously though, The Other Guys is one of my top five  favorite episodes.  Jonas is fine Yes. Jaw crunch face move. I'm on season 8. I started a month ago. Its been a good month. As I've grown older I've come to appreciate O'Neill's consistently on point sarcasm. It is a FARGATE.  there it is no way it came from that movie, or that syndicated series based on the movie! Indeed  [deleted] http://i.imgur.com/LKSQW4D.gifv Chevron 5 won't unlock! That's no moon...

Looks a little more like Uranus  All I ever wanted, was to post my work on reddit and have all of you go straight to ass jokes!!!  I love you all!


Edit:  and gold to boot!   Thanks again.   Wait, you made that?! Why are you posting here, it's awesome!  I had no idea where else to put it....  There's no r/moongate.  :) /r/DIY perhaps? Yes!  We'd love to see how it was built.  OP pls I'll post some pics later.  Sorry, but I never expected this response.  There are a bunch of thousands of people I have to talk to at the Boston flower show, but later tonight I will.  Hope that's cool.  I know I'll be long gone from the front page by then, but don't forget me... You sound incredibly interesting Or at least mildly, I hope... :) Stone mason here. Came to yell at whoever posted this to /r/mildyinteresting. Now that I know it was the builder, I feel simultaneously relieved, and ripped off that I didn't get to go on a rant about how difficult this work is and how people should respect it more. Quick question: is it actually drystacked or mortared to look drystacked? Your username, is it missing a letter?  Not at the moment, but soon... RES Tag: Never Forget I won't let you go jack!.... As soon as I saw this I suspected it was at the Boston Flower Show. it's been twenty years since I've been to one but the ambiance is the same.  /r/interestingasfuck Yup this was miss posted Don't worry, it'll be reposted in a few. What you made is pretty impressive! gg I'm amazed no one replied to you to tell you exactly where to put it..... Sometimes reddit amazes/confuses me.

PS - Uranus VERY nice! Is that the Philly Flower Show? [deleted] If you're willing to hire me, I'm willing to like it Absolutely spectacular work. Well done, OP! and then all of a sudden your username made so much sense to me Methane storms have recently been sighted in the atmosphere of Uranus. [deleted] They should have allowed the rules to bend a bit there. "Pluto was a planet, it can be planet *again*.  Planet. Planet. Planet."

"Stay scientific, Jerry." Can't get enough of this show! From the same episode:

http://youtu.be/X7HmltUWXgs What show is this? Rick and Morty, homes. So good. Season 2 this summer!
 I wanted so badly to make a comment, but anything I said would've gotten me banned.  Still, it was almost like they were begging for it. I'm pretty sure I've read that Uranus is a gas giant. Could be wrong, though No you're right, and there's considerable methane in that gas ball. Right now it's storming. I don't like them dry. Did you see the other day they found giant methane storms raging on Uranus? prepare uranus then Reminds me of[ Andy Goldsworthy](http://i.imgur.com/A77qua5.jpg). According to today's Boston Metro, it's the creation of Maine Stonework LLC and on display this week at the Boston Flower and Garden Show Just coming here to say exactly that. Wrote a paper on him in college. Cool "Natural" artist. This is what happens when you get so good at Jenga that nobody will play with you anymore. For those who want to see it in person, it will be on display at the Boston Flower and Garden Show this week. And [according to today's Boston Metro](http://imgur.com/kuW9XtJ), it's a creation of Maine Stonework LLC Garden shows are crazy.  All that work for something that is only gonna be up for a few days before it's torn down.  Crazy amounts of dirt are hauled inside the local expo here to make fountains and all sorts of outdoor projects. 
Hey /u/Thatstoneguy420,


This is now the top post on reddit. It will be recorded at /r/topofreddit with all the other top posts. TIL this exists. 

 Andy Goldsworthy? Looks more like the stonemason Dan Snow's work. philly flower show? [deleted] I will kick myself if that was there. I was there and I totally missed this. Probably covered by swarms of people. I did catch the Nightmare Before Christmas Exhibit though! I went on Saturday, saw about a dozen flowers, and the backs of about 10,000 people's heads. What a crowded mess. 
 The lack of [Ultima](http://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/Moongate) references in the comments is reminding me of how old I am. Drol nagap eht ma I

Better? *Do you know where you are going, Avatar?*  Much better! : ( They'll never understand. I feel like I just connected with you on a very personal level.

We'll never get that perfect fantasy world feeling going again, will we? I've tried so many MMO's but none have ever come close to just vanilla and maybe T2A ultima times Oh I know what you mean.  Sure, modern games are more realistic looking, but I still haven't played any that are quite as immersive as Ultima. #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Moongate**](https://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/Moongate): [](#sfw) 

---
&gt;
&gt;__Moongates__ are magical doors made of moonlight, and a fast, easy and safe way to travel through Britannia. There are four known types of Moongates, the properties of which have changed through the ages. The naturally-occurring blue Moongates are most common; there are also the artificially created red, silver and black gates.
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/txED27c.jpg) [^(i)](http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/1/18/Bluegat.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width/200?cb=20070114225959)
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/4yvvcXB.jpg) [^(i)](http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/5/51/RedGate.JPG/revision/latest/scale-to-width/200?cb=20121119202552)
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/ByJxuhi.jpg) [^(i)](http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/4/49/U2ega.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width/200?cb=20070118162426)
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/1tsCAiV.jpg) [^(i)](http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/e/e2/BlackGate.JPG/revision/latest/scale-to-width/200?cb=20121119190713)
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/QRTaMSo.jpg) [^(i)](http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/d/de/Purplegate.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width/200?cb=20100705224357)
&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/5FCQodM.gif) [^(i)](http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/u5lazarus/images/2/29/Moongif.gif)
^Interesting: [^Moongate ^Destinations ^in ^Ultima ^V: ^Lazarus](https://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/moongate destinations in ultima v: lazarus) ^| [^Auric's ^Ultima ^Moongates](https://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/auric's ultima moongates) ^| [^Codex ^Coin](https://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/codex coin) ^| [^Moonstones](https://ultima.wikia.com/wiki/moonstones) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=autowikiabot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cpbf55i) ^or[](#or) [^delete](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=autowikiabot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cpbf55i)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikiabot/wiki/index) ^|  [^Source](https://github.com/Timidger/autowikiabot-py)
 ^(Please note this bot is in testing. Any help would be greatly appreciated, even if it is just a bug report! Please checkout the) [^source ^code](https://github.com/Timidger/autowikiabot-py) ^(to submit bugs) Thou hath lost an eighth!

(Best game of the series.  One of the best RPGs ever made.  And it taught kids about morality in a way that made them eager to be virtuous?!  Genius.) It wouldn't take much effort to turn that into Goatse. Hey! I'm at this show. Boston flower and garden! Check booth 659 out! Oh, nice. Now Kirk and Spock can go back to the 1930s and rescue McCoy. ...When I'm rich im building a home based off a hobbit home..  I think you could probably do a lot worse than a hobbit hole. They're comfortable, they're half way to being zero carbon already, you get to meet Gandalf etc etc. But those unexpected parties can be stressful.  Locks. On. The. Pantry. It hardly looks like you could travel around Trammel in that. Thank you!  I was [getting worried](http://www.reddit.com/r/mildlyinteresting/comments/2yo3w6/dry_stone_moongate/cpbf48l) here for a second.  Although I think Felucca might have something to say about it... Yeah, I couldn't remember which was the canon one from the single player games, so just took a punt. If I remember right (and I'm winging it here), in the single player games Trammel controls where a gate will open and Felucca controls its destination.  Or maybe that's just in U4. Either way you're doing better than me.  

I haven't played any in forever, and the main thing I remember is from U4, never being able to find that damned rune of valor when I was playing on my Master System.  
Years later I got it on PC, went right to where I thought it should have been, and found it.  Only thing stopping me finishing U4 was a damned bug. Oh damn, that sucks.  I first played it on the Nintendo, which was pretty good but a bit simplified.  Several years ago I finally tried the PC version (with the XU4 "upgrade"), and once I looked past the outdated graphics, it was awesome. I worked as a mason with my stepdad from when I was 13 until I was 19. This type of construction still awes me, even after having done a few of our own. Why is this not on r/interestingasfuck?
 My buddy helped with this. Here's a shot of how they built it: [http://i.imgur.com/gDlabsc.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/gDlabsc.jpg) I don't think I've ever seen a key-stone placed at the bottom before.   I do want one of these to sit and ponder life's greatest mysteries.  Kinda like my own personal post Neanderthal Star Gate.. Interesting to see an arch with a keystone at the bottom.  Not to be installed in California, Japan...or near any recent fracking sites.  I want to talk to those people on the other side because they have the answers. They're building those in the Shire since I don't know when \#moongate

It's about ethics in space. This is way more than mildly interesting. That's fucking cool. Get out of here, OP. This type of stonework is seen quite often in Northern Virginia in the
countryside.  There are only a few craftsmen who can do this properly, and they make a very good living stacking just the right stone in just the exact spot.  Some of these 'fences' last for many years.  Found primarily on the larger farms of those who can afford
such practical art. Very interesting that the keystone in on the bottom! It finally happened. A post from mildlyinteresting made it to the front page. That makes it more than mildly interesting.  It has been upgraded to moderately interesting. This reminds me... The Fargate | Aqua Teen Hunger | Adult Swim: https://youtu.be/uOd7HQoKxcU I don't know what a moongate is, but I need one now. [If they're anything like a moon door, I want one too.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ZZmDROqd00) I thought this was a ASOIAF reference. And my name is Brian Fairfield!!! Google me please!! Gold???!!!! Oh hell yes!  Thank you so much!!! I sincerely promise to answer all questions and post more pics in a DIY style over the next week or so.  I'm very busy with the show right this minute, but your call is important to me, so I'll answer it asap!!! Love you all! Entrance to a hobbit hole?  [deleted] That sounds like a really bizarre political scandal. Skate this! I think I play Ingress too much. All I see is a portal that needs claiming.  Moongate camping noobs You call that a moongate? [This](http://i.imgur.com/QSifkNo.jpg) is a moongate!

Vas Rel Por, /u/Thatstoneguy420! An Grav......denied So many Stargate comments. I will ever give more upvotes in one thread. Does Winterfell have a Moon Door?  Mad masonry skillz! Chuck norris glory hole. sorry for the dated chuck norris jokes. its all i could think of Seeing as you seem to love the dry-stone stuff (as we would say in Ireland, you have a gr for it) I thought I'd point you toward these two places I managed to see last summer. They are both in County Kerry in the SW of Ireland and pretty well known tourist spots but amazing nonetheless (the second one in particular).

[Gallarus Oratory](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gallarus_Oratory): Early Christian church from around the 6th - 9th century. (some thin mortar used on the inside but mostly dry stone corbel-vaulted construction.

[Skellig Michael](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skellig_Michael): Early Christian monastery from 6th - 8th century and now a UNESCO World Heritage site. The site is famous for its "beehive" cells which also display corbel-vaulting. The photos on the wiki aren't great but there's more [here](https://www.google.ie/search?q=skellig&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=q9oAVa2SEuL-7AaV34Eg&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1242&amp;bih=585#tbm=isch&amp;q=skelligs). A truly amazing place.

Edit: typo A Cousin? Star Trek City on the edge of forever
 Where is this?? Boston
 https://www.facebook.com/ProfessionalStoneworkbyBrian Quick, without looking what subreddit is this?

* /r/mildlyinteresting

or

* /r/interestingasfuck Yeah, sorry.  Trying to be modest here.  It being my work and all... :) This is a photograph of an art installation. Seems more like it belongs on /r/pics than this sub. I don't know, I find a lot of art only mildly interesting. Oddlysatifying as well. For those wondering this is how a [Wet Stone](http://i.imgur.com/DWFcxEY.jpg) looks like (frantically tries to move the camera lower) Wow a lot of work, I suppose the side pillars are heavily reinforce against lateral pressure. How did you make the pillars? I think it is unlikely that the person who posted this image even took the original picture, let alone built the thing. Actually he did build it. That's my brother's work, check his business out at www.mainestonework.com. You can also find him on FB at Maine Stonework LLC. Welp, I was wrong \\\_()_/   I sure did build it!!! Brian Fairfield here!  I designed, organized the team and was a waller as well.   No reposting or thievery of picture here!!! :) Don't rain on our parade! Wait..People post stuff that isn't theirs?
TIL The side stones are three tons each, and we bolted steel brackets on the inside of them.  That way the weight of the stone in the moongate(around the moongate) would remove any chance of them sliding or falling out.  This bugger ain't moving.   Figured that it was a bit more than just two heavy stones... thanks for the reply :) The side pillars are just a large slab of stone. Most likely quarried out of the ground at some point.  Not sure why you were downvoted. Theyre just cut stone. What other answer is there? lol.  "Since before your sun burned hot in space and before your race was born, I have awaited a question."  Im guessing its build with a cast or something circular that the stones are placed around and then the cast is knocked out? That would be the most nerve racking part  Wouldn't this collapse in the worlds smallest earthquake? No, in fact Itll lock tighter I'd say.  Physics man, it's a brilliant thing. username checks out. Is there anywhere that I can order custom engraved tyres that say "Fuck You Fuck You Fuck You" over and over again? Not yet...but it seems to be coming down the road....so start saving your *fucking* money...

http://www.gizmag.com/kumhos-tire-laser-etching-promises-customized-tyres/13715/ Having lived in a climate that often bequeaths us with 2-3 foot snowstorms for the last 30 years, I think I'll just stick with something that will at least minimize my chances of death rather than leaving a message behind me.   "Goodbye, cruel world. Goodbye, cruel world. Goodbye cruel world..." "Eat my dust" 
Or "Bite my shiny metal ass"  [deleted] "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."  "Round and Round, Round and Round" How about both? I'm trying to think about a message that will inspire people to follow the tracks and if you're in trouble, they will then show up and help you. 

On second thought that could go horribly wrong. Never gonna give you up, never gonna let you down... A rick...*roll*? Yea really. Even just regular driving, having this seems inefficient or dangerous. Tire treads are pretty specifically created for wet/icy/snowy/dry conditions to help increase traction and efficiency. All I can think of is how much these will cost me when they wear unevenly. Hate to be the dibbie downer here.  But I'm pretty sure that thread markings have safety regulations. 

EDIT: Debbie or dobby like some of you like.  Stupid auto correct! 



that being said.  I want one the says.  "eat shit"  I hate to be a Debbie downer, but "Debbie downer" is the correct way to spell that I'd love to be a Dobby downer, for I am a free downer. Wouldn't a *Dobby Downer* just be a Kreacher? Bellatrix Lestrange I hate to be a double dipper, but "Debby downer" is also acceptable. Well from what i understand from the article,  they design it in two stages; first, the aethetic, im which you chooise your design, and the second, adding the required details around the design to make it meet regulations &gt; it seems to be coming down the road....

I see what you didn't mean to do there ;) Well, he didn't want to inflate his pun making abilities.  Don't you think these pun threads are a bit tired? We've been driving around the subject for a while now Oh, just give it a brake already...  I'm gonna remain neutral  I feel like these puns are always trying to reinvent the wheel... I'm just gonna roll with it.  Come on, the guy's under pressure here! I'm horny. Tread lightly. Car. &gt;pun treads

Ftfy mom's Pirelli Why did that one tire have shocks inside of it... is that really a thing? No, I think they were just trying to make it look more futuristic. http://i.imgur.com/UIVLgpb.jpg Now replace it with the Navy Seals Copypasta. What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? Ill have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and Ive been involved in numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am trained in gorilla warfare and Im the top sniper in the entire US armed forces. You are nothing to me but just another target. I will wipe you the fuck out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my fucking words. You think you can get away with saying that shit to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of spies across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggot. The storm that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. Youre fucking dead, kid. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can kill you in over seven hundred ways, and thats just with my bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in unarmed combat, but I have access to the entire arsenal of the United States Marine Corps and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what unholy retribution your little clever comment was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. But you couldnt, you didnt, and now youre paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. Youre fucking dead, kiddo. What the darn-diddily-doodily did you just say about me, you little witcharooney? Ill have you know I graduated top of my class at Springfield Bible College, and Ive been involved in numerous secret mission trips in Capital City, and I have over 300 confirmed baptisms. I am trained in the Old Testament and Im the top converter in the entire church mission group. You are nothing to me but just another heathen. I will cast your sins out with precision the likes of which has never been seen before in Heaven, mark my diddily-iddilly words. You think you can get away with saying that blasphemy to me over the Internet? Think again, friendarino. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of evangelists across Springfield and your IP is being traced by God right now so you better prepare for the storm, maggorino. The storm that wipes out the diddily little thing you call your life of sin. Youre going to Church, kiddily-widdily. Jesus can be anywhere, anytime, and he can turn you to the Gospel in over infinity ways, and thats just with his bare hands. Not only am I extensively trained in preaching to nonbelievers, but I have access to the entire dang- diddily Bible collection of the Springfield Bible College and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your sins away off the face of the continent, you diddily-doo satan-worshipper. If only you could have known what holy retribution your little clever comment was about to bring down upon you from the Heavens, maybe you would have held your darn-diddily-fundgearoo tongue. But you couldnt, you didnt, and now youre clean of all your sins, you widdillo-skiddily neighborino. I will sing hymns of praise all over you and you will drown in the love of Christ. Youre farn-foodily- flank-fiddily reborn, kiddo-diddily. Holy shit, how big are the wheels on your ride? What the f*ck did you just f*cking say about me, you little shitlord? Ill have you know I graduated top of my class in Women's Studies, and Ive been involved in numerous raids on 4chan, and I have over 300 confirmed triggers and pronouns. I am trained in social justice and Im the most oppressed in the entire Tumblr user database. You are nothing to me but just another scum oppressor. I will make you check your f*cking privilege with rage the likes of which has never been seen before on this Website, mark my f*cking words. You think you can get away with saying that  problematic sh*t to me over the Internet? Think again, f*cker. As we speak I am contacting my online network of radical feminists across the USA and your IP is being traced right now so you better prepare for the storm, shitlord. The storm that wipes out the pathetic, ignorant little thing you call your life. Youre f*cking dead, shitlord. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can shame, educate and bully you into checking your privilege in over seven hundred ways, and thats just with my iPhone keyboard. Not only am I extensively knowledgeable in ableism, sexism, racism, homophobia, transphobia,  kinphobia, slut shaming, kink shaming, fat shaming, body positivity and cultural appropriation, but I have access to the entire internet and my opinions and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your bigoted a*s off the face of the continent, you little sh*t. If only you could have known what social retribution your little innocent action was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your bigot f*cking tongue. But you couldnt, you didnt, and now youre paying the price, you g*dd*mn id*ot. I will sh*t equality all over you and you will drown in it. Youre f*cking dead, shitlord. Man I hope someone doesn't steal your idea. This is worth more money than karma I think it would be more likely that someone else will come up with it on their own Ya, pretty much every image gets dickbutted these days.

Someone is going to coin the term, let it be know that ELMIV rule is that, "Every image that contains a second image/picture/message will inevitably have the second image/picture/message replaced with dickbutt."

I'm a scientist!  [You beat me to it, but here's the more in-between version](http://imgur.com/GsPH1W3.jpg) Some dutch guy has :

That what makes the deepest impression is touched by water By no man disturbed takes the sea the last word
Take thoughts filled with desire to the empty silent beach Write them thousand silent times between thousand grains of sand
I can't replace your wild soul salt drops flee from my hand My island of desire I softly caress your white sand
Follow now for a moment the words along the waterline Let your biggest worries here be merely wet feet
Lips burn from desire desire to the saltness of you The wind makes room and in freedom I can love you
What I looked for flows here by your feet streams through your hand Touches your cheek and wins your heart forever

This guys wants :

fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you fuck you 

Edit:  Didn't expect a gilding for that.  Thank you my generous patron.  It is appreciated. Like the [shoes](http://i.imgur.com/Hvpei.jpg) from Kill Bill! Wat. I have seen that movie approximately a million times and never noticed this.  Pro tip: Check all female feet in all Tarantino films for easter eggs. His foot fetish knows no boundaries. **Pulp Fiction**

Uma Thurman's Feet

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOgLHCCHTZs

An entire 5 minute conversation about massaging women's feet.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hLQ5WOH0qoo

---

**Jackie Brown**

Bridget Fonda's Feet

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=onyZBlnfr-k

---

**From Dusk till Dawn**

Juliette Lewis's Feet

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g4OXFewpMNE

Salma Hayak's feet (He must have loved this one!)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOZl2a0jqSA&amp;t=120

---

**Kill Bill**

Uma Thurman's feet (again!)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uDlO02Qp8rU&amp;t=36

---

**Inglorious Basterds**

Diane Kruger's feet

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8rU-Zk-i1E

---

And because it's full of women, the most obvious ones are from **Death Proof**.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OTe9J6KG4ok&amp;t=75

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n-M8vEZFJ-4

---

The only exceptions are Reservoir Dogs (because there are no women in it) and Django Unchained (There is a brief shot of Kerry Washington's feet when being taken out of the hot box, but it's not focused on) But.. why? Some dudes like ladies feet. Some people juggle geese! get a load of this guy, he doesn't have a foot fetish I don't have a foot fetish, but there is something undeniably sexy in that first one, when she curls her foot in and says "Let's go" But in the footprint the text will be mirrored. /r/mildlyinfuriating  I'm pretty sure the message is intended for someone getting kicked, not some trail where she has been. I'd get those While it'd be cool to have personal engravings for tyres

Don't forget their purpose, to grip on the road. For example the long lines that go around the entire tyre are to help with rain to prevent aqua planing They're likely off road/track use only. There is no possible way we could get them here as each one would have to go through dot to become legal.  These would be just awful off road,  nothing to bite into the sand,  you could probably only drive it on flat hard sand like this  I'll just put my whore ex-girlfriends phone number on them with a "for a good time, call me between 2 and 4am." 867-5309 - Let's meet up for kisses and maybe I'll touch your penis a little bit.
    
             -Jenny
 Or, just before a break up, buy her new tires that read, "for a good time follow this."  Hate to be the Buzz Killington... but how frequently would she be driving on sand? With other people also driving on sand to see her tire tracks? In a lot of areas you'll have snow. True! I didn't think of that! Check my tire tracks, BITCH! We should definitely americanize this product as soon as possible. For freedom!  Maybe [this](http://thesocietypages.org/socimages/2010/06/02/world-war-ii-era-converse-with-swastika-soles/) will work for you? I'll be honest mate, that's not quite what I had in mind. Just give it a go. You might like it.
 The tires will say...Fuck You Fuck You Fuck You, but after the first rain you will chant Fuck Me and my custom tires, Fuck me and my custom tires... I dont think your idea will get much traction You can buy racing slicks and a tires sipping and cupping tool and have what ever you want on it.  You can buy slicks and have the custom cut. follow me bring beer flip flops

http://i.imgur.com/aSt3CqX.jpg Wait.. Where do you live that it's spelled tyre? I've seen colour and all that, but never tyre I'm in England but it's more commonly spelt [tyre](http://grammarist.com/spelling/tire-tyre/). Tire usually means to get tired, so I guess it's just to differentiate between the two.  Can confirm, am tired tyre.

Dammit tocker my shift ended  10,000 miles ago! Footprints in the snow:  
  
      "You promised me Lord,
         that if I followed you,
             you would walk with me always.
                   But I have noticed that during
                          the most trying periods of my life
                                 there have only been one
                                       set of tyre tracks in the snow.
                                           Why, when I needed you most,
                                          you have not been there for me?"
 
                                 The Lord replied,
                          "The times when you have
                  seen only one set of tyre tracks,
            is when you were skidding off the road,
        because you chose a tread in the shape of a shitty poem,
    rather than one designed for good adhesion to the road."
 Reddit at its finest. That alien blue formatting made it better I'm on mobile so the formatting is messed up. How is it supposed to look? Rotate the screen WHAT

#*HOW LONG* Always. Looks the same to me. Screenshot? Yeah same here unfortunately :/ AB actually did a good job here, at least on iPad in landscape.

Safari:  http://i.imgur.com/P6iZHb8.jpg
AB: http://i.imgur.com/Ctd3NmF.jpg Is this based off of another poem? If so can you link it please, I am curious :) It's based off of [Footprints in the Sand](http://www.onlythebible.com/Poems/Footprints-in-the-Sand-Poem.html).

I don't know where it's from or if that page had the exact right text, I just chose the first page where you could actually read it... a surprising number of the search results had the worst website designs ever. Thanks! Clever poem :) http://www.footprints-inthe-sand.com/index.php?page=Poem/Poem.php
 [Here you go :)](http://www.onlythebible.com/Poems/Footprints-in-the-Sand-Poem.html) I was searching for a comment about how it must be horribly designed and dangerous (especially in the snow) when I found your comment. You sir exceeded my wildest dreams. Well done. **The enitre poem:**

*Wat de diepste indruk maakt werd door water aangeraakt Door geen mens gestoord neemt de zee het laatste woord*

*Breng gedachten vol verlangen naar het lege stille strand Schrijf ze duizend stille malen tussen duizend korrels zand*

*Ik kan je wilde ziel niet vangen zilte druppels vluchten uit mijn hand  Mijn eiland van verlangen, zacht streel ik je witte zand*

*Volg nu voor heel even de woorden langs de waterlijn  Laat hier je grootste zorgen slechts natte voeten zijn.*

*lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe De wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden*

*wat ik zocht vloeit hier langs je voeten stroomt door je hand Raakt aan je wang en veroverd voor altijd je hart*

**Translation:**

*That what makes the deepest impression is touched by water By no man disturbed takes the sea the last word*

*Take thoughts filled with desire to the empty silent beach Write them thousand silent times between thousand grains of sand*

*I can't replace your wild soul salt drops flee from my hand My island of desire I softly caress your white sand*

*Follow now for a moment the words along the waterline Let your biggest worries here  be merely wet feet*

*Lips burn from desire desire to the saltness of you The wind makes room and in freedom I can love you*

*What I looked for flows here by your feet streams through your hand Touches your cheek and wins your heart forever*








 **Some Background**

It appears this poem is actually not one poem, but several different poems by multiple authors who won annual competitions since 2003 called "Dichten op het strand" [Poetry on the beach], where the objective is to keep it under 112 characters. The ones listed ~~above~~ below are written on the beaches of the Wadden islands.


**Translation tweaked a bit:**

**Poem 1:**

That which makes the deepest impression was touched by water

Disturbed by no man, the sea has the last word *[lit.: "takes the last word"]*


**Poem 2:**

Take *[your]* thoughts filled with yearning to the empty, silent shore *[lit.: "beach"]*

Write them a thousand silent times between a thousand grains of sand.


**Poem 3:**

I cannot catch your quiet soul *["vangen" looks like it means "to capture" (i.e., "to put into captivity") here. "Catch" used for clarity to avoid the wrong connotation in English.]*

Briny drops flee from my hand

My island of yearning, gently I stroke*[/caress]* your white sand


**Poem 4:**

For just a moment now, follow the words along the shoreline *[lit.: "water line"]*

Let here your biggest worries be merely wet feet



**Poem 5:**

*[My]* lips burn with desire for the brininess*[/saltiness]* of yours *[~~lit.: "the brine of yours". This is a difficult line to parse because the direct object is vague~~. Never mind. I was overthinking it.]*

The wind makes room, and I can love you freely *[Or: "in freedom I can love you". Ambiguous. Former is more likely.]*


**Poem 6:**

What I searched for, here flows along your feet

Streams through your hand

Touches your cheek and conquers your heart forever. *[Some people are translating "veroverd" as "wins", but it literally translates to "conquers", which I think is the more powerful interpretation here.]*


**Edit**: Made some adjustments to the translations.



 Reddit: a place where "EATS_MANY_BURRITOS" is a great poet, and "PM_ME_PUSSY" is a playwright. It's a beautiful thing, this thing called Reddit. Jesus how fucking big are these tyres? They're separate poems that are written by different tires. /u/EATS_MANY_BURRITOS

DON'T EAT ME! "Lips burn from desire for the saltiness of yours (lips)"
I think that works better. &gt; This is a difficult line to parse because the direct object is vague

It's not. It refers to the saltiness of the other's lips. Wait, what, how big is the circumference of that tire? The track doesn't have the full poem,  only part of it They probably took the best sentence It appears they took this line:

&gt; lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe De wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden

Which supposedly translate to:

&gt; Lips burn from desire desire to the saltness of you The wind makes room and in freedom I can love you

So, not bad on a beach, but not quite the best line imo. My thought exactly.  &gt; Raakt aan je wang en veroverd voor altijd je hart

Why is "veroverd" spelled wrong? I thought it was your error but it's written like that all over the internet... He was a poet, not a winner of Het Groot Dictee der Lage Landen. Sounds like a Dutch Walt Whitman. Oh yeah? Well maybe Walt Whitman is just an American whoever-wrote-this-one! I thought Heisenberg was German. That's Walt White, man.
 Ya got me.  The tire track doesn't show the full text, right? What portion did the select for the tire track? This bit: 

lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe De wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden &gt;Lips burn from desire to the saltness of you The wind makes room and in freedom I can love you

It only shows parts of this sentence, though. It starts at "desire", but the first letter is not shown.  &gt;What I looked for flows here by your feet streams through your hand

Footprints = feet streams. it's more like:
What I looked for, flows here by your feet, streams through your hand. Touches your cheek and wins your heart forever.

Poems have no interpunction. I can confirm this is what the Dutch version says. Depends on the poet. Some still go for readability. I wonder if they tried a few poems till they found the one that offered best traction. That must have been tiring. Tread carefully if you're going to start a pun thread You really think I'd start a pun thread? Who do you think I am? Pirelli? I'll belt the first asshole to try.  [Cool photo of the tire being made.](http://imgur.com/1dILlts) [deleted] There's an Asians can't drive joke in there somewhere, but I can't find it What it says:

"Lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe. De wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden." What does that translate to?  Rough translation:  

"My lips burn of desire to yours. The wind makes room/space and in freedom I will love you."  

It's actually not *that* good of a poem. That's because of your translation. It's a poem about the sea. "Zilte lippen" en wind en shit, vandaar That casual transition naar Nederlands  It kind of confused me een beetje. It's always confusing als dat soort dingen gebeuren. nah it gave me a boner The best judge of worthiness. It's a great poem if you read the whole thing. Although translating it to English doesn't really work, as it hardly every does with poetry.

Edit: also your translation is wrong, this is what it actually says

Lips burn with desire to the saltiness of yours. The wind makes space and in freedom I am able to love you

It's about Vlieland. It's a poem about one of the dutch islands. The salty lips refers to the sea, not a person. Google translate says "Lips burning desire for the salty of yours . The wind makes space and freedom , I love you". So that's nice. I love your salty ;) (   ) "If you can read this, you are about to get run over by the next car." "vote for Nikita Klstrup, she's the breast candidate" cool idea.. not great for water evacuation like a typical tread though.. its only used on sand and has more than 4 tires [\(just rear 2 have the poem\)](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3045/2600230162_32b0d4ab39.jpg) That's some skilled regrooving! Well planned too. Where did you find this?  [Here is the Flickr Photo group](https://www.flickr.com/groups/977544@N21/pool/)

edit:
Here's a little trick - see that /u/CAMAR0kid93 posted a direct link to a Flickr image?
Check the filename, it consists of two parts. 
Copy the first part and paste it at the end of this URL
"https://www.flickr.com/photo.gne?id=" and visit it.
Tadaaaa!  There's the source page for the Flickr image, which will lead you to bigger and better versions, albums, etc etc.
 I am impressed! Thank you sir It wouldn't work on a car anyway. Whatever left those tracks cannot have wheels directly in front of or behind each other.

Edit: Never Mind. I'm wrong. Yes it will. The rear wheels leave the last imprint on the sand, so the rear wheels would have the impressions on them It was [this thing called Vliehors expres](https://www.google.com.co/search?q=vliehors+express&amp;es_sm=119&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=2zv3VJ2NOYuZgwTArYSQAg&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1280&amp;bih=649) Pretty sure the rear wheels would work going forward. I've seen those! Vlieland, right? I've seen them too, I think it's a great idea. Also, Vlieland is an awesome place. To read the poem, move forward;

To read the poem, move forward;

To read the poem, move forward;

To read the poem, move forward;

To read the poem, move forward;

.... It rhymes! Making off

http://www.vliehorsexpres.nl/gedichten-in-het-zand/ Thanks for this! Nice to see the process. Now I need tires with the lyrics of "The wheels on the bus go round and round"... We should do that to all space exploration vehicles. &gt; Lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe
&gt; 
&gt; De wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden 

Literal translation that annihilates any poetic feelings that might otherwise be invoked:

&gt; Lips burn with yearning to the saltiness of your [lips] 
&gt; 
&gt; The wind creates space and in freedom I can love you You guys over there really spell "Nantucket" weird. What does it say? In english for all us ignorant folk Heck I'm Dutch and even I'm to lazy to read that awkward text. This is a terrible poem. &gt;Burning with desire to the saltyness of your lips.

&gt;The wind creates space and in freedom I can love you.

Or something like that.. 
''Lippen branden van verlangen naar het zilte van de jouwe.
de wind maakt ruimte en in vrijheid kan ik van je houden''
Translated it says: ''Lips burn of desire for the saltiness of yours.
The wind makes space and in freedom I can love you''


 Traction in the rain must be..... not a priority.  Some Roman prostitutes wore sandals that stamped something like "follow me" into the dirt.


 This is the song that never ends...  Does anybody have a translation of the poem? Just curious.  If someone cares

Translation

Hours of desire in the salt of you In freedom i can love you

Dutch boy over here

 "I am a tire. Germany sucks." If someone cares

Translation

Hours of desire in the salt of you
In freedom i can love you


Dutch boy over here The tires which made this are utterly useless against water on the road. The tires are on the [Vliehors expres](https://www.google.com.co/search?q=vliehors+express&amp;es_sm=119&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=2zv3VJ2NOYuZgwTArYSQAg&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1280&amp;bih=649) which doesn't drive on the road so no worries there. My tires write poems in broken braille  Bizzare. Also mildly interesting that I happen to be listening to the Dutch band Focus right now. Hey, dat is Vlieland

(hey, that's vlieland) If someone did personalised bike tires like this I would be so very happy They should put the evolution of man picture on the mars rover treads. Miley Interesting always ends up being very interesting This is incredibly interesting and sort of makes me wish everyone had poems on their treads. The day after a rain would be awesome, every puddle would be like an inkwell. This wouldn't necessarily need to be engraved in the tires. There could be a wheel placed behind the tires with this engraved into the wheel. Seems like a wasteful thing to do since it won't be read on ass-fault.  LPT: If you get these tires, don't ever use your car to drive away from the scene of a crime.  I wonder how big that wheel would have to be Reminds me of 

follow me bring beer flip flops 

http://i.imgur.com/aSt3CqX.jpg I never really knew the length of one tire rotation before now. TIL..... Could somebody translate?

Please. this is much more than mildly interesting And burnouts leave the abridged version! So it was a giant segway? No way a car did this without messing up the print from the first tires with the second ones. 'Why, Lord, was there only one tire track during the low points in my life?'. The Lord replied, 'You're whiny and annoying--I took the motorcycle to get the fuck away from you for a minute.'. "There once was a man from Nantucket..." That's cool Impressive. How's the grip? Note to self: do not use these types of specialty tires on getaway car. I didn't realize it snowed in holland. Or is that sand in funny lighting? This is sand, but nevertheless we do get the odd 2-3 days of snow every year. It tends to send the entire country into chaos and despair as the trains are delayed, people fall off their bikes and national sentiment starts complaining about the winter.  Cool, thanks. Its a nice color, but very different from what I remember the beaches being like Found an American. No, and further than that I have a friend who lives in Den Haag and works in Antwerp, and he is always telling me about how much better winter is there. *does burnout* "I hydroplane like a bitch but it was totally worth it!" I remember a tour truck on vlieland having these! It's so cool what diameter is that tire? This poem tells the tale of Vunter Slaush I should do this on the spare tire of my Jeep but with something like "follow me".  now we need a picture of bus tire tracks with the sheet music for wheels on the bus That poem should be re-tired. How come the letters don't get destroyed by the other tires of the vehicle?  If the letters are on the last tires, they will leave the imprint on the sand. TIL: Other countries spell it "tyre". Looney Tunes, teaching children valuable life lessons early on. I just pictured nihilists creating coloring books: "All effort and desire is futile, little Lebowski." But that maze, really tied that page together. all dude ever wanted was his maze back... They peed on my fucking maze! That's right Dude. They peed on *your* fucking maze.
 Who peed on the Dude's maze, Walter? **SHUT THE FUCK UP DONNY!!!** Say what you will about the tenants of National Socialism, at least it's an ethos.. [Image](http://i.imgur.com/jon9EQi.jpg)

This maze is hard too This aggression will not stand! But god forbid you ever had to wake up and hear the news.   
'Cause then you really might know what it's like to *have* to lose But then you really might know what it's like

But then you really might know what It's like

But then you really might know what it's like to have to lose

Edit forgot to put really in there thanks for asshat to point it out Looney Tunes Life Lesson Coloring Book by Werner Herzog Ze maze signifies man's perpetual struggle against the brutality of nature, which is ultimately a battle against himself.  There aren't enough extras drowning for him to be involved  Nihilists! Fuck me. I mean, say what you want about the tenets of National Socialism, Dude, at least their mazes are solvable. I mean, they all led to ovens and gas showers, but at least you got a feeling of accomplishment before they were turned on. Too easy. Kids think every maze is a fucking inverted swastika. Has it not occured to anyone that tweety is a bird.... as in a bird with wings, surely this is the true life lesson. common sense, a bird doesn't have to use a maze to get the the other side... That and the shortest distance between two points is a direct line. don't let naysayers place obstacles in front of your path, if you're determined enough the maze of life should have no impact on the goals you strive to achieve You figure that out, and not that the last place Tweety would go is towards Taz? I realize Tweety is a little bastard, but still, would he not potentially be eaten? But it begs the question, why does Tweety wanna reach Tasmania anyways? Begging the question and raising the question aren't the same thing. Raising the question means that a situation makes you think of a question. 

Begging the question is a formal logic fallacy where a statement assumes that a very important question has been answered, such as, "have you stopped beating your wife? "

I'm literally no fun at parties. When you trace a line through all available paths in the nihilist maze, it simply spells "ennui". Or liberal economists:

"Your upward social mobility is constrained while gluttonous Tasmanian devils [enjoy 90% of maze real-estate](http://imgur.com/IUcRTgR) despite comprising a tiny minority of the loony tunes population and spending most of their time on their rear-ends." So far in 2015 this is my favorite reddit comment. But, in Looney Tunes, you're allowed to go [through the walls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtqiHMCJUcE), no? "The only way not to fail is not to try" "Not everything you'll want in life will be possible, just give up on your life goals right now" Keep trying until you know it's unachievable. Don't waste your time on things that just aren't meant to be.  2 lessons ... can also teach them to write/email to companies and complain when you wronged rather then just taking it... you often get results /r/mildlyinfuriating How to be a drunk Russian teenager who gets separated from her friends and dies in the underground catacombs only to be found years later as a melty pile of decayed flesh and bones? Ukrainian*

But it'll be the same thing pretty soon if Putin has it his way. This has to be one of the worse ways to go.  Lost, in the pitch black, unable to find your way out as you slowly die of thirst.  Maybe it urges you to think outside the box by skating around the maze... or realizing Taz is your enemy anyway and you want to go elsewhere. The valuable life lesson appears to be "if you find a maze unsolvable, burn it to the ground" (I may be extrapolating from the colour of the texta she switched to). Welcome to the real world, jackass! tweety bird can fly though Taz can't cause he is a sucker but Taz can go through walls. Check-mate Atheists I put my fedora back on the shelf. My copy of *The God Delusion*--in the fire. It's over. We've lost. 

"My fellow atheists, we've been checkmated," I breathe into the megaphone over the loud din of my comrades in a crowd.

A sea of katana-wielding men in trench coats saunter off, dejected... vanquished.  [deleted] No. *Checkm'ate.* I don't think you would saunter dejectedly.

...pleb. Huh. I looked it up and it's a leisurely stroll. I'd always heard it used as like a sad stumbling away. I'm probably confused because it sounds like somber.  But he's not supposed to go through it anyway. Tweety is going to Taz, so might as well fly over. Problem solved.  Only if he taught he taw a putty tat You called? Two years, three comments? I applaud that patience. In retrospect, was it worth the wait OP? It's for the best.  Do you have any idea what Taz would do to Tweety? I was wondering when they started hanging out God i hate the newer tom and jerry episodes so much. Jerry wearing a stupid bowtie...being friends with tom...stupid assholes. 
 Wut? This is an actual thing? &gt;Wut? This is an actual thing?

I just saw this shit while browsing through channels like 30 minutes ago, so yeah it is an actual thing. The animation too is pretty fucked up. And the storyline, well lets not discuss about that. &gt; *And the storyline, well lets not discuss about that.*

There's a storyline? Sadly yes. The one I saw in that Spike and T&amp;J were traveling somewhere in a cab and acting like jolly good friends. That pissed me off and I changed the channel. 

Ps. The animation was also of really poor quality. Is it like the Itchy and Scratchy cartoon in the Simpsons episode where Marge leads a group to censor it?     Urist McCm_Punk_SE talked with somebody lately.
    He was disgusted by a cartoon.
    It was of poor quality. I don't know who you are but I like you. It's a program called toonboom and it's cheap and gives you that style of animation. Very easy to spot ACME products, am I right!? [Solved it](http://i.imgur.com/pBudGTw.jpg). The real purpose of the maze is to teach kids to think outside of the box. Wasn't this a flash game five or so years ago? Yeah I remember it, had a nice number of puzzles which made you get a little creative. Forgot what it's called or where it's from, but it was quite neat The impossible quiz comes to mind. The whole right click bridge made me feel like a genius. There was one time I was playing it on my Nintendo Wii. Right clicking wasn't an option. So, I covered the sensor on the wiimote, moved it to where I thought the button was, and uncovered it. Still worked the same. It was really sketchy because wiimotes aren't exactly known for their accuracy... http://www.kongregate.com/games/badben/take-something-literally

This game comes to mind

Edit: Fixed &gt;http://www.kongregate.com/games/badben/take-something-literally

FTFY Heads up, that link doesn't work. Use this one: http://www.kongregate.com/games/badben/take-something-literally I'm more impressed you bothered to shop the original orange marker out Look closely at the story in the picture. Taz fell down on the ice. Maybe he's injured? We don't know for sure. But what we *do* know is that the ice is starting to crack. If Tweety Bird is going to save Taz, every second counts. Falling in ice can be serious, even life threatening. Confusing orange lines don't help anybody - that's how you get situations like what happened to George Bailey's brother in *It's a Wonderful Life*. Don't worry, I totally fixed it for you

http://m.imgur.com/v9nFxQE

Edit: Holy cow this blew up :O Thanks for the karma everyone!

Double Edit: And someone gave me gold!?! You guys rock! You missed an opportunity to make it impossible somewhere else in the maze. I'm disappointed in you to be honest. I was expecting swastikas everywhere to be honest. I expected what both of you expected to be honest.  Lets be honest, how much did we really expect from OP? Exactly what I expected i dont know photoshop, so this was ms paint, but i think it worked out well enough

https://i.imgur.com/gig9Oe1.jpg Needs more swastika  [More swastika](http://i.imgur.com/12JrQET.jpg?1)  &gt;redditor for 0 days

This checks out. But in 2 years, after getting moderate amounts of karma, he'll hit the jackpot with something simply amazing, then he'll bask in all that karma he generated.   He'll buy the world and draw a swastika on it. Hah - I should have done this myself. Thanks for doing it - I'm going to print this and give it to her. Print OP? Here's a print quality version. GL OP.

http://i.imgur.com/vxGeeir.jpg

Edit: Here's a more challenging ver. OP 

http://i.imgur.com/UeHzrOt.jpg Both are still solvable - just so everyone knows Confirmed. [Answer#1](http://i.imgur.com/OPZZjGp.jpg) and [Answer#2](http://i.imgur.com/qguAllw.jpg) http://imgur.com/mv62uah

You missed a faster turn :) What are you, Google Maps? haha man I'm slow. truely impressive, well done! 1000 bits /u/changetip private Why would they even make a maze like that?  I imagine it could be terribly confusing and frustrating to a 5 year old.  How did your daughter react? Coloring rage quit.    I'm guessing they'd just randomly color on it,  as OP's daughter clearly started to do. It seems pretty mean to just fuck with 5 year olds' minds for no good reason Make sure to post the finished version! think of the karma! Oh sweet sweet karma without it our powers would be lost all effort would be pointless and everything will fall apart. Sweet Buddha  alien grant us with endless Karma for without it we shall suffer. Actually I was expecting a straight line from start to end. Thank you for not being a troll and making some random girls day kind stranger. Forgive me if this sounds long-winded;

People like you are what make me want to keep living life. Took the time out of your day to fix a maze in a coloring book, just so a stranger's child wouldn't feel let down. I'm sure for someone with Photoshop skills that wouldn't take longer than a minute, but I don't know how to do it, and if you didn't who's to say anyone would have?

Forgive the sentamentality, I am just continually inspired by the small but meaningful things people still do for each other. Gives me faith in mankind.

So thank you, stranger, for keeping the magic alive.

Edit: Disheartened at the negativity this comment has garnered, but for every comment telling me how much of a twat I was, there was someone else staying positive. Faith in mankind has not been Destroyed!!

EDIT 2: Also, to people such as /u/CleanBill : no, I did NOT make this comment simply to receive gold or win Internet karma. I'm not sure if you know, but those two things are completely worthless. No, I wrote this comment to express to another redditor how touched I was by their kindness. You see, the thing about kind people and kind things is that they attract and bring out the best in other kind-hearted people. Think of magnetic polarity, where the kind people gravitate towards each other, and the mean-spirited internet thugs like yourself reject every effort of kindness thrown their way. Yet they wonder why life is so negative as they spew their negativity upon the world like a blight of a million locusts.

I choose to be moved by the magic in this world, no matter how many people like /u/CleanBill attempt to destroy it.

 &gt; Photoshop skills that wouldn't take longer than a minute

can be done in ms paint too just select white paint and zoom in MS paint? What are we, savages? MS Paint is the one true art medium. [Believe in the Joy of MSPainting](http://endymionawake.deviantart.com/gallery/?catpath=scraps) This is the dirty windows 7 MS paint. Any self respecting artist would only use the 95 version.  No, no, no. Only true version is in 3.1 And I just logged in to tell you this. [After seeing this, I tried my hand at it. I think I did pretty good for a first attempt!](http://i.imgur.com/8mKg4r0.png) I like MS paint because I fear change. I have no idea how to work photoshop or gimp. ms paint is just simple, no menus to go through. &gt; I like MS paint because I fear change.

Now that's a quote I would frame on my living room. I tried to use MS Paint to draw every pokemon once when I got really bored. From memory, I got just over 100 in and gave up.  Except trying to cover it up in pure white would look horrendous you heathen.  thats racist Should we tell him it was really for the karma? You should have said it quieter, I think he already heard you. I see pixels and stuff. 

Are you sure this isn't photoshopped? Wait....wait...wait...

Tweety is a dude? What the fuck? damn, all the times i've masturbated about pounding tweety's tight lil ass and it turns out he's a dude. i think i'm gonna be sick.. /r/evenwithcontext wut That's awfully graphic and violent of you. I gently rubbed my body while I thought about caressing his feathered nipples with my mouth. 


I would have been a much nicer lover. I'm sorry to shatter your fantasy, but birds don't have nipples. It doesn't matter, the chest is naturally an arousal area for me now. I can lick all the pretend bird nipples I want, thank you very much. /r/worsewithcontext /r/evenwithcontext This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/nocontext] ["I can lick all the pretend bird nipples I want, thank you very much."](http://np.reddit.com/r/nocontext/comments/2ymja7/i_can_lick_all_the_pretend_bird_nipples_i_want/)


[](#footer)*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote. ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot) Omg, Taylor Hansen is a dude?!?  I had to google it to confirm. [Why is he doing a sexypose?!](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tweety#mediaviewer/File:Tweety.png) Only reason I knew he was a boy was because of his obvious attraction to girl bunny in Space Jam... Then again, I was a girl and definitely attracted to Lola Bunny, so who knows. &gt;I was a girl and definitely attracted to Lola Bunny, so who knows.

Judging by your post history, you still are a girl "I used to be a girl. I'm still a girl, but I used to be, too." "I don't work with the males, 'cause I used to be one." Kind of an ironic line given how his character turns out. Michelle Hedberg? you seem to be implying guys aren't allowed to do that... That's a bashful/cute pose, not a sexy pose.  Didn't he always have a guy voice in the cartoons? Which brings her to another life lesson:  Cheaters prosper. I thought the life lesson is "tweety should stay away from taz at all costs, he's a bad influence and stuff"  And yet i still spent a solid 5 minutes trying to figure out a way to solve it... I did too! I thought for sure I'm missing something. I even went backwards. /r/mildlyinfuriating  The only winning move is not to play. [Path from end to beginning.](http://i.imgur.com/MlA7ao8.png) Good job! [Here's your sticker](http://i.imgur.com/VGWU7h4.png). (I made it myself!) Looks almost as good as [reddit silver](http://img.pandawhale.com/93002-reddit-silver-medal-meme-funny-B9d2.jpeg) Whoever made that spent way too much time beautifying something that is supposed to be [intentionally shitty.](http://i.imgur.com/sy9lVl4.jpg) I laughed waaayyyy harder than I should have Reddit never ceases to remind me that someone, somewhere has thought of doing the same thing you just did.

Because I was seriously about to do this exact thing. I'm not exactly sure what the point of the whole bottom left quadrant is when you can only access it from the finish arrow. 

Maybe they expect everyone to start at the end?  [deleted] Neither.  The maze is just has hard either way you go. What a slightly cruel joke Nah this girl will grow up learning not to trust fuckboys and have a greater value and understanding of life. Op's the real mvp for buying her this. Protect ya neck.  This is teaching kids to think outside the box at an early age. 

Tweety would fly over the maze.

Taz would go through the maze. 

Makes sense either direction.  I swear... has not one person here watched five frikkin' minutes of Looney Toons? You solve it by painting a hole on the wall, or blowing something up with an ACME product, or dressing Taz in drag. Trying to go through the maze is doing it wrong. That was my thought, just paint a tunnel on the maze wall. Duh!

Watch out for the trains though. Is the marker hiding the second entrance to maze? Usually these things have two ways to enter. JUST LIKE YOUR MOTHER.  http://i.imgur.com/kup2AFL.jpg rekt Unless moms a dude she has 3. Even if moms a dude she has 3 if she's really brave. &gt; *she has 3 if she's really brave.*

/r/sounding &gt;Just a warning to be careful. When I was in middle school and still experimenting, I tried something similar with an ethernet cord (with an end cut off). It got tangled up in my bladder and I ended up in the ER. Asking my parents to take me to the doctor because of it was one of the most embarrassing moments of my life. My dad scratching his head wondering how this could have happened and my mom, one hand on my penis, the other trying to yank the cord out of my peehole. Then, the doctors had to slice me open, reach inside me, and untie the cable to pull it out. I spent 3 days in the hospital and 3 weeks with a catheter while I went to school and everybody knew what happened. And best of all, I have bladder issues and a nasty scar to remind me of the experience every time I look down. Would not wish it upon anyone else.

Jesus Reading this physically hurt me. &gt;Urethranet cord. oh... it is not about music and stuff. Clicked on it, saw the title of the tab load, noped the fuck out of there before the page could even load. Actually your mom has 7 ways trebec, but let's not get into specifics.  I did a google search for "mazes for kids" and not a single one in the couple hundred I sampled had two entrances. Did you pull that "fact" out of your ass? Just like I pulled out of your mom. tweety's a bird obviously just fly over the maze, looney tunes are teaching creative problem solving Go around.  See kids, theres some problems in life you cant solve, th-th-th- that's all folks! Thought Tweety was a girl. :o /r/mildlyinfuriating "Break on through, to the other side!" Wait... Tweety Bird is a he? No such thing as an unsolvable maze. Just lack of white-out. You should help your daughter go full Kobayashi Maru by reprinting the maze with an opened pathway and replacing the page in the book. Daughter:  *gets white out* "I never took the Kobayashi Maru test... until now. What do you think of my solution?" Or, you know... Just get a tiny little bit of white-out... Clearly you just don't understand a common core maze. I always thought Tweety was female. Welcome to the real world jackass! I see so many swastikas. Damn those ACME products. That's despicable! It a*maze*s me how the people who made this book let this through. They must be *looney*. How mean. Driving kids insane at an early age leads to all sorts of problems down the road. Like creating problems that are not solvable.  They still make [looney tunes](http://www.vunify.com/watch/the-looney-tunes-show/13cf2e92/season/1) coloring books? That is interesting. This belongs in /r/rage Help Tweety Bird find is way to Taz.....fold the paper. [Solved it](http://i.imgur.com/OYmzF4k.jpg) Tweety needs no maze, she'll just fly over. some people just want to see the world burn  It's an analogy for life, you can't win, best they hammer it into the kid's head before she has dreams or something. "Keep trying honey!" Well, why did you think they called it 'looney'? It's the Kobayashi Maru: For Kids.  Parkour that shit Welp, that's a good way to learn about life.  it's a trick... tweety bird can fly... If you knew Looney Toons, you'd know they use dynamite for everything.  well, you didn't buy a "Sane toons" coloring book now did you? Tweetie can fly.  Just draw a straight line to Taz and go home.

FTFY the other tunnel entrance is under the pen... Not unsolvable, you have to start from the far right point of entry. somebody upvote this!! I AGREED AND LAUGHED ALONG BUT NOW... THEY ARE PURPOSELY HIDING AN ALTERNATIVE ENTRACE BURN THIS MUTHAFUCKA DOWN POOKY. What's funny is , is that I looked at that at 6am with my eyes blurry and didn't notice it was actually an orange marker covering a wall of the maze. I actually thought it was a blank entrance. Well, it's Looney Tunes; you have to paint a tunnel entrance on the wall. Wha- Ooooh! Acme quality isn't what it used to be. Nope. It's still up to standard.  the kobayashi maru!.... of looney tunes mazes.
She must learn the value of accepting the no win scenario!  [deleted] Clearly Taz made this one. If you take one line away at where the maker should is placed over you can actually solve the puzzle. So another life lesson could be that when you think there is no finish, take away some boundaries and you will find the end.  I thought taz was the one who eats birds. The book is simply teaching your daughter that one must be willing to break barriers and cross lines if they're really serious about accomplishing a goal. That'll knock those "everyone gets a medal for participation" kids down a peg, smug bastards. I, too, have soldered. TIG welding actually; similar in some respects. Does your instructor make you weld the filler rod ends together so you can use the last bit of it? We have a high frequency start and I got electrocuted because the filler rod was in my hand and not grounded properly, I told my instructor and he denied it being possible, the same semester I was watching over his shoulder as he did the exact same thing and got electrocuted.  Lol classic welding instructor How dangerous is being electrocuted by a welding machine?  The only reason It was able to go bridge the gap through my gloves to my fingers was because of the high frequency start, it had enough volts to burn a tiny hole in my pointer finger and thumb, but most welders are only 18-40 volts at 200-450 amps so its kind of like getting tickled or hit in the funny bone if you get electrocuted. But in some industries there could be welders rated at thousands of amps. Just working in an environment with a lot of open power lines is a hazard. Someone that was working for PG&amp;E got eletricuted in a cherry picker because his head touched some open wires just a few weeks ago at Sierra Pacific, a place I was trying to get a job at until I heard about it, that's a huge red flag and says a lot of the safety of the shop, honestly the answer is yes if you don't take the correct precautions, the danger is when an unskilled employee works next to a machine without knowing what not to do. I sat down on a welding lead when I was arc gouging overhead. Apparently there was a hole in the insulation and it grounded into my ass cheek jumped the gap to my other cheek and left near my hip into the grating I was sitting on.. So I ended up with 4 burn holes. 3 in my ass and one on my hip. This was with two welding machines hooked together. Learned a good lesson that day. These are the types of stories instructors need to tell so people get a good idea of what they're working with, I can't tell you how many times I've seen a guy quench a workpiece and continue welding with soaking wet gloves only to get shocked a second later because the water bridges the gap between a crack on the stinger. Thank you for the reply. As one who works with electricity daily, you might want to make a habit of using the word 'electrocuted' properly. I know I sound like an assbag grammar Nazi guy, but this particular thing, to me, is impossible to ignore...it screams at me, especially ever since I realized the word electrocution is a combination of the words electric and execution. Technically, electrocuted means killed...

So, very dangerous. So what is the proper term for having electricity pass through you and not dying then? A teachable moment. Being shocked I was more outraged  [Shock](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electric_shock) Electrocute- "injure or kill (someone) by electric shock

http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/electrocute

Includes injuries too From [http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/electrocute](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/electrocute):

&gt; electrocute : to kill (a person or animal) by electric shock

Sources vary, but even your link explains that it is derived from "electric" and "execution". It can kill you depending on the machine. It is usually just a small zap, but those machines throw enough power around to kill you if you are stupid enough. Whenever I want to feel less of a man I go to /r/welding. Yeah, that weld didn't go as well as you woulda liked, gathering from experience. Eh, happens to me esp. with aluminum rod. I get it too close and it droops. So I fling it around to remove the drop, sometimes while it's still molten. 