In theory, yes. 

In practice, it's much harder, because the earth is so small and 65 milllion light years is a long distance. For perspective, all the visible stars in the night sky are within about 1,000 light years of us. The Milky Way is about 100,000 light years across. Andromeda is about 2.5 million light years away. If some aliens (or wormhole travelers) want to see dinosaurs, they're going to need a big telescope. We can barely even resolve planets in our own galaxy, and I don't think there is a single known extragalactic exoplanet, but I could be wrong. 

But let's not let reality get in the way of our adventure; after all, we've already assumed wormholes exist. So how big does this telescope need to be? Astronomy is hard, and gets harder the further away you look, because you need bigger and bigger telescopes to get the same resolution- [so we can use the lens resolution equation to find an approximate size for the lens.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_resolution#Lens_resolution)

      Angular resolution = 1.22 * Wavelength / Lens Diameter

So pick a wavelength in the visible spectrum- how about 500 nanometers since that's right at the transition between blue and green, and a distance of 65 million light years. The angular resolution to resolve the earth would be: 

     Earth Radius/Distance = 1.22 * Wavelength / Lens Diameter

Solving for the lens diameter gives about 5.8x10^10 meters, which is about a third of the distance to the sun. This is big- this lens would fill up about half of Mercury's orbit. 

But you wanted to see *dinosaurs*, not just the earth. If you want to resolve a dinosaur as one pixel or so, then we use the same equation again, but put in the size of a dinosaur (maybe 10 meters?) instead of the earth radius. [This lens](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%2865+million+light+years+%2F+length+of+triceratops%29+*+1.22+*+500+nm) needs to be 4.4 light years in diameter- where once again I am surprised at the neat tidbits Wolfram has built in, like the length of an adult triceratops. 

Anyway, you're going to run into a problem here because when you start putting a lot of mass in one spot space starts to curve a lot, and eventually it's going to collapse into a black hole. For something with the density of glass, which is about 2.5 grams/cc, you're going to hit this point fairly quickly. In fact, [a ball of glass 14 light *minutes* in radius will have enough concentrated mass to collapse into a black hole.](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=sqrt%283*%28speed+of+light%29^2+%2F+%288+*+gravitational+constant+*+pi+*+2.5+grams%2Fcc%29%29)

Tough luck. There goes my dream of seeing dinosaurs, though I must say, I was not expecting the lens size to be the defining factor.

 Amazing answer thanks a lot.

 you can actually get around the lens size problem, by having multiple lenses, or moving one around. I'd expect a lens that size to be made from electromagnetic distortion fields rather than solid materials - the same way we use existing stars /galaxies as gravity lenses already.  we do? i thought that was just theoretically possible, awesome! Not only that, but by using a number of them you can see the same thing by very different routes. If the route takes a lot longer, you see it at a different time... 

http://www.astronomy.com/news/2015/03/hubble-sees-supernova-split-into-four-images-by-cosmic-lens
 That is the coolest thing I've learned this week. This method could become much more powerful in the future. Spacecraft far away from the sun (&gt;500 AU) can use the the sun as a gravitational lens. This would be great to study for example the cosmic background radiation in detail, or it would allow to study any arbitrary object, even within our galaxy, in great detail, not just the ones that happen to sit behind a galaxy cluster. There is already a proposal to built a spacecraft that could do this even today, [the FOCAL mission](http://www.centauri-dreams.org/?p=785). And a little bit more science fiction-y, it's also by far the best method we know of for insterstellar communication. Using this method, is it possible to see the earth's past? We are not in the same location that we were when the light was reflected. Could we figure out where that light would be and look into our past?  That is theoretically possible but highly unlikely.  We'd need to find a place where light from the earth bent nearly 180 degrees and did not diffuse.  Anything bending it that much will also distort it and scatter it. This is a good point.  It's fun to think of space aliens watching old episodes of I Love Lucy, but space is not a pure vacuum.  EM waves scatter and they get lost below the background after a few days.  Not to mention chromatic aberrations.  The size of your antenna or telescope makes no difference.  There is no discernible signal left after a few days, much less years, much less thousands or millions of years. Does that essentially mean that the SETI radio telescopes are completely wasting their time?
Surely the people running the programme are aware of this physics, why do they therefore bother? [deleted] [deleted] This idea blew my mind. Woah. Does anyone have an expert opinion? [deleted] One black hole couldn't do it. 

If you got a bunch of them, though, and positioned them so that they progressively bent the light in a giant loop, you might be able to get the light pointed where you wanted it to end up.

Of course, the light you wanted would be so weak and distorted at that point that there's very little chance it would be useful for anything. Wouldn't it be possible to enhance the image using software? CSI: Space

"Sir I've enhanced the image with my space computer.  I was able to locate the criminal in the reflection of the T-Rex eye."

"Excellent." You need an image in the first place- if all you have is noise, there's no enhancement possible, since there's no signal.

We pretty much know how to tease the signal out if there is one- the problem is collecting enough photons for you to be lucky enough to actually collect a few that you want. Software isn't a magic term you can throw around. It's not going to create parts of an image that don't exist. Wait, there's something I don't quite understand, maybe you can help clear this up for me...But why does the light change path at different times? And how come they have to wait for distinct images to appear? I would think that since the light is a constant source it would be like a continuous change, not distinct images. Ya know?  Imagine you send two cars from New York to Cleveland. One takes a direct freeway, and the other a different one through Washington DC. While they both eventually arrive in Cleveland, the latter might take a bit longer to get there. This is analogous to the light. While one set of photons has a pretty direct route, another might head a ways off (like the other side of a galaxy) and then get lensed back towards the right direction. Because light travels at C, this means it takes longer to travel that distance to the viewer. We don't. Electromagnetic fields don't interact with photons in that sense, so you can't make a lens from them.

Gravitational lensing is a thing, though. I don't know if that would be possible. For an added bonus, electromagnetic fields are photons! Have you tried crossing the light from two flashlights before? What you think would happen doesn't. What happens, what happens?! No serious what happens? Then why does a laser deflect when one attempts to reflect it back through its aperture? This is something that's always puzzled me.  Gravitational lensing is not like focussing with a lens though. It can increase the apparent brightness of distant objects under the right circumstances, but it doesn't focus all the light from the object to a point like a conventional lens. You can see this if you look at how a lens works - e.g the animation and images at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lens_%28optics%29. You can see here that light further from the centre of the lens is bent more than that closer to the centre, pulling all the photons together at a point. A gravitational object will do the opposite, and photons closer to the centre (the massive object) will be diverted more. So we could use a combination of optical glass and gravitational "focal reducers". Fair enough. But I started by saying *like* a gravity lens anyway...  To get dinosaur resolution you'd need much more control and from what you say a different form of lens. Although several spaced apart could end up (with some sophisticated correction) as a single magnifying lens in the area where their effects overlap.

In any case, lens effects are possible without a solid lens.  Yeah that or some reflective membrane- that would also completely avoid the gravitational collapse problem If you're throwing around that much mass already, why not shape it into a torus and use gravitational lensing to do the magnification? Could you also spin the lens to counteract gravity with a centrifugal counter-force? Or, at these scales, would the speed of the edge have to exceed C in order to have any kind of significant impact? [deleted] If, for a very simplified analogy, you imagine light being tiny, bouncy balls which hit and bounce off of things. Then imagine that the balls that bounce into your eye allow you to see the thing they've bounced off of.

Now imagine the sun is shooting these 'light balls' in all directions and some of those go onto the earth and hit a triceratops and then those balls reflect in all directions off the triceratops (making reflections in the water, bouncing off vegetation etc) and then some bounce into the sky. To a creature flying over the top, when those balls go into the bird's eye, it can see the triceratops.

Then those balls fly out in all directions into space. As they fly out further, they spread more and more and more.

When you set up a telescope, some of the balls go into the telescope and eventually into your eye. You can see it as those balls are gathered by the lens and focused onto one point - your eye. The fewer balls that go into your eye, the fainter the image will be. Maybe you only get a couple of balls from that triceratops. That's going to make it really hard to see.

Ergo, further out, fewer photons, less of an image, bigger lens required to gather the photons onto a focus. Interestingly, the number of photons doesn't seem to be a huge limit here (unless I've got my numbers wrong).

Suppose we've got our 4.4 light year lens (gravitational lens?) set up to collect light from our distant dinosaurs. The sun puts out about 1 kW/m^2 at the Earth's position. The dinosaur reflects some of that -- let's say it's got a 30% albedo (frustratingly, the internet doesn't seem to know what the albedo of a lizard is). A largish dinosaur might present a surface to the observer of 300 m^2 or so, so that's 100 kW of light energy being emitted.

At a distance of 65 million light years, that's 4.21x10^-44 W/m^2 of radiation. Now, that sounds miniscule, but over the surface area of a 4.4 light year lens, it amounts to 5.2x10^-11 W at the detector. If it were all green light (I mean, it's a dinosaur, right? :)), that's more than 100 million green photons from the dinosaur hitting our detector every second. This is a really clever and informative post! Since no one else is likely to respond to my idea, what do you think of the concept of using many telescope satellite receivers in space to exploit the effect of Aperture Synthesis, but using a dense object that caused gravitational lensing to act as the lens itself? Would it be possible to create a cosmic-scale refracting telescope this way? Namely, an object like a black hole could distort and lens space to a certain extent, and an array of satellites could be set up in the precise way needed to collect the light at its focal point. I'm curious what you were thinking, what other defining factors are there? To be honest, I thought it was gonna be some factor about finding a straight line of vision from wherever we were to the earth. Space is mostly just that: space. It would be very, very unlikely that an object would completely block your view of something behind it. However, there is a phenomenon called a [gravitational lens](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_lens) which can definitely distort the image, or produce optical copies of it in our sky. Theoretically, you could also use this effect in your telescope to reduce the required size of your lens. If I use my thumb, I can totally block my view of a building outside my window.  Couldn't something the size of a spec of dust block the view of a planet if you were far enough away? I'm assuming you have one eye closed when you're blocking your view. Open both eyes and do the same thing. This is kind of how a telescope collects photons scattered over a large area, and focuses them onto point. Something the size of a spec of dust (or even the size of a planet) wouldn't show up if you were focusing that far past it. Your thumb has to be up close to your face for this to work though. If something big is blocking your telescope's view in the immediate vicinity then you're out of luck of course, but at meaningful distances the great empty void of space swallows any large objects from view. I feel like the bigger issue would be the line itself.

From 65 million light years away, that telescope is going to have to be *incredibly* precise in order to see earth. If you're making a lens that is light-years long, you put in the time to make it perfect. If gravity was not a issue surely some planet or a sun would often be in the way for a lens of this size? The 'planet' or 'sun' in the way of a telescopic lens that is 4.4 light years in diameter would be equivalent to a single grain of pollen in front of your Digital SLR's lens.  Enough to deny that one pixel sized Dino? Any reflector telescope you are likely to buy for yourself will have huge obstructions in the way, but you don't see them.

The whole point of lenses in telescopes is that they collect light from a wide area and focus it to a point. There are plenty of light paths which go around the obstruction. You will lose a percentage of the light density, but you shouldn't see the obstruction itself. You could go from one end of the universe  to the other without hitting any planets, "space" is vastly empty.  Look at the period at the end of this sentence, then cover one eye with your hand.  Did the period go away?  No, because you have to cover the whole of the lens (or lenses) to obscure the object.  Of course, if you cover most of the lens, the image starts to get dimmer, but that's often not a big deal.

If you had a lens that big, you could even see around large stars, as long as they weren't close to the earth. As far as I understood you could go in a straight line endlessly and never hit anything, a fact that is always brought up when discussing how often in episodes of star trek they find habitable planets. I don't see the connection. Yeah you could walk across a golf course in a straight line all day without ever stepping on a golfball, but that doesn't mean there aren't many golfballs there.  He's making the point that it would not be that hard to get a straight line of sight on earth from 65 million light years away Yeah I got that, I was referring to the second half of the statement though. I don't see the connection between the amount of habitable planets on star trek and the fact that you can go in a straight line without hitting anything.  Yeah, obviously they're going to point the ship at stars and planets they can detect with their sensors.  [deleted] Space is pretty empty on the whole.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] There's a workaround for the giant telescope.

It is known that an array of smaller telescopes can be finessed to behave like one large telescope. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telescope_Array_Project

The telescope array could be positioned in space as to avoid the incidental black hole effect. ... Except that a telescope array, while it has excellent angular resolution, has terrible light collection. See the comment I made [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2y93cz/if_we_were_far_enough_from_earth_could_we_see_the/cp7l7uq) -- an array won't yield nearly enough photons to be useful. Your dreams are dead. Just like the dinosaurs. 

If it's any consolation, [there's lots of good museums all over the world full of bones.](http://travel.cnn.com/worlds-best-dino-museums-658206) There are also some 10,000 living species of dinosaurs, since birds are dinosaurs. There are more dinosaur species alive than mammal species. &gt;  There are more dinosaur species alive than mammal species.

I thought to myself "that can't possibly be right", but I looked it up, yup... ~10,000 bird species, only ~5400 mammals. On the plus side, though, you did manage to make a black hole entirely out of glass. Almost as good as a dinosaur. [deleted] You can still hold out for time travel or an alternate universe where dinosaurs did not go extinct... Sliders He basically said there IS a chance.  Your dream is alive! Since we're already working from an established premise that wormholes are a reality, time and space travel is no longer an issue. Instead of sending a lense through a wormhole to a point 65 million light years away and attempting to see the earth, just create a wormhole from somewhere here and now to wherever the earth was at the point in the past you want to see it. Okay, but now the problem is that that isn't a technological reality for us. Don't worry, I got that covered too. Invent the technology. Simple right? No? Well, don't worry, you only need to decide that you *might* invent it. But only if you correctly guess a whole number between one and one billion(or some other sufficiently large number). The easiest way to do this is go out and buy a Powerball lottery ticket, or whatever lottery ticket has such astronomical odds and also a multimillion dollar equivalent jackpot. Oh, I should probably explain where I'm going with this in case you haven't guessed it yet, we're manipulating the concept behind [the many worlds theory.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Many-worlds_interpretation) You're deciding on a course of action determined by the outcome of events beyond your control. You decide that if you win that jackpot you're investing your winnings into whatever it will take to realize whatever your goal happens to be, in this case it's building a machine that can manipulate time and space. But you have to guess the numbers exactly right so the chances that *this you* is the one who wins is extremely low. The you that *does* guess correctly dedicates their life to the invention of a technology that can be used to send this you and every other alternate version of you a machine too. So go out and buy a lottery ticket, making certain to pick your own numbers, pray you lose, and then rest on your laurels while you wait for your TARDIS to be delivered to you by your alternate self. BRB gonna get me some lotto tickets and hope to loose. This is quite an interesting approach Buy every single large jackpot ticket available to make sure some version of you wins as much money as possible. But make sure you decide that you'll only get with the inventing if you win every single ticket. Don't want more than one you working on the same project. The only way it doesn't work is if time travel is impossible. Enjoy your adventures. Is this a method that anyone seriously pursues? And is there any more reading material? It's goofy and crazy but I like the concept. I need some help explaining how traveling far from earth leads to us seeing the past. I can't wrap my mind around this concept. Will the direction we travel show a different image or will it not matter since we are viewing earth from a very far distance.....but why would it be viewed as the past?  Well... It doesn't, since we can't travel faster than light. However, let me go back a bit to try and explain the reasoning behind this.

Whenever you look at something, what you see it's not the object itself, but the light that bounced on that object and went towards your eyes. This is the most basic concept needed here (sorry if I went to simple). 
And as we know, light has a mximum speed (roughly 300,000 thousand kilometers per second).
With those two facts we can predict that whenever we see something that's far away, let's say 300,000 kms away, what we're seeing is the light that was reflected on that object one second ago, so we could say we're looking at the past. The greater the distance, the longer time has passed since that light got reflected.

This is not quite noticeable on earth, but in stellar scale, it get's quite relevant.

Using this, we could say that someone that was one light year (the distance that light can move in a year (300,000 * 60 * 24 * 365.4 kilometers) away from earth, would be able to see the earth as it was one year ago, since he'd be seeing the light that was reflected a year before. Increase the distance, and the time increases.

Now, in order for you or me to see the past, we'd need to travel faster than light so we could "catch up" with the light that reflected on ourselves before we started travelling. But as we know, faster than light travel is impossible. Here's where the wormhole comes in handy, theorically a wormhole would be able to take us a great distance in no time (I recommend googling wormholes) allowing us to "catch up" with the light that reflected on dinosaurs 65 million years ago.

Hope this is usefull, I recomend watching the show Cosmos with Neil deGrasse Tyson, he does a great job explaining complicated concepts to the regular joe like you and I. Ok. The light bulb clicked on. I understand now. Wow, that was well explained and the concept is...just wow!. Thanks you! Pedantic note: "...to the regular Joe like you and me*."

For cases like this, the best way to check if it's the proper English is if you can say it without the "you and" part. So here you would say "...to the regular Joe like me," which is the correct phrasing. light has a limited speed, that is c. suppose you could go faster than light (kind of impossible) or make a shortcut as OP suggests through a wormhole (higher chance of possibility) and get ahead of the light that was emitted from the times when dinosaurs were present on Earth. voil, you can see the past in the future. sort of what we are already doing with our telescopes or looking at the sky with our bare eyes or on a microscopic scale what I'm doing right now looking at my own fingers typing this. The other defining factor is the impossibility of traveling faster than c. We could never catch up with light that left earth 65 million years ago. Well, in fairness, that's not a limiting factor to the OP's question, which wasn't posed on the sense of "could we outrun that ancient light, turn around, and look at it", but rather "if we were already far enough away....". Wormholes would imply that you aren't traveling the same route as the light, though. Rather you're taking a shortcut across the universe. Your 'slower' vehicle is taking a shorter route to a point in space ahead of those rays of light. So you should stop thinking of this a a problem of optics and more a problem of particle physics. Better than making a lens, would be developing a very sensitive detector that can interpolate particles and wave positions and trajectories as well as their histories of interaction to create a digital picture of the dinosaurs much like one would use an antenna to capture a broadcasted TV show. Solve the problem with computing power and software rather than strict optics. Such a detection device has yet to be invented, but this seems far more feasible than creating lenses the size of planetary orbits. How tough would it be to see yesterday?  It takes sunlight 5.5 hours to reach pluto. So you would have to go a considerable distance beyond pluto. Well, the Voyager 1 is about 17 light hours away, so if it were to snap a detailed photo of Earth somehow, it would be capturing light from 17 hours ago.  
  
However, it would take at least 17 hours to send a command to the spacecraft to take the photo since the transmission speed can not exceed the speed of light (meaning that by the time the Voyager 1 receives to request to "take a picture of yesterday", the light bouncing off of Earth now would have also traveled at least greater than or equal to the transmitted command, so it would actually be taking a picture of now or after.)  
  
Keep in mind that this spacecraft was launched in 1977 (38 years ago), took advantage of planetary gravity assist, reached a max speed of 38,610mph/62,136kmh, and it is just now 17 light *hours* away. Even at those ridiculous speeds, it was still only traveling at an average speed of:  
  
17 / (38 * 365 * 24) = 17 / 332880 = 0.00005107 times the speed of light. [deleted] To see something the size of a triceratops yesterday, you'd need a lens [1.8x10^6 meters in diameter](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%281+light+day+%2F+length+of+triceratops%29+*+1.22+*+500+nm). That's about half the diameter of the moon.

(You can adjust the first two values in that equation to change the distance and resolution, if you want to know what it would take to see different objects at different points in the past) Why not a telescope array? You need precisely known spacing, how precise that spacing needs to be is dependent on the wavelength you're looking at.  They have considered giant arrays of little telescope satellites but maintaining the precise spacing is a significant challenge right now.

In theory though, yes a giant ass telescope array could work if you can maintain spacing to within nanometers over light years, though you'd need to account for the expansion of the universe. 

&gt;though you'd need to account for the expansion of the universe.

I don't know why, but this made me laugh. Definitely falls under the category of "unusual engineering problems".  To me, it's just as amusing that the clocks on GPS satellites have to be tuned to account for relativity - you're invoking relativity when you want to drive somewhere new... Does it really need to be that precise? Say they were deployed in a section of space that was empty and they maintained alignment via mutual neutral gravity (like Lagrange points, perhaps with some anchor stars providing the gravity to balance the outer edges of the array), could that be precise enough? If there's a degree of fluctuation, but you could guarantee that they'd come into precise alignment on a reliable period, that should be sufficient to snap a few Dino pics, yeah? Lagrange points only have neutral-ish gravity.  A significant amount of station keeping (thrusters, etc.) is necessary to keep a static position relative to some coordinate system.  Otherwise you end up in an orbit where you drift around the L-point and you are likewise sensitive to gravitational perturbations.  They don't need precise alignment actually, you just need to precisely know the alignment, and that can be done with some fancy signal processing. Onboard clocks and/or some type of beacon/ping system might be needed to help to calculate the alignment.

For Radio frequencies, this actually turns out to be rather easy, and your cell phone will actually do that (it's a requirement for 802.11n and 802.11ac, the AP sends out a beacon and your phone calculates the alignment matrix from the beacon).

It's difficult for optical telescopes though because we don't really have a great way of measuring the phase of optical light the way we can with RF. We can't sample it directly [yet], so we'd have to use lasers and measure the diffraction pattern to figure out the alignment and I'm not even sure that would work in a telescope setting (you might have to find a coherent light source on or near your target to focus onto) This was like an xkcd what if.  I enjoyed it quite a lot. For some more perspective, this level of resolving power is equivalent to being able to see down to a single atom on Pluto from earth [So it would seem.](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%28length+of+triceratops%29%2F+65+million+light+years+*distance+to+pluto+in+Angstroms) wolfram alpha plugged a triceratops into your equation for you. thats awesome Follow up question, If there happened to be a massive mirror like device 32.5 million light years away from Earth would the same be possible but with the lens on Earth?
 Yes, the light emitted during the age of dinosaurs would take 65 to travel there and back so we would be able to see it. The mirror-like device would have had to existed 32.5 million years ago to reflect the light we are interested in when it reaches the farthest away point of its journey.  So we need to set up an array of mirrors.

If you had a series of 65 million mirrors you would only need to have a telescope powerful enough to see one light year away, looking at the last mirror, which is directed towards earth. Well, you don't need that many mirrors. That information is already here. Just find ideal crystal on the Earth that still contains inside bouncing pack of photons emitted 65 mln years ago. What about gravitational lensing? Probably not since the size of the black hole needed would be larger than even the largest supermassive black holes. A black hole the mass of our galaxy would still be about [1/5th of a light year.](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=schwarzschild+radius+calculator&amp;f1=400+billion+solar+masses&amp;f=EventHorizonRadius.M_400+billion+solar+masses&amp;a=*FVarOpt.1-_**-.***EventHorizonRadius.Q--.**EventHorizonRadius.J---.*--) With the distances we're talking, wouldn't an ordinary galaxy serve the purpose without needing to be a black hole? It's diameter would still be small compared to 65 million ly. Schwarzschild radius isn't the relevant parameter here, though. What you're looking for is the effective size over which the black hole acts as a lens. Even the apparent size of a black hole is about [2.5 times the size of the event horizon](https://www.reddit.com/r/Physics/comments/2y61ed/my_new_opensource_black_hole_raytracer_and_a/). Sure.

There are several possible methods of lensing that might just work. Of course the real issue in plausibility is that someone "elsewhere" would need to decide to do all this without our having any chance to influence them to do so. That's implausible to say the least. To nitpick a bit, you don't need a contiguous mirror that big. You can have an array of small mirrors that just span the same radius. Its be super hard to coordinate them but it gets you around the mass problem. Would it not also be possible, assuming 'wormhole' technology existed, to use the wormholes or spacetime itself to create a lens effect? Like a localised form of gravitational lensing? &gt; Would it not also be possible, assuming 'wormhole' technology existed, to use the wormholes or spacetime itself to create a lens effect? Like a localised form of gravitational lensing?

At this point it seems like it would be easier to just invent a time machine.  [deleted] [deleted] Well, if you really wanted to engineer a telescope a couple light years in diameter, it'd need to be a very lightweight reflector structure, not a lens or a ball of glass. There isn't enough material on Earth to make one, though. Heck, there isn't enough easily accessible material in the Solar System to make such a telescope. You'd need to mine a spiral arm or two worth of Earth-like planets, I think, to pull that off... Doesn't light follow the cube rule where twice the distance means 8 times less energy? I believe it's an inverse-square rule, so 1/4 the energy.

At 65 million light-years, you would be straining to pick up just a few photons. Having the huge lens would help, if it could even exist. At 65 million light years away, you'd be straining to pick up a few photons from the sun itself, not to mention from a dinosaur. Do telescope arrays have the same resolution calculation? If it's just a matter of a large handful of relatively small telescopes that 4.4 light years becomes much more manageable. Next step, use a small galaxy as gravitational lens to see the dinosaurs  Hmmm, isn't this all assuming that these aliens who have the technology to travel through worm holes haven't figured out a way to go around the optical physics as well?  Well they could even perceive us with a complete different array of senses and be non dependant of optics  Wow, this is amazing.  Thanks for doing the math.  14 light minutes is a distance of 156.5 million miles.  I'm not nearly as good at math as you.  I tried to calculate the weight of this lens at an average of 1cm thickness (not realistic):

Input interpretation:   ((((156.5 million miles)/2)^2pi)*1cm)2.5 g/cc 
Result:  1.2510^24 kg  (kilograms)

Input interpretation:  mass of the observable universe
Result:  ~~ 3.410^54 kg  (kilograms)

Maybe someone better at math can help me out if I'm wrong.
 So if you want help with that number, (1.25x10^24 kg) that's about a quarter of the mass of the earth.

I should note that the figure I quoted for the 14 light-minute piece of glass would have to be a sphere.  I'm confused about the black hole bit.  Density is density, right?  So a 14-LM radius sphere of glass would still have a density of...glass.  I thought increasing *density* without limit was what would ultimately trigger gravitational collapse into a black hole.  Are you saying that a sphere of glass that large would collapse under its own gravity, thus increasing its own density without limit? Wow!
Thanks for the info!

Id want to travel so far, that I can see myself leave earth again! xD You couldn't, unless you were traveling faster than light, in which case you could watch yourself leave at any distance really, provided to had a big enough telescope and kept it just ahead of the light that shows your departure.  But you wouldn't be. Seriously, time would stop and you'll not exist according to you. 

Check out vsauces video - will headlights work at light speed...  It's a must watch!  If WE wanted to view the dinosaurs from earth, let's say we had the technology to go place some massive mirror far enough, wouldn't it just divide all the calculations by half since the light would need to only travel let's say 32million ly to the mirror, bounce back and take another 32million ly for a total of 65mil? As mentioned somewhere else in this thread, the mirror would have to be already placed there 32 million years beforehand, or else the light from 32 million years in the past, not 65, would be reflected and we'd have to wait another 32 million years to see the reflected light. I see. So unless the space-time line is broken it's really a matter of straight forward math making it pretty much impossible. If you can travel millions of years through time then you would just go back in time and look at them. Speaking of black holes, though... would it be theoretically possible to use a black hole as a  gravitational lens for this purpose? Couldn't you do what we do with our current telescopes and many small lenses that collect light and then run a program behind the scenes to patch everything together? So instead of one glass lens 4.4 light years in diameter you create a bunch of lenses maybe 7 light minutes in radius and then space all of them far enough apart to for a 4.4 light year radius telescope. Even if you succeed in designing a system of optics that are a billion times smaller than the 4.4 light year figure I quoted, you're still going to need equipment three times bigger than the earth.  Have you still helped find a better method though...

Instead of an astronomically glass lens, what about something else that could be designed specifically *to* bend light waves in such a way as to act like a telescope? Also since space and time (spacetime) are tied together, if you take a wormhole 65 million light years away, won't you find yourself in another time as well - more precisely, 65 million years in the future?

And so if you were to look at the earth in the telescope, you would be looking at the day you entered the wormhole? &gt; Also since space and time (spacetime) are tied together, if you take a wormhole 65 million light years away, won't you find yourself in another time as well - more precisely, 65 million years in the future?

That's going to depend on the structure of the worm hole. 

&gt; And so if you were to look at the earth in the telescope, you would be looking at the day you entered the wormhole?

That sounds like something I would expect.  so in theory, if we were to instantaneously jump 1 light hour away from earth, I would be able to see myself an hour ago? Yes. The light isn't distorting time, it's just showing you what it captured at the time it was reflected. can't you stack smaller lenses up? You're amazing, reading through your posts is entertaining. Thank you for always answering everyone with thorough answers and taking all questions into consideration. Keep it up! To be fair, you don't need one massive lens. You can actually split it up into an array of telescopes and combine all of their resolving power to still get the image. Or we use gravitational lensing in our advantage?

It's gotta be possible to manipulate light in such a way that simulates a 4.4 lightyears lens. &gt;all the visible stars in the night sky are within about 1,000 light years of us...Andromeda is about 2.5 million light years away.

All right this doesn't totally make sense to me.  If we only can see stars within 1,000 light years and Andromeda is 2.5M light years away, how can we see it?

...Hm.  Maybe we only see its light and we can't differentiate its stars?
 &gt;The individual stars you can see, from the brightest beacons to those
&gt;that barely tickle your dark-adapted retinas, number about 9000 across
&gt;the entire sky (as seen in every direction, if the Earth were not in the
&gt;way).

&gt;The most distant individual star visible to the unaided eye is a little
&gt;over 4000 light years away, in the constellation Cassiopeiaand 
&gt;though it appears to us as a fairly faint star, it is in reality a 
&gt;supergiant star over 100,000 times more luminous than our Sun.

[source](http://science.kqed.org/quest/2007/09/28/the-unaided-eye/)

Andromeda is 2.5 million miles away, but is much brighter than the stars in our galaxy. In fact, we can see very little of the Andromeda galaxy because of how far away it is. [This](http://waitbutwhy.com/2014/06/andromeda-brighter-youd-see.html) article will give you an idea of how big Andromeda would be in the night sky if the whole galaxy was visible to us with the naked eye.

So it's not that we can only see 1000 light years, its that most stars are only bright enough to be seen with the naked eye from that distance. Both brightness and distance determine what we can see. Fantastic information! I can't believe i never saw this image before! Link for the lazy: http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/1308/m31abtpmoon.jpg Check out [this](http://www.spacetelescope.org/images/heic1502a/zoomable/) picture of Andromeda. I wish I could remember what the consensus was on whether individual stars are visible. What we mostly see is glowing gas and star clusters. Yeah, so Andromeda has about a trillion stars, so even though it's a thousand times further away than the stars we see in the night sky, it's got a lot of stars pumping out a lot more light.  Pretty sure Andromeda's a Galaxy not a Star -

[Edit] oh yeah you kinda said that

[Edit] Interesting Wiki titbit "In 2009, the first planet may have been discovered in the Andromeda Galaxy. This candidate was detected using a technique called microlensing, which is caused by the deflection of light by a massive object." Those are the visible stars in the sky, that is what you can see with just your own eyes. Andromeda is just barely visible as a smudge, and only in very dark areas. Andromeda is pretty bright in the sky. The difference is just that Andromeda is much larger and brighter than individual stars, so even if it is much further away, it's bright enough to be seen. Kind of like how the sun has an angular size in the sky similar to that of the moon even though it's much further away. It's bigger and brighter. As a follow up - if I left the earth and travelled via wormhole in 5 seconds to where I could see earth 1 week prior to departure then travelled back to Earth at the speed of light through normal space, then I would see the events of that week in fast forward including my own departure until I got back? If you can see the earth as it was a week ago then you will be a light week away. Travelling back to earth would take a week at light speed. You'll arrive a week after your departure.  But it would take exactly zero time for them, because relativity. So it would speed up. I read that for the traveller it would be an instant. But to others it would be a week, I still find it strange why Because of time dilation. The closer you get to the speed of light the less time has passed for the traveller to the point where time stands still for the traveller at the speed of light. Meanwhile at non-relativistic speeds a week has passed.  Yes but if you can travel at light speed, then that either means you have no mass or infinite mass. Because infinite mass is improbable, then you most likely have no mass. If you have no mass, and can travel at light speed, then time effectively doesn't affect you; therefore, the distance from earth and you is hypothetically no distance at all and therefore, you can be there instantaneously. For people on earth, it would take you a week to travel back, but for you it would be instantaneously.

Edit: this also means you wouldn't age at all, but the people on earth would have aged a week. This is why traveling at light speed is a form of 'time travel' in a way.

Edit 2: and I didn't mean for it to sound like having no mass IS probable. It is impossible to have no mass or infinite mass (unless your a photon :P) What I think is interesting is that if you were looking at earth from a distance where you could see dinosaurs, you could theoretically look through a high powered telescope and traveling at a the correct speed toward our planet, see our planet in fast forward. Unrealistic, but possible if our planet was stationary. A book series you might find interesting in The Frontiers Saga. Doesn't go much into the science, but after a plague that almost wiped out the species, man lived in a dark time for 1000 years before climbing back out. Then they find a "data ark" that gives them a leg up on gaining their previous knowledge. They find they can make a drive (i thought of it as a quantum drive) that allowed them to appear instantly someone else in a 10 light year radius from where they were.
When they talk about their sensors, they mention the data they are seeing is old at extreme ranges. At one time,  they could see their own ship before they jumped (they were something like a light hour away).

The first 3 parts are free currently. Neil Degrasse Tyson said this in his AMA a while back   -

"I'd bring my iPhone, as the most compact representation of modern culture there is. And I'd visit a civilization on a galaxy 65 million light years away. Assuming I can get there instantaneously, I would look back to Earth with their presumably super telescopes and witness the extinction of the dinosaurs - the light of which is just now reach them."

I'd link to the exact comment but I'm on mobile and have no idea what I'm doing.


http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/ngd5e/i_am_neil_degrasse_tyson_ama

He also mentioned it in a video somewhere on YouTube but I can't find it.

 This is what makes me think "what if?" a lot. Because if there is an alien culture out there with super telescopes, it's totally possible that they're viewing Earth and not contacting us because we don't have life forms that they can see as worth contacting. 

It also makes you wonder about us viewing other planets with our telescopes. What if we're just viewing barren worlds because whatever is living there is current and we're seeing old light? 

Makes ya think, eh?  Well any of the planets in our solar system are mainly only light minutes away so not much room for change there but im assuming you're talking about exoplanets. Right now we can only detect the wobble in other stars to know there are planets there, we can't actually see those planets and any light bouncing off them to know if there is something there or not. They are way to faint next to their parent star. But I imagine once we have telescopes goos enough to see the light of an exoplanet, we have to take into account how far away it is and calculate how far back were looking.

But what I think is the coolest things about the night sky is knowing that whenever you look up at all the stars, you're looking back in time :) Ignoring the fact that it is impossible to instantly travel any distance, let alone 65 Million lightyears, and the impossibility of constructing any telescope large enough to look at an object so miniscule from an impossibly far distance, and the possibility of obstructions or warping/lensing effects the light from Earth may have, then yes.

But otherwise no.

You should check out this thread [where it is asked wether it is possible to view the Voyager probes with a telescope](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2aug1o/are_there_any_visual_not_radio_telescopes_in/ciyvj80). The Voyager 1 probe is 11.3 Billion miles away, which is 122 Astronomical Units (AU). 65 Million lightyears is ~4.11x10^12 (4.11 Trillion) AU away. We can't see Voyager 1 with a telescope, no chance of Dinosaurs.

[Unless of course you ignore all physics and practicality like I mentioned above] To be fair, if we could instantly travel *anywhere* why wouldn't we be able to go *everywhere* Actually we wouldn't need to travel instantly anywhere for this. Now I don't know about the necessary telescope technology, but we could overcome the need to catch up with light by taking a shorter route to the same destination. A gravitational lense will change the direction of the light. That means we could take a shorter path. Much like trying to catch up with someone who is traveling North and then turns West halfway through their journey. We could travel slower then them but go directly North West and still catch up with them at the destination. So let's say we could build such a device and we could travel fast enough to get there reasonably, we could look at earth and document all of history. Without and doubts.  [deleted] [deleted] Pretty much, although everyone else ha explained why it's hard. Also huh autocorrect tried to change that to sexplained.

But this is one of the biggest reasons why space travel and spreading us all is awesome, beyond the whole 'expanding the universe that humans can survive in' aspect, but also we can exploit how light doesn't travel instantaneously through the universe, but has a concrete speed, to one day intercept them and be able to see the past.

Imagine the implications if a post-FTL society managed to wrangle it so they had live video of Jesus from space, watching him and finding he wasn't divine, but a mortal man, or perhaps not finding him at all in the time people said he was around.

Imagine finally getting answers to every mystery that occured outdoors, because we can go and see it.

And those answers, the light emissions, are slowly decaying, being intercepted by debris, getting corrupted, their data becoming increasingly invalid and incomprehensible, and so much order is being lost into chaos.

We've got a time limit, folks. 3x10^8 metres per second that information is getting away from us, and every second we wait it gets harder to get that information captured. No, we could not; for the same reason we can't point the Hubble at the Apollo landing sites and see the lunar rovers or the descent stages or anything: resolution.  Seeing a really big, 50 metre Amphicoelias fragillimus dinosaur at 65 million light years would require a resolution of 50/(6.14934346  10^23)*206265 or 1.6771303*10^-17 arcseconds.  If you had a telescope that was a trillion times as powerful as Hubble, you'd still have to make it 200,000 times more powerful to make out even the largest dinosaur as a separate pixel.

 So theoretically, if you could travel faster than the speed of light (assuming that wouldn't break physics) and you had the capability of looking back at the earth in high resolution, could you see the present to the past?
 You would see the past, how far back in the past? Exactly the number of light years (months, days, hours) you've moved away from earth (eg. 3 light years away, you would see 2012) That's if you travel faster than the speed of light. If you travel at the speed of light you'd be seeing the exact moment no matter how far you travel. Also, If you travel faster than light, to a distance far enough to see the dinosaurs, you'd have to have a futuristic badass not-even-possible-to-make telescope. [deleted] I'm not so sure that looking back would give you the past.

Perhaps if you took off from earth and had a telescope trained back toward the launch pad as you approached the speed of light the photons hitting your retina through the scope would be taking relatively longer to get to you, thus giving the appearance of time slowing down. When you reached the speed of light none would be hitting your eye thus the view would be complete darkness.

Once you began accelerating past the speed of light wouldn't you need to move the telescope to the nose of the spacecraft? There you would see the photons which you were now overtaking, supposedly with them now having enough energy to excite your optical receptors.

Setting aside any resolution issues you would then see the nose of your own craft move away from you. Ultimately you would view the ship landing back on the launch pad and your earlier self exiting the ship backward.

BTW this is fun. [deleted] Can wormholes transport us to the same spot we are in right now, 65 million years ago?. Or are they only capable of transporting us to a far away place and thus indirectly take us back in time? Because if they did the former no issue of telescopes with large resolution power would arise, rather, the issue of escaping the resolution power of dinosaurs will prevail. Yes:

65 million years ago was when the dinosaurs went extinct; this means that if you where at minimum a radius of 65 million light years away from the Earth then you could see the dinosaurs extinction event... Of course you'd have to go further away from the Earth, between 65 million and 120 million light years away.

To answer your question differently.... If there was an intelligent life form 65+ million light years away from us... and assuming they have the best telescopes we could ever imagine, they could see the dinosaurs.... of course they would probably need a telescope as big as the solar system to get the amount of resolution and sharpness to even make out what they are seeing. It would also probably take years of having that telescope maintain focus on the Earth.... and guess what, nudge that telescope with the slightest particle (such as a photon) and your data would be invalid....

HST peers back in time all the time; as a matter of fact, **if you want to time travel 13 billion years just go here**: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hubble_Ultra-Deep_Field

The HUDF is a shining example of Carl Sagans quote: *It has been said that astronomy is a humbling and character-building experience.*

Here is another way to understand it; Alpha Centauri is over 4 light years away from our sun. This means that if it went supernova, it would take 4 years for us to even be aware of it.

Also, a really good way to understand relativity is to watch the movie **Interstellar**; it does a phenomenally great job at showing you how time, gravity, and the speed of light all come together to make time "relative".

Someone also did answer with "in theory". Some people do not know what "theory" means from a scientific perspective. A theory is essentially a body of factual hypothesis.... We know this to be the case with Einsteins Relativity. We've also tested it with the sun, and measured it in the lab, etc. So if a telescope would need to maintain focus for a long period of time,, wouldn't dinosaurs not be visible, because they didn't remain stationary, and the Earth is rotating? I asked a very similar question a while ago, but nobody responded. http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/21jnaj/how_far_are_we_able_to_see_into_space/

I thought that if we had a very powerful telescope, our sight would be able to perceive whatever we were looking at much faster then light would be able to travel there. To be more clear, If light traveled to a place that was 1 light year away, we would be able to  perceive that place through a powerful telescope before the light gets there. I don't know much about physics, so if anyone could tell me why this wouldn't work, I'd appreciate it. My thought on why it wouldn't work would be that it takes the same amount of time for the telescope to receive the light of the object as it would take for the light from us to reach the object.  I think you are overestimating the amount of time dilation between objects in space.

Just from a google I find that the radius of the universe is 13.7 billion light-years and that Dinosaurs went extinct about 65 million years ago.

So, you would have to go further than 65 million light years away with a telescope trillions of times more powerful than hubble.

If you were on the Starship Enterprise, it would take you around 7 million years to get there.  Maybe you and Khan can do it....

So, thats an impossible "yes", but a "yes" none the less. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] **Short answer:** Yes. If you're near a black hole. 

**Longer answer:** So you already hit on the fact that light can't escape black holes, and it turns out that if you are at just the right distance from the event horizon (which is sort of the point of no return- where the black hole begins and the normal universe ends), photons can actually orbit at this point. It means that if you were at this point, and you looked straight ahead, you'd see the back of your head!

Anyway, it's called the [photon sphere](http://sciencevspseudoscience.files.wordpress.com/2011/09/schwarzschild.png) (not to be confused with the photosphere of the sun).  Awesome, thank you! It should be noted that this is not a stable orbit. Normal orbits don't have to be a perfect circle, as when the satellite comes closer to the body it's orbiting, it will accelerate, and when it moves away it will decelerate. However, light moves at c and can't accelerate or decelerate. So, this is only possible at exactly one distance from the black hole's center, and only if the light is at that perfect distance, moving perfectly perpendicular to the center of the black hole. If not, it will either fly away or enter the black hole.
 &gt;Light moves at c and can't accelerate or decelerate.

I thought light slowed down when passing through a medium like glass or water? Or was that disproven ages ago? I only remember it from childhood (and I'm sure I'm not confusing it with refraction).  [deleted] So assuming you slow light to a crawl, then let it re-enter a vacuum. Does it go back up to *c*, and if so is it the same wavelength as before? What re-accelerates it? It's just like all wave phenomena when passing through different media. [Here's](http://www.physicsclassroom.com/Class/waves/u10l3a7.gif) a picture I just found of a rope - if you have a piece of rope attached to a less dense piece of rope and send a wave down, the wave will speed up when it gets to the less dense part. Light satisfies the same wave equation, and is affected in a similar way when passing through different materials.

There is a way to see all this in the "photon" picture, but it's a bit more technical and still uses the wavelike nature of particles anyways. Essentially, the photon has an "effective mass" in the material which then goes away at the edge, speeding it up. This is a really interesting thought. I would like the answer to this too.  ~~As /u/extravisual stated, light never changes its speed.  But if it's moving through some sort of matter, it's bouncing off of atoms and taking a longer path.  
Imagine you're driving a car from point A to point B, which is a mile away, at 60mph.  If it's a straight road from A to B, it will take one minute to get there at that constant speed.  
But if it's not a straight road and instead you have to travel through  many mountains, curves, hills, etc. You will have to take longer, even if you're moving at the same speed.  
That's basically why light seems to "slow down" when moving through water, etc.~~  

**EDIT:** Never mind, /u/PhysicsMan12 said it's actually a whole bunch of quantum mechanical jargon, light is complicated, don't even try to understand it, everything I said is false. My understanding is that in such materials it's still traveling at C, it's just taking a longer path. I don't think this is correct.  Read [this section](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refractive_index#Microscopic_explanation) of the wikipedia article on refractive index.


-----


Basically, you need to think of light as a wave, not a particle.  As the electromagnetic wave passes through a material, it will cause the electrically-charged particles in that material to oscillate.  These oscillating charges, in turn, will emit electromagnetic waves.


If you've ever learned about driven harmonic oscillators, you might remember that the system frequency (charged-particle oscillations) will be the same as the driving frequency (incoming light), but there might be a phase shift.


When the newly-emitted waves interfere with the incoming waves, the result is a wave with the same frequency, but lower phase velocity, thus slowing the speed of light.


------


It's important to note that this is *not* the same as saying each photon is absorbed and re-emitted.  In order for an atom/molecule/semiconductor to absorb a photon, the photon energy must correspond to an electron energy level transition.  The effect I have described, while frequency dependent, is a continuous effect rather than a discrete effect.  (It's somewhat analogous to the difference between thermal radiation and spectroscopic emission.) Thanks for clearing that up. [Cherenkov Radiation](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherenkov_radiation) is the observable consequence of such phase velocity reduction. It can't really be explained by a 'longer path' model. &gt; Cherenkov Radiation ... can't really be explained by a 'longer path' model.


Ah, this is a great point!  I was trying to think of an obvious example of why the 'pinball explanation' is wrong. It's obvious that if the pinball explanation is true, then there could not be a transparrent material. After all, the bouncing around would scramble the light beyond recognition. &gt;  As the electromagnetic wave passes through a material, it will cause the electrically-charged particles in that material to oscillate...


&gt; It's important to note that this is not the same as saying each photon is absorbed and re-emitted

How can one happen without the other (in some sense)? This is a really good question.  But I'm not sure I can explain the difference very well.  This [AskScience wiki article](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/wiki/physics/light_through_material) explains why absorption/re-emission is not the correct explanation.


------


Absorption is when an electron jumps to a higher energy level.  The energy gained by the electron corresponds to the energy of the incoming photon.  Re-emission is when that electron jumps back down to its most stable state, releasing a photon with energy corresponding to the transition.  The main point here is that the frequencies of absorbed and emitted light depend on the electron energy levels of the material, therefore only certain, discrete frequencies are allowed.


This is different from what I described.  The oscillating electromagnetic field of the light interacts with the charged particles in such a way that the wave speed decreases.  This doesn't really have anything to do with electron energy levels themselves, and just the fact that electrons are charged particles.


I know those two descriptions sound very similar, but there's some important distinctions.  First of all, while both effects depend on frequency, absorption/re-emission involves only specific frequencies.  So if slower-than-c speeds were due to absorption/re-emission, then most light should pass through a material at exactly c, while a few specific frequencies would be slowed down.  This is not the case.


Furthermore, the emitted light is often not the same frequency.  Have you ever seen objects that glow visibly when exposed to UV light?  They are absorbing UV photons and re-emitting in the visible range.  When light passes through glass, it is slowed down, but the color doesn't change.  (Yes, the colors might get separated as in a prism, but you aren't *changing* the wavelengths, just separating the ones that were there from the beginning.)


Finally, the re-emitted photon has no idea which direction to go.  If it did, UV fluorescence wouldn't work (because all the re-emitted photons would continue straight into the material, instead of being emitted outwards towards your eyeball).  But light passing through glass goes through in a straight line.  (Ok yes, it bends at each interface.  But throughout the bulk it travels in straight lines.  This is how lenses work.) How fascinating. Thanks for teaching me that! This is incorrect and a very very commonly held misconception. The [FAQ](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/wiki/physics/light_through_material) has a long explanation of why one can not say it travels at c through a material and is simply delayed - the short version is that the EM wave will interact with the charged particles in the material.  One can not consider a "bare" photon traveling through a material but not interacting with that material. That would be a matter of definition. The photons should always move at c regardless of the material, but if you want to e.g. calculate the time it takes for a laser beam to travel across a kilometer of optical wire, you'd be more interested in the practical, measurable speed in that material. This is just not true.  The [group velocity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_velocity) of photons is not always equal to c, and works even down to the single photon level.  Single photons propagate at the group velocity.

Edit: See [reference 20 inside for single photons traveling at group velocity](http://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1411/1411.3987.pdf) This is all incredibly frustrating. So in your example, does light not move at C? I'm starting to feel somewhat betrayed. Light does not move at c when it is traveling through a material.  So, this is probably in part how difficult it is to convey this concept.  It's a combination of particle/wave duality and a weird universal speed limit, both of which are counter-intuitive.  Or it's an indictment on how bad physicists are at teaching physics, but I would describe it as the following:

Level 1: Light is fast.

Level 3: Light travels at speed c and this is the speed limit of the universe.

Level 5: Light travels at speed c/n where n is the index of refraction of the material, n=1 for air and n=1.33 for water, etc.  This is true except in very special cases (see work by Lene Hau, if you're interested).  Speed is c/n because light is an electromagnetic wave interacting with electromagnetic dipoles in the materials.

Level 10: Light doesn't actually travel at speed c, ever (Lol).  The only way light can travel at speed c is if it is a 'plane wave'--which is to say it has infinite spatial extent throughout one dimension in the universe.  Since this is clearly impossible, all photons have some small axial wavevector and thus cannot travel at speed c in the direction of 'average' propagation.  See reference in my previous comment.

Sigh. Correct.  The EM waves will still propagate at c before including the interaction with matter.

Group velocity, indicating information propagation speed will be slower in matter.  Phase velocity, indicting the speed of any given wave peak in a group of waves can be faster.

Cherenkov Radiation is basically the equivalent of a sonic boom from a particle moving faster than light does in its medium. That's a pretty awesome experiment. I didn't know they could do that at the start of the '90s. That's correct, but in terms of the theoretical discussions in this thread, the speed of light (ie the speed of individual photons) is always constant. The only reason the speed of light in a near-vacuum would change is due to curvature of space-time when propagating through a  gravity well, but even then the speed of light still remains locally constant Single photons travel at the group velocity, which is dictated by the material dispersion.  [Reference.](http://journals.aps.org/prl/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevLett.68.2421) If you insist that photons always travel at *c* you must realize that we can not use the word photon to describe light traveling through a material. Why is this? I presume the mathematics would be ok if you properly calculated the scattering amplitudes for each and every path via each and every electron in the medium. It's just that doing so is nigh on impossible (afaik). How does light travel faster in certain elements (caesium?) or plasma then? There can't be a shorter route than going straight ahead, right? If you insist that photons always travel at *c*, then you must also insist that what travels through a material can not be called a photon.  This is perfectly logically acceptable, but really, the optical signal travels slower than c in a material. That is not correct.  You are talking about refractive index.  Sixty Symbols explains it best:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiHN0ZWE5bk That's a little bit of an oversimplification.  It's also useful to distinguish between the group and phase velocities when you are thinking about slowing down or even in some cases speeding up light.    What kind of materials? Can you actually witness light making it's way through it without the aid of a specialised camera? It moves especially "slow" through diamond. 

Edit: The refractive index of Diamond is approximately 2.4. The speed of light through a medium is "c /n   n = refractive index"

Light is approximately 2.4 times slower traveling through pure diamond.  It may be important to note that the photons orbiting the black hole would be doing so as explained by relativistic physics, not Newtonian physics.  The Newtonian model would require that the photons be unable to change direction in this way since this would imply acceleration/deceleration.  But the photons are not themselves accelerating/decelerating since space itself "curved" due to the gravitational effect of the black hole, even if an outside observer (if they could observe it) would note the changing direction of the photons. But... to orbit something, mustn't there be acceleration because the object's (or photon's) direction is changing? Einstein says no! In flat space, you're correct but in the curved space of general relativity we think about this differently. 

The short answer is that from the photon's perspective it IS travelling in a straight line. That is, the photon is always travelling in the same direction with respect to the space it is moving through. However, the space itself is curved. It is the curvature of space which causes the photon to move in a circle. I'm a little unclear. Is the photon's orbit around the black hole in any way different (besides the massive differences in relative mass) from a planet's orbit around the sun? Like do the same equations of motions apply just with huge differences in the values of the variables or does weird physics happen since you're dealing with an area with that much gravity? That depends on what you mean by 'the planet's orbit around the sun.'

If you mean the Newtonian orbits caused by a 1/r^2 force law, then yes there is a difference. The limit of Newtonian mechanics implies no interaction between light and gravity.

If you mean the orbits fully consistent with General Relativity, then no there is no difference. The same set of equations (the Einstein field equations and the geodesic equations) govern the motion of planets and photons in exactly the same way.

Part of Einstein's idea was that we should reconsider the ideas of forces and accelerations to account for the fact that the space we move through may not be flat. &gt;If you mean the Newtonian orbits caused by a 1/r2 force law, then yes there is a difference.

Yes! That's exactly what I meant. I really should've said Newtonian mechanics.

&gt; The limit of Newtonian mechanics implies no interaction between light and gravity.

Is this because a photons don't really have rest mass? I guess I should've realized the same equations couldn't apply. Also, does Hamiltonian mechanics predict that interaction? I know Hamiltonian is essentially a rephrasing of Newtonian mechanics but I can't remember if it was tweaked to apply more broadly.

Sorry for all the questions. I've studied a decent bit of classical mechanics, am in the middle of an electrodynamics course, and know next to nothing of quantum mechanics or general relativity but am intensely curious. Gravity doesn't make a photon change its direction; it warps the space. As far as the photon is "concerned" it is travelling in a straight line and never changes direction; space does. Gravity isn't warping space. Gravity is the result of spacetime curvature. Two very different statements. The warping space is caused by the presence of mass-energy.

Lol downvoted for being technically correct. This sub has gone to shit ever since being a default. Acceleration is a change in velocity.  Velocity is a measure of the speed and direction.  So if you go around a curve in your car and maintain the same speed on your speedometer, you are accelerating.  Accelerating doesn't mean going faster or slower.  It means changing directions.  So the magnitude of the speed of the photon is C.  The direction is constantly changing due to the gravitational forces so it is also constantly accelerating.  The person above you used a bad description of accelerating implying that it has to always be something with the magnitude of velocity. &gt; The direction is constantly changing due to the gravitational forces so it is also constantly accelerating.


Not necessarily.  u/TheoryOfSomething's point was that gravity curves space-time.  Objects in free-fall actually travel in straight trajectories through space-time.  Therefore, a photon in 'orbit' around a black hole would have zero acceleration (in an inertial reference frame). Can you explain what the difference is between space curving under gravity and gravity just being a force that can accelerate light?  I'm not sure how you could even tell the difference between the two? It's best to think of these as two different models for describing the way the universe actually exists.  Sometimes they give the same result, sometimes they don't.


If you are just describing a satellite in a short-term orbit around the Earth, both models will give basically the same result.  But there are certain cases (e.g. the funky orbit of Mercury) where the two models give slightly different results.


In the case of light, however, I think it's a little easier to think in terms of curved space-time, since then you don't have to try to think about how gravity can act on a mass-less particle.


Did that answer your question? It's worth pointing out at although static black holes don't have stable photon orbits, rotating black holes certainly do.  And since any black hole will pick up angular momentum from the surrounding matter, rotating black holes are the more practical solution to consider.

However, since the stable photon orbits of rotating black holes are inside the event horizon it's not something we could ever observe. So doesn't that mean that firstly, you would likely not see the back of your head since it would be a spherical rather than circular orbit, and secondly, that your view would be dim and muddled, since many photons in that orbit reflecting off your head would lose their stable orbit trajectory and fall into the EH? So are there actually photons theorized to be orbiting there,  or does the instability of the orbit predict that it's mostly empty? It's most likely almost-empty rather than having a bunch of photon trapped there forever:

- Photons could collide with mass moving toward the event horizon
- Black hole could lose/gain mass and the photon wouldn't be on the photon sphere anymore (distance depends on black hole's mass) and would either escape (if BH loses mass) or end up inside the event horizon (if BH gains mass) Yes, this orbit is mostly empty.  There can be other matter at that height but won't mostly be orbiting photons.  Any photon placed in this orbit would have its radial spatial uncertainty increase as it went around until it either fell into the black hole or escaped. So as long as the photons don't hit each other in this perfect sphere orbit, they will be trapped in it forever? Or until the black hole gains more mass from eating up more matter? Photons don't "hit" each other , they pass through. (same as waves pass each other on a string or in the water).

But the orbit is extremely unstable to say the least; without doing any calculations I'd expect that just the uncertainty principle would cause the photons to be eaten or escape. Wouldn't the fact that it changed orbit and flew "away" mean that it changed its speed of c at some point? How can a photon get into this specific orbit in the first place? If we would try to backtrace where it came from, it should either have its source in the photon sphere, or it got cought while the black hole was changing its mass. Is this possible/likely to happen at all? Wouldn't that mean it would be nearly impossible to get a photon to orbit a black hole? If it came from any direction the mass of the black hole is going to curve it slightly inwards from outside the photon sphere. Wouldn't that mean that the only light that is contained in the photon sphere would be from objects that have passed through it? If so, that brings up an interesting idea, that you could possibly retrieve this information about everything that has entered a black hole. There are tons of photons constantly flying around in every direction. Its why you can look at a mirror from any direction and see a reflection. Think about that [giant Andromeda galaxy photo](http://mentalfloss.com/article/61233/zooming-nasas-giant-andromeda-galaxy-image). In the spaces that look black, there are actually millions of galaxies. Even when a black hole is actively consuming another star, they've been there a really long time and even 1 photon in a million perfectly hitting a black hole so that it orbits would add up quickly.  They wouldn't add up.  Even one that started perfect would only need the tiniest perturbation to leave that perfect orbit and quickly spiral away or into the black hole.  The mass being consumed by the black hole that is generating these photons would also be gravitationally affecting them, preventing them from remaining in a perfect orbit. And it looks pretty cool: http://i.imgur.com/NpStAZY.jpg.

The bright disc is not orbiting light (we couldn't see it if it were orbiting), it is an accretion disc.

Page of the open source renderer: http://rantonels.github.io/starless/ , by the awesome /u/rantonels If you were standing in the path of the light, could you see it?  Yes, close to a black hole you can actually, at all times, see yourself infinite times.

There aren't however any photons in orbit exactly at the photon sphere, since it's an unstable orbit. So there isn't any 'ring of light' or any accumulation of the sort.

Check my [webpage](http://rantonels.github.io/starless). Given a ton of light approaching from all angles, would it not become reasonably likely that some would become trapped in orbit? Those photons that didn't approach correctly would obviously escape, but the occasional one that was just perfectly positioned couldn't, so you'd ultimately end up collecting photons in the photon sphere?

I guess I don't understand why it's not a stable orbit. I'll have a look at your webpage. :) The good answer here involves explaining geodesics, which are paths that are locally straight lines in space. Because an ideal black hole is completely symmetric, and the laws of physics share this spatial symmetry, it means a geodesic which doesn't go *into* the black hole (where there is a singularity in the metric) must be axially symmetric. This means it has to make it's way out exactly symmetric to it's way in.

Another explanation is that the photosphere is made of closed circles in space, and geodesic spirals in spacetime ( thanks /u/rantonels). If a photon were to join the photosphere from outside, that would imply two distinct geodesics have become coincident, which is geometrically impossible (in the absence of a singularity in the path of the photon): if you take an elastic sheet and paint a square grid on it, no matter how you distort the sheet (without compressing a region into a single point), the lines will stay separate.

Yet another explanation (if you're not tired yet :) ) is it would violate time symmetry: suppose a photon was captured into an orbit; then by rewinding time you would need to see light escape again. But if light is in orbit, by rewinding time it would continuing in orbit. Contradiction.

The three explanations are closely connected! Get a large bag full of pencils and throw them on your floor. Given a ton of pencils approaching the floor in all possible ways, would it not become reasonably likely that some would end standing upright on their tip? The occasional one that was just perfectly positioned couldn't, etcetera etcetera.

If you get this, you get instability in dynamical system, and you get the instability of the photon sphere.

A cool thing about unstable configurations, however, is that there are orbits in phase space that get arbitrarily close to the unstable equilibrium, then fly away, all in a very large time (the closer they get, the larger the time).

As an example, give a pendulum *exactly* the energy to get upright (an unstable equilibrium) and stand still. If you could, you'd see the pendulum actually takes an infinite amount of time to get upright. This orbit is called a separatrix, as it divides the orbits where the pendulum overcomes the unstable point from those where the pendulum cannot reach it and stops before. In a real situation, when trying to end up on the separatrix you'll actually produce orbits on either of those side and very close to the separatrix, but not exactly *on it* (because every measurement has a limited precision). The closer you get to the separatrix, the more time the orbit takes.

Same thing happens with the photon sphere: you cannot put a photon in orbit exactly on it, and every minuscule uncertainty destabilizes it. However, you can get as close as you want, and very close trajectories make many turns around the black hole and take a lot of time. These kind of orbits wind spiraling into the photon sphere, getting closer and closer, then they either spiral back out or spiral in equally slowly.

The separatrix in this case is the trajectory, taking infinite time and windings around the black hole, that spirals closer and closer to the photon sphere forever.

These kind of phenomena have optical consequences, namely infinite series of objects (einstein rings, images of the event horizon, images of the accretion disc, images of the observer himself) the closer you zoom in on the edge of the black hole shadow, the black disk that is simultaneously the image of the event horizon and the photon sphere. The edge is photons coming from the separatrix, right outside the edge is photons in those orbits that get close to it and wind around many times. That makes sense - I think! The pencil analogy certainly helps. I need to let the separatrix/infinite time part sink in though.

Do you mean to say that the pendulum is inevitably going to fall, but the closer you get to the separatrix the longer it will remain near-upright? And given that landing on the separatrix would mean it stops still and in equilibrium, that is in a sense spending an infinite time in orbit... but because you can't reach that point, you can only get arbitrarily close, you can't put a limit on the amount of time the pendulum will spend in orbit before falling. You can only say it's going to fall eventually.

Is the idea of the orbit taking infinite time the key? Intuitively I still feel that if you threw all those pencils that one day one of them would stand up on end, like chimps eventually writing Shakespeare given enough time. But you're saying there's a physical property that prevents that from occurring, no matter what - is it the idea that it would take infinite time to reach the separatrix?

Is my misunderstanding at all reasonable or should I really have got it by now? :P

Edit: Your website is fantastic, by the way. I think you're getting the gist of it.

Anyways, it doesn't  matter how many pencils you throw on the floor, *none* of them will end up on the separatrix (provided they 're sharpened) since the probability of getting those initial conditions is exactly zero - formally you say that it's a zero measure set in phase space.

The infinite monkeys are different, because all possible N-letter strings (where N fixed is the length of, say, Hamlet) form a finite, though very large, set with a uniform probability distribution. So the accretion disk is light that hasn't quite entered the event horizon, but is close enough to it that it curls inwards and shoots off in another direction (an infinite amount of times, I assume)?  No, the accretion disk is ordinary matter in orbit around the black hole, just like Saturn's rings, but very hot from tidal forces and friction. 

It actually ends at the photon sphere because there are no stable orbits any closer (or equal) to that distance - any matter that close to the black hole will fall in unless it has rocket engines to escape, and if it reaches the event horizon a little further in, then even those can't help it. In order for us to see something, photons would need to enter our retina. So yes, theoretically we would be able to see parts of the photon sphere if we were sharing the exact same orbit. I imagine it'd just look like a tiny bright spot right in the center of our vision though? Not sure.. Does the photon sphere follow a single plane, or does it completely surround the black hole? It's a *sphere* around the black hole. There is no reason for one specific plane to be special around a (non-rotating) black hole, it works no matter how you tilt it. Follow up question: Does it have to be a black hole? Could a neutron star exist with a mass equal to what the black hole would have but have some of the mass outside of where the event horizon would be and still have all of the mass inside where the photon sphere will be?  [deleted] Why not!? Suppose one could create a very large neutrino gas (hence it does not interact electromagnetically). If the mass-energy density becomes concentrated enough near the center of the gas, for whatever reason, one could theoretically create a photon sphere which is still inside the outer layers of the neutrino gas.  Because the mass outside the orbit wouldn't contribute. If you're outside of a shell of mater then the gravity is the same as if the shell were compressed to a point, and if you're inside the shell then you experience no gravity. You can then think about a sphere of matter as concentric shells of matter. So for there to be a photon sphere then the object needs to be within the above radius.  [deleted] Follow-up question to the back-of the head thing. My thoughts can be summarized as: "How close will the back of your head appear?" 

Thinking about this question led me to the hypothesis that it will depend on how large this "zone" we're talking about is. The smaller the zone where light can orbit without being sucked into the black hole or launched off into space, the smaller the back of my head will appear. 

Secondary to the above question: will my head appear free of optical distortions? How far down my neck/the rest of my body will I be able to see?

I imagine these also are constrained by the size of the light-orbiting zone, but I'm curious if there will be any sort of lateral distortion parallel to the plane of my orbit, because too far on the one side, light will get sucked into the black hole and never make it back to my eye. But too far on the other side, it will escape orbit and also never reach my eye except perhaps at a much wider arc. 

Therefore, will the back of my head appear tear-dropped in shape, due to the hard(er) boundary on the side of the event horizon and the soft(er) boundary on the other side?

Edit: reading other comments stating that light will only be able to have one orbit (since it doesn't accelerate nor decelerate) has led me to a modified conclusion/question: won't it then be a single photon-sized spot on the back of my head that I'll be able to see? For how far away the back of your head would appear, I don't see why it wouldn't just be the circumference of the "line" you're looking along.

And for how *much* you could see, you'd at least see a line, as it's a photon sphere, not a photon circle. 

I would imagine there'd be significant image distortion, but I can't speculate on what form it would take. [This](http://lh3.ggpht.com/_4ruQ7t4zrFA/SdG3vEI963I/AAAAAAAAB70/Yb5XCaaVlTQ/earth-orbiting-black-hole.jpg) is supposedly what objects appear the closer they get. So,  essentially, the only reason why black holes are in fact, black, holes, is because of their insanely large mass? Not quite. The relevant feature is that black holes have a very large mass density. You can create a very small black hole with a very small mass if you compress that mass enough.

Large black holes have to have insanely large mass because it takes more and more mass to sustain the same density as the size of the object grows. Also, we haven't observed any processes in the universe that are capable of compressing mass to a high enough density to turn into a black hole, except for the gravity of extremely massive objects. 

You could theoretically turn a school bus into a black hole if you compressed it enough, but we don't know of any way of squeezing a school bus down that tiny. 

There are theories that describe conditions in the very early universe where some places might have been dense enough to create micro black holes, but we haven't observed any of them. Don't they create microblackholes when they collide atoms at near the speed of light? Doesn't the impact of the two on one another create a very dense area for a moment? Colliding two particles in a particle accelerator can create a very dense spot for a tiny period of time. Theoretically, a powerful enough particle accelerator could create a density high enough that it would form a black hole. According to some of the more standard theories of gravity, it would require an accelerator somewhere on the order of a thousand light years in diameter to be powerful enough. Although there are some theories that consider additional dimensions of space where supposedly the magnitude of energy required would be close to what we're capable of doing today with the LHC. 

As far as I know, the LHC hasn't detected any evidence that they've created micro black holes. If it did, they would evaporate almost instantaneously.  Why would they evaporate instantaneously? Shouldn't it just continue to exist, floating around soaking up matter? Black holes evaporate via Hawking Radiation, and the smaller they are, the faster they evaporate. I've read descriptions of stuff like if one were to go inside a black hole, they'd see "the whole universe come to an end in a short amount of time," or something like that. 

What happens to what the person inside sees if the black hole evaporates before the universe ends? not necessarily "large", but just massive. It could be extremely dense but not large, and still be very massive. thank you! This lends a new perspective! Not necessarily massive either. Black holes can be created from any amount of mass. Well there's no limit to how small a black hole can be theoretically, but practically we don't know of any way they could form other then perhaps microblack holes during big bang energy density. Is it possible for an object to be massive enough to allow for light to orbit it, but not so massive that it is a black hole?  [deleted] Can we use the curvature of space to create a massively big telescope ? You mean like this: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravitational_lens No. Gravitational lenses have the wrong shape for a telescope. They bend light more in the center while the lens in a telescope bends light the most at the edges. &gt; It means that if you were at this point, and you looked straight ahead, you'd see the back of your head!

This is a bit of a mindbender for me.  I certainly can see how this is the case, but am I correct in thinking that I would not only see the back of my head, but that it would appear to be right up against my face, as if standing directly behind someone?  Or would it appear to be at a distance with everything (and anything) in between visible as well? you'd be also seeing all the other photons trapped in there, so probably a white-out (or your own shadow if you happen to look in the direction they are spinning)
but if you could pick your own image out of the noise, it would look, I think, a bit like sticking your nose up against a mirror, only more so. Sorry for the sort of unrelated question, but:

Assuming you were in a spacesuit or ship, would you be able to survive this?   I have a very basic understanding of how a black hole bends time and space, and I understand the theory of traveling through a worm hole, but I don't understand how a physical object could possibly get near or through without just being crushed. You can only be torn apart by tidal forces, or differences in gravity between different parts of your body.

~~For typical (&gt;3 solar masses or so) black holes, the tidal forces are very small until you're well inside the event horizon, so hanging out at the photon sphere should be ok.~~ EDIT: Whoops, actually tidal forces are quite strong until you get to 10^(4) solar masses or so. (Well, gravitationally - I think typical black holes have accretion discs with a ton of radiation). You've got it backwards. It's the supermassive black holes where the tidal forces don't get terribly dangerous until inside the event horizon. Stellar mass black holes would tear you up before you hit the event horizon, because the Schwarzschild radius is closer to the singularity.

http://books.google.com/books?id=5dryXCWR7EIC&amp;pg=PA265#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false From what I understand the tidal forces would tear you apart. 

So you go feet first into a black hole and the gravity differences between your head and feet will be large enough that you turn into spaghetti.  Depends on the size of the black hole. As long as you could protect yourself from the radiation of the accretion disc, you could easily pass beyond the event horizon and hang out for a while before descending to your doom into the singularity itself. &gt;It means that if you were at this point, and you looked straight ahead, you'd see the back of your head!

What would that like? Would it be right in front of your eyes, or would it be like seeing it from a metre away or something? [deleted] How far in front of myself? Like, would I be able to see both from the top of my head to ankles, or would it be as if my face was pressed right up against the back of myself? [deleted] You would surely only see the back of your head if it actually emitted photons though. Unless photons reflected at the perfect angle that they went into orbit Why isn't the event horizon equal to the photon sphere?  The event horizon is commonly described as the distance from the centre within which light cannot escape.  The implication is that outside the event horizon light CAN escape.  Presumably the event horizon then is the boundary between these two possibilities, which, it seems to be, would be the distance at which a photon would be stuck in orbit. A photon "stuck" on the event horizon would need to be moving directly away from the black hole; a photon "stuck" on the photon sphere would be moving exactly tangentially (at a right angle) to the black hole.

The significance of the photon sphere is that a photon which comes in from far away and passes below the it will always be captured by the black hole. However, you can have photons created below the photon sphere but above the event horizon (created, say, by infalling objects) escape to infinity provided their initial velocity is pointed sufficiently away from the black hole. So, what would happen if you were to carry a large enough prism into this area of the event horizon? &gt; It means that if you were at this point, and you looked straight ahead, you'd see the back of your head!

Would you see it upside-down? That is, would the light leave your head at the top-back, orbit, and enter your eye at the bottom-front? Would light be able to orbit around a less massive object at much greater radius without interference? Say, something the size of our sun? [deleted] You have your statement backwards. Photons could orbit a less massive object by being closer to the object, assuming the velocity of the orbit was constant(in the case of light, the speed of light).

The problem with most objects is that the photon would have to be inside of the object to achieve the correct distance, at which point it's no longer orbiting the object. Would this sphere behave exactly as a black body? A particle in a box? Could the light trapped constructively/destructively interfere with itself? 

 Wouldn't the back of your head (and your whole body) block the photons that are orbiting along that path though? Wouldn't you essentially create a you-shaped shadow all the way around the photon sphere? Surely incoming photons from whatever light source would bounce off the back of your head at just the right angle to be captured in the orbit. Does the mass of a blackhole change ever? If so how would this affect it's relationship with the photon? If it got more massive would it cause the light to crash into it? And if it became lighter would it escape orbit? wouldn't you actually see slightly inside your face? What happens to light in between the event horizon and the photon sphere? I'm guessing it will either escape from the black hole, getting arbitrarily far from it, or it will go into the event horizon. Is that true, or is there a way to fire a photon from that area such that it reaches the photon sphere and orbits the black hole? [Here's](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/files/2011/08/event_horizon.jpg) an image that gets the idea across. Basically, the closer you get to the black hole the more the particle's path is deflected towards it.

You hit a certain point, and it'll curve all the way around it (the photon sphere isn't depicted in this image). It does show how, a little bit closer than that, and the particle is forever trapped inside the black hole. I dont KNOW this, but consider:  The orbital velocity at the photon sphere is the speed of light.  light traveling adjacent to the event horizon has three possibilities, travels lower than the photon sphere, travels parallel to the photon sphere, or above the photon sphere.  The speed required to remain in orbit increases as the distance between bodies decreases.  So light passing below the photon sphere, seeing as it cannot possibly increase it's speed, can only become entrapped by the black hole, inevitably falling into the event horizon.  Light travelling above the photon sphere only partially orbits before escaping the gravitational well, this forms what we call a Gravitational lens. To make this more precise, a photon which comes in from far away and passes below the photon sphere will always be captured by the black hole. However, you can have photons created below the photon sphere (but above the event horizon) escape to infinity provided their initial velocity is pointed sufficiently away from the black hole. Depends on the direction it's pointing. If it is angled down, it's going to end up spiraling into the black hole. If it's angled away from the black hole it has a good chance of escape.

[Here's a picture showing some trajectories getting deflected near a black hole.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c2/Light_deflection.png)
 A follow-up question, if I may. How does rotation effect the photon sphere? As I understand it, a rapidly rotating black hole would have an equatorial bulge, forming an oblate spheroidal event horizon. Does such a hole still have a photon sphere? A non rotating black hole has spherical symmetry, so the photon sphere really is a sphere. There's something of a shell where these orbits can exist. 

If the black hole is rotating, it ends up only having a single symmetry axis. This forces the photon sphere into a photon 'ring' in the equatorial plane. Outside this ring the orbits will be unstable (i.e. spiral into the black hole or escape to infinite), or will oscillate about the stable equatorial orbit. 

In fact, I recall their being two different radii that these orbits can escape at- one corresponds to rotation around the black hole in the same direction as the black hole's rotation, and the other corresponds to counter-rotation.  Wait, why would rotation of a singularity matter?  If we consider black holes to be infinite density matter, doesn't that mean it must be uniformly massive across all of its 'volume'?  Therefore rotation shouldn't cause any perturbance in the gravitational attraction from the block hole at all. The fact that the mass is rotating [pulls nearby spacetime along with it](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frame-dragging).  Note that this works with stuff that isn't a black hole (see [Gravity Probe B](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravity_Probe_B), which measured said effect caused by the rotation of the Earth, although they had to do a lot of work to pull the very weak signal out of the noise).   Ok then I have a question about this: 
Considering a rotating black hole, if you observe from anywhere on the photon ring you see yourself. You just stated that two radii exist, one with rotation and one counter-rotation: this hints to me that the light is somehow precessing around the black hole, so the opposite directions of travel have different path lengths, like it's accumulating geometric phase. So my question is, if you observed from a constant radius then introduced some kind of geometric phase from some other means (like polarizing then unpolarizing the light) wouldn't you have a way to artificially adjust the radius of the photon sphere? ...Could be totally wrong here but the possibility seems too interesting not to ask! Thanks. That was the answer I was more or less expecting.

One last question: how does frame dragging figure into this, if at all? At what distance would you see the back of your head? When you say "if you were to look ahead" do you mean look in the direction that the light is traveling in orbit in or straight ahead into the black hole ? What happens to matter falling inwards and crossing the area/plane of the photon sphere?  Would the photons be trapped, would they continue at c following the photon sphere path?  How would this be visualized? Would you see the back of your head merely inches from you, or would it be at a distance from you? As others have stated it would be an irregular orbit so the actual visual effect would be some distorted image. I highly doubt the enough of the photons would be arranged in any coherent equivalent of the original image after having orbited such a great distance.  can light spread due to gravity? Perfect angle where some of the light photons go into orbit and some split off and continue on. Could the photon sphere actually exist in reality?

I would seem to me that the slightest pertubation would alter the path of the orbiting photon such that it would either escape to infinity or go to the singularity. How precise does this radial distance have to be to maintain the orbit? "the first person since the Spanish inquisition to see the back of their own head without the aid of a mirror" But you'd have to be a photon to be at that point without falling in, right? [deleted] Can you calculate this distance? Would it be the distance where the inward acceleration of the light is equal to the gravitational acceleration from the black hole? Could you make a 'cosmic circular saw' of sorts using this principle if you continuously fired photons into the orbit?

 Could Earth astronomers look at a black hole and the light bend around so much that it comes back to us? Almost like we could see earth back in time? In theory, yes, there are paths that exist where light leaving from the earth would bend around the black of the black hole and end up coming straight back to earth. Unfortunately, the range of paths this is possible for are incredibly incredibly small for a distant black hole, so the odds of any single photon coming back this way is incredibly unlikely.  Could this idea negate thermal death? I mean is it really a hole? Isn't it just an object that has so much gravity it doesn't let energy to reflect back?

I'm assuming for us to 'see' something, it needs to hit the object, bounce back and then our equipment needs to register the reflection and interpret the results for human consumption? It's just matter with an extremely high mass density. However, the side effects of this warrant the metaphor "hole". Mathematically (and it's all we can say), the matter is condensed to an infinitely small point (aka to a point).

Every object with mass has a gravity well (Moon, Earth, a microscopic drop flying away form your mouth when you cough). Since the matter concentration of a BH is so high that it takes no space, the gravity well here doesn't just conveniently stop increasing its bend once you reach the object's surface, it keeps bending until the surface of spacetime isn't horizontal or bent any more, it's vertical - but I don't know if it really reaches perfectly vertical geometry, might rather be asymptotic.

Anyway, for a planet to orbit the sun, the planet has to move faster the closer to the sun it is, or it will fall in. Falling and missing is easy from afar, but you need to be really fast if you're close. A BH bends spacetime so much that an object needs to exceed the speed of light for a stable orbit close to the BH's center. Since that's an impossible speed, the object joins the point mass.

Let's take a photon (-&gt; speed of light) as an example and shoot it at the BH and miss. If we aimed at a point more than 1.5 times the BH's event horizon radius, the photon will curve a little around the BH and then keep going on its path. The closer we get to the 1.5, the more likely it will get that we get hit by our own photon.

At 1.5, the photon would run around the BH indefinitely in an ideal scenario, aka never; it will only zip around the BH a half time or 3 times or a few hundred times and then either fall in or fly away. That's the "photon sphere". That's where an object needs to have the speed of light to orbit.

Between 1.5 and 1.0, a photon would have to aim more or less straight away from the BH to escape. Since we're shooting at the BH from far away, the photon will *definitely* fall in, assuming that there is no other interference. It might orbit a little (but less than one full orbit), then it falls in. If we hit the BH at radius 1.0 or less, we hit the event horizon which can not possibly be escaped (except via Hawking Radiation): Even if the photon were aiming straight away from the BH, it would fall towards the concentrated mass. Hence we can say that *all* paths inside the event horizon lead to the singularity.

Let's look at this on location with human eyes. We fall in, feet first. Far outside the photon sphere when you look down, the BH looks like a black spot (possibly with bright events all around from gas etc. that's falling in) that bends the light coming to you from behind it like a lens around it. The closer to the photon sphere distance you get, the more the black hole becomes the lower half of all of reality that you can see, because at the photon sphere distance, you would technically see the back of your own head, so while you're getting there, the black circle grows. Now it looks as if the black hole is really a *hole* in the ground, it becomes 2D in your eyes. Once you're at photon sphere distance, exactly the upper half of what you see is the space that you're leaving behind, and the lower half is just black.

And once you fall below photon sphere distance, the blackness is even above the center of your vision, and it's curved upwards at the left and right, and if you look up, you see that there's blackness there, too: Space itself has become a circle in the middle. Earlier, you saw a black circle (The BH.), but now you see a circle into which all of visible space has been squeezed, surrounded by the blackness of the BH. The further you fall, the more space becomes just a tiny dot in the center of the blackness. And then you reach the event horizon, and everything is black.

So, in a way the photon sphere is the portal into the black hole, but the word "hole" is only a metaphor. Once you're closer than photon sphere, you're inside the portal, and once you're closer than the event horizon, you're in the black hole. [deleted] The black holes themselves aren't radiating. Rather, there is a disk of crap orbiting them (like Saturn's rings) which we call an *accretion disk.* The friction of all the gas and dust in this ring (which is really more of a torus, or donut shape) makes it very hot, and hot things radiate x-rays.

This is totally possible, and I'll clear up a common misconception ahead of time. Black holes also aren't cosmic vacuum cleaners- they behave just like any other normal gravitating masses at appropriate distances. If the sun was replaced by a black hole of the same mass right now, the earth and all the planets wouldn't suddenly get sucked in, but would continue on their orbits.  Don't the photons slowly lose energy due to some force analogous to gravitational friction, and end up doomed to falling into the black hole anyway? I believe I read this when looking at photon spheres in depth.

On that note, is much known about how light travels under such intense gravitational fields? For a human at the event horizon I am to understand that time nearly comes to a standstill. For the case of photons, the speed of light remains constant. I've always wondered how photons manage to remain so independent from time and yet still interact with gravity. &gt; On that note, is much known about how light travels under such intense gravitational fields?

I have no cutesy analogy for you, but they just follow geodesics. Basically, mass and energy tells space how to curve, and if you draw 'straight lines' on that curved space you'll find the paths that photons take. It's some pretty intense math.  What would happen if you jumped into the orbit and saw the photons? Would it look any different then normal light? Shouldn't it be the front of your face as you only see because of reflected light?   
  
Example: Light just outside the orbital plane travels away from the black hole, hits your face, and then travels back to the orbital plane. Whereas light hitting the back of your head would be coming to the back, and then bouncing back off into space more? Not trying to be a troll or anything, just genuinely confused. Kinda have a question about black holes here.

Are they really sphere shaped rather than a flat object? Most depiction of black holes are just a flat, black circle sucking everything in. If its a type of star then wouldn't it be a sphere? The actual singularity is just a point, but the event horizon is spherical (for a nonrotating black hole.) Have you ever seen a picture of a ball? You can tell that it's a sphere due to the illusion of depth based on lighting and shading. All depictions of black holes you've seen have likely been on a 2-D surface: picture, monitor, movie screen, etc. Since light doesn't escape black holes, and therefore isn't reflected off of a black hole, you don't get any shading or light information, so you don't get that 3-D illusion. What is a 2-D sphere? A circle.

In fact, humans don't see in 3-D, they see in 2-D. Depth is an illusion. Your brain calculates the difference between the images received from your eyes, and that gives you what you perceive as depth. Again, since no light is bouncing off the black hole, your brain can't calculate the difference in viewing angles, and you see the raw 2-D circle.  &gt; It means that if you were at this point, and you looked straight ahead, you'd see the back of your head!

Wouldn't half your head be past the point of no return? No the point of no return is the event horizon, that is below the hight of the photonspere. You will have to accelerate to get away though. Okay, thanks. Does that mean if you put some gain medium into a perfectly circular orbit in the photon sphere you could create a natural laser? I've always heard this and accepted it, however, I'm wondering if there is a lay explanation as to how light reaches *that specific point* to begin with - and not continue past the event horizon?

It seems the gravitational pull that brought it to the event horizon would finish the job and consume it.  Instead it kind of hangs out... what gives? &gt; I've always heard this and accepted it, however, I'm wondering if there is a lay explanation as to how light reaches that specific point to begin with - and not continue past the event horizon?

No one will argue that light actually accumulates in the photon sphere. It's a possible orbit, and a very interesting one for the sake of the math and OPs question,  that light is very unlikely to take.  Not a lot of background in this, but I had thought the PoNR was the event horizon; however, is it actually the Photon Sphere? If light orbits there, then to escape it you'd need to be faster than light, which is theoretically impossible, correct? Its the event horizon. Light from inside the photonsphere can get out if it just is pointed in a steep enough angle. You're close.

There are no stable orbits within the photon sphere for either massive particles or massless particles (photons), but you can escape from this region by firing rockets out. It's just that there's no orbits where, moving only under the motion of gravity, where you will miss the black hole. With additional thrust there's a way out.  I'm wondering: is Interstellar's representation of the black hole anyhow related to this? Would we even be able to see the rotating photons, since they're not entering our eyes? Is that what causes the glow around the simulated black hole in Intersellar?  Yes, we call them black holes.

I am not a physicist, but I believe that at 1.5x the Schwarzschild radius, photons orbit a black hole. Wouldn't the radius at which photons orbit the black hole be exponential to the size of the hole? 

Edit: Whoops, I misread. Thought he said that photons orbited at 1.5x of the hole's radius.  Aside from the reddit joke "OP's mom", super massive objects besides black holes could, in theory, contain enough mass to do this. For the purposes of physics, gravity is treated as having the same speed as light so an object massive enough to bend light could, in theory, also be moving fast enough so that the amount of bend it causes in the photon's vector corresponds to the object's movement, causing it to orbit the object.

Obviously, this is not entirely practical because of the massive amount of energy required to move an object at such a speed and the path the object would have to take (doesn't lend well to what I would call "reasonable movement"). Since we know that black holes can indeed cause light to orbit (because of the ability to keep light from escaping), we have to look at size of object, nearness of light, and mass of object. In doing a little research for this, I've found that someone else has already done the math and will link that for you instead of muddying it with my lower understanding of the solid concepts: http://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/111279/how-close-does-light-have-to-be-to-orbit-a-perfect-sphere-the-size-and-mass-of
  This is gonna get buried but...

Yes! None other than Albert Einstein proposed this very idea with the Theory of General Relativity. It's truly fascinating. You don't even need a black hole. A galaxy or a cluster of galaxies will do. In fact, we can see the same supernova over and over again that took different paths around these galaxies. It's mind blowing!

The NY Times have a video on this very phenomenon here:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/06/science/astronomers-observe-supernova-and-find-theyre-watching-reruns.html?_r=1

 The question was not about apparent gravitational lensing. The question was whether the light could literally orbit a source. "A star might die only once, but with Einsteins telescope, if you know where to look, you can watch it scream forever."

Well that is one way to put it... The bending is called gravitational lensing, and aside from blackholes, a sufficiently large clump of matter can also exert gravity, i.e. a cluster of galaxies, strong enough to bend light. An example of this phenomenon would be the [Einstein's cross](http://i.space.com/images/i/000/019/836/original/Einstein-cross.jpg?1343170204) : four beams of celestial light coming from a single quasar and at the center, the galaxy. Do you know why there are 4 beams and not a ring?  I know there are also instances where you see full or partial rings.  Is it just a coincidence that this one is 4 beams? The ring occurs when the lens (the gravitational source) is symmetric about an axis, and if there is perfect alignment of the viewer, lens, and light source. A spherical lens and a sliiightly little misalignment produces two images. Generic shapes, e.g. ellipsoids, produces more than two. So this is gravitational astigmatism? Yes: black holes, they don't call it the photon sphere for nothing. Light can actually orbit black holes quite a bit before passing it. Also galaxies can actually cause gravitational lensing so light does get affected by other things. 

I'd assume it'd be reasonable for light to orbit a supermassive object. One more thing: our sun actually bends light, could light orbit a supermassive star such as VV Cephei. Question for the super-astronomical/number-minded: If light can theoretically orbit a black hole, and that light will slow down when passing through matter, then is it possible that there are exotic forms of matter made of photons accumulated from these particles?

I mean, there are billions of stars in any galaxy. It seems to me that eventually some hole would be in just the right position to catch the emissions from a pulsar, or just any star in a galaxy at just the right angle.

edit: by 'exotic forms of matter', what I mean is, wouldn't there be a zone/s around the object where the natural gravitational lensing effect would cause radiation, visible or otherwise to be concentrated in specific places around the black hole? Wouldn't the radiation pressure negate some of the hole's pull, and cause matter to be trapped in a super high energy state in between a limbo between the event horizon and the rest of the hole's orbiting material? Sure there could. You just need a dense enough object.

Consider how an orbit works. I'm assuming you're idea of an orbit is the traditional circle around an object with mild to non-existent deviation. For light to do this, two things must happen: The object must be massive enough to have an escape velocity higher then *c*, and the object must be dense enough for the surface to be below the orbital altitude that a velocity of *c* would be at.  
Currently, there is only one such object in the known universe that fits that profile: A black hole. It's just to do with how salty the water is (i.e. the osmolarity of the fluid).

The saline usually used in IV drips for rehydration is close to isotonic - that is, the amount of 'salt' is approximately the same as what's in the blood stream. This prevent 'diluting' the blood (i.e. causing hyponatraemia etc) and/or causing excessive fluid redistribution to the various compartments.

In a way, it's similar to how sports drinks can have some salt in them without causing dehydration.

On the other hand, the salt water you're probably thinking of is something like sea water, which is hypertonic. Although drinking it doesn't  really 'harm us' per se, it doesn't rehydrate us. This is because urine has to be excreted in order to maintain osmolarity.

Certain receptors detect when there's too much 'salt' in the blood and concentrated urine is excreted (bringing the osmolarity back down to normal). However, there's a limit to how concentrated our kidneys can make urine, so the amount of water we gained from drinking sea water is less than the amount of urine that had to be excreted - thus increasing the level of dehydration.

Hope this helps Just to add to this. Saline is usually 0.9% sodium chloride in water whereas 'salt water' from the ocean is on average, approximately 3.5% NaCl in water.

Edit: NaCl2 to NaCl. My mistake. Thanks to those that corrected me! Could a person stranded at sea collect rainwater and dew and use it to dilute seawater enough to make it hydrating? Would that be any better than drinking the limited fresh water to begin with? Yes, but the person would be better off just drinking the rain and dew directly in most situations [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You have mandatory losses in urine and the GI tract as well. 

You need to make urine to dispose of other things like nitrogenous waste from protein metabolism and organic acids that are always being produced. In the case of really low oral intake, you're still forced to lose some sodium in that concentrated urine. It's usually a loss of &lt;1%, but that will add up over time.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Why do you say that? It seems (if you are able to do the math right while stranded on a raft) that you can use the saltwater to increase the volume of water you have, as long as you don't push the salinity past that 0.9% threshold.

PS: should be a roughly 3-to-1 ratio of freshwater to saltwater, increasing your water supply by 33%. Every survival class I've been in says to be safe you want about a 4-1 ratio. but it is taught as a valid survival technique.  Les Stroud said in an episode of Survivorman that you can drink a small amount of salt water each day at sea for minerals and nutrients as long as you also have some freshwater.  Is that something commonly taught? I never got the full sere course. mostly the courses I went through were guidelines to stay alive long enough to be rescued. Like a list (with pictures) of local flora and fauna to avoid. Another list (much shorter) of things that are easily identifiable and ok to eat.

I might still have one of the packets I was given. As your dehydrating the concentration of salt in your system is going up. The ratio you need is going to vary based on that and so your just better off drinking the fresh water you've managed to collect. Normally dehydration causes electrolyte loss, so salt concentration goes down not up. Dehydration occurs when drinking salt water because your blood becomes hypertonic from the increased salt intake (hypernatremia) and your kidneys dump salty water in an effort to bring your blood back to an isotonic condition. Because saline is already isotonic with your blood cells, you can drink as much as you want without affecting the tonicity of your blood, so long as you avoid other sources of salt. 

In fact, too low of salt intake can similarly cause dehydration because hyponatremia will cause your body to dump excess water to bring your body back to an isotonic condition. This is a common problem with excess alcohol consumption, which causes your kidneys to dump a lot of minerals, and then rehydration causes a hypotonic condition because of the lack of salt intake. Resulting in further dehydration and explody cells. This is why hydration coupled with salty foods makes a more effective hangover remedy. Mass respect for the super scientific post that ends with the word "explody" If we look at the scenario of the shipwrecked person on a raft it might make sense to dilute sea water - after all you're also sweating a lot and sweat contains some salt as well. If you're in a raft in the middle of the ocean than i'm pretty sure you're getting enough salt in your diet whether you like it or not. At that point, drinking salty dilluted water is probably just wasting your bodies energy. What matters is the ratio in the system and that ratio will be wildly out of whack with salts increasing percentage dramatically.  Would the saltwater concentration be homogenous through out the entire ocean?  Nope. [Here is a great salinity map](http://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/images/591162main_pia14786-43_full.jpg)   Varies quite a bit.
 That chart shows a range of 3-4% salt, you'd be OK diluting 3 or 4 to 1 wherever you were. Ohh sure.  I am more in the mindset of how the salinity swings impact sealife that live 24/7 in it.  Used to be big into saltwater aquariums.   Definitely not. Some basic factors for surface salinity are rainfall, and evaporation rate, (air temperature, humidity, wind speed, sunlight, turbidity, etc). also there is other [nasty shit](http://sploid.gizmodo.com/a-single-drop-of-seawater-hides-all-these-icky-microsco-1570114795) in sea water. You may think of it as nasty, but those things wouldn't harm a person at all. They would all die as soon as they hit stomach acid.

 Also, that picture is a staged composite from many disparate samples. You brush your teeth with the leftovers of millions of some of those things.  Are you certain? The article claims it's a photo from a single slide.

Or did they simply arrange all of the organisms on the slide for the photo? The latter. I remember when this picture first surfaced, it looked cool, maybe too cool. So a week later, the truth came out that it was a single slide, but they were from many different samples and dyes were added. Ah, water. Never touch the stuff. Fish fuck in it.  You need to take in water at a rate that balances how fast your body is using and getting rid of water, and you need to take in salt at a rate that balances how fast your body is using and getting rid of salt.

It's like if your car had a 19 gallon gas tank and a 1 gallon windshield washer fluid tank - just because the optimum ratio is 19:1, you can't just add 19 gallons of gas and 1 gallon of windshield washer fluid every time you fill up, because the gas tank might be empty but the windshield washer fluid might still be mostly full.

It's even worse in the human body than it would be in a car, because if you overfilled the 'windshield washer fluid' / salt, then your body would start getting rid of extra 'gas' / water to try to flush out the excess, which means then you'd want to fill up again faster, which means you'd overflow the windshield washer fluid again, etc. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The details of physiologic salt and fluid balance are quite complicated. There are situations where you would put salt into fresh water for rehydration (see [oral rehydration fluid](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oral_rehydration_therapy#Preparation)). This helps when a person is deficient in total body salt, as happens quite frequently in severe diarrhea. A profoundly dehydrated person who has no access to food (or salt) will have low free water in their blood, causing a very high *concentration* of salt in their blood, but because salt is also lost in sweat/urine/feces, they will also have a low *total* amount of salt in their body. These people need some salt for rehydration.

It also turns out that sugar and salt are required for water absorption. Most people have enough salt and sugar in their body to facilitate this without the need for adding it to their water, but profoundly dehydrated people can absorb water more efficiently if it has some sugar and salt in it.

Finally, I should add that while salt deficiency is common in (especially juvenile) diarrheal illnesses, it doesn't occur very quickly in "stranded" people, and in any case is masked until they're rehydrated. Stranded people who don't have enough fresh water to stay hydrated will have a high concentration of salt in their blood, and adding extra salt to their water will compound the problem. They would only need to ingest salt if they're able to find enough water to hydrate themselves and reveal their salt deficit. [deleted] You'd need a **lot** of dew. You'd be better off setting up a simple solar still, or hoping for rain. Hi. I did the Australian Army outback survival course a few years ago. Solar stills take much more effort to build than they're worth. I must have sweated a litre, at least, just to dig the hole, let alone gather the foliage. If you're stuck in the middle of nowhere in Australia, make a sign that's visible from the air, lie down and wait for something venomous to bite you. Or to be rescued. Either way, it's better than dying of dehydration. Don't try to walk to safety, don't try to dig a still. If you can see a water source, great. If you can't, you're dead. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] you can make a sun-still from basic materials to distill salt water easily enough They would need to mix 3 parts freshwater with 1 part saltwater to get below the 0.9% NaCl point of blood.

It could help them, but best case scenario would be far less than 0.9% salinity. 0.9% is perfect for hydrating someone in a hospital where they aren't eating anything, but a survivor on an island might be hunting animals or eating fruits that might have salt in them. Better just to collect condensation in a solar still. you can set up a makeshift solar still easily, which you can use to make freshwater from seawater, like so: 
http://www.survivallandusa.com/bowlsolatrstill.jpg Itd be better to distill the water via two bottles and a tube/ cloth of sort. Have one in arm warmingnit the other in a bucket of cold sand/ water or whatever and as the sun heats salt water in bottle a it evaporates leaving the aalt in bottle a aswell You could mix your rainwater with seawater to effectively boost the amount of drinkable water you have. This is especially true if you're not eating regularly, such as "lost at sea situations. The equation would be (C1\*V1 + C2*V2)/V3 = C3, where C is concentration and V is volume and V3=V1+V2. So if you have 6 parts rain water and 1 part sea water at 3.5%, you get 7 parts rain water at 0.5%, which isn't bad at all.  Whenever I see this question I think I must have been the only one who was paying attention when Ben  Affleck taught us how to make drinkable water from sea water in The Voyage of the Mimi episode "Making Dew."  

Now that I'm older I appreciate that lesson even more since it was paired with a wonderfully subtle pun my 4th grade mind missed.  I though sodium chloride is NaCl? it is, he typoed. NaCl2? Is that sodium dichloride? (My prefixes might be messed up, very tired). I'd be interested to hear whether that was a typo, something that is completely going over my head, or another compound similar to salt chemically but different. Sodium is an alkali, I don't think it *ever* goes to +2.  Must be a typo.  Maybe he's just very used to chlorine being diatomic as a gas and wrote Cl2 out of habit. So sea water needs to have ~3 parts fresh water added to it to make it hydrating? Well yes, but then your body would expel that seawater and some of the dew water to rebalance the concentration of salt. So it would just be better to drink the Dew. But if you are starving as well,  stuck on a deserted island with little to no food source, then a source of salt is needed to maintain proper muscular  functioning amongst other things,  so dilution or just sipping on the sea water will help maintain closer to normal sodium levels in the body.  NaCl, not NaCl2. [deleted] What's the maximum saline concentration our kidneys can make? Don't quote me on this but I believe the kidneys can concentrate by a factor of three meaning they could make a 2.7% saline solution (approximately). Assuming that is true, and you absorb hundred percent of the fluid you drink, you could drink a 2.7% salt solution and not lose any water.   

However in my opinion it's not very important to know this and it is not a very impressive feat. You should read up on marine birds, especially albatross, and reptiles who have salt glands; they can essentially drink seawater and excrete enough of the salt to not ever have to drink freshwater. [deleted] [deleted] And what's the normal level for salt in our blood? 0.9% sodium chloride translates to 9 grams/liter which converts to 154 milliequivalents per liter.  Normal blood values range from 135-145 milliequivalents per liter. So can you drink saline and get hydrated? Or is it just purely for intravenous purposes?  So, if you were in a dire situation but had access to some freshwater and some sea water, would it make any sense to add a little bit of seawater to freshwater so that the solution would be around 0.9% sodium? Or would you just be better off drinking freshwater and no additional sodium? It's NaCl, not NaCL2 Just to add on, the nearly isotonic solution is "normal saline" that we use, which is 0.9% sodium chloride (in water). We do use hypo- and hypertonic solutions as well. 0.45% (1/2 normal saline), 1/4 NS, 1.8% NS, and 3% are also occasionally used. In fact, 0.45% NaCl with 5% dextrose is what we use to closely mimic isotonicity of plasma (D5 1/2 NS for maintenance IVF)

FYI in the world of surgery we believe lactated Ringer's to be superior for hydration though ;) Just to add to your comment about using Ringer's Lactate in the US.

In the UK our anaesthetists and surgeons use Hartmann's Solution (Compound Sodium Lactate). It's similar but not quite the same as Ringer's. This is from the British Consensus Guidelines on Intravenous Fluid Therapy for Adult Surgical Patients (GIFTASUP).


Strangely enough, Ringer was a British physician while Hartmann was an American paediatrician. Thoughts on plasmalyte? Interesting, I didn't realize that D5 1/2 normal saline was closer to plasma. I was a paramedic for about 10 years and preferred NS over LR in trauma because of issues with running whole blood through LR. I seen to remember there was a pH difference that could also effect IV meds in LR that wasn't there with NS. IV meds can be pushed through LR without issues in most cases.  You just have to be careful when pushing LR because too much of it can put the patient into V-fib, whereas NS doesn't have that problem. Just as a small correction, the 0.9% saline solution would be given if the clinician determines that fluid is needed in the ECF. If the cells were dehydrated, either a 0.45% saline solution or 5% dextrose in water solution would be given. Too lazy to go on a google tangent at 230 am... so if you don't mind what is a lactated ringer? Ringer's solution is just another isotonic fluid that's used in medicine and other related fields. It's almost exactly the same chemical composition as plasma (minus all of the proteins). Ringer's has a bit less sodium and includes stuff like calcium, potassium, and bicarb. Not just "a bit less sodium"; also less chloride. When "normal saline" is used exclusively, it will cause hyperchloremic acidosis. When resuscitating patients in shock, Ringer's Lactate is the recommended solution, as using normal saline increases the time taken to reverse the metabolic acidosis. Ok. Now what's hyperchloremic acidosis and metabolic acidosis? :) Life has been facetiously described as essentially an acid-producing process. The body is constantly producing H+ ions, which need to be neutralised or excreted. The body has a number of mechanisms to do this. When these fail, or when acid production increases, acidosis is produced.

Acidosis is primarily of two types:

Respiratory: There is an increased production of carbon dioxide (as in malignant hyperthermia, or neurolept malignant syndrome etc) or there is a decreased excretion of carbon dioxide due to any number of diseases/conditions (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interstitial lung disease, severe chest wall abnormalities, morbid obesity etc).

Metabolic: Either there is an increased acid production (high metabolic rate, sepsis etc) or the excretion of acid is impaired (renal problems, liver diseases etc).

Hyperchloremic acidosis is one particular type of metabolic acidosis associated with a normal anion gap, a decrease in plasma bicarbonate concentration, and an increase in plasma chloride concentration. One of the common causes of this is "Volume resuscitation with 0.9% Normal Saline provides a chloride load such that infusing more than 3-4L causes acidosis."

I know, I know. I just used more unfamiliar terms. 

What can I say? It is a complicated set of disorders. Oh, there are corresponding respiratory and metabolic alkaloses. In addition, there can be mixed disorders such that there is a respiratory and metabolic acidosis coexisting etc. 

As Feynman says in that video on magnets, a lot of background information is required. Sorry.

PS: I also did not mention the compensating mechanisms that the body uses for each of these disorders. Acidosis means your blood pH is too low.

Hyperchloremic in front means it's because of excessive chloride.

Metabolic in front means it's because of too much CO2 dissolved in the blood.  There are some other metabolites that lower pH when they build up and they would qualify also, but it's usually CO2.

I really hope /u/grumbuskin isn't a teacher.. This will probably get buried, but I want to add that Sports drinks are rehydrating in part BECAUSE they have salt in them and not in spite of it (although not at proper concentration). They best way to increase intestinal reabsorption is to drink hypotonic fluid with equal concentrations of both Glucose and salt.  This activates SGLT in the ileum (Sodium glucose lumenal transporter), pulling salt and sugar into the intestinal epithelium causing water to diffuse in with it.  This is the basis for the World Health Oral Rehydration Solution (fights water loss due to diarrhea in cholera patients).

Source: med student at school where SGLT and ORS were discovered and developed. You can make ors at  home too.   1/2 teaspoon of salt, 2 table spoons of sugar,  and 1 pint/liter of water.   (although I'm sure you knew that,  thought others might like the recipe.)  There is also a difference between drinking something and putting it directly into you blood stream. Drinking 0.9% saline won't kill you but it will definitely give you the runs. You also can't put drinking water into an IV and shoot it through your veins. Something going in your digestive system vs your circulatory system are very different.  How much salt would need to be placed in water to be considered close to isotonic?  And would drinking water that is isotonic be helpful for a person who is dehydrated from sweating due to heat exposure?  In most cases it would be better just to drink the dew. If you were really losing salt you could add a small amount of sea water, but you are probably taking in ocean spray all the time, replenishing salt. Not to mention that your body IS really good at keeping salt inside it, not so good at maintaining water. This seems mostly correct to me, but I think you might be off with your explanation of dehydration (I could be wrong, however). 

If you intake a large amount of hypertonic solution, you will completely inhibit the renin-ATN-aldosterone system and you will excrete maximal concentrations of Na+, but you will also activate osmoreceptors that lead to release of AVP and will reduce your urine output to ~800 ml/24 hours, or even less if we are assuming the person was already dehydrated. 

More important than urine water loss is the osmotic action the hypertonic blood will have on the intracellular space. Water will be draw into the intravascular space and cause even further cellular dehydration.  I'm a little confused as to what you're asking. 

Yes, the activation of the renin-angiotensin system and anti-diuretic hormone will lead to 'maximally concentrated urine'.

However, the concentrated urine of humans will still be less 'salty' than seawater (due to the inability of our kidneys to concentrate it further). As we need to excrete enough concentrated urine to return to normal osmolarity, larger volumes of urine will be needed to be excreted than the volume of seawater ingested - thus leading to a negative fluid balance.

On a side note, [Certain desert animals](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hopping_mouse) can potentially get hydrated from seawater as their kidneys can excrete urine more concentrated than sea water.

As for your second point, I'm not actually sure how much of an issue cellular dehydration is. The main symptoms of dehydration usually relate to hypovolaemia, with organ failure and death at the extreme end (due to reduced blood flow). So I did more reading and you are correct. I failed to take in to account the difference in seawater (2000 mOsm/L) and maximally concentrated urine (1200 mOsm/L) in addition to other solutes that need to be excreted. Thanks for helping me clear that up in my head.

As for cellular dehydration, you will see the effects of that much quicker than the hypovolemia. A person drinking salt water will have hypernatremia and likely hypervolemia as well. High tonicity is going to cause cellular dehydration in the brain and is thought to be responsible for confusion, seizures and even coma.

Source: http://www.merckmanuals.com/professional/endocrine_and_metabolic_disorders/electrolyte_disorders/hypernatremia.html#v1149620
 [deleted] Does this apply to any "impurity" in water?  If the water contained 2% of some non-poisonous substance that had to be excreted, would it be the same kind of dehydration situation? I'm trying to think of another substance that could compose 2% of the water and not kill you...   and I'm coming up blank. Sugar or cornstarch? Alcohol? Milk fat? Basically any liquid food? Just in case OP is wondering, the reason pure water is NOT used, is because the differing salt content would cause the red blood cells to uptake water, to the point where they would explode (the cells would burst). No RBCs, no oxygen moving through body, death. Did you know cats can drink salt water no problem? Cats kidneys are extremely efficient compared to Human kidneys. Which is why they can drink salt water. [deleted] This is a great reply. I will only add that we occasionally do use salt solutions by mouth for purposes of re-hydration. They are actually a wonderful tool in poorer countries due to the ease of use, super low cost, and ease of manufacturing. [Read more here!](http://www.cdc.gov/cholera/treatment/rehydration-therapy.html) This was by far one of the best explanations of anything I have ever read. Kudos.  Saline is isotonic - it's got the same (or close) concentration of salt as your blood.

Sea water has way way more.  You need to get rid of the excess, via your kidneys, and you spend more water removing the excess salt than you gained by drinking it. The concentration of "homemade" saltwater is often too high. Sea water hovers around 3%. IV fluids called Normal saline is at 0.9% which is very close to the average human blood salinity. If you were to drink 1 liter of 3% salt water, your body would have to consume 2 more liters to approach the 0.9% average salinity. Without doing that, the body will adjust the volume of saline by flushing it out through the kidneys. The result is dehydration by fluid loss. The opposite situation of consuming large amounts of pure water can occur. Consuming pure water in large amounts in a short period of time can cause fluid overload, pulmonary edema (fluid in the lungs) and electrolyte imbalance causing cardiac arrest.  &gt;Consuming pure water in large amounts in a short period of time can cause fluid overload, pulmonary edema (fluid in the lungs) and electrolyte imbalance causing cardiac arrest.

Brain swelling too. Like you suggested it's due to electrolyte concentration issues.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Water_intoxication

 Forgot about brain swelling.  Sir, how much water have you had to drink today?  kidney doctor here. It is true that hyperosmolar, or hypertonic saline can be harmful and cause hypernatremia - but note that the volume needed to drink would have to be high enough to cause the increase in Na concentration, which can easily be calculated with high school math. In the short term, the high salt content may cause nausea to prevent the salt load absorption. Smaller amounts of hypertonic fluid intake would be handled by the kidney excreting the sodium out; to a certain limit ofcourse [deleted] When it comes to saline and the body, the most important thing to remember is that we cant deal well with wide variations in the amount of sodium in our blood. The normal sodium amounts in our blood stream are so tightly controlled that we can know exactly what the concentration SHOULD be (0.9%). This is why saline IV bags rehydrate you. 

When saline is given, the overall purpose is to keep it in the blood stream. Water and sodium love to travel together, and they love to travel across many of the membranes in the human body. And when you have two compartments anywhere in the body with a membrane in between (that can let water and salts through) those two compartments are going to naturally want to become the SAME concentration. 

So when we give normal saline, we are trying to give something that is the EXACT same as the fluids outside the blood stream so that it STAYS in the bloodstream and fills it up. If we gave a solution that was too concentrated, water would tend to get drawn into the bloodstream and out of the surrounding tissue, which could be a pretty bad thing when you consider that your brain cells might shrivel up! (yes this is a thing that can happen if you change the sodium too much too fast). Also if we give something that is too dilute (like plain ol water) then the water can shift out of the bloodstream and into the surrounding cells which in the short run can be bad because it defeats the whole purpose of giving the saline in the first place (more volume in blood stream = more blood getting to more places, albeit a little more dilute). In the long run, if we give too much dilute saline too fast then the surrounding tissues (which are now more concentrated than what we put in the blood) will suck up all that water to even out the concentration (remember, they want to be the same always) and when things suck up all that water, they swell. Again, brain cells can be particularly sensitive to this in some situations, and swelling brain cells can dies just as quick as shriveling ones. That is why normal saline is so great. 

Is the whole deal more complicated than this? absoloutely, most of what we eat so much food to provide energy for is keeping the concentrations of different small solutes (sodium, potassium, calcium) at certain levels on other sides of different membranes. I.e. fighting against having the same concentration on both sides. And there's more than one kind of fluid that we give that stays in the blood stream. 

Now in the case of sea water, we have to consider that 
1. anything we eat or drink is absorbed much much slower when considered against giving an IV which is essentially instantaneous. 
(we do absorb things very fast though)
2. the largest factor in our regulation of sodium is our kidneys. 

so when you drink a large amount of salty salty water, it gets slowly absorbed, which means the sodium concentration in your bloodstream slowly goes up. Now remember that your kidneys are trying to keep as much water as possible in your blood stream at any one time (they regulate your hydration level) while also keeping the sodium within the "safe-not messin brain cells up-levels" (they regulate sodium and chlorine). so if your stranded in a boat, you are already dehydrated, so your body is concentrating the hell out of your urine by sucking all of the water out of it, but you cant pee straight salt crystals, so you are still loosing a fair amount of water each time. and even more when you are sweating. This means that your sodium is probably getting more concentrated in your blood just because of water loss relative to sodium loss.

so when you decide to get a big gulp of that oh so salty water (at around 3.5% thats almost triple the concentration of your NORMAL blood) you have now given your kidneys a double whammy, some water that cant be used effectively because of the crazy sodium concentration. Now they are trying to get rid of sodium even harder which means getting rid of SOME water. And the biggest problem is that your dehydration level, clinically, has nothing to do with thirst, or volume of fluid in the blood stream (you can bleed out and be perfectly hydrated). ITS ALL ABOUT THE SODIUM CONCENTRATION. so you now have your body taking in way more sodium than it needs relative to water, and your kidneys really cant compensate as they were already stressed, so your sodium concentration goes up in your blood, and you are now more dehydrated and more thirsty. woof. 

So remember, dehydration is all about concentration. 
Volume is related, but not the same. 
Don't drink the seawater. 
Thank god for saline.  It's not salt water exactly, its fluids with salt that is a similar concentration to what your blood has. 

If you put pure water in your blood, it would cause your blood cells to lysis or explode cause of osmosis, the concentration of salt would be higher in the cells and water would rush in and make them burst. 

If you put salt water into your blood, it would cause the cells to shrink because the concentration of salt would be higher outside the cell, so water would rush out of the cell and cause it to shrink and die. 

Saline solution is balanced so it doesn't cause either, and so instead just rehydrates you and gives more volume to your blood.... your kidneys can either excrete it or absorb more water if they need it.  The people telling you that this depends in osmolality are completely wrong. What this really depends on is *tonicity*.

You see, osmolarity refers to the number of particles per liter of solution, while tonicity refers to the cell volume change that occurs when a cell is placed in a solution. Tonicity depends on the non-penetrating molecules (ions that can't easily cross the cell membrane). Osmolarity depends on both non-penetrating and penetrating molecules. In medicine, the tonicity of a solution is usually the important consideration. Understanding this is very important when making critical decisions about IV therapy. The choice of IV fluids depends on what solutes and water distribution by the Extra Cellular Fluid and Intra Cellular Fluid the clinician wants.

For dehydrated cells, you want an IV solution that is hypotonic. Now, you have different kinds of IV fluids that are put in a patient when he/she is dehydrated. Chances are that the patient will receive either 5% dextrose in water or 0.45% saline or even both. The two solutions are hypotonic to the cell, which means that water will begin rushing into the cell to equalize the concentration of ions per liter.

Osmolarity is really only important when you have cell membranes where neither the non-penetrating molecules, nor the penetrating molecules, can move between the cell membrane. This is often the case for those who suffer from diabetes and other kinds of diseases.

Salt water is hypertonic to our cells, meaning that the concentration of sodium ions per liter is greater than the concentration of sodium ions per liter inside our cells. This cause the water within the our own cells to start rushing out of the cell and shrink, which leaves you dehydrated.

 Hmm, thanks for the pointing out the difference between tonicity and osmolarity; however, I don't believe it is right. D5W is considered isotonic even it is slighted hypotonic. 

Your definition of tonicity is also incorrect. It is a measure of difference of osmotic pressure separated by semipermeable membrane. It doesn't have anything to do with cell volume. It is not a measure of cell volume or indicative of cell volume. It is a measure of osmotic pressure difference. 

Osmolarity is different than osmolality and you change them interchangably. Medically, we use osmolarity to refer IV fluid but osmolality to refer to blood/serum test because of the difference of definition.

The explanation you give is also weird. Dehydrated cells? Salt water is hypertonic to our cells? Saline 0.9% is considered isotonic even it is still salt water. 

To be frank, you need to understand the nuance of the definitions. Has to do with the concentration. Fluid moves in and out of cells to maintain equal concentrations of molecules and ions (osmolarity) both inside and outside the cell. If you would put pure water into the body, your cells would swell up because fluid would flow into the cell since the cell would be so much more concentrated. Saline solution is formulated to match the body's concentrations so as not to disturb the balance of fluid in and out of tissue. Sea water is way too concentrated and would pull water out of your cells to restore balance, thereby dehydrating you. The water in your body is a tiny bit salty. Saline is as salty as your body, so it doesn't make your body's water saltier. Ocean water is very salty so it makes you body's water too salty when you drink it, so you get even thirstier to get your body back to the right amount of saltiness. To understand this, you gotta know how osmosis works. Water goes from where it is to where it isn't. The water in our cells has some "salts" dissolved in them, so it's not pure water. If we put pure water in your veins, the water would rush into your cells because it is trying to reach an equilibrium between the water in you cells and the water that was just put into your bloodstream. this would expand your cells like blowing up a balloon too much, and you could potentially burst your cells (a very bad thing). The solution in an IV bag has the same salinity as what we need in our blood and cells, so that way when they reach an equilibrium, it's a safe level and there's no stress on your cells.  Yes osmolarity is the key, Florida state university invented Gatorade on the theory that if a drink contained the water and minerals that were lost through perspiration and evaporated outgassing. A rapid oral rehydration could be facilitated thus improving atheletic performance.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gatorade

This osmolarity was the same as human plasma in its concentration of dissolved minerals to water ratio. Basically this.  Although the university's name is off.  As someone who's currently in gator country, you should never mistake UF student for FSU.  XD

We're complete rivals.  They get first in the state in sports, so we kind of need to hold on to that whole "We invented Gatorade" thing. Sorry about that, I totally understand.  I do love Gatorade and living in California, I get good use out of it.  Summers here are extremely hot and dry.  I'm an electrician and it hit 156 up in an attic last year.  It is absorbed into the body almost instantly.  Good stuff. Nah, it's fine lol

I wasn't being (completely) serious.  Either way, nice explanation. There is only as much salt in the saline as there is in your blood. Higher concentrations need to be removed by the kidneys in the form of urine.  Fun Fact: The "NS" acronym on IV bags of solutions stands for normal saline. That means the solutions contains 0.9% sodium chloride which makes it isotonic. This matches the sodium chloride levels in our blood. 

Dextrose (D) and potassium chloride (KCL) can also be added to IV solutions.  

Example: D5 NS means the solution has 5% dextrose with 0.9% sodium chloride.  What you're asking about is part of a model proposed by John Macdonald. He proposed that a combination of three behaviours is predictive of psychopathy: fire setting, cruelty to animals, and enuresis (bedwetting). This model was known as the [Macdonald triad](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macdonald_triad).

While this idea gets a lot of play time in pop culture, it's not been backed up by research. Bedwetting is not [predictive of psychopathy](http://www.scientificjournals.org/journals2009/articles/1441.pdf).

Edit: Some have rightly pointed out that there are issues with that linked paper (small, likely unrepresentative sample, no normative data). A quick search turned up [this community based study](http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/law/18/4/577/) which finds no significant effects of childhood environment on psychopathy in later life. The takeaway should be that psychopathy is a much more complex trait that the Macdonald triad may have suggested, and it's going to be hard to pin down specific factors that result in psychopathy and criminality (not all people who are high in psychopathy are going to be criminals and vice versa). The fire setting and animal cruelty are both predictive still, right? In essence, yes. Animal cruelty, in particular, is associated with a much higher degree of [Antisocial Personality Disorder and Polysubstance abuse.](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=4&amp;ved=0CDQQFjAD&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.researchgate.net%2Fprofile%2FAlan_Felthous%2Fpublication%2F11269072_Animal_cruelty_and_psychiatric_disorders%2Flinks%2F00463527013ca5477a000000.pdf&amp;ei=rWEMVcrtAcbYgwTdpoP4CA&amp;usg=AFQjCNHqAPIIYY5Lkx8nGHWJcvWDPDRj3A&amp;sig2=tvhY0N2uLPGKrepeBTsavg) 

Regarding enuresis (bedwetting), a great deal of research seems to indicate that bed wetting is actually a more [likely sign of sexual abuse or parental abuse/neglect,](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1112738/) especially when accompanied by other behavioral markers (i.e. acting out, violent behavior).

Basically, the more "modern" view on the trifecta is that it's a clear sign that there's some serious disturbances in a child's life, whether abuse, sexual assault, neglect, or a mental disorder. And with these negative factors often comes a later diagnosis of a personality disorder such as Antisocial Personality Disorder.

EDIT: I'm going to hijack my own comment here to add a description of the difference between Psychopathy (which the Macdonald triad was referring to) and Antisocial Personality Disorder. Psychopathy is a term used to describe a grouping of personality traits that includes such things as impulsive behavior, lack of regard for others, lack of a normal range of emotional responsiveness and frequent deception or manipulation of others. We DO NOT use this term for formal diagnosis in the DSM-V, which is our diagnostic manual. 

Instead, we formally diagnose people with Anti-Social Personality Disorder, which is **similar but not the same** as psychopathy. In my description above, I'm talking more about Anti-Social Personality Disorder rather than psychopathy, which is more associated with serial killers. 
[This is a good summary of the difference between the two](http://www.elementsbehavioralhealth.com/mental-health/psychopathy-vs-antisocial-personality-disorder/) 

Hope this helps clear up confusion!

Edit #2: Fixed the broken link!

Edit #3: People seem to assume I meant that ALL bed-wetting is a sign of abuse. Let me clarify: Bed-wetting is merely one warning sign that we look for in therapy. I would be looking for a wide variety of other warning signs along with bed-wetting, including nightmares, strong fear reactions, fear of physical touch, inappropriate sexual boundaries, physical aggression, etc. etc. There are a HUGE number of medical causes for bed-wetting that we need to also consider, which include: 

1. Bladder issues

2. Poor sleep/bedtime patterns (i.e. drinking lots of water right as you're falling asleep).

3. SUPER deep sleep patterns, which means you don't wake up when you have to pee

4. Hormone imbalances

Hope this clears things up some more! So is there a link between sexual abuse or parental abuse/neglect and becoming a serial killer? Most likely yes, and therefore bedwetting and serial killing are correlated by virtue of having a common risk factor (parental abuse), which is dangerous logical territory. I agree completely with /r/NedDasty. A risk factor does not equal causality and should never be regarded that way. Obviously, children who are sexually abused or neglected may have problems with empathy, caring, or compassion later in life. That's just a direct result of horrific trauma and growing up in a home environment where their emotional needs were violated or ignored. 

BUT, clearly not every child who was sexually abused or neglected becomes a serial killer. Other factors, such as positive role models, genetics, therapeutic interventions, hardiness, etc. all have an impact on mediating these risk factors.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Actually, the rates of neglect are identical for serial killers and the general population.  Other types of abuse are more common, but about a third of serial killers never experienced any abuse at all.  

[Link](http://maamodt.asp.radford.edu/Research%20-%20Forensic/2005%2020-1-Mitchell-40-47.pdf) You might be correct. I realized I've been talking more about APD rather than psychopathy, which I clarified above in an edit. Any idea what the rates of neglect and abuse are for APD? http://www.researchgate.net/publication/49672126_Childhood_adversity_and_personality_disorders_results_from_a_nationally_representative_population-based_study

Physical abuse General Pop 17.6%   ASPD 41.9%

Emotional abuse General Pop 8.1%   ASPD 27.1%%

Sexual abuse General Pop 10.6%   ASPD 23.8%

Physical neglect General Pop 24.2%   ASPD 48.8%

Emotional neglect General Pop 9.4%   ASPD 20.6%

Household dysfunction General Pop 40.3%   ASPD 52.1%



 Household dysfunction - general pop 40% !! how is this being defined? Are serial killers who've never experienced abuse more psychopathic / crueler / lacking in empathy than those who have experienced abuse? I don't think you can really categorize them like that; if you take Jeffrey Dahmer as your example, he didn't suffer any greater abuse than the average teenage dweeb at the hands of his peers. That coupled with self-loathing over being gay as well as alcoholism created his mental defects. 

And aside from just the horror of killing he was also a necrophiliac, cannibal, and kept body parts of his victims. But by all accounts he was a congenial man who had friends and held down a stable job. 

Then you have a person like Dennis Rader, who was very sadistic as well as arrogant. He has no known history of abuse in childhood but did torture/kill animals (Jeffrey Dahmer also killed animals but if my memory is correct he was more into dissecting them than torturing them). Of all the serial killers I've read about, for some reason I find Dennis Rader just completely despicable. He was a husband, father, employed, and an active member of his community the whole time - the double-life aspect is just unnerving.  I have heard (in a class I was taking to become a profiler)  that the trauma of neglect and sexual abuse may bring out sociopathic tendencies. Meaning that these sort of traits may exist in some people but lie dormant because they grew up in a safe loving environment.  Interesting theory. There's another popular theory that says that many "healthy" individuals with psychopathy exist who are now CEOs or other power players in the business or law industry. 

Your class/professor might enjoy [This Article](http://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2014/01/life-as-a-nonviolent-psychopath/282271/)

A word of caution. There are a number of people who differentiate between psychopathy, sociopaths, anti-social personality disorder, etc. We tend to use the terms interchangeably, but forensic psychologists and others in the field react strongly to using the terms wrong.  ASPD and the related 'unofficial' psychiatric categories of sociopathy and psychopathy are defined by a constellation of personality traits, and all of those traits exist on a spectrum.

Being on the high side of the normal range for some of those personality traits may be useful in some careers. But the high side of normal is still normal.

Abnormal levels of ASPD traits are *disabling*. People with them are impulsive. They're bad at risk assessment. They struggle to form and maintain lasting relationships. They're slow to learn from experience. Contrary to popular belief, their lack of empathy actually makes them rather *bad* at predicting normal people's behaviour. And they have high rates of comorbid ADHD and substance abuse.

The "lots of CEOs are psychopaths" claim relies fundamentally on a deception. The writer tricks the reader (and, perhaps, him/herself) into treating these spectrum traits as if they were binary. But they're not binary.

Everyone has some superficial charm. Everyone lies sometimes. Everyone breaks rules sometimes. Everyone takes some risks. Everyone has moments of impulsiveness and aggression. CEOs might score higher than average on each of those, but that's not enough to tag them with an 'abnormal' label, much less something as stigmatized as sociopathy or psychopathy.

As for the brain scans, those are on a spectrum too. And no matter what Fallon says, [they're not diagnostic.](http://www.nimh.nih.gov/about/director/2010/brain-scans-not-quite-ready-for-prime-time.shtml) It would be really cool if doctors could just send someone through a scanner and come out with an accurate diagnosis, but there's way too much overlap between the brains of healthy and mentally-ill subjects and between subjects with different disorders. (For instance, people with ADHD often show the same pattern of diminished frontal lobe activity that Fallon identifies as a marker of psychopathy. Frontal lobe weirdness just indicates that the subject probably has some difficulty with impulse control and executive function.) Thank you for your explanation. I'm often stifled by arm-chair diagnosis (opinions, like armpits) that tend to quickly turn into an "us vs. them" conversation, when the realities of our own behaviors as a species are aggregate in nature and multifaceted in construct. Put simply, we all share the capabilities of dark &amp; light emotions and behaviors. 

My own early assessment of this situation was to regard all the attributes of my personality "good" and "bad" as if they were children in a kindergarten class and as the teacher I was responsible for all of their development within my own psyche. To ignore and shame bedwetting Susan and mollycoddle obedient Jeffrey is to commit egregious faults within our own minds structure and support. 

People are too quick to shun and/or support the liminal behaviors of people in our society and group them under a title or classification. The truth, I'd wager, hits much closer to home in the facets of our own psychology, but I'm blathering at this point. 

Thanks again for your equanimity.  &gt;We tend to use the terms interchangeably, but forensic psychologists and others in the field react strongly to using the terms wrong.

How do forensic psychologists differentiate between sociopaths and psychopaths? I'm fairly clear on the difference between ASPD and psychopathy, but my understanding so far has been that 'sociopath' came into use as a pop psych buzzword that was more or less used as a synonym for psychopathy. I'm almost certainly wrong, but I'd love to know *how* I'm wrong. [This article](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/wicked-deeds/201401/how-tell-sociopath-psychopath), a Psychology Today blog post, examines the differentiation. I haven't read it recently so I'll pass on summarizing it. ok, so something is not consistent?

if what you say is true then there is a predictive factor.  bedwetting predicts psychopathy and it does so because of the common cause of parental abuse.

but the original reply says that it is not a predictor.  which is right?

(note - as far as i understand things, predictor doesn't require 100% certainty - it can be statistical - and it doesn't require a causal pathway.  it's a statistical result.  if A increases the probability of observing B then A is a predictor of B).

[edit: typo] edit: argh.  why is this downvoted already?  please post a correction if i am saying something wrong. There are at least two types of involuntary bedwetting, physiological and psychological. The assertion that bedwetting predicts psychopathy makes no distinction or deliniation in causal factors of bedwetting.  
  
For an example of what that means:  
Observation - Serial killers walk on two feet.  
Hypothesis - Walking on two feet is a causal factor/predictor of being a serial killer.  
Assertion/Conclusion - You walk on two feet. You are a serial killer.  
  
I think the original idea was to prove that people who had the greatest potential to become likely psychopathic killers, had very port or underdeveloped impulse control. From there studies were taylored to seek out markers to both isolate an example of that lack of control and have the markers be those that were least influenced by external factors. Unfortunately bedwetting itself, as stated before, has a range of causal factors which makes it far less meaningful an indicator than it was intended to be.  
  
It's poor logic and very bad science. 
 There's no scientifically controlled study that proves the link between bed wetting and serial killing, directly. What you just said shows an indirect link. An indirect link is considered a hypothesis, or an educated guess, until proven with controlled studies.

Example: controlled studies prove that elderly people with pets live longer. No controlled studies prove what many of us understand to be true...elderly people who attend a church regularly live longer...it's merely a hypothesis BECAUSE those same people could just have a pet, which makes the church attendance have nothing to do with the living longer.

It's the isolation of one cause to one effect that is most difficult to prove, especially in psychology.

EDIT: spelling but the original question isn't if there is a causal link.  how could wetting a bed *cause* psychopathy?  about all that bedwetting can *cause* is rusty mattress springs.  it's asking whether it is *predictive* and the top reply says **no**.  but if there is an indirect cause then it *is* predictive. Consider that psychopathy would be the cause of the bedwetting, *if* there was a causal link. 

Whether bedwetting is predictive of psychopathy remains open due to inconclusive evidence. The evidence and logic being referred to is only suggestive, and we cannot make firm predictions without further data to draw from.  &gt; Consider that psychopathy would be the cause of the bedwetting, if there was a causal link.

Or there's some third factor, maybe some neurotransmitter deficiency or a particular kind of brain lesion, that causes both psychopathy and bedwetting. Except its not, because there are other causes for bedwetting like medical issues. Parental abuse is not the only "cause"of bedwetting. Being abused is not even a sufficient predictor for serial killing, since statistically many who become so are NOT abused and enough people who are abused do not become so. The link is weak to the point its not even valid anymore.  Actually, the original question doesn't concern either causation or prediction. The original post barely asks a question - which might have thrown you. The best implication that could be derived from the title is simply that there seems to be an association between serial killers and bed wetters. As if they knew each other, socially. 

The best way I'd say it is that "It is surprising, but a trait that serial killers seem to share is bed wetting. Is there a reason for serial killers to share this odd trait, and does it have a psychological basis?"

Now, unfortunately, we (humans, mostly) have a tendency to read what we think about, so as each person read the title and interpreted the question, they started to rewrite it. "Well," some said, "there is a psychological explanation of bed wetting, but there is also a neurological component to consider as well", and so they initially answered part of the question they read, but responded to the unasked question, "could it be something else, as my ignorance in this field would probably require you to expand my question to include what I might potentially not know?".

This is all to say that the top reply says that the question is actually about the MacDonald Triad, which it may or may not be. Regardless, bed wetting is a trait. Traits are not predictive or causal. They are simply traits. Do they suggest existing behaviors or situations? Sure, they might. That depends entirely on context. Which is why the formula of the question is important.

Why are these traits common amongst serial killers? Why are these traits comorbid with others typically in those with diagnosed psychopathy?

The issue with saying that bed wetting is predictive of psychopathy is the same as it being a cause. Predictive implies a continuum that leads toward psychopathy, though not necessarily. This is as weak an argument as the causal argument, because our ignorance over the determining factors of psychopathy limits our causal analysis.

To expand, you have to recognize that bed wetting, as a trait, is symptomatic of some problems. At age 12, and identified at age 12, bed wetting could be, though not necessarily be, indicative of sexual or otherwise violent abuse. This is likely because of a strange interaction between the divisions of the autonomic nervous system, but yes, could be other factors. Now, whether or not the bed wetting is on the road towards psychopathy would have to include additional information from that moment in time, but also information about things that may or may not happen. The idea is untenable; information is key, yet difficult or near impossible to obtain.

I see what you're saying, bed wetting could be predictive if it were part of the symptoms that arise as a result of other, actual causes that lead to psychopathy, whatever they are. Determining that would render the need for looking at bed wetting null and void though. You'd already be looking for the other, more obvious signs.

As it is, you draw some pretty hasty conclusions; assuming that parental abuse that is severe enough to cause bed wetting to continue up until the age of twelve is assuming that you are dealing with the same child, the same parent, the same abuse, every time. That would be treating it like a physics problem. Those are predictive, they have laws. Not all forces interact in the same way with people, unfortunately. Which is the main reason you are being down voted, I think. Statistics will show reported cases. That is a limited sample, and given within a range of cases that are all already similar, but simply not all the variations of the case. It is a weak statistic.

So, no. It is not predictive. Just part of the overall set of traits that can be attributed. You may be generally accurate in your statements, but your use of "proof" and "proven" are highly problematic in relation to experimental science. No amount of well-controlled experiments can provide proof of a hypothesis. And as overly concerned with semantics as this may seem, misuse of such language is one of the reasons the public has such a difficult time understanding the way scientists quantify risk and error. 

Especially here in /r/askscience, please use the terminology of evidence and support for hypotheses; leave "proof" to the mathematicians.  You are correct. The reason it's "dangerous" is because people are horrible with statistics and human intuition often leads to terrible conclusions.

For example, every single serial killer could be a bedwetter. This does not mean that bedwetting is a sign of being a serial killer, although many might be misconstrued it as so. I totally get what you're saying, and it makes sense. One big sticking point is that you're talking about prediction, whereas causality is probably a lot more important (and in fact, people often mix up the two). So in that way, it's dangerous to focus too much on such indirect links. A second reason this is "dangerous logical territory" may be that most things are indirectly correlated with most other things, but not enough to actually predict anything. So if being abused ups your risk factor for both bedwetting and serial killing by 10% each, then how useful is it, really, to know if someone bedwets in predicting whether or not they'll kill? Probably so little as to be basically zero. Hasn't it been proven that bedwetting has a physical cause rather than a psychological one? I have a BS in Applied Psychology and wrote a few papers on Psychopathy (because it's fascinating). For the psychopaths that turn out to be excessively violent, yes, there is a higher correlation to a troubled youth/upbringing/history.

What I find fascinating though are the psychopaths that grew up in a good environment. Often "successful Psychopaths" with a good upbringing can learn and adapt well, thus can stay out of prison and even have very successful, high powered careers. In some careers for example, in Wall Street, or as CEO, exec, Politician, Military Commander etc. Psychopathic personalities can be beneficial!

Edit: grammar 
 Was just going to mention that not all psychopaths become criminals and actually can become successful but you already said all that. Here's the link to a Forbes article highlighting the top careers with a higher number of "psycopathic" personalities: http://www.forbes.com/sites/kellyclay/2013/01/05/the-top-10-jobs-that-attract-psychopaths/ A saw a documentary that followed high functioning sociopaths, people that thrive in highly competitive business areas because they're cutthroat, manipulative and generally do anything to succeed. It suggested that sociopaths and psychopaths have similar physiological patterns of brain function under fMRI (incapable of empathy), but the difference between a violent psychopath and a your run-of-the-mill sociopath is a traumatic childhood event. I.e. That CEO had the capability of being Charles Manson, but  if he was abused as a child it would be much more likely.

Does that actually reflect the understanding of the field of psychology? Or was that just a facile attempt at educating idiots? It's hard to know with documentaries. The general consensus is that psychopathy is caused by a combination of environment and genetics. Someone might be genetically predisposed to psychopathy but have a severe outcome mitigated by their upbringing. Someone else might have a terrible upbringing but just lack some genetic factor that propels them to psychopathic status. There are also cases where it seems to be only one or the other, but the sort of clear-cut line that documentary seems to suggest doesn't appear to be supported by reality. Killers like Berkowitz had perfectly decent childhoods and yet still became violent, and I would venture to guess it's not unheard of for non-violent successful psychopaths to have endured abuse as kids. One interesting thing is the fact that violent psychopaths (I don't believe non-violent psychopaths have yet been tested in this capacity; the volunteer pool consisted of diagnosed psychopaths serving time for violent crimes) have physical differences in their brains, but it's not yet known if those differences are innate and cause the psychopathic behavior or if early environmental trauma and/or psychopathic actions lead to an observable change in brain structure. Our understanding of the subject is still very much in its infancy in many ways. [deleted] If something sabotages your ability to connect to other people in your early stages of development, you are much more likely to develop a personality disorder. When the sabotage is someone you're supposed to trust hurting you, you're more likely to develop antisocial personality disorder. If you have antisocial personality disorder, you're more likely to be a serial killer. So not all killers have it and not all those with it are killers, but having the disorder and being a killer and definitely linked. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Your post neatly encapsulates my problem with the outright rejection of the triad.

Psychopathic children who are abused are more likely to be serial violent criminals, which means the triad, paired with other tools (like a diagnosis of youth conduct disorder) *is* somewhat predictive.

Note also that this only holds for "true" or "primary" psychopathy.  ASPD isn't really useful in predicting behaviour, as the diagnostic criteria fit almost all repeat offenders of any kind.

**Edit**

A more useful tool for identifying psychopathy than the diagnosis of ASPD is Hare's PCL-R. Most germane here, it is more predictive of recidivism, and much more predictive of violent recidivism.  It is a matter of people dismissing it as Correlation != Causation, but all that matters in this case is a correlation.

Consider A= Abuse, B = Bedwetting and C=Violence

A therefore B

A therefore C

B may not directly imply C, but Given B we do have an increased chance of A and therefore C A = Abuse, B = Attended Childhood Therapy and C = Violence

A therefore B

A therefore C

B may not directly imply C, but Given B we do have an increased chance of A and therefore C

We do a study, we find that actually people in B have a lower % of violence than the general population.... Well shit.

...

So what went wrong? Well, lets say that A generates 4 types of people. They are called D,E,F,G. Members of D are rarely members of E. Members of E are rarely members of F. Members of D ARE usually members of F. Members of G have the same rate of membership into E as the general population.


So now we have relationships that D is correlated to F, D,E,F are causations of A, and D is inversely correlated to E. If we had tried to assume relationships between D,E,F,G based on them all being caused by A, we would have made some really stupid wrong assumptions.

As you can see, making indirect correlations is bad science and leads to incorrect conclusions. We don't know how things are related to each other unless we study them in VERY controlled ways. In truth, it has been pretty much conclusively debunked that bedwetting (a non-violent and unconscious event) can be used to predict conscious, violent acts. This is logical fallacy. What you're talking about is affirming the consequent. Your argument is effectively

If A, then B

B

Therefore A

You're then using the result of that misguided argument in a second argument, B, therefore A, therefore C.

Based on your argument alone, it is logically invalid to conclude that bedwetting is related to violence. **It's not that you're necessarily wrong about the result**, but the logic itself does not hold up. B has nothing to do with C barring new information/premises. 

Edit: For example, you don't know that B is a result of A. 100% of bedwetting might be unrelated to abuse. Therefore it doesn't follow that B has any effect on C. 
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You don't use the term of psychopathy in diagnosis or you don't use the anti social personality disorder in diagnosis because its technically a personality disorder?  In the paper linked by /u/stjep 4 serial killers are analysed without control group so it is hard to say much. But only one of them did both fire setting and animal cruelty as a kid. He also was the only one to wet his bed. So for this guy the triad is great, the other not so much... Fair call. [This review](http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/law/18/4/577/) suggests that childhood environment risk factors are not a great predictor of psychopathy when other factors are accounted for in a community sample of offenders. It's going to be a very difficult job to establish what causes psychopathy and, more so, what causes the pop-culture type of serial killer. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Just the animal cruelty. It's just one of many, many indicators though, and way less reliable (because it's easy to cheat on questions regarding it. EPQ-R (Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, aka Maudsley Personality Inventory) is designed in such a way, as to catch you if you try to game it. It can only be beaten if you memorize both the questions and the key (which is more complicated than just which option is "right" - you counterbalance known personality correlates to catch manipulation. I read a book called "Some We Love, Some We Hate, Some We Eat" that discusses our relationship to animals.  

Maybe someone has the book handy, because it cited studies showing that about 60% of boys and 40% of girls admit to treating animals cruelly - from pouring salt on slugs to throwing puppies against walls until they die.  It's actually extremely common in children.  

There are some studies showing a link between cruelty to animals and criminal behavior (though not necessarily serial killing), but many of them are fairly old and used older methods.  For example, most study convicted criminals but not normal, functioning adults, which is why the above statistics are important. I would not put salting a slug and throwing a puppy against a wall till it dies in the same category. I can kind of see the slug as most kids wouldn't understand its pain etc but a puppy would be very obvious make noise and take a lot longer to kill.  My recollection from psych classes that are nearing 30 years ago at this point that one of the things sets certain classes of animals apart from others is their emotional connection to other humans. "Only a potential pysychopath would hurt a pet". Ants and slugs, not so much, but it would still be a terrible behavior to destroy someone else's ant farm.

Anyway, while the subject is horrible, there are portions of the world where people _eat_ dogs. They aren't psychopaths. But if you eat someone's pet dog in the US, you probably are, right? [deleted] [deleted] Behaviours and characteristics tend to all lie on sliding scales.  Pathological behaviour (to self or others) comes from getting stuck on one side of a scale, or having episodes of being at an extreme end of a scale. Does it make the distinction between insects and mammals/birds? I feel, at least in Western cultures, not many people care about the kid burning ants on the sidewalk with a magnifying class, but we give a lot of shits about harming mammals or birds. No, it didn't, that I recall.  It used the same standards set by the studies that showed a link between serial killers and cruelty to animals, which is the important part. [deleted] [deleted] Is there any research into people who demonstrated these traits as children/adolescents but did not grow up to act with negative psychological behavior?

From the bit of information on Wikipedia it says these three behaviors are usually signs of abuse and/or neglect, which lead to psychopathy, rather than indicators of some kind of born-in psychopathy. I'm not sure if that makes a difference, though? Those traits signal a child who is in need of psychiatric care and a household unfit to raise them. Use of those identifying traits could improve our allocation of social services and child protection services, resulting in better mental health outcomes in abused children and a reduction in violent criminals. For that to happen, though, we would have to have a much better system than we do to care for abuse victims.

Other things wound be done for biologically determined psychopaths. The degree matters a lot.

Children are, in a sense, tiny psychopaths. They need to develop empathy, learn about consequences, learn to control their behavior and satisfy their insatiable curiosity. All of that is normal... in a child. 

A child who hits or bites at 4 years old needs to be taught manners, but isn't a psychopath unless the behavior persists into adolescence/adulthood. Similarly, a child who pulls at dog's tail or pets it roughly may not register that it's hurtful, or a kid who squishes caterpillars may just be fascinated by the goo, not motivated by the intention to cause pain. Kids *will* play with matches and set fires if they have access - that's why matches and other potentially dangerous items need to be kept out of their reach until they're old enough to understand fire, putting out fire and responsibility. Yeah, the DSM actually doesn't even allow children to be diagnosed as having antisocial personality disorder, because what would be considered psychopathic in an adult is oftentimes pretty normal child behavior that can be corrected by teaching.  Developing empathy is a complex process. Children run the full range between having too little empathy (which is in fact more a lack of comprehension of cause and effect, psychologically speaking, than actual heartlessness) and having too much empathy (defined as inability to comprehend what doesn't have feelings, such as the common belief their toys have feelings, ascribing complex human thought to the wrong things such as anthropomorphizing flowers, and not being able to properly separate observing of another's emotion from feeling the emotion fully oneself). I don't think merely saying "children are odd/normal when they exhibit one extreme and not including the other equally common extreme" is good science. I rarely see discussion of the effects of "too much empathy".  &gt; Is there any research into people who demonstrated these traits as children/adolescents but did not grow up to act with negative psychological behavior?

Conversely, I would imagine that there is a great deal of selection bias wherever you try to study psychopaths, because they have to have been previously diagnosed as such to make it into the study.  Surely, there are plenty of people that fit the bill from a neuro-cognitive standpoint, but have not engaged in antisocial behavior to the extent that they end up with a diagnosis. That is a very small sample (N=4) and no control group so I find it hard to draw much conclusions from this paper. For example I find it not very predictive to read that all 4 persons were masturbating. It would be more interesting to see how rare the numbers are compared with a random selection of non serial killers.... Yeah, it could be a case of confirmation bias.  Kinda similar to the huge number of serial killers who have "Wayne" as a middle name. Who comes up with a criterion for potential serial killers and names it after themselves? Is psychopathy predictive of serial killing? Is it perhaps not the bedwetting but the cumulative shame or anti-norm behavior associated with bedwetting after a certain age? This cumulative shame or anti-norm behaviour should be more prevalent or stronger in those who wet the bed, so if it is this that predisposes to psychopathy, then looking at bedwetting rates should bear this out. I don't want to upset anyone with this question, so if I do.. I sincerely apologize in advance but..

Why does psychology get so much scientific credit when it seems to base it's findings on arbitrary data correlations?

So often I see psychologists do 'studies' like what you've described and then seemingly draw conclusions based on nothing more than a statistic taken from that data. In this case a high proportion of fire setting, cruelty, or enuresis.

They very rarely seem to go to any time or effort to prove whether it's just merely coincidence or if there's any causality to their findings. Is it that they feel the onus is on peer review to determine if their data is significant, or they feel it's not down to them to interpret the meaning of the data?

I only really ask because eventually we come to these seemingly ludicrous conclusions that bedwetting can be tied to being a serial killer, and while it's all well and good to say the scientific community will eventually peer review it and reject false information.. here we are nearly 100 years later questioning it. Firstly, good question, you shouldn't apologise for asking anything politely :)

Your assessment is correct and fair of this particular study, but it is important to keep in mind that psychology is a huge field. What most people think of when they hear the word *psychology* is some applied branch. These are not very big in the research arena because applied research is hard to do. You can't manipulate whether or not someone will be high on psychopathy or not, the best you can do is measure what has already happened and try to understand what is going on. There are good ways to do this, and there are many examples of this in the psychopathy literature, but there are also terrible ways to do this, and this is an example of that.

Psychological research tends to be dominated by behavioural/cognitive, social, developmental and cognitive neuroscience research. While there is variation amongst these, they all tend to be fairly experimental (some more so than others, but it again comes back to how much control you can exert over someone's behaviour ethically).

&gt;the scientific community will eventually peer review it and reject false information

Peer review happens before something is published, and it's not guarantee that things won't get through that aren't crap or wrong. Mistakes happen. A journal recently withdrew a paper because someone made a typo in an analysis script and this changes one of their (many) results. In other cases, it can be fraud, or someone not knowing what they're doing, but the point is that peer review is not a perfect tool (and some within academia argue that it's not even a useful tool).

&gt;here we are nearly 100 years later questioning it

Don't confuse reddit with what actually is happening in the field. If you go to Google Scholar and search enuresis and psychopathy, there are a lot of articles from Macdonald's days, and then a sharp decline. When something doesn't work, scientists tend to abandon it rather quickly. It's not the fastest system in the world, but it is the best one we have right now. Thanks for the response, you make some very good points. This is a slight gripe of mine with our journal based accreditation for science. Someone makes a tenuous observation from a solid experiment. The observation is then referenced in another paper as proof of a secondary hypothesis. More and more papers are then referencing each other based on this unverified link.

My mental image is of a tree. Occasionally it grows a weak branch, which grows other branches. Once we realise that original bit is dead wood, we cut it out - but there is no way to seek out all of the children and discredit them also.

These were just my thoughts from watching researchers and reading journals; but I'd be happy to be corrected. is there a difference between antisocial, psychopath, and sociopath. they all sound the same to me, a person that lacks guilt and what we would consider a conscience.  The DSM treats them all as the same, essentially:

&gt;The essential feature of antisocial personality disorder is a pervasive pattern of disregard for, and violation of, the rights of others that begins in childhood or early adolescence and continues into adulthood. This pattern has also been referred to as psychopathy, sociopathy, or dyssocial personality disorder.

This position is not universal in the field, and the [Wikipedia article on Antisocial Personality Disorder](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisocial_personality_disorder) has some good links. Yes, they are different. Antisocial Personality Disorder is a DSM diagnosis of a personality disorder. It encompasses a much larger set of traits and behaviors than psychopathy (a term which is more or less interchangeable with sociopathy aside from the implication of cause). Psychopathy is diagnosed using Robert Hare's PCL-R. It's more specific and usually more severe- all psychopaths would qualify to be diagnosed with ASPD but not everyone with ASPD is a psychopath.  As a doctoral student in clinical psychology one month away from my degree who specializes in forensics and antisocial personality disorder, my two cents are as follows: short &amp; sweet, The MacDonald Triad is sexy as far as entertainment is concerned, but not correct.  It is not considered as a predictive factor anymore in (informed) law enforcement circles.
 
Kudos to the people pointing out that correlation does NOT imply causation, especially herein.  This is a wildly misunderstood population due to both the heterogeneity of data across offenders, and the lack of access.  
 
Take away the following: there are differences between Antisocial Personality Disorder (ASPD) and Sociopathy (and depending on your operational definitions, a difference from psychopathy as well).  Not every Antisocial is a serial killer, and not every serial killer is Antisocial.  Furthermore, ASPD can have a prosocial adaptation as well: if the diagnostic criteria include reduced capacity for empathy, narcissism, and proclivity to manipulate, there are a number of career paths wherein the skills are effective tools (e.g., high-level investment banker, lawyer, clandestine operator).
 
TL;DR: Simple question, complex answer. &gt; there are differences between Antisocial Personality Disorder (ASPD) and Sociopathy

To add to this, an important aspect that is often missed is that psychopathy as it is studied is a *trait*. It's not a disorder in the diagnostic sense. Psychopathy can manifest in people who are otherwise not criminal, and someone can show criminal behaviour and be low in psychopathy. Great add-on, thank you.  Definitely a trait-state differentiation, and "psychopathy," is not a mental Heath diagnosis.  ...the use of the term is disputed in a number of circles.
 
I've found a Reddit thread I can actually justify as "work-related."  Not sure what to do with myself. I thought it was supposed to predict serial violence, rather than psychopathy. 

By extension, it might still hold (though not in the popular conception), since it does show some correlation with abuse or neglect.

Psychopathic children who are abused or neglected are more likely to violent, rather than "successful" psychopaths. What do you regard as the best text on psychopathy?  I hope someone else can give you some more recommendations because I'm not familiar with the books on the field. [This one on Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/Psychopathy-Introduction-Biological-Implications-Psychology/dp/081474544X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1426888351&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=psychopathy) looks like it would do a good job of covering the science, and it is recent. Not sure what it is like as a read, though.

My advice would be to wander into your nearest university's library and have a look through their books on the topic of *psychopathy* (the *y* at the end is a good way to steer it towards the science and away from the sensational pop ideas). What about sociopaths? I was under the impression that sociopaths are created by their environment whereas psychopaths were born that way. I do not know if "psychopath" is used as an umbrella description to represent multiple terms. I am curious about the distinction. Sociopathy is the same thing as psychopathy, though they used to be thought to be distinct. Sometimes they are still treated as distinct, however it's probably best to stick to DSM definitions and the academic literature, which generally treats them as one and the same. [deleted] "Older" bedwetting is also seen in kids who've been abused (sexually or otherwise). Given than psychopaths are more likely to have been neglected or abused as children, I wonder if some of the incidence of bedwetting past the normal ages is related to abuse. Slightly off topic, but what makes bed wetting a sign of abuse?

Is it that the body just shuts down stimuli in a fight or flight scenario? Here a good explanation: 

http://www.secasa.com.au/pages/trauma-responses-in-children/
"Some More Specific Behaviours Of Children Following Sexual Assault.
Wetting/soiling
Many young children lose bladder/bowel control following sexual assault. It can be frustrating for parents and cause extra work. It can be humiliating and embarrassing for children. It is easy for adults and children to focus on the consequences of wetting and soiling eg. changing sheets/clothes, washing, rather than the reasons why it happens.
All children bed wet from time to time when they are sick, stressed or anxious. Children who have been sexually assaulted will often bed wet every night and sometimes more than once a night. Bedwetting can be linked to feelings and may be a result of nightmares. Extreme fear can cause loss of bladder control and may serve the purpose of waking a child from a terrifying dream.
Bedwetting can also result from feelings of helplessness when children feel a loss of ownership and power over their body when it has been used by someone more powerful than they are. Bedwetting can be a reflection of children regressing in many ways, following sexual assault, when they lose a number of skills they previously had. Children may regress to a younger state to try and get their needs met. Bedwetting and soiling may also occur because a child separates from their genital/urinary/anal areas. They may lose the ability to respond to their body cues and therefore become less able to regulate their toilet habits. Sometimes children may be scared to actually go to the toilet. They may have experienced sexual assault in a bathroom or their fears may focus on the toilet itself."

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Abused children will often regress to earlier developmental stages. This can include bed-wetting. While true I just want to point out that this is also a tautology. We define regression by it's symptoms (when thinking of it empirically) and bedwetting is one of those symptoms.

It is important to recognize this in order to understand what aspects are about theory of the mind's self-organization (unproven but helpful conceptualizations about the mind) and what aspects are evidential.

I'm mostly posting this because of earlier comments regarding psychology as disregarding the scientific method or otherwise drawing useless conclusions on lack of evidence. The tautology is fine as long as it's recognized. The way parents treat children can play a big difference in a lot of ways. One example of a rat trial showing a change in DNA Methylation based on treatment by parents:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15220929 There are two types of bedwetting, the child has never been dry overnight and reached a certain age (above 7) or a child who was previously dry but isn't any more. I don't know which one is supposed to be a sign of abuse, perhaps either, but there are many other reasons like a small bladder or inability to recognize a full bladder and wake up (never been dry) to a urinary tract infection or onset of diabetes (suddenly wetting the bed).  Sure. Bedwetting isn't automatically a sign of abuse; there are many other health reasons a child might begin to wet the bed.
 [deleted] [deleted] Could someone chime in on the relationship between frontal cortex regions and micturation centers in the brain? Since frontal lobe can be involved in impulse control, does any research suggest the two have some sort of relationship in dysfunction?  Robert Sapolsky's lectures he gave at Stanford concerning Aggression argued that many anti-social behaviours, that have been so far explained with psychoanalysis in this thread, could be explained by lesions to the pre-frontal cortex. These may be caused by an accidental brain trauma or physical abuse. You can find many of his lectures on itunes or youtube if you're interested. They're part of an excellent series of lectures called Human Behaviour or something geared towards the lay community.  Thank you for the resource! I really appreciate it! Graduate degree in psychology here, and the information to follow was garnered from an in-service while I was working at a psychiatric hospital.

One theory of sociopathy is rooted in [Erik Erikson's stages of psychosocial development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erikson%27s_stages_of_psychosocial_development). This theory suggests that sociopaths never made it past the first stage of development (Trust vs Mistrust) in infancy, and are therefore stuck in a place where they do not trust the world because severe neglect ensured that their needs were never met by their parents or caregivers. This can lead an individual to view other people as objects, not people, as they can only rely on themselves to meet their own needs. 

The speaker giving the in-service provided the example of an adolescent boy who lived in a residential facility he was working in who displayed many disturbing antisocial behaviors. They tried a counterintuitive approach, not punishing him for his unacceptable behaviors, but giving him everything (within their abilities) he needed and wanted without expecting anything in return - much like you do with an infant who can only cry and occasionally throw things to let you know they have a need that is not being met. 

After some weeks or months (I can't recall specifically) of this, the boy woke up one morning and refused to get out of bed or do anything he was asked, saying "No!" and basically throwing a temper tantrum at further prodding. Essentially, he was a toddler now, graduating to the "Autonomy vs Shame and Doubt" stage most of us master between the ages of 2-4. He no longer displayed antisocial behaviors after this.

It was suggested that people stuck in *this* stage of psychosocial development are often described by Borderline Personality Disorder.

But I digress. If you accept that many sociopaths (which includes serial killers as a subset) are stuck in this infancy stage of psychosocial development, it would not be difficult to associate bedwetting as a trait, as toilet training is generally paired with the next stage of psychosocial development that was never dealt with. The Erikson article was a great read. Thank you for sharing it! You're welcome! My coursework in Theories of Personality was fascinating, and Erikson's theory has always been the one that appealed to me the most. Dr Najeeb has a lecture on this, comparing Erikson's theory with Freud's. It's very good. Combine Erikson with Abraham Maslow, and you've got the whole picture, IMO.  

Thank you for your contribution. BPD can develop later than the early, early developmental years as well right?  Yes. There are many factors that can contribute to the development of personality disorders, and we do revisit earlier developmental stages throughout our lives. Additionally, this is just one theory of personality based on Erikson's work, and it's not necessarily applicable across the board. BPD needs to be more widely discussed among psychiatrists in the modern medical field. Everyone just diagnoses bi-polar and moves on. BPD is one of the saddest mental disorders (whatever you want to call it) that I've ever seen, and doesn't respond to any medication either. It's tough, but it's also highly workable with CBT and the likes. It's also fascinating, sadly.  I try not to have prejudices against people over things they can't control, but working with borderline teens at the psych hospital was one of the most maddening things I had to do while working there. (While I ran groups and worked on the unit with the kids, I wasn't The Therapist or The Psychiatrist.) My earlier work with borderline adults in an apartment program was even harder to deal with. Academically, I sympathize and wish them the help they need. But on a caregiving level, BPD is emotionally exhausting and frustrating. Great write up. Thanks for sharing your thoughts. Makes sense. Thank you for the insight! Apparently bed wetting is a symptom of child abuse like sexual abuse and a lot of serial killers have a history of child abuse. Also apparently the Macdonald triad, which includes bed wetting, pyromania, and animal cruelty in children, may have faults in the study and may actually not be significantly correlated to future serial killing. Dysfunction of the hypothalamus (small section of brain) can cause wetting in children. Dysfunction of the hypothalamus in adults can cause violent and destructive behavior.

Very very simplified. But a possible connection.  Simplified is good. Thank you for making the connection for me. It could be related to shame and guilt or even empathy (much of which is related in a logical way). We don't wet the bed because of guilt and empathy that someone may have to clean it up and the embarrassment of that action. As adults, they may still feel no shame, guilt, embarrassment, or empathy for others, then violence becomes simply a way to get more out of life rather than something that might harm others, attract attention, or cause fear, anxiety, etc. Well I'll be damned. I'm a military recruiter and I have to ask my applicants a LOT of medical questions, most of the conditions I don't even understand why I ask them. One being, "Bed wetting since the of 12?" Now it makes sense. Thanks! Same here bud... As soon as I read this I thought back to the 2807 haha [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Psychopathy is associated with measurable abnormalities in the brain and appears to have a genetic component. (See the book *The Psychopath Test* by Jon Ronson.) It is possible that a child born with these abnormalities but given a loving and stimulating upbringing in a compassionate and ethical environment can become a productive adult without violent tendencies. (See the excellent book *The Psychopath Inside* by James Fallon.)

The fact is that not all psychopaths are killers, the vast majority are not (though most are dangerous in other ways - you should be wary of any contact you have with a psychopath). Those who do become serial killers usually also have a history of childhood abuse; the two together are a deadly combination. It is also important to remember that not all serial killers are psychopaths. Psychopaths lack the ability to have empathy and they have a diminished or non existent response to fear and they are very egocentric. Many psychopaths learn to mimic the appearance of empathy and caring, and they can be very engaging (superficial charm).

Cruelty to animals, fire starting, and other antisocial behaviours can be early signs of psychopathy or other disorders. This is a common misconception. "Psychopaths" or people with Anti-Social Personality Disorder can possess empathy. The dangerous thing about them is that they lack the ability to feel remorse or guilt - an inability to empathize is associated with Narcissistic Personality Disorder rather than ASPD, although the two can come together. It's the lack of remorse and guilty that makes them dangerous; especially considering the major role "shame" as a complex emotion plays in how an individual integrates and conforms to a society. Not just lack of remorse or guilt, but a biological inability to learn from punishment, and an inability to feel anxiety when faced with the prospect of punishment.  Which has led to some interesting experiments, like the inability to passively learn the right way out of a maze when wrong turns bring electric shocks. If I'm not mistaken that has to do with the lack of "shame." So you're spot on about that, the biological inability to learn from punishment is due to the fact they have the biological inability to feel shame for their actions. In this instance it's about their body's inability to produce adrenaline in the anticipation of or presence of pain, which is why psychopaths don't get anxious.  Turns out that adrenaline response is necessary for avoidant conditioning.  Interestingly, if injected with adrenaline, they become capable of that kind of conditioning! Psychopathy and ASPD are not exactly the same thing, although there is some overlap. It is not listed in the DSM, but it is very real. Recent research has confirmed that psychopathy is a distinct neuro-developmental sub-group of ASPD (ASPD-P). 

There is a clear behavioural difference among people diagnosed with ASPD depending on whether or not they also have psychopathy. This behavioural difference corresponds to very specific structural brain abnormalities which underpin psychopathic behaviour, such as profound deficits in empathizing with the distress of others. MRIs of psychopaths display significantly reduced grey matter volumes in the anterior rostral prefrontal cortex and temporal poles. Damage to these areas is associated with impaired empathizing with other people, poor response to fear and distress and a lack of self-conscious emotions such as guilt or embarrassment. ([Source](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/ioppn/news/records/2012/May/The-antisocial-brain.aspx))

Psychopaths are often driven, calculating people, many of whom are successful in business, politics, policing, and the military. They often present as perfectly normal to the people around them. You are perfectly right that a lack of remorse and guilt makes people with ASPD dangerous, as it does with psychopaths.

More sources [here](http://www.elementsbehavioralhealth.com/mental-health/psychopathy-vs-antisocial-personality-disorder/) and [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisocial_personality_disorder).

Edit: spelling So...ASPDs can have narcissism but still have empathy, but  NPDs don't have empathy? Don't ASPD and NPD go hand in hand? &gt; although the two can come together.

They don't always. But if they do, then the person with ASPD won't have remorse, guilt, or emapthy. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Wasn't sure where to put this, but Bill James points out that if you're looking for a predictor of psychopathy, *98-100%* of serial killers are the children of prostitutes. The correlation is so strong that he wonders if it's downplayed because of some sort of political correctness.  It isn't a predictor because it's "98-100% of serial killers are the children of prostitutes", **not** "98-100% of the children of prostitutes are serial killers". Serial killers might not all be psychopaths, and certainly psychopaths are not all serial killers.  Do you have a link to a source for this? Interested in reading more about it. It's in his book 'Perfect Victims'

http://www.amazon.co.uk/Perfect-Victims-Slaughter-Sensation-American/dp/0857203908 Seems to me like that's just his personal interpretation, rather than scientific fact. Especially with such a small sample. Still looks like an interesting book though, thank you. I looked this up because it seemed like an extremely improbably statistic - what he actually says is:

"Do you know how many serial killers are the sons of prostitutes? All of them. Ok, it's not all of them, and I won't speculate on the exact percentage. It's a huge number of them."

So no it doesn't purport to be an actual statistic, it's just a hyperbolic way of pointing out that it's a common pattern. I'd be surprised if it really shows up more often than serial killers having a physically abusive parent for example. It's pretty well known that most have traumatic childhood experiences one way or another. [deleted] [deleted] If I had to guess, bed-wetting as a commonality among serial killers would seem to suggest a sense of social dissonance. Obviously these people are not going to advertise their continued "enuresis", and identify less with normal society. This among other socially inappropriate traits, through time and cognitive development, could lead to an ability to embrace something as taboo as murder. I would say that not every serial killer is a bed-wetter, and certainly not that every adolescent bed-wetter is a serial killer, but I would certainly speculate that the personality of a young serial killer is riddled with traits similar to adolescent enuresis. Traits which would induce heavy amounts of shame or embarrassment and work to dissociate the person from general "normal" social behavior. [deleted] The word you're looking for isn't mildly psychopathic, but maybe sociopathic. But this above all else...do not self-diagnose! If you think you might have a problem seek professional help from a medical doctor. The questions you're having are a good sign because the truly insane don't think there's anything wrong. Good luck, man. [deleted] [deleted] The ear does, in fact, do something similar:

[The Acoustic Reflex](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acoustic_reflex) Unfortunately, I'm on mobile and cannot provide sources easily, but I'm sitting at my desk as a research audiologist at a major hospital and would like to lend some insight.

The auditory system does employ multiple reflexes in response to particular sounds, though their purposes are mainly thought to be signal enhancement rather than noise protection. 

The stapedial and tensor tympani reflexes cited in this thread occur in response to loud signals, suggesting a protective purpose. However, they also act to attenuate frequencies outside (I.e. below) the range of typical speech. While they may protect against long-duration stimuli (loud music), they likely help very little with sudden transients (I.e. gun shots) as their latencies are on the order of several milliseconds. The reflex also decays after a minute in ideal circumstances, so any protective quality is short lived. These reflexes are likely more protective against the levels of our own voices, which are quite loud at the point of our lips and vocal folds.

In fact, more evidence (again, I apologise for the lack of citations) suggests that the reflexes help to attenuate low-frequency maskers which, due to the macromechanics of our inner ears, often reduce the audibility of some higher-frequency speech signal.

In our lab, we frequently test a more complex reflex arc involving the brainstem and inner ear, known as the medial olivocochlear reflex, which provides additional help in improving the salience of speech when presented with competing noise.

Fascinating stuff. The ear is actually action-packed with little features that help to improve our perception of speech. It's always a little disheartening to see how little public knowledge there is about the whole system.

EDIT: This thread is picking up steam, so I want to make a PSA. Everyone, wear hearing protection when you know you'll be exposed to loud sounds, either transient or prolonged. Buy some disposable foam plugs and learn how to **appropriately** use them. I see pediatric patients exclusively now, but I've seen many, many older patients (teenagers included) in the past who've screwed up their hearing due simply to not wanting to protect their ears. None of them have been happy about it. 

Take all the soft sounds in life that you love. Birds chirping, leaves rustling, wind in the car window, your loved ones whispering. Now take them away. See how much you miss them. You've seen the videos of kids crying after having their cochlear implant turned on, hearing sounds for the first time? Imagine seeing a 70-year-old retiree trying a hearing aid and suddenly hearing his wife snicker for the first time in twenty years. Feels for days.

Hearing's not one of those things you don't miss till it's gone. A lot of times it goes slowly; slips away without being noticed. You forget about it and don't realize how much you've missed it until you've bought it back at the price of an expensive-as-hell hearing aid. 

Protect your ears! 

*soapbox dismount* Taking a small step back when looking at the whole issue - isn't it also simply the lack of evolutionary pressure to deal with extended exposure to loud noises?

For as long as eyes have existed, the sun has been around and the places that fish, reptiles and mammals can go have had wildly varying light levels. Having a contracting iris is quite obviously advantageous for protecting the retina in all of our ancestors.

For ears though, it's a different story isn't it? What were the loudest sounds our ancestors dealt with 200.000 years ago? Rocks hitting rocks? Warcries? Birdsong?

I don't see how we could be genetically prepared for amplified 2 hour rock concerts. I would assume the loudest persistent sound exposure for our ancestors came from their own voices.

It's an extreme, uncontrolled example, but professional vocalists often present with the typical configuration of noise-induced hearing loss. 

EDIT: Not to say that your own voice will cause you hearing loss...

EDIT2: wording &gt; I would assume the loudest common sound exposure for our ancestors came from their own voices.
  
I would reword that to say the loudest *persistent* sound exposure for our ancerstors came from their own voices.  Thunder would have been common enough, just not persistent enough to make an evolutionary difference.  A community living long term near a waterfall or pounding surf might have developed an ART faster than  inland relatives. Good point. I'm trying not to take too much time away from work, so my wording isn't as careful as it normally is. Would the professional vocalist's hearing loss due their own voice or the return audio from their amplified voice over the audio system,  include with that that acapella is not as common as with  accompaniment,  you'd have to consider the instruments and then the monitor audio as well  I didn't specify, but hearing loss is known to occur in unamplified a cappella vocalists (I.e. opera or symphony soloist). I mentioned that this population is tough to control as they're likely also exposed to other instruments.

However,  with no evidence to back up the claim, it seems plausible to me that the voice, projected at a level appropriate for a singer and at practice-level durations (say, two hours on and off per day, daily for several years) would eventually cause a permanent threshold shift beyond what would otherwise normally occur. &gt; I didn't specify, but hearing loss is known to occur in unamplified a cappella vocalists (I.e. opera or symphony soloist)  I mentioned that this population is tough to control as they're likely also exposed to other instruments.

Consider also that performance space are typically designed around their acoustic properties.

Not *electrically* amplified is not the same thing as being unamplified.  A space won't actually amplify a sound, just focus it and/or help filter for the frequencies of interest. Amplifying a sound involves adding physical, mechanical energy to compression waves and I'd be awfully surprised if a physical space can do that. The best case I can imagine is for resonant frequencies to build on themselves within a space. A space might not amplify a sound, but every space dampens sound to some degree and a properly designed space can control that sound much better. Hah, yeah I tried to make that point with "filter for frequencies of interest" but you said it much more clearly Would it not be possible to predict the perceived volume of one's own voice and compare it to the effect of something of equal volume on hearing loss?  Certainly someone singing in a rock band could easily get hearing loss from standing close to a drumset, and choirs get pretty damn loud aswell Absolutely,  I just wondered about solo vocalists,  choirs are a bunch of vocalists standing in proximity so it's not unlike instruments.    I would guess that the one truly loud sound regularly heard back then was thunder. What if their "rocks hitting rocks" was their "2 hour rock concerts?" FYI, An experienced flintknapper [isn't making all that much noise.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AJk1qfRczLI)

"Rocks hitting rocks" does in fact predate *homo sapiens sapiens* since [stone tool use dates back to *homo habilis*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homo_habilis) -- so our ears ARE artifacts that survived the evolutionary pressure of our ancestors' toolmaking. 

Now if you want a rock concert analogue, this is purely speculation, but humans didn't exactly invent loud, hearing-damaging music when Led Zepplin got together. Traditional drum music is loud enough to sometimes be heard miles away. 

I bet humans were ruining their hearing by the time the first all-night dance party was invented.  Probably living close to a waterfall or possibly one of those places where the wind is always blowing.

One of the modern sources of exposure that people don't think of: Motorcycle riding.

http://d136nqpz68vrmx.cloudfront.net/marketing/community/articles/motorcycle-ear-plugs/motorcycle-ear-plugs-6.jpg

Get some cheap (or expensive if you want) plugs and wear them. I find they reduce fatigue too.
 Staring at the sun will still harm your vision. I'd say both systems are working similarly within their expected ranges of exposure. It's just a lot harder to turn sound off. You can look away from a bright light but turning your head doesn't do much about sound.  The difference I was pointing out is that direct exposure to the sun has been our problem ever since our ancestors left the sea. Exposure to continuous loud noise is something we have invented in the last couple of centuries. I don't think it makes much sense to talk about "*within their expected ranges*" because OP asks "*Why can't our ears do something similar when faced with loud sounds?*". Not to mention that the ear is much older than humans are.   By at least 300 million years.  I doubt it has had much time to evolve much since humans first began showing up. Exactly, in fact my advisor in grad school published a few papers on this, as the middle ear muscle reflex was originally thought to be protective in origin. The loudest sounds in nature (they employed dozens of microphones all around the world) that they could find weren't enough to trigger the memr in humans, and it was in fact a frog concert in the Amazon. One very cool addition to this - I don't have a link to the article I read in grad school, but apparently the tensor tympani can have an antecedent reflex if you are the one pulling the trigger to the gun. Still not adequate protection by any means - our ears were not evolved to protect us from the industrial revolution. But the reflex has been noted to occur without lag when you are the trigger puller. Even if you know exactly when the gun will be discharging - but you are not the one pulling the trigger - the acoustic reflex will have its standard lag. 

Cool stuff right? Thanks. I'm aware of some neural pathway that triggers a preemptive acoustic reflex, but I wasn't familiar enough with it to make a statement. Doesn't the same preemptive reflex happen right before you're about to vocalize?  IIRC human voices at conversational speech levels would never cause reflex to occur. It only triggers the reflex arc at a suprathreshold level, louder that our own voices could project. That being said, when we scream, I'm sure it occurs. When I learned the part of my ear I can make "rumble" is the tensor tympani, I started doing it when I was near loud sounds.

Is it a placebo effect or am I actually reducing the amount of sound entering my ears and protecting them? I asked my professor in audiology if the rumble (I can do the same, but only if I squeeze my eyes shut) was the tensor tympany, and he said that it is more likely tied to the muscles in the eye making noise from vibrating. Do you have to squeeze your eyes shut too?  You are causing some attenuation, not more than 15 dB or so. I have a relatively strong voluntary TT reflex and have had my hearing sensitivity/middle ear admittance tested while "rumbling". There is also a small masking effect due to the rumbling itself. I love how there's someone who's passionate about any cause imaginable. Like, there are so many things that are important for people to do, and you can find someone who's a hardcore advocate for any of them. It makes me happy to know there are people out there like you who are that invested in standing on that particular soapbox. That is fascinating, I really didn't know that it was that complicated, there's so much more going on in there then I ever imagined. I was taught it was just a tube with a drum at the end, haha.

Just a slightly unrelated follow up question about the ear, are there frequencies that our ear can pick up but that we never actually hear, or rather never formulate in our brains as a sound? If that makes sense.  Oh, things get very interesting once you get past the middle ear!

Our perceptual frequency limit (~20-20,000 Hz) is largely dictated by the resonances of our inner ear. Imagine a piano keyboard coiled around itself like a seashell; high tones at the base and low tones at the tip. Each area of the inner ear responds best to a particular frequency, or pitch. The very tip top responds well to low pitches (down to 20Hz), and the base may go as high as about 20kHz. Beyond those limits, there just simply isn't a response. A 40 kHz sound *may* reach your inner ear if it isn't attenuated by the outer and middle ear (due to complex acoustical properties of each), but no part of the inner ear will resonate to it...so no sound will be perceived. 

That's a very simplified answer, but I hope it helps. Bright light is dangerous to the eye and there is a lot of bright light in the form of the sun so defenses evolved to protect it.  In nature there are very few examples of sound that would injure your ear so human ears evolved without similar defenses.   That would make sense. I'm not aware of any studies relating to acoustic reflexes in populations who are not exposed to industrial noises (isolated islanders, for instance), but I'd bet they still have these reflexes as I believe they're mainly for signal enhancement. A lot has to do with context too, intuit people will sometimes stand for hours by a hole in the ice with a rifle to shoot seal; they often suffer hearing loss because in all the quite the ear becomes accustomed to silenced then is damaged by the loud retort of the gun. Also, consider that a gun shot is very loud (in excess of 120 dB SPL). One shot can do as much damage as several hours of exposure to an 90 dB sound. Then take into account the reverberant effects of ice (assuming little snow). The unprotected ear stands no chance. Wow, so some parts of our ear can actually pick up frequencies beyond what we perceive? That's crazy Sure. In middle age, you're likely not hearing much of anything above 15kHz, yet that corresponding area of the inner ear will still respond passively to those sounds.

In some cases of deafness, parts of the auditory system may work normally, but the transduction of sound at one point is simply halted by some abnormality. Since our ears seem to be a lot more sensitive at certain frequencies, does that mean that frequencies outside of our detectable range at a high volume would be less damaging to our hearing than if it were a frequency that we can easily detect?

I've long been wondering if cranking up the bass or listening to loud dog whistles is dangerous to our ears, even if we aren't sensitive enough at those frequencies to feel pain. Considering it from an evolutionary answer as to "why"  one simply need look to nature.   Bright lights that damage the eye would result in a survival deficit, a particular bright light is common,  and is in the sky for about half of the day.   Given that 50%~ of animal's lives are spent in sun light,  this gives an evolutionary edge to those that can maintain their sight for longer by reducing the risk of damage to those sensitive components of the eyes.  

Now for the ears,  nature in general lacks a steady state noise for half of the creatures' life cycles.   The pressure to compensate for something that is extremely rare in terms of encounter:lifecycle,  and I can think of very few examples,   thunder, meteors exploding in the atmosphere,  the occasional animal that has exceedingly loud calls,  simply doesn't apply any pressure against survivability for those who did not produce such shifts in anatomy.   Even then,  such audio trauma is rarely complete deafness,  so were a period where such noises were present,  there is likely a higher chance of survival for those with hearing deficit,  than say someone who's visual abilities lost the same amount of function, comparatively.   So those two cases,  don't really infer a huge preference for such structures that work to the extent that the iris does for light,  with sound.     Is there any insights as to why some autistic people have sound and/or light sensitivity issues?  That's beyond my scope, but hopefully someone more familiar with the topic can chime in here. I was researching this yesterday. i am a lay man of course and my knowledge extends as far as wikipedia.

Though one of the more fascinating things that I came across is how the bones in our middle ear are evolved from analogus structures in the reptilian jaw bone

[PBS: We Hear with the Bones that Reptiles Eat With](http://video.pbs.org/video/2365207244/) Mr. Potatoes,

My fire alarm is a bit overzealous and tends to go off whenever I cook. One time, when it was blaring, I ran over to turn it off, the sound not really bothering me at all, but when I went to press the "Hush" button I missed. I did not expect the next "BEEP!", because I thought I had hushed the infernal contraption, so when it happened it hurt my ears quite a lot.

My question is: Why do my ears only physically hurt when I don't expect the noise. Is a physical reaction or mental? Do my ears get damaged just the same, despite the perceived noise level? I work construction and the other guys always tease me for always wearing my earmuffs. I just wish that they would listen to me and get serious about protecting themselves as well.  I'm surprised that your supervisor isn't on them about it. OSHA has some pretty clear guidelines in regards to acceptable noise exposures at work. Why can I on command keep my ears popped and almost mute all incoming sound? I've wanted to know for a long time and hopefully you're my chance to learn why Best intro book for an internal medicine intern? I don't know jack about internal medicine, but if you're looking for an intro into auditory anatomy, try books by either Gelfand or Clark &amp; Ohlemiller. More the Neuro and mechanism components. If anatomy is relevant to it, sure. Looking for something all in one, preferably. With a side of unicorn, obviously. It was well explained. Thank you.  
Is there a cause of why our hears can't deal with tinnitus frequencies? Why the hears/brain can manage to exclude disturbing frequencies?
 The root cause of tinnitus is still unknown, but  **one** popular explanation (of many) is that when auditory neurons are deprived of stimulation, possibly due to damage to lower auditory structures caused by noise, they form connections with neighboring neurons. Misfiring by these neurons may cause a ringing or static perception. In some cases, however, whole nerves have been cut in severely affected patients only to result in a worsening perception of the tinnitus. So, the jury's still out...

An accepted treatment for tinnitus is a form of psychological reconditioning. Since the cause of the perceived sound cannot be determined, the patient must learn to accept its presence and ignore it. This is commonly done with the help of soft acoustic maskers (noise generators and music makers) that help the patient to take their mind off the percept. With training, the patient may ween off the noise generators and ignore the tinnitus on their own. I have noticed that it seems to get worse when I sleep in a noisy room and it seems to get better when I'm out of the city for several days. Why is that? [deleted] You're opening your Eustachian tubes to allow the pressure 'inboard' of your eardrums to equalize with the pressure 'outboard'.  This differs from the acoustic reflex, which involves little bitty muscles tightening up in your middle ear to keep your ossicles (little bitty ear-bones) from jangling around so violently. How much protection does sticking my fingers in my ears provide during a loud continuous noise? If you only have your fingers, your best bet is to push down on your tragus (that flap over your ear canal) and try to collapse the canal. Realistically, this probably affords you ~25 dB of attenuation... Which is a lot better than nothing! So is the phenomenon of auditory exclusion occurring via the brain instead of the ears? Also, simple tactile stimulation can elicit the response. I don't think we can say it has much of a protective function at all anymore, really.

I'd like to hear more about the MOC reflex if you have any sources or articles you've put out on it. &gt; In fact, more evidence (again, I apologise for the lack of citations) suggests that the reflexes help to attenuate low-frequency maskers which, due to the macromechanics of our inner ears, often reduce the audibility of some higher-frequency speech signal.

Hmm.  I've noticed I sometimes have a heard time making out voices even in relatively (but not perfectly) quiet settings where I ought to be able to hear them, like when I'm talking with someone while there's a TV playing in the background.

To the best of my ability to discern the problem I've guessed it was because there were some low frequencies in their voice that were also being produced by the TV (or being absorbed by our surroundings), and thus I couldn't "pull out" their voice from the background.

My hunches might be correct in some cases but based on what you just wrote maybe those reflexes aren't working too well in my ears? It's not always involuntary! There are thousands of us who can do this on demand /r/earrumblersassemble/ Very interesting, thank you! This is also why after you have listened to really loud music (say, at a club) for a prolonged duration, your ears take a long time to re-adjust to hearing at a normal level. Sort of like entering a dark room after sitting in the sun for a while. Either I'm missing something, or this is just total nonsense that you've made up.

[The acoustic reflex responds in seconds, quickly 'tires out'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acoustic_reflex#Protection_role), and is not the cause of temporary hearing-loss following a loud concert.

The Internet has proven rather unhelpful with regard to the cause of temporary hearing loss, but I get the impression it's the temporary 'stunning' of the hair-cells, which then recover. (They can be killed permanently if you really overdo it, though.)

*Edit: [apparently](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2z8rzx/the_pupils_in_our_eyes_shrink_when_faced_with/cpgsob4) it has to do with a 'threshold shift'.* The analogy deepens. I thought though that as you age, and interfere with more loud sounds that your hearing becomes permanently damaged and can no longer re-adjust. So it becomes a guarantee that younger people have better hearing than older people. This isn't this case with sight though is it?   I don't really have an answer to that. But here's a little experiment you can try at home if you have earphones. Plug one into your left ear and listen to music at a moderately loud (but obviously safe) level. After about 15-20 minutes, plug the right one in. The right one will sound louder, since your left ear will have adjusted to a lower sensitivity from listening to the music, while the right ear will still be at normal sensitivity! Is this also why if I work early in the morning turn the radio on and drive to work the rafio seems unbearably loud even if it's the same level as it was the day before? Actually that probably has to do with the change in background level between the commute on your way home and the quiet morning when you start your car the next day. So to answer you, the type of hearing loss you're referring to is known as a threshold shift. There are two types of shifts, permanent and temporary. Temporary ones occur after a prolonged acoustic insult (loud noises) i.e. concerts, but the hearing returns to normal usually within 24 hours. Permanent shifts occur when you are enduring temporary shifts frequently and as a result your hearing gets a little bit worse each time.
 This isn't quite right. Threshold shifts come in short-term and long-term varieties, but given time both will completely recover.

Permanent hearing damage happens most commonly in the cochlea. The organ of corti is covered in stereocilia, and when these are damaged they can't be replaced. This means that hearing can attenuate at various frequencies in various amounts depending on where the organ of corti becomes damaged, and this damage is irreversible. 

Progressive degenerative eye damage works kind of similarly, and as the eye becomes more damaged vision becomes more and more blurry. Though I don't know eye physiology nearly as well. It is basically a guarantee that younger people have better sight than older people, in certain ways (although obviously there is much, much wider variation in vision among young people than hearing, so it is a weaker effect).

There are a couple major factors:

- Presbyopia (the reason why most people over 40-45 need reading glasses). As you age, the lens in your eye hardens, and the range of "accommodation" of your eye decreases; there's a smaller difference between the closest your eyes can focus and the furthest away your eyes can focus. This range decreases gradually your whole life; there's even a substantial, measurable difference between young children and teenagers; it just doesn't become really noticeable until your 40s for most people.

- Cataracts. In addition to aging, cumulative absorption of UV radiation over years is a major factor in developing cataracts. This is very much like cumulative hearing damage from loud noises.



 I don't think you can ever make that guarantee because everyone has varying hearing acuity, all the way down to being deaf, from birth.  In general, because of aging factors and more chances of experiencing damaging sounds, youth will be correlated with better hearing, but it is a complex correlation and picking two people at random and saying the younger one will definitely have better hearing won't be accurate. This is very similar to sight, we all start with either high or low visual acuity, ability to differentiate colors, night vision capacity, etc. and we all wear and tear at different rates and experience different amounts of damaging stimuli. I commented higher up in the thread, but I thought I'd point out that the middle ear reflexes have pretty rapid offsets once a loud stimulus ceases. The period of attenuated perception is likely a symptom of "temporary threshold shifting", most likely caused by some amount of damage to the outer hair cells of the inner ear, which serve as amplifiers for soft and moderate level sounds.

It's important to note that though perception may return to normal after a few hours, single event long-duration exposure to loud sounds has been shown to cause degeneration of ganglion cells within the inner ears of mice who otherwise regained normal behavioral thresholds. The point being that even if perception appears to be normal, the system is likely not the same as it was before the exposure. Fascinating... I'm in the military and I've always wondered what was going on when my hearing would change after unloading a 200 round drum from a SAW. The sensation is a lot like jumping into a pool. That actually sounds like it would be very bad for your hearing and might cause damage. Don't you get some form of hearing protection? I've been able to make a low rumbling sound at will that I can only compare to a large truck passing by or an earthquake.

Maybe it's this, since I can't hear normally when I do this. [deleted] Totally. Have you ever been to a concert and stood two feet from the sub and then quickly ran outside to where it is quiet?  That's quite a good analogy. Our ears do in fact have protective measures. There are 2 muscles in the ear, the tensor tympani and the stapedius muscle. The tensor tympani, as the name suggests, tenses our ear drum (the tympanic membrane). The stapedius recedes or pulls the stapedius (one of the bones in the ear) out of its socket. Both these actions decrease the intensity of sound reaching our inner ear, thus preventing damage to the sensory part of the ear! This is the acoustic reflex. It's also worth mentioning that some people, myself included, can control their tensor tympani and produce a rumbling sound in their ear. We are over at /r/earrumblersassemble/! Everyone can't do this?  Annnnd I thought that was perfectly normal. A low pitched, almost staticy noise?

Any idea how common/uncommon it is? It also seems to make it really easy to pop your ears. Wait, that's not something everyone can do? I did not know that that's what I was doing, and I did not realize that this isn't completely common. I can't think of any way this is useful either.  If TV has taught me anything, that means your latent superpowers are finally maturing. OP: Find the wiki entry on the "stapedius muscle".  Some people can even volitionally control this muscle.  I'm one of them, and I make my ears "rumble" whenever I'm being subjected to loud noises and it's too rude or too late to cover my ears. Are you talking about that rumble you hear in your ears when you yawn? Because I can voluntarily do that without a yawn, is that not normal?  I can also do this, it's like your squeezing the muscles inside your ear right? Is there any way to make this muscle really strong? I can control it voluntarily, but only for a few seconds at a time.  I can do it for about 15 seconds at "full blast".  It's like any other muscle, though: Eventually the toxins from muscular activity build up too much and they must rest. So you basically shake the inside of your ear to create enough "background" noise so you can't hear anything?? Nope. It's voluntary control of the tensor tympani muscle. You tense the muscle. You can hear something similar if you press your knuckle to your ear and tighten your fist. You'll hear a rumbling noise very similar to what we can do at will. The rumbling does not cut off external noises completely but it definitely attenuates them, and that's the important thing.  High decibel levels are what eventually kills one's hearing.  Volitional (anticipatory) control over the attenuation is surely more effective than an involuntary response to excessive loudness. /r/earrumblersassemble

I have acute control of the muscle. I can time it to any beat. Same. It's like weird white noise. But I can only do it for like 30 seconds max. I've put a little practice into doing the left/right individually.  I can tell that with a lot of practice, it can be done.  Just never got around to it. I'd speculate that the ear doesn't have a specialized defense against loud noises (going by /u/BakedBrownPotatos's description of the stapedial and tensor tympani reflexes) because truly "loud" noises are generally rare in nature.   
Our eyes have several defense mechanisms against bright lights (pupal contraction, wince/squint reflex, eyebrows) because every single person is more or less constantly exposed to light levels that could damage or destroy our vision if they arrived unfiltered. The sun is a constant in our evolution, and it makes sense that we would evolve defenses against it.  
Truly, harmfully *loud* things are a fairly recent development.  I can't think of anything in nature that would be loud enough to harm us while being common enough to negatively impact reproductive probability.   Thus it isn't surprising that we never developed the ability to "squint" our ears.  
Bats are a good example of an animal with extremely sensitive hearing.  In fact, bats actually go deaf for a split second when they emit a sound, so the noise they are making doesn't damage their own hearing.   They do. You have muscles in your ears that constrict and reduce the pressure of sound that reaches your inner ear. if you have felt like you are underwatter after a loud event this is likely because of these constricted muscles in your ear. But because they take time to constrict  things like gun shots that are very loud and get loud quickly render this defense useless because our ears cannot restrict fast enough to make a difference. I would think that, as far as the evolution of our features go, there weren't a lot extremely loud sounds in nature (except for disasters maybe). This means that it wouldn't have been as necessary for our ears to be as sensitive as our pupils are to changes in light. We would also want to know when the magnitude of a sound changes from previous moments, and if our ears adjusted the level, we wouldn't have as clear of a picture of the distance of a sound or a threat.  They do.

All rookie studio engineers are advised to REST their ears after hour or two of recording, mixing etc... for exactly this reason. After a while, the hearing apparatus becomes insensitive and there is a very real possibility to miss a subtle tone - a tone which becomes ridiculously obvious when listening to the same material with rested ears. The pupils dialate and contract to allow you to see in a wide range of lighting conditions. If your pupils were wide open in bright light, everything would appear washed out. If they were smaller in the dark, you wouldn't be able to see at all. I'm not sure if there's any protective effect to the retina, but it's certainly secondary to seeing in a wide range of lighting conditions. Here is a physics perspective: visible light has a wavelength below a micrometer; as a result it will interact with a thin obstacle, such as an eyelid, and be easily blocked.

We can hear sounds with wavelengths in the range of centimeters to meters (divide the speed of sound, 300 m/s, by audible frequencies, 20 Hz to 20 kHz). If we had earlids, they wouldn't block much. That's why earplugs are good at blocking high-pitched sounds, but not so much low-pitched ones.

So the more effective biological strategy is the acoustic reflex pointed out by other posters, that is, reducing the mechanical response of the middle ear when exposed to loud sounds. They do.  It's called the attenuation reflex. 

Basically your year picks up sound vibrations and translates it to the inner fluid cavity by means of membrane and a few very small bones. 

If the sounds gets very loud,  the tension is increased and the membrane (called tympanic membrane) gets tighter so less vibration is translated and interpreted by nerves. 


If sound is very light,  the tension decreases and more vibrations are able to pass... So you then receive the sound although very soft. 



That's why when you go to a music festival,  when you come home everything is all muffled.


Edit:lol I got the term mixed up :p Well everyone already answered this but our eyes (constricting), our easr (tensor typmani) our skin (vasodilation/constricting) and numerous other organs try to protect us from extreme conditions. 

However much like looking into the sun directly will still damage your eyes, standing next to a jet airplane will still damage your ears... our bodies do have their limits.  http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stapedius_muscle

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tensor_tympani_muscle Bats accomplish this by clenching a muscle that prevents the hammer from impacting their eardrum.  The clench occurs at the same moment that the bat creates the sound it uses for echolocation and the muscle unclenches in time to hear the sound wave return to the bat.  This clench and unclench can happen up to 30x per second. 
Richard Dawkins talks about this (and the similar system that was engineered for sonar systems in boats and subs) in his book The Selfish Gene.  As other have said they kinda do, though not as good as our eyes.
I think a lot of people are missing a valid point.
 
We never really had to evolve to have a super effective sound defense because in nature not much stuff makes loud noises. Think about how loud a motorbike is, or how loud your stereo is and then compare that to nature. Maybe some place like a forest or jungle with all the birds can compete but most other things in nature really aren't that loud, and the things that are, are usually not very constant (lightning, volcanos, tornados etc).

So unlike eyes that are always bombarded with blinding bright light human descendants were not constantly bombarded with deafening noise.

 Somewhat related: There is a condition called "surfer's ear". This is different than "swimmer's ear". Surfer's ear is caused by repeated exposure to cold water and wind. The stimulation causes the bones of the external ear canal to grow and constrict the canal in an effort to protect the ear drum, etc: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surfer%27s_ear
Eventually a surfer may have to have their ears "drilled" to correct the constriction.  I personally have developed this, but now wear earplugs and a hood almost year round, so have not had to have my ears drilled out, although I know a few people who have and they say it is an extremely unpleasant procedure. In terms of actual human evolution: because why would you ever need that? With our eyes, survival is vital. Being able to adjust your vision to see as clearly as possible in the darkness of night, and the brightness of a cloudless summer day is constantly useful. Hearing, though, is less useful. If anything, you don't want to hear less, you want to hear more. You want to hear the subtle sounds of the grass and tree branches to hear the predator sneaking up on you to react. Big loud sounds, with the exception of things like thunder during lightning storms, are very rare in nature. In the modern world we have cars and construction and speakers playing music too loud and explosions, and things which do frequently get painfully loud, but as of yet evolution has not worked on that, and likely won't since our hearing is no longer vital to our survival.  If fact it does, the muscles in the inner ear will very quickly tighten when exposed to high SPL. They also take much longer to relax after the overload occurred (up to around 20 minutes if I am remembering correctly).  This is why things will sound muffled after exposure to a loud sound, it is the reason mixing engineers prefer to mix at a low level and like to take frequent breaks.  This is your ears way of protecting itself from other potential SPL overload situations.  Sadly your ears can get damaged with no extra protection before the initial tightening, damage can still occur, but is reduced by the tightened muscles.    I'm not so sure it's about making the iris smaller during the day as it is about making the iris bigger at night or in low-level lighting situations. Humans adapted to the dangers and predators of the night by improving their night vision (larger iris allows more light into the eye), thus allowing them to protect themselves from danger, and live... and ultimately reproduce. Our need to adjust our hearing based on threat perception doesn't really exist so we, as a species, havent been required to adapt a variable hearing mechanism. I've always said I've been able to do this. I'm not sure exactly what I'm doing, whether I'm tensing a inner ear muscle (if there even is one), or whether I'm increasing blood flow to my inner ears to effectively swell them up and muffle sound. However when a loud noise like an Ambulance approaches I can do something that will dampen the sound so its not as bad. I do have quite an ambidextrous face though, I can wiggle my eyebrows and ear lobes so I imagine it might have something to do with that skill. Hearing protective aspects of the acoustic reflex are contained in a model of the ear developed by researchers at the Army Human Research and Engineering Directorate in Aberdeen, MD. The AR is initiated in the presence of impulsive noise (such as weapon fire) beginning at 9 ms after reception and achieves full protection (which is frequency dependent) at about 200 ms. Because (believe it or not) hearing damage is believed mostly caused by the whirlstorm created in the inner ear as the sound decays, the AR is seen to provide quite a bit of protection. It is also believed to be conditionable, such that a gunner can set off the AR prior to pulling the trigger, providing even more protection. Google AHAAH (the name of the model) for more information. The behavior I am describing is not universally accepted by all hearing specialists.  I've experienced this first hand while hunting with a rifle. I normally don't wear hearing protection so I can hear movement around me. The first shot rings some and any subsequent shots seem to not have as much of an effect. I was told once that the adrenaline rush you can get has some bearing as well. Is that true or bs? The stapedius muscle and tensor tympani do their best to protect you from lound sounds. Ever drive home with the radio blasting, it seems fine, then the next morning you get in, turn on the car, and are hit with the force of a wrecking ball? The muscles didn't have adequate time to react, the same will be true with something like a gun shot also, which will break off the tiny cilia in your inner ear causing permanent inner ear damage. A bit late to the party, but while we don't really have something like this, some other species do. 

Take, for example, the elephant: when it is listening to the stomp signals of other elephants a long ways off or for the sound of approaching animals, it has a sphincter muscle in its ear that it can activate to dampen high noises and listen to the vibrations it feels through its front legs by hunching it's head and planting its feet firmly on the ground.

Elephants are wicked cool. Evolutionarily speaking the range of normal lighting conditions can vary from pitch black to direct sunlight.  A naturally occurring loud noise though is almost always something close by and should prompt some kind of reaction. In short, because sudden brightness isn't a sign of danger.

Loud noises cause one of the fastest reflexes reactions of which the human brain is capable. Back in the old days, loud noises would often be a sign of danger, so it makes sense for us to react quickly to them. The only source of a suddenly bright light (again, a long time ago) would be the sun, which poses no imminent threat. this faster reaction time is why we have so much audio warnings in things like planes right? I'm not convinced this would be helpful. Loud noises wake us up in the middle of the night and alert us of danger. If our ears compensated for this and everything was the same volume, our ancestors wouldn't have heard the lion's roar or the fire's crackle and the mutation would have died. Loud noises, as disorienting as they can be, are very helpful. Bright light on the other hand does nothing but blind someone, and tiny eyes are useless in the dark. Throughout the millennia, humanity and our ancestors were exposed to lights bright enough to damage our eyes or even blind us temporarily, so we adapted and gained this trait. Equally loud noises were much rarer until recently, so we haven't needed to adapt.  Volume isn't really the problem, it is intensity.  Very loud base is not painful.  The cochlea works by having cilia placed along its scroll that transduce various frequencies.  As we get older, we lose the sensitive high frequency receptors due to damage, etc.  Our brains would have to somehow actively inhibit certain cilial receptors not to respond when it detects some "over pressure" condition. Not really an answer, but behaviorally speaking many of us already do this to some extent when we wince, turn our heads away from the source direction or put our hands over our ears.  Little kids frequently put their hands over their ears and say "too loud" even never having been conditioned to do so.  Your eyes encounter very bright light daily. The sun is very dangerous to your eyes. 

But how many natural sources of noise are so loud and persistent that you might evolve protective ear covers to avoid going deaf? They do, sort of. The tympanic membrane (eardrum) can stretch or loosen, to become more or less sensitive to sounds. People who experience loud sounds (i.e. at rock concerts) will experience less sensitive hearing for a short amount of time.

Source: a presentation I attended with my amateur radio club, given by a specialist in this area. (I am in no way an expert.) I'm sure it also has something to do with the fact that most noises that could potential damage our ears are man made within the last century or two. Not quite enough time for evolution to kick in when you consider the sun can burn out your retinas and it's been around since before we even walked this earth. Some of the answers here are pretty informative! As a side question: is it possible that the prevalence of high-amplitude ambient noise (thanks, industrial revolution) will gradually cause us to select for more robust listening organs? Eyes were a far older evolutionary adaptation than ears/lateral lines. Also, it would require the trait to be so beneficial that the people with it out populate the competition. Seems like it would be advantageous, but it also seems like a more complicated concept, since skin stops light but still carries sound (solids and fluids are better carriers of sound than gasses, anyway, so there's be no way to dampen the vibrations I've seen more replies about an actual response so that is good, but just as more speculation, perhaps in a situation where a loud noise scares you and adrenalin is released, wouldn't it be more beneficial to have better hearing/not exactly protect the ear when fighting or escaping?  Welcome to this thread. You may know me as a Flaired User over at /r/askhistorians in the History of Mathematics. I'm going to write a short history of Pi in different cultures in Ancient Mathematics. I will go into less detail than some of the Mathematicians posts here, who will explain why certain things work, while I'll just mention them briefly (I also don't have room to mention the vast developments done by the Greeks, but everyone will answer those).

**Mesopotamia and Egypt**

Throughout most of early history, people generally used 3 as an approximation for the ratio of the circle's circumference to its diameter. An example of this can be seen, in, of all places, The First Book of Kings in the Bible. Written between the 7th Century and 3rd Century BC (*The Oxford Annotated Bible* says evidence points to around 620BC, but there is some evidence it was constantly edited up until the Persian era). The quote from Kings 7:23 is

&gt;Then he made the molten sea; it was round, ten cubits from brim to brim, and five cubits high. A line of thirty cubits would encircle it completely.

Now I don't want to get into past Theological issues with what the Bible says, and if it matters, but I would like to briefly mention one person, Rabbi Nehemiah, who lived around 150 AD, who wrote a text on geometry, the Mishnat ha-Middot, in which he argued that it was only calculated to the inner brim, and if the width of the brim itself is taken into account, it becomes much closer to the actual value.

In most mathematics the Babylonians also just use = 3, because, as shown on the Babylonian tablets YBC 7302 and Haddad 104, the area of a circle would be calculated by them using 1/12 the square of its circumference (you notice most Babylonian calculations on Circles are solved through calculations on its circumference, this is especially prominent on Haddad 104.). However we don't want to dismiss Mesopotamian calculations of  just yet. A Babylonian example found at 1936 on a Clay Tablet at Susa (located in Modern Iran.) which approximated  to around 3+1/8.

In Egypt we come across similar writings. In problem 50 of the Rhind Papyrus (probably the best examples we have of Egyptian Mathematics) dating from around 1650 BC, it reads Example of a round field of diameter 9. What is the area? Take away 1/9 of the diameter; the remainder is 8. Multiply 8 times 8; it makes 64. Therefore, the area is 64. This is described by the formula A = (d  d/9)^2 which, by comparing leads to a value of  as 256/81= 3.16049...

It does appear many of the early values of it were calculated through empirical measurements, instead of any true calculation to find it, as neither give us any more detail on why they believed it would work.

**China**

In China a book was written, named *The Nine Chapters on Mathematical Art*, between the 10th and 2nd centuries BC by generations of Scholars. In it we get many formula, such as those for areas of rectangles, triangles, and the volume of parallelepipeds and pyramids. We also get some formula for the area of a circle and volume of a Sphere.

In this early Chinese Mathematics, just as in Babylon, the diameters are given as being 1/3 of the circumference, so  is taken to be 3. The scribe who wrote this then gives 4 different ways in which the area can be calculated:

1. The rule is: Half of the circumference and half of the diameter are multiplied together to give
the area.

2. Another rule is: The circumference and the diameter are multiplied together, then the result is
divided by 4.

3. Another rule is: The diameter is multiplied by itself. Multiply the result by 3 and then divide
by 4.

4. Another rule is: The circumference is multiplied by itself. Then divide the result by 12.

The 4th result of course being the same as the Babylonian method, however both the Babylonians and the Chinese do not explain why these rules work.

Chinese Mathematician Liu Hui, in the 3rd Century AD, noticed however that this value for  must be incorrect. He noticed it was incorrect because he realised that thought the area of a circle of radius 1 would be 3, he could also find a regular dodecagon inside the circle with area 3, so the area of a circle must be larger. He proceeded to approximate this area by constructing inscribed polygons with more and more sides. He managed to approximate  to be 3.141024, however two centuries later, using the same method Zu Chongzhi carried out further calculations and got the approximation as 3.1415926.

Liu Hui also showed that even if you take  as 3, the volume of the Sphere given would give an incorrect result.

**India**

The approximation of  to be sqrt(10) was very often used in India

Many important Geometric Ideas were expressed in the Sulbasutras which were appendices to the Vedas, the oldest scriptures of  Hinduism. They are also the only knowledge of Mathematics we have from the Vedic Period. As these aren't necessarily Mathematical pieces, they assert truths but do not give any reason why, though later versions give some examples. The four major Sulbasutras, which are mathematically the most significant, are those composed by Baudhayana, Manava, Apastamba and Katyayana, though we know very little about these people. The texts are dated from around 800 BCE to 200 CE, with the oldest being a sutra attributed to Baudhayana around 800 BCE to 600 BCE. 

This work contains many Mathematical results, such as the Pythagorean Theorem (though there is an idea that this came to India through Mesopotamian work) as well as some geometric properties of various shapes.
 
Later on in the Sulbasutras however we get these two results involving circles:

&gt;If it is desired to transform a square into a circle, a cord of length half the diagonal of the square is
stretched from the center to the east, a part of it lying outside the eastern side of the square. With
one-third of the part lying outside added to the remainder of the half diagonal, the requisite circle
is drawn

and 

&gt;To transform a circle into a square, the diameter is divided into eight parts; one such part, after
being divided into twenty-nine parts, is reduced by twenty-eight of them and further by the sixth
of the part left less the eighth of the sixth part. [The remainder is then the side of the required
square.]

As this is easier to show with pictures, I'll take some from the book A History of Mathematics by Victor J. Katz:

[For the first statement](http://i.imgur.com/IjS35vi.png)

In this construction, **MN** is the radius **r** of the circle you want. If you take the side of the original square to be **s**, you get **r=((2+sqrt2)/6)s** this implies a value of  as being 3.088311755.

In this second statement the writer wants us to take the side of the square to be equal [to](http://i.imgur.com/bsksXEj.png) of the diameter of the circle. This is the equivalent of taking  to be 3.088326491

Later on in India, the Mathematician Aryabhata (476550 AD) worked on the approximation for . He writes 

&gt;"Add four to 100, multiply by eight, and then add 62,000. By this rule the circumference of a circle with a diameter of 20,000 can be approached."

This implies that the ratio of the circumference to the diameter is ((4 + 100)  8 + 62000)/20000 = 62832/20000 = 3.1416. And after Aryabhata was translated into Arabic (c. 820 CE) this approximation was mentioned in Al-Khwarizmi's book on algebra.

**Islam**

Finally we get to the Islamic mathematicians, and I will end here because Al-Khwarizmi's (780-850AD) book on algebra, he sums up many of the different ways ancient cultures have calculated 

&gt;In any circle, the product of its diameter, multiplied by three and one-seventh, will be equal to the
circumference. This is the rule generally followed in practical life, though it is not quite exact. The
geometricians have two other methods. One of them is, that you multiply the diameter by itself,
then by ten, and hereafter take the root of the product; the root will be the circumference. The
other method is used by the astronomers among them. It is this, that you multiply the diameter
by sixty-two thousand eight hundred thirty-two and then divide the product by twenty thousand.
The quotient is the circumference. Both methods come very nearly to the same effect. . . . The
area of any circle will be found by multiplying half of the circumference by half of the diameter,
since, in every polygon of equal sides and angles, . . . the area is found by multiplying half of
the perimeter by half of the diameter of the middle circle that may be drawn through it. If you
multiply the diameter of any circle by itself, and subtract from the product one-seventh and half
of one-seventh of the same, then the remainder is equal to the area of the circle.

The first of the approximations for  given here is the Archimedean one, 3 +1/7 . The approximation of  by
sqrt(10) attributed to geometricians, was used in India as well as early on in Greece.
(As an interesting fact, however, it is less exact than the not quite exact value of 3 + 1/7). The earliest
known occurrence of the third approximation, 3.1416, was also in India, in the work of
Aryabhata as previously stated. This is probably attributed to astronomers because of its use in the Indian astronomical works that were translated into Arabic.

Feel free to ask me any more questions on the History of  What was the first "modern" attempt at calculating the value of pi? Define modern? I'm not sure exactly what that would include? 

I'll just talk about John Machin (1686-1751) though. He was a professor of astronomy at Gresham College, London, and he is well known for developing a quickly converging series for Pi in 1706, with which he used to compute Pi for up to 100 decimal places. The formula is [here](http://upload.wikimedia.org/math/f/1/5/f15dc3d39c473c4bd718e3a98145da0d.png) and it remained the main way to calculate values of Pi for centuries (including in the infamous attempt by William Shanks, who spent many years calculating  to 707 places, which he finally accomplished in 1873, though in 1944 it was shown he was only correct up to 527 places)

Edit: Also the famous Indian Mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan (1887-1920) found several rapidly converging infinite series of , which can compute 8 decimal places of  with each term in the series, in 1910. This has become the basis for the fastest algorithms currently used by Yasumasa Kanada (1,241,100,000,000 decimal places) and the Chudnovsky brothers (4,044,000,000 decimal places) to compute .	

It was the Chudnovsky algorithm, based on Ramanujan's formulas, that calculated 12.1 trillion digits in December 2013, though that record has now been beaten/ Of note, too, is the digit formula, which can produce arbitrary hexadecimal digits more-or-less independently without computing previous digits. How do they confirm that the values are correct if no one else had calculated that many digits of pi before? Depends what you mean by modern, there was either [Isaac Newton]( http://egyptonline.tripod.com/newton.htm) who reached 15 digits of pi, his approximation is used in computers today. See the first computer being to calculate Pi was in 1949, when John von Neumann and chums used [ENIAC]( https://wordery.com/electronic-numerical-integrator-and-computer-eniac-eniac-operating-manual-arthur-w-burks-9781937684679?utm_source=linkshare&amp;utm_campaign=Affiliate&amp;utm_content=10&amp;utm_affiliate=je6NUbpObpQ) to compute 2,037 digits of Pi.

Today the record stands at 13,300,000,000,000 decimalplaces.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_computation_of_ How do they confirm that these new calculations are correct?

edit: I'm new to this sub. Just wanted to thank u guys. U all r awesome.  You can prove that A sequence converges to pi. Then to approximate, you calculate, say, the 15th term of the sequence. There are ways to know at most how much you are off by. So, if you get an approximation of 3.1416... and you calculate your error is at MOST 0.0001, you know then that your approximation is accurate up to 3.141... Cool thanks! Is computational power the only limiting factor these days? Or do we need better approximations? Storage space and processing power together, for the most part. 1 trillion digits = 1 TB. It adds up fast.

For a *long* time, we've had way more pi digits than we'll ever need; it's now just kind of a pissing contest. It only takes 62 digits of pi to calculate the area of the universe down the Plank length accuracy. Interesting. I've never really thought about that. 

And honestly. What's better than a bunch of mathematicians in a pissing contest?  The rest of us get to see some really interesting (if not useful) stuff.  You don't even need to be a mathematician. All you need is a tool (most use y-cruncher) that can calculate pi, a powerful computer, and lots of large hard drives. I've calculated pi to 3 billion places on my laptop; it took about 20 or 30 minutes. A little bit of both!  In the late 90s, early 2000s there was a bit of an arms race for discovering significant digits of pi and groups looking for the prize would use breakthroughs in computer science, processor design, and new algorithms to give them a leg up over their competitors.  Probably the most famous out of this group are the [Chudnovsky brothers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chudnovsky_brothers) who each held the record for the longest sequence of computed digits of pi at different times. They use methods to generate sequences which are proven to converge to pi.  Thanks a lot for this very detailed overview of the Ancients' treatments of pi. I have prepared a short historical write-up. Rather than going through a chronology of the computation (check out /u/TheFacistEye's wiki link or these [two](http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/HistTopics/Pi_chronology.html) [pages](http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/HistTopics/Pi_through_the_ages.html)), I will just loosely follow the thread of the history of pi to discuss some interesting mathematical innovations that were made in the quest to understand pi. (Merely keeping track of increasing numbers of digits is quite far from what mathematicians care about.)

The most obvious method (approximating by polygons) already appears in Archimedes' *Measurement of the circle*, where he gave the lower bound 3.1408 and the upper bound 22/7=3.1428. Thus, although pi did not have its name yet, it could be said that pi day was already 3/14 in the 2nd century BCE. In Measurement, Archimedes uses Eudoxus' method of exhaustion to prove the lovely observation that the area of a circle of radius r and perimeter p is the same as that of a right angled triangle with short sides r and p.

It would take centuries to move past polygonal approximations, when the Indian mathematician Madhava developed his [series approximations](http://www.new.dli.ernet.in/rawdataupload/upload/insa/INSA_1/20005af4_54.pdf) for trigonometric functions in the 14th century. This was 200 years ahead of the Western giants Newton, Leibniz, Taylor, and Euler.

Before Taylor series (and later faster-convergent series) took over as the preferred method of approximation, Franois Viete put a new twist on the polygonal approximation idea, by expressing it as the first infinite product in [his famous formula](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vi%C3%A8te%27s_formula). Wallis would follow suit a few decades later with his own formula.

Pi day could be said to have gotten its name in 1706, when William Jones introduced the Greek letter to denote the constant. The notation became widespread after Euler in his "best-seller" analysis textbook Introductio in analysin infinitorum.

In 1761, Johann Lambert confirmed that all the calculators through the ages had in a sense been approximating in vain, when he showed that pi is irrational. A century later, [Lindemann's 1882 result](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lindemann%E2%80%93Weierstrass_theorem) that pi is transcendental answered once and for all the age-old question of the (im)possibility of squaring the circle. Lindemann's result is not a trivial one, even using modern machinery. We still understand transcendality [quite poorly](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schanuel%27s_conjecture).
 Please help settle a difference of opinion. Of the entire world's population on March 14, 1592, how many of them do you think would have recognized that date as being Pi significant? Very few. If any. How many people would even know much about Pi at the time to care?

The Gregorian Calendar was only introduced in 1582, and it took many years for it to properly catch on (only in 1752 in Britain and the British Empire)

I'm also not sure how they would write dates at the time, as this is going out of my range of knowledge. As remember, even today (including where I live, as I'm English) today is 14-3, not 3-14

(Also it didn't have the symbol Pi then) When did mathematicians begin to realize that Pi never repeats? What was this discovery like for them? was this the first number found to do this or was there an established precedent? Thanks man! Happy Pi Day! There are some people who think that Aryabhata in early AD India proved this because they think he used the word sanna (approaching), to mean that not only is this an approximation but that the value is irrational. I'm not one of those people, if he did think this, it wasn't picked up by any of the Arabic scholars who translated his work, and he didn't provide any proof anyway, so it would be more than likely have been a guess.

It was Johann Heinrich Lambert, a Swiss Mathematician who proved this in 1761. This was not the first number that was like this, and the Greeks had already done a lot of work with irrational numbers and they had continued to be studied since then, so there was an established precedent. e for example had already had it's irrationality proved
 Alas, much of the world never gets to celebrate Pi Day, because today is 14/3 for us.

So how did it come to be that different cultures, even some speaking the same language, write their dates in different orders? And is anyone actually using [ISO 8601](https://xkcd.com/1179/), the only format that puts all the digits in decreasing order? We could celebrate Pi Approximation Day on 22/7! That's when engineers celebrate pi day.  I think engineers celebrate it on 3/1? Physicists celebrate it arbitrarily on the same day they celebrate e, sqrt(10), and 3 Yeah. It's also closer to the actual value of pi. 42/13.37 is even closer. That's amazingly nerdy.

The problem is whoever is nerdy enough to catch both those references (and memorize them) will also know at least 4 digits of pi, so... Upvoted out of pity. No! that abomination of Pi should never be celebrated.  22/7 -   0.00126

 - 3.14  0.00159

And 22/7 is the abomination? I prefer 355/113 it's all about 355/113 China, Japan, North and South Korea, Taiwan, Mongolia, Lithuania, Hungary and Iran use yearmonthday if [Wikipedia is anything to go by](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Date_format_by_country). That's almost a quarter of the world's population. I'm in Canada and I have no idea what order we use. I mostly use process of elimination and hope the date I'm looking at is after the 12th Officially we use YYYY-MM-DD (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Date_and_time_notation_in_Canada) I've always used this because of sorting on files but also because it solves the confusion of whether I meant MM-DD-YYYY or DD-MM-YYYY as soon as you see the year first there's no confusion. So glad to see that it is our official format.  [deleted] teeeensy bit of fraud there, eh? We actually use 3 different variations.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Date_format_by_country#Map That's right. I'm always happy when there is a number greater than 12 in the date. 

I say to myself with heuristic pride... Aha! That must be the day! 

Otherwise I have to take an unnerving guess and hope for the best.  We do the opposite of the states. We're 14/3 today too... We in sweden write it 2015-04-13 but when spoken or written casually we write 14/3 too. Or like; 14/3 -15 Why would you write 14/3 for 2015-04-13? Because it was a typo :) 14/3 -15 would be 2015-03-14! My sincere apologies. We could move a day  around so the 31st of April is on the calender. I'm not sure how irrational that notion is, though.  WAS THAT A PUN?! ...I congratulate you. Following the ISO standard (or at least having the same YYYYMMDD ordering) is critical for sorting dates with a computer program. Unless you're using a [Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_timestamp) counting the seconds since midnight on January 1st, 1970, but that's unreasonable for humans. I'm really not sure I get your point.  No computer should be storing or sorting dates in a string format.   YYYYMMDD is just the display formatting of the underlying date value which has no effect on the sorting process. I'm talking about dates that humans enter into a system. If it's generated by a computer in the first place (unless for a file name or another string that needs to be human readable) then timestamps all the way. If you prefix files with YYYYMMDD then when you sort by name all of your files will be listed in date order. A great example is log files where it is sometimes easier to reference them by name than by created/modified date.  I use it myself and have seen other people use it in file names on a computer. You can always celebrate in September! At 3:14(morning or evening) 15/9 In the evening, it would obviously be 15:14. I think Europe should celebrate pi day on 22 July. 22/7 is pretty close to pi Why only Europe? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Date_format_by_country#Map

Basically it's only the US that uses month before day. I think it's partly due to saying, "March fourteenth, twenty-fifteen" vs. "The fourteenth of March, twenty-fifteen".  Fourth of July. Americans can't even be consistent.  I do!  But I'll have to wait until +31415926535897932384626433832795028841971693993751058209749445923078164-06-28 to celebrate the next pi day, and it's still not a "perfect approximation day" because the following digits aren't a compliant way to write the time :(

^^Edit:  ^^can't ^^believe ^^I ^^forgot ^^the ^^plus! Good morning, /r/AskScience! I'm here to talk a bit about an example of pi, or some similar mathematical concept, in the archaeological record. Jooseman has the Old World cover, so I'm focusing in on one spot in the New World.

The site in question is the [Newark Earthworks](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/29/Newark_Works_Squier_and_Davis_Plate_XXV.jpg) in Ohio, which were constructed around 250 CE. As you can see on the survey image, the complex includes several circular features. The two largest are known as the Observatory Circle (upper left) and the Great Circle (lower center). The diameter of the Observatory Circle is approximately 1050 feet (1054 to be more precise), appears to be a common unit of measure at several other Ohio Hopewell sites. [This image](http://www.earthworksconservancy.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/earthworks-collage.jpg) shows the regularity between five prominent Ohio Hopewell sites, though it does have a typo (saying 1500 instead of 1050).

What makes the Newark Earthworks interesting in the history of pi is the relationship between the sizes of the Observatory Circle, the Great Circle, and the Square (more properly known as the Wright Earthwork). The areas of the Observatory Circle and the Square are the same. Likewise, the Square's perimeter is the same as the Great Circle's circumference. There is a very slight error in the Great Circle's construction that allows us to know that it was constructed in two large arcs. 

The implications here are that the Ohio Hopewell were able to do the geometric calculations to produce squares from circles, circles from squares, and determine the areas and circumference / perimeters of both. We use pi to do these calculations today, but we're not sure whether the Ohio Hopewell used pi, tau, or perhaps some other unknown method to construct this complex. That's fascinating, do you know of anything such as books that talk about this or similar concepts? I've never really looked into much New World math, except the number systems used by the Maya There's the aptly titled [Native American Mathematics](https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&amp;lr=&amp;id=wCHZmExLQ1wC), a decent general introduction, even if it is becoming a bit dated. It doesn't directly address Newark though. Hively and Horn's [Geometry and Astronomy in Prehistoric Ohio](http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-iarticle_query?bibcode=1982JHAS...13....1H&amp;db_key=AST&amp;page_ind=0&amp;plate_select=NO&amp;data_type=GIF&amp;type=SCREEN_GIF&amp;classic=YES) gets the ball rolling on detailed research into Newark back in 1982. More recent papers on the topic by them include [A Statistical Study of Lunar Alignments at the Newark Earthworks](http://www.maneyonline.com/doi/abs/10.1179/mca.2006.013) (2006) and [A New and Extended Case for Lunar (and Solar) Astronomy at the Newark Earthworks](http://www.maneyonline.com/doi/abs/10.1179/mca.2013.002) (2013). [The Scioto Hopewell and their Neighbors](https://books.google.com/books?id=7DNLDlbQXaYC) and [Gathering Hopwell](https://books.google.com/books?id=TU1cq_ErRTwC) are the go-to books on Ohio Hopewell society in general. Here's a bracelet I made a few years back. Pi to about 100 places.

I'd ask people what they thought it was. No one ever guessed Pi.

http://imgur.com/QIV4S9T Wow that looks awesome! Those are beads? What is this technique called? Hey /r/askscience. I'm one of the moderators over at /r/math. Feel free to ask me, or any mathematician that wanders over, any of your purely mathematical questions about pi.


Here's an interesting [place](http://mathforum.org/mathimages/index.php/Buffon%27s_Needle) where pi shows up: dropping needles on to lined paper. How do you prove pi is irrational? Awesome question. It's pretty difficult. There's a wikipedia page for this, but I can also [link](http://projecteuclid.org/download/pdf_1/euclid.bams/1183510788) you to simplified proof. Let me know if that is readible.

 What is the value of calculating pi to more and more digits?  Would knowing 2 million digits serve science/math better than 1 million digits?  Or is there something about developing the techniques to calculate more digits of pi that is the valuable part?  Or do people do it just because they are curious? I don't think calculating so many digits of pi has any use, mathematical or scientific, and certainly there are no mathematicians out there whose career consists of calculating more digits of pi. That being said, people do this for a variety of reasons, ranging from interests in high-performance computing, the novelty of a new algorithm, or simply because they can. Transcending your irrational date-system-based excuse for a celebration of pi, what think you of tau, and its place in mainstream maths? Mechanical engineer here. I have never heard about Tau (except that it's a greek letter of course). Care to explain its meaning/value? Tau is equal to 2. Many argue it is a more simple, sensible and useful circle constant than Pi. 

&gt; The crux of the argument is that pi is a ratio comparing a circles circumference with its diameter, which is not a quantity mathematicians generally care about. In fact, almost every mathematical equation about circles is written in terms of r for radius. Tau is precisely the number that connects a circumference to that quantity.

&gt; But usage of pi extends far beyond the geometry of circles. Critical mathematical applications such as Fourier transforms, Riemann zeta functions, Gaussian distributions, roots of unity, integrating over polar coordinates and pretty much anything involving trigonometry employs pi. And throughout these diverse mathematical areas the constant  is preceded by the number 2 more often than not.

http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/let-s-use-tau-it-s-easier-than-pi/  = 2, or 6.2837... The number  is, according to some, a mathematical mistake. To take the original example from paper [ Is Wrong!](http://www.math.utah.edu/~palais/pi.pdf), it would be as if we defined Euler's number *e* not as 2.7182... but instead as the value 0.3678... or (1/*e*). Yes it's still functional, and we can perform all the same calculations if we constantly invert it. But such a definition is both non-intuitive and not conducive to calculations. Proponents of  make the same argument - it's more intuitive and simplifies many equations which carry around factors of 2. There's an [entire manifesto](http://www.tauday.com/tau-manifesto) written on this subject if you're interested. [deleted] Which is *soundly* rebutted in the tau manifesto. That seems a stretch - surely it'd be more like defining e as 1.355...? Try the [tau manifesto](http://www.tauday.com) If I could rewrite history, I would prefer the constant 6.2837... () over 3.1415... (). I'm not too particular on the symbols which represent the constant -- call 6.2837...  for all I care (rewriting history after all!). I think the arguments for what we now call  are superior to the arguments for what we now call . Yet I'd also prefer it if everyone learned to type on the [Dvorak keyboard](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/2/25/KB_United_States_Dvorak.svg/800px-KB_United_States_Dvorak.svg.png) and have [electrons be denoted as the positive charge](https://xkcd.com/567/).

But I can't rewrite history. Given this unfortunate limitation, I'm not sure if transitioning from  to  is feasible. Yeah, I don't think that the argument is really about the symbols. And changing what either symbol represents is certainly off the table. 

What we learn in the classroom, though, is constantly, necessarily, evolving along with our understanding. 

If we believe that we've found a more efficient method of teaching something, with little cost, then we should adopt it. 

Whole currencies and systems of units for weights and measures have been changed before. 

The debate is whether it's worth it.  &gt; Yeah, I don't think that the argument is really about the symbols. And changing what either symbol represents is certainly off the table. 

I agree redefining  is a fool's errand, and the movement behind  can't afford a debate over the choice of symbol. I just wanted to make clear that the constant which  represents, not the symbol itself, is superior to .

&gt; What we learn in the classroom, though, is constantly, necessarily, evolving along with our understanding. 

Absolutely, but when you say this I think of advances in sciences like quantum physics, general relativity and evolution. I'm not sure the argument lends itself well to semantic choices.

&gt; Whole currencies and systems of units for weights and measures have been changed before. 

[Tell that to the United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_customary_units).

&gt; The debate is whether it's worth it. 

I agree this is probably the largest part of the debate, but it should be noted that some fundamentally dispute that  is the superior circle constant, e.g. [the Pi manifesto](http://thepimanifesto.com/). I don't find these rebuttal arguments convincing, but some do.

Suppose we decide it is worth it. How do we proceed? Rewrite textbooks to include  as well as  for a generation, and then transition to -only? Students are the ones that would benefit most from the transition, yet they seem to be the most difficult demographic to reach. &gt; I agree redefining  is a fool's errand, and the movement behind  can't afford a debate over the choice of symbol. I just wanted to make clear that the constant which  represents, not the symbol itself, is superior to .

I don't think there was confusion here, but point made. 

&gt; Absolutely, but when you say [that what we learn evolves with our understanding] I think of advances in sciences like quantum physics, general relativity and evolution. I'm not sure the argument lends itself well to semantic choices.

I wouldn't have thought there'd be a barrier for any change. Society evolves, too. So our mannerisms are taught differently. Methods change without effecting knowledge. The classroom is not just the gateway to the laboratory. Many students learning this knowledge will not be following an academic path, yet it will be useful to them regardless. 

&gt; Tell that to the United States.

Ha ha. Though seriously, I thought that the metric system was all but mandated over there. Is it not taught in schools?? Regardless, the fact that it's happened almost everywhere else in the world makes my point! :)

&gt; It should be noted that some fundamentally dispute that  is the superior circle constant. 

Good point! Though, I wonder how much of that is resistance to change. 

&gt; Suppose we decide it is worth it. How do we proceed? Rewrite textbooks to include  as well as  for a generation, and then transition to -only? 

Seems reasonable. Many concepts are depreciated in this manner. 

&gt; Students are the ones that would benefit most from the transition, yet they seem to be the most difficult demographic to reach.

Not sure where your coming from. Surely they are the easiest, as we have systems in place to deliver this information to them.. and a captive audience!

They are also probably the only relevant demographic, given that the core motivation for tauists is that it simplifies learning.  Yes, everyone learns how the metric system works, but since nothing is done with it we have no intuition for it. Holes with negative charge both sounds really weird to me but also fitting.  You just put my feelings into words better than I could. Ehhhh it doesn't really make a difference and there's no real reason to change everything to write less symbols in one equation and more in another. I think that the main reason that Tau is advocated for are young students, especially those first learning trigonometry. I remember myself getting confused at all that 1 turn = 2 * *whatever* stuff and the conversion was and occasionally is pain in the ass, too (what is 3/4 of a turn? ok... 3/4 * 2pi = 6/4 pi = 3pi/2).

Tau is really better in that way, the symbol even looks like 'turn' and that is basically what is means.

Of course for academic and scientific purposes it doesn't matter at all, as you're used to either of those by the time you get to that level. I do not like the idea of using tau in math for an odd reason, handwriting. 

Most people now have horrible penmanship. It was not until college physics that my handwriting improved enough that i would not get confused my similar looking symbols.  Is this weird ' ' a '+' sign or a cursive 't', a printed 't' or a greek letter? It became very important in college, that a script 't' ment one thing and a printed 't', indicated that you were in a different domain. 

Pi '' is normally introduced in late middleschool/ early highschool, and is a unique symbol at that level. Using  will just confuse many students.    Umm, am I the only one seeing an alien head inside a box for your symbol? Aside from it's character implementation, what do you think of the concept? It is a good idea, but it is an extra concept that can needlessly confuse students.  The system is set up to use pi. So calculators, trig tables, textbooks, 300 years of teacher's 'inertia' all use pi. Not to mention real world applications of digital signal processing, finite element analysis, control systems, RF and other expensive infrastructure that are all made with pi.  The transition will take two or more generations of students, engineers, mathematicians and physicists to get tau as the mainstream.  Hell, the US can't even change over to metric. 


The current system of pi is not wrong, it just does easily show the true beauty of trig or cyclical relationships.  Those who would appreciate the beauty will go into the STEM fields, or at least understand the change; for everyone else it is just a burden/liability for problems to occur.  Many relationships, and a lot of arithmetic will be easier to do in our heads if we use base 12.  Should the world convert to base dozen? 

Pi is not broke, why change it?   the purpose of tau is *not* for writing fewer symbols; its advantage is in the clarity of information. First of all, it simplifies a large majority of equations, not around half of them as you seem to be implying.

More importantly, even if it were true that it didn't simplify a majority of equations - even if switching from pi to tau made most equations _more complicated_ - it'd still be worth switching simply for the fact that tau is the more fundamental number.

Simplification is a significant benefit of using tau over pi, but even so, it isn't one of the most compelling arguments for switching to tau. Tau is an annoying piece of pop mathematics. It serves no real use other than helping a small set of people understand radian angle measurement, although I would argue thay it would be even more likely tp cause people to have the misconception that it is the unit of radian measurement rather than a number (and I have seen this way more than I'd ever expect with pi). As for tau making formulas cleaner, for every fromula it cleans up it makes another more complicated.  On top of all that, as my dad always says "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." There's no real need for a different ciecle constant because the one we have works perfectly fine.  Which reminds me of how Richard Feynman tells in "Surely you're joking", he invented symbols for sin and cos similar to the root sign (with a "roof" spanning the term in question), because he found it more practical and consequent than having something looking like s * i * n *  in his formulas. The idea is genius, however he noticed nobody else but him understood what he was trying to say, so he discarded the idea.  Good lord I looked up that notation and no it isn't genius. It's quite terrible to be honest since if I saw a sigma or tau lengthened over an argument I would be confused as hell and if I saw a gamma in the same way I would assume it was a long division symbol. Why not just write them as letter (argument) like every other function?  Just because a novel notation is confusing to those who haven't seen it before doesn't mean it wouldn't be useful if it were in common use. Your objection is akin to a first-year student of calculus saying integrals are confusing because he doesn't know what that squiggle on the front means. Not really. I am not having an issue with sigma, tau, and gamma being used to represent sine tangent and cosine, I just think extending them over the argument instead of using parentheses is a bad plan. In fact, if I were designing notation today I wouldn't do square roots with the radical extended over the argument either, because I like the idea of functions being a symbol with a clear argument and this convention being the same for all functions. When we say "f (x)" we don't extend the f over the x so why do that for anything else? Oh I don't know, I'd say as far as tau advocates go, their hearts are in the right place. Mathematicians very much appreciate new notation, which explains why it has changed a ton over the past few centuries to be more efficient and evocative of patterns. 

The main problem with changing is that the use of pi has basically been grandfathered in at this point, and so much of mathematics is based on a particular set of rules and notation that professionals universally agree with (which is an exceedingly rare situation in any field). It's basically too much of a bother to rescale something so fundamental. Good to see my username finally relevant.  Tauday.com I was born on Tau day, so that day being a thing would be nice. I haven't heard of replacing pi by tau until today, but I find it odd as an ECE student. Currently, I see tau as either a placeholder in certain integrations (like convolution) or as the time constant for LTI systems. If tau replaces pi, how can we distinguish it from the time constant?  It's not important. Most of the arguments are just about the form of an equation, but not what the equation *says*. And some things look better with pi, some things look better with tau, so it really doesn't matter. The people who care about it are undergrads who see it as the deepest thing since Euler's Formula.

It's not very deep, important and doesn't matter.  Happy Pi day, all!

Pi in base 10 "goes on forever". Is there a base (let's say... less than base 100 or so) in which Pi becomes a number we can represent as a fraction? In bases involving nth roots of , yes.    
    
In base ,  is represented as 10.    
In base sqrt(),  is represented as 100. I'd never thought about non-integer bases, interestingggg There exist proofs of 's irrationality that make no mention of its base-10 representation, so its irrationality must be independent of base.

For the record, the proofs use facts like sin()=0 to define  and proceed from there. Not if your base is rational. The reason pi has infinitely many(non-repeating) digits is that it is *irrational*, basically meaning that it cannot be expressed as a fraction of two integers. Since the representation in any base is just an fraction (I.E, decimal representation has things as a fraction as a power of 10, 3.14 is 314/1000) you cannot express pi as a terminating number in any rational base. Can someone explain the synergy thingy

e^i= -1
 Heres a great link explaining it: http://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/eulers-formula.html
It comes down to saying e^i is equal to cos  + i sin , which is expressing the complex number in something called its polar form. This is found using Taylor series, which are series that represent functions such as sine or cosine as an infinite sum. When you have cos  + i sin , its just a matter of putting cos  and sin  into your calculator to find that its equal to -1. The fact that this identity is true though is completely astounding. This is Euler's identity. i is the complex constant, sqrt(-1). This value doesn't actually exist, so we use represent it using i, for imaginary.

e^ix can be written as cos(x) + isin(x) because of Euler's formula. (The reason you can do this is because of a special kind of integration. look [here](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/EulerFormula.html) if you want more information why).

When using , the problem becomes e^i . This translates to:
&gt;cos() + isin().

cos() and sin() are trigonometric functions that have to do with points on a circle at given radians. When evaluating the equation above, you get:
&gt;cos() = -1

and 
&gt;sin() = 0

&gt;so isin() = 0 as well

Putting these together,
&gt;e^i = cos() + isin() = -1 + i(0) = -1 + 0 = -1

I hope this helps! changed my calculator from degrees to radians (i live in sweden and we use degrees here) and it made alot more sense, is there any eulers formula for degres? why have i been learning with degrees when now raidans seems to be a lot better Radians are a lot better for math, but less useful for measurement. This relationship doesn't really work in degrees since the derivatives of sime and cosine (and thus their taylor series expansions) aren't the same when using degrees. I'm sure you could force the relationship with a bunch of nasty constants but it wouldn't be pretty.  Radians are taught in Sweden, but not until they are needed. Well, there are a lot of differences, and a lot of reasons why both are used. Radians are units that have to do directly with the circumference of a circle with radius = 1. Degrees are much simpler to learn, because they are just directions, and are only (usually) written as a simple number like 90, or 45. When calculating force on angled objects in physics, for example, cosine is used. Degrees are also used in geometry, but not all the time.

However, in many other situations, you are dealing with changing systems and changing rates, and those changes must be described using actual numbers. These numbers are called radians, and can be found by using the following conversion:
&gt;Radians = (Degrees)*/180


This is a very simplified explanation. [Here](http://www.purplemath.com/modules/radians.htm) is a good page that helps to describe what radians are, and why they are important, and [here](http://www.coolmath.com/precalculus-review-calculus-intro/precalculus-trigonometry/28-the-unit-circle-01) is another page that helps to show what radians look like when alongside corresponding degrees.

If you have any more questions, please let me know! Euler's Formula:  *e*^(ix) = cos(x) + i sin(x). At x=, you get *e*^(ix) = (-1) + 0*i. As 0*i is 0, you get -1.

Any clarification? In 1916, a Norwegian man,  Andreas Dahl Uthaug, (self) published a book called "Norwegian mathematics - the mathematics of the future", where he said pi should be defined to be exactly 3.125. I don't know his argument, but he did ask this rhetorical question: "Is it right to call a system exact, which flourishes with irrational quantities and terms?"

It didn't catch on. Well, one could define pi that way. Everything else would change for the worse if you did, but you could define pi that way.  His objection to irrational numbers seems to be founded in some aesthetic objection, not a mathematical one. Interestingly, there was a [similar attempt made](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indiana_Pi_Bill) by the State of Indiana. 

It also didn't catch on. Meh...best pi day was 3/14/1592
 well, it may sound best, but 3/14/1593 was closer... On that note, won't next year be in fact a closer estimate of pi day? Going to *five sig figs 3/14/16 is closer as the 5 rounds from the proceeding 9

Edit: counting digits  Yes, but there's also the fact that 9:26 will be later tonight, which from there we can count the seconds (53), and then to the smallest fraction of a second to get a close to pi as possible...

If we ignore the fact that the year is 2015 and not 15, we will reach pi time later today, and have already done so earlier today.  I did not in fact take hrs/min/sec etc into consideration, excellent point. I'll concede today is truly the best we get after all  When I finally have enough money to fund development of a time machine, I'm gonna go back to 3/14/1592 and open a bottle of champagne at 6:53. Sorry to burst your bubble but traveling back in time is impossible if I recall, however going forward is still fair game Last year or so, I made a post in /r/math comparing two methods I used to calculate pi. Both are pretty slow, but I wanted to compare them. One is the [Leibniz method](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leibniz_formula_for_%CF%80) which is just 4x(1-1/3+1/5-1/7+1/9...) and the other is [Monte Carlo](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/8/84/Pi_30K.gif) where you randomly choose numbers and see what fraction fall inside a circle.

[The top graph shows the result](http://imgur.com/UKdj9ZI) as they both converge to 3.14.... However if you look at the error (how far from pi it is), [Leibniz kills it](http://imgur.com/cQAjqeZ). The x axis in the second one is seconds.

Literally though these are like the two slowest methods, except maybe Archimedes'. I wrote a code for computing pi by the monte carlo method , got pi = 3.11 . Apparently my LCG wasn't random enough .   Are you sure you ran enough trials? I did the same thing with about 1 million trials and got a result of about 3.1417 Ran a million trials , changed my seed , now i'm getting 3.184 . What random number generator are you using ? I'm using a linear congruential generator as well, which Java uses in its Math.random() method. It may not be the absolute best to use,  but it seems to be working reasonably well.

What language are you using? Did you code your own PRNG?  Python and I did code my own PRNG . These are the parameters I used 

Multiplier : 1664525

Increment : 1013904223 

Modulus : 2^32 


Edit : Checked again with Java's LCG parameters now i'm getting 3.177
 What sort of precision are you using? I have an idea , give me your seed and the radius of the circle you used , I'll compare the results  It also happens to be the birthday of Albert Einstein. How appropriate that he was born on such a mathematical day! Hi!

Like most people, I was taught that pi is the ratio between the diameter of a circle and its perimeter and still think about it this way. However it is obvious that this is just one aspect of that number that has the nasty habit of showing up unexpectedly almost everywhere. It even feels that this ratio is a pretty secondary aspect of its core nature.

Is there a more fundamental way to define pi that makes it a logical deduction that it must be the ratio between a circle's perimeter and diameter?

EDIT: examples of weird apparitions of pi:

- [Coulomb's law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coulomb%27s_law)
- [Buffon's needle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffon%27s_needle)
- [Normal distribution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution) It doesn't really show up in a lot of unexpected places. Pretty much everywhere it shows up is dealing with circles or cycles. However, you can define pi differently. You can define it as a continued fraction, as the ratio of a radius to half a diameter, or in other ways. They're all pretty much equivalent though. The best way to think about pi mathematically is as half of a rotation around a circle, since that's what the angle pi in radians is.  The Buffon's needle scenario has needles with midpoint at a random point then rotated in a circle at that point, so it's easier to see the pi come in

I'm not sure Coulomb's law is so surprising because lots of the physical constants there are fairly arbitrary

The normal distribution I can't relate to circles though, also the sum  of n^(-2) over positive integers n is pi^(2)/6 which I'd be impressed if someone can relate to circles The 1/4 in Coulomb's law comes about because the surface area of a sphere is 4r^(2), so the electric field is effectively q/(_0\*(area charge is distributed over)).

The sum of n^(-2), Euler related to the roots of sin (and thus, to circles) in his weird pseudo-proof, and the modern proof uses Fourier series, which can be related to circles by the fact that they're mathematically equivalent to the method of deferents and epicycles in Ptolemaic astronomy.

For the normal distribution, you prove that the square of its integral is equal to the surface integral of a radially symmetric function in order to integrate it.  The latter can be expected to be proportional to pi, because the function is not dependent on , so when integrating it radially, the integral d just becomes 2 (because there are 2 radians in a circle).  Since the latter is the square of the former, the former is, thus, proportional to sqrt().

QED Nobody has discussed what pie they're going to eat.

I am going to eat Raspberry Pie. What pie flavours are you planning to have? My wife is making an irrational pie: onion and pomegranate. 

 I'd say it has to be apple because of the Isaac Newton tie in.  Apple and blueberry! Happy Pi Day!

To celebrate, I'm making a hobby project I've been working on for some time public. It allows you to search for any digits in the first 5 BILLION digits of Pi, near instantly!

It's at http://pisearch.joshkeegan.co.uk/

So please give it a try by finding where your birthday (or other random string of digits) is in Pi!
Please send me any feedback either here or on GitHub (https://github.com/JoshKeegan). That's really cool. Props man!

Edit: The record for Pi is like 13 trillion+ right? Why the 5b decision? Was it just a nice number or are there restrictions you're working with? Just curious, still awesome! Simply: I chose 5 billion because my computer doesn't have enough ram to handle 6 billion.

Full Explanation: So searching an unlimited number of digits would be easy by simply searching through them all in order, but this would be very computationally costly and also IO bound. 
In order to make it so that results are returned quickly (both in best, worst and average case run time complexity) there needs to be some sort of index that gets searched instead of the raw data.
I won't go into details of how the indexing works, but it requires being able to store n digits in the range 0 - (n-1), where n is the number of digits of Pi being used.
The first limit to overcome is the maximum value that can be stored in a signed 32 bit integer (which is over 2 billion). This is because any modern programming language (that I can think of) uses 32 but signed integers to index arrays (&amp; other collections). Getting around this required by own implementation of an array that was indexed with a 64 bit int.
Once that's solved I was limited by how much storage space my computer has. Hard disk space wasn't a problem, but to generate the index I was using RAM which I have 24GB of. 5 billion digits + the index for them was just under 24GB in size, so that's the number I used!

On the server being used to actually calculate the search results, the index and digits are read directly from the disk, since that computer only has 2GB of RAM. This approach just wouldn't be quick enough for generating the index, but is perfect for hosting it.

Sorry for any errors, I'm on my phone There's a file system based on this. https://github.com/philipl/pifs  
It just uses metadata to save where in pi your file is. That's a cool idea, and the algorithm that's using to find each byte of the file within Pi could be swapped out for this giving massive performance benefits.
However, it is unfortunately doomed as a compression technique due to something called Information Entropy, which means that on average the size of the "compressed" metadata will be greater than or equal to the original data in the first place.
It's really cool that someone took the time to implement that though! Isn't the amount of lookups required to find a set of bytes in a random one so large that even using a pre-calculated set of digits would require an abysmal amount of i/o operations? Compared to what they're currently doing to "compress" a file in Pi, no I don't think so. It would perform more IO operations (since they aren't currently doing any as part of the search process) but by performing those IO operations you can save yourself lots of processing that would otherwise be maxing out the CPU.
Without any technical details, you can see from using my pi search website that a string of any length can be found in quite a large number of digits quite quickly (even with those IO costs), and there could be further potential optimisations that could be made if you only ever searched for a fixed length string (as would be the case when looking for chunks of a file) and you only wanted the first result. In fact, with enough storage space (or choosing a very small chunk size to be found in Pi) you could even go as far as creating a lookup table with every possible result already calculated which would mean you wouldn't need to search at all, just seek to the relevant offset. So without doing any real world tests, i'd be quite confident of getting a decent speedup.

It's also worth bearing in mind that if such a file system was possible, the data actually being stored physically would be small, so it should have freed up lots of IO operations for searching Pi that would have otherwise have been taken up by saving the file. There are an infinite number of ways of writing pi. In base 11, it's 3.1615070286...  In base 12, it's 3.184809493b...  People think there's something special about the digits of pi, but there really isn't. But happy Pi Day everybody!! There are an infinite number of ways of writing pi. In base eleven, it's 3.1615070286... In base twelve, it's 3.184809493b... People think there's something special about the digits of pi, but there really isn't. But happy Pi Day everybody!!

Clearer?
 Hello AskScience!

Is there a way to find out at which nth digit of pi, or any number, there's no further usefulness to know the nth+1 digit?

What is a good enough precision given a problem? Which one is the most common for most deeply computed problems? Yeah, it's called significant digits. If your other measurements are only so accurate, you will gain no accuracy from a higher accuracy approximation of pi. For example, if you're using a ruler that only measures in cm and you want to make a circle with a  diameter of 1 m, you will only need 3 digits of pi since your measurment of the diameter will only be accurate to the nearest .01 meter.  The rules for significant digits are a bit difficult to explain briefly if you want to be clear, but you can google them and find an in-depth explanation. 

Edit- to clarifiy, I am saying that in the above example you can only be accurate to the nearest centimeter if you only measure to the nearest centimeter, and thus there's no need to calculate pi beyond 2 digits in that example. &gt; If your other measurements are only so accurate,

I'm going to be *that guy* and point out that your limits to measurements are your precision. Precision is the smallest unit your measuring device can measure. Maybe your ruler is only marked to the cm while your calipers read to the tenth of a mm. If you measure the diameter of something with the calipers to be 41.7mm and your ruler gives you 4cm, both are accurate but the calipers are more precise.  Damn I always get the two confused.  At 39 digits (38 decimal places), you can estimate the circumference of a sphere the size of the universe to within the width of a hydrogen atom. I believe when you get to 40 or 50 digits, you can calculate circumferences of several light years to within the width of an atom, so there's that. While I understand the excitement over it, I feel like this level of celebration show the bacial skew still alive and well in the world today.  This isn't the "only Pi day of our lives".  Where was everyone celebrating with me on March 11th, 2003 at 7:55:24?  Why does octal pi day deserve no recognition?

Instead of reveling with me, my 6th grade math class just laughed at me, or awkwardly stared out the window until I stopped talking, not willing to even acknowledge that they had a bias.  That's when I realized just how bacist my home town was then, and still is to this day.  I fully acknowledge that it's a primarily decimal town, so other bases seem foreign to it, and unfamiliar things are intimidating, but we really should try to be more understanding of the other bases that exist around us, and work to fight our bacial prejudices.  It's 2015 and time for change. I swear I'm not not bascist, but I've never really octals to be honest. They like to think of themselves as super-smart computer geniuses because they're powers of 2, but say they can't even represent bytes conveniently. Who do they think they are? Happy Pi day! Here are the digits I memorized:
3.14159265358979
3238462643383279
50288419716939937
5105820974944592307816

 I memorized more, but I'm not sure I would get it all right so I just left it out. Sorry for any mistakes, I'm on my phone ;p  Did you repeat them over and over or did you use a method of encoding them into images? I used images for the first 360 digits so far. You memorized 360 digits?!?! Holy crap! Anyways, I repeated them. I also used this Pi app that makes you type in the digits and then makes you start over and gives you the next few numbers once you mess up. It really helped me. I forgot what it's called but I'm sure if you just search up "Pi memorize" or something like that in your app store you can find it. Same! That method is so useful. I did it by repeating when I was little for weeks and got up to 100, but quickly forgot because that method isn't as sustainable. And then I heard about a pi competition that would be on Friday the Wednesday before, found that method, and got to 300 in less than 2 days. It's one of those things that are so good I want to advertise about it. What exactly do you mean by encoding them into images? Is it even beneficial to calculate millions of Pi's decimals? At which point does the difference become negligible? It depends on what you're trying to calculate, for example in some of the programs I took part in that used Pi , we could just use java's value of Pi, which is 3.14159265. Well, you only need something like 40 digits of pi to calculate the circumference of the observable universe to within an atom's width of error, so probably many more than that isn't necessary for 99% of the population.

The purpose of those record-setting attempts to calculate digits of pi isn't really because it offers any new insight to the number though. It's more of a proving ground for the techniques and algorithms used.

The current record is 13.3 billion digits calculated, set last October. Is there a certain aspect or quality of our universe that makes pi what it is? Is pi the same value in any conceivable universe?  Surely it's American Pi Day? Happy Pi Day!

It may be already told but how can we write a simple code (in Matlab, C, etc..) to calculate several digits of Pi correctly? I know that there are Leibniz and Monte Carlo methods, but I wonder if there is anything else that we can implement today until 9:26:53 to celebrate Pi day :) 9:26:53 I believe. I once used a series approximation to write a python script for high school that used arbitrary-precision numbers to compute an arbitrary number of digits. The code itself is quite easy, a bit spaghettied, yet performant. You can find it here if you want to take a look if you want to implement it yourself: http://pastebin.com/cTW3JJFs
Should you want to execute it, make sure you use Python 2.x (the code is at least 4 years old) and install mpmath. What do you think about people who [just geek out](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CGWA_DzvDg) over the first few digits of pi, but don't really care to learn anything beyond that?
Things like Buffon's Needle and proofs of irrationality fascinate me, but no one seems to care. I've occasionally even forgotten the first few digits and said "3.erm something?" in conversation, so I'm probably not in a position to judge.

Honestly I don't mind. Theres this weird thing where people are proud they can't do Math, and look at me really funny when I say I study it, so outreach and fun things like this go a long way to improve the public image. If that means them learning the first few digits of Pi and nothing more, then so be it, the little things help. I don't expect them to get into proofs instantly, even though I find them so much more interesting, but if it encourages peoples love for it then it's good We know that pi and e are transcendental. But it is apparently a much harder problem to show pi^e, pi+e, etc. are transcendental. iirc these arithmetic combinations are open problems.

Is there a general tactic to show a number is not rational? Not algebraic? Are arithmetic combinations harder because the proofs rely on analytic properties? Is it typical of number theory proofs (If that is the right field classification) to involve different and seemingly unrelated branches of math?

rational: can be expressed as a ratio of integers. Integers, fractions, repeating or terminating decimals

algebraic: is the solution of some polynomial with integers coefficients. Like rational numbers but now you can take a bunch of roots

transcendental: not algebraic Hi Reddit. My Mother tells me I was born sometime around 9 a.m. this very day, 24 years ago. She is not very good with numbers so she probably didn't know the rest of the sequence. While it may not have been on purpose, it sure is an honor to share a birthday with such a brilliant mathematical work of digits. 

Happy Pi Day everyone! I'd like to take a poll:

Who here thinks that this year's pi day is supreme due to the year falling on the first five digits (**3.1415**9265...)?

Who here thinks that next year's pi day will be even better since it is the correct rounded value (3.1415**9**265 becomes **3.1416**)?

I am personally of the opinion that both are awesome but that the latter is just a tad more exciting.  What do you guys think?


Edit:  Made digits just bold instead of bold and italicized.
 A nice pi fact: We all know that pi is irrational (transcendental actually), and therefore its decimal representation is infinite and non-repeating.

A nice question to ask is whether any finite integer sequence appears somewhere in this decimal representation, and this problem is still open.

Also, pi makes weird appearances when calculating limits of converging sequences.

Two very notable examples are

&gt; pi/4 = 1 - 3 + 5 - 7 + 9 - 11 + ...

and the solution to the Basel problem

&gt; 1 + 1/2 + 1/4 + ... + 1/n^2 + ... = pi^2 /6 This might be hard to ELI5, but how is infinity factorial sqrt(2 * pi) Pi day is, unsurprisingly, very important to me!

Pi is very useful in acoustics because you find it in sinusoids, often expressed in complex exponential form. While people often think of pi in relation to geometry and circles, it's fun to think about its place in oscillations, which are like temporal circles! Can we start planning for Avogadro day? 6/02/23 is going to be here sooner than we like to think! My understanding from researching science holidays to celebrate with 4.8 million of my closest /r/AskScience friends is that Mole Day is generally celebrated on 10/23, which has another date format issue. We're certainly open to other holidays. Feel free to send us a modmail and we'll look into it!

 Things like this do take a bit of work to plan, so the more notice we have the better.  Can you give us your favorite conspiracy theory that revolves around pi?  I'm eating pie I'm in stats classes now that deal with tests of randomness. I am interested in the randomness of the digits of pi. I tried doing some tests in R, but I was having difficulty separating the digits individually into a vector. Anyway, are the digits random? Does it matter? Would using pi as a RNG be feasible (obviously by starting at different points)? It is generally assumed that pi is a [normal number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_number), meaning any combination of digits occurs with equal frequency, but this has not been proven so we don't know for sure. I don't think the algorithm for calculating pi is efficient enough for most purposes. I've looked at this before, and I think the issue is that computing the nth digit of pi requires O(n) time and space. And of course, it would be a pseudo-random number generator since the sequence could be reconstructed as long as you know the starting point. True RNGs rely on unpredictable physical phenomena.

EDIT: I thought this was /r/math. What I meant (very briefly) by O(n) time and space is that the amount of time and computer memory required to compute the nth digit of pi is proportional to n itself.  Also, it's Albert Einstein's birthday.  Strangely unsurprising. I always though this Stackoverflow question and answer was an amusing anecdote about calculating pi: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14283270/how-to-determine-whether-my-calculation-of-pi-is-accurate My question, why wasn't the constant based on the diameter rather than radius? Theoretically you use d/2 in place of the radius, and you'd get a constant of 3.14159/16 (whatever that is) times diameter squared. Does that constant have a name/symbol? If not, why? Less of a factoid, but it would be amazing if you checked out my group's newest Pi Day video! Happy Pi Day!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9R0ULLkOMbY Were the Chinese the first to discover and early form of pi? Here's a question for you physicists: Today we saw Pi second at 9:26.53. There was also Pi millisecond at 9:26.53.589, and so on...
So was there an instant where the time exactly aligned with Pi? Or does time move in discrete steps? Sorry, I'm British.

Pi day is on 31st of April. With a little cheating in the way you right it (leaving out 2 digits of the year) we will hit 3/14/15 9:26.53 twice today.  God cause I slept through it haha List of cheats:

* Two digit year instead of four digit year. (Nothing was learned from Y2k)

* Non-standard date/time format (ISO 8601 for the win)

* Archaic two twelve-hour days rather than one twenty-four hour day. (09:26.53 only occurs once a day).

* Using half the circle constant instead of the proper 6.28318530718... value. It's my birthday. And Einstein. Go Pi. Next Year we can round *pi* to 4 places, so it would be 3.1416 and then we can party again. Why....did I not realize this? Why is everyone making such a big deal about this year? ISO 8601 defines the international standard for the date and time in such a way that actual "Pi" day would be May 92nd, 3141 CE (YYYYMMDD). Obviously there is no 92nd day in May. This indicates a major difficulty with determining "Pi Day", e.g. the next ISO-compliant Pi Day is June 28th, 31415926535897932384626433832795028841971693993751058209749445923078164 CE (assuming ISO updates for increasing digits of the calendar year for the next quadrillion-quadrillion-quadrillion years).

If you want to use the ISO-compliant Julian calendar, the previous Pi Day was February 14, 3853 BC (around the time the plough was invented), and the next one will be April 14, 3889 CE. So don't hold your breath.

You could determine the date ordinally, and have Pi Day be 314159, or February 28th, 3141 CE, which is closest to us. But if you want to fit the time in ISO format (HHMMSS), then I'll see you at 10 58 AM on March 16, 31415926535897932384626433832795028841971693993.  Happy Pi Day!

Yes, because this day is 3/14 in the arbitrary but commonly used Gregorian calendar, we celebrate it for being the starting digits to the mathematical constant . And this Pi Day is even more special because 3/14/15 is even more precise of an approximation of . Have a slice of cake to celebrate. But first, why do we praise  so much?

Why do we think  is so special? Is it because the digits go on forever? Because that's found in the decimal notation of every number like for instance 1/3 is 0.3333... with threes repeating infinitely in one direction (and also zeroes repeating infinitely in the other).

Then, is it that the pattern of these continuing digits never repeats? Well, that's only because it's an irrational number (meaning it can't be expressed as a fraction of integers) and irrational numbers aren't at all rare, so that shouldn't make it special.

There are infinitely more irrational numbers than rational ones. The amount of typical rational numbers (conventional numbers like -2 and 176 and 1/3) despite being infinite, approach 0% of the amount of numbers on the number line. The vast majority are irrational like  - so it's not so unique. Some that you might have seen around are Euler's number, the Golden Ratio () and even the square root of every positive integer (except perfect squares).

So, is  special because of its humble origins as the simple relationship between a circle's linear dimension and its perimeter? Well, it shouldn't be because not only does this exist for practically every other shape, but it is also not the most sensible ratio between a circle's linear size and circumference. (Some examples in other shapes include the ratio between the side and diagonal of a square which is Pythagoras' Constant 2 [the first number to have been proven irrational] and the diagonal over the side of a pentagon which is again the Golden Ratio  [a far more interesting number than ] )

Let me explain. We set an angle of 1 radian as travelling the same distance as the radius along the edge of a circle. Going all the way around the circumference of this circle measures a number of radians which is another irrational number called Tau (). For the visual learners [click here](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/28/Circle_radians_tau.gif). Tau, , is similar to  in that it compares the circumference of a circle to its linear dimension, but  does it better in every way. ( is the circumference of a circle over its radius, while  is the circumference divided by the diameter.)

You might not see why  is so superior to  yet, so keep celebrating  with some cake. If you ask for a slice of cake that's  over 8, you would think you're getting a nice large slice of an eighth of the cake. But you're not! You only get a sixteenth of the cake. The cake's not a lie,  is and it's so unnecessarily confusing it just made you lose out on half your cake!

The best reason for why  is better, is that 1 circle is 1 . You don't need to multiply by two when you're converting the angle to how far you've gone around the circle nor divide by two when you're converting back -  makes radians confusing when they don't have to be.

Now if I want a half a pizza, it's half . A quarter of a pie is a quarter . And if you ask for an eighth  of cake, you get an eighth of the cake. No conversion needed either way; it's a piece of cake. So yes it makes radians so much clearer for so many of us who became so lost when we were suddenly plunged into the depths of trigonometry.

Beyond the basics,  also improves formulas in more advanced mathematics. Many include "2" which could easily be replace by  . But others actually become clearer when going back to their origins. Take Euler's Identity, e^(i ) = -1 known as the most beautiful equation in mathematics and surely changing it to e^(i /2) = -1 would be muddying the equation's elegance. Instead of course, simply putting  in Euler's original formula leads to the even more dashing e^(i ) = 1.

And lastly the most common formula with  on its own is the area of a circle:  r^2. But here again  being only half a turn makes everything more confusing. A circle is made up of an uncountable amount of very small circles. These rings can be uncurled into a triangle with the height of the triangle being the radius of the circle and the base being its circumference. Again visual learners [click here](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/07/TriangleFromCircle.gif/220px-TriangleFromCircle.gif). 

So, the original area of a circle formula is based on the area of a triangle: base  height / 2. With height replaced by the radius r and the circumference being  r, it makes more sense having the formula be  r^2 / 2. (For those who know calculus, you can also integrate r among all the rings of the circle getting the same  r^2 / 2.)

With , sure in this one case the twos just happen to cancel out. But this obscures our understanding of the equation and leads us to just memorizing it instead of understanding it.

So,  isn't all that special and isn't even the most natural and logical circle constant. Enjoy Pi Day but come June 28th (6/28) celebrate Tau Day as the superior circle constant and eat twice the pie!

-ists are not -ous.

.

Videos far better than this post by Vi Hart, [showing how  isn't special](http://youtu.be/5iUh_CSjaSw) and [showing how  is better than ](http://youtu.be/jG7vhMMXagQ). The [movement of correcting  began with mathematician Bob Palais](http://www.math.utah.edu/~palais/pi.pdf) and Michael Hartl continues the work with [the Tau Manifesto](http://www.tauday.com/tau-manifesto.pdf). Okay, I've got something that's been bothering me about pi day. If pi is infinitely long, and never terminates or repeats, does that mean that there can never be an instant today where the clock time (taken out to infinite digits, or as many possible finite digits) exactly equals pi? Meaning, is exactly pi time somewhere in between 3/14/15 9:26:53 and 9:26:54? The more I think about it the more confused I get. Thanks! It depends on if time is discrete or continuous, which we don't have the answer to. Sure there can, because time can be infinitely subdivided.

3/14/15 9:26:53.589793238462643383279...

Now, your clock won't show that time, but it is a value between :53 and :54. If you exist at those two values, presumably you cover every value in between, and therefore also pi time. Can it? Where did you learn that? How do we know there isn't a universal "framerate"?

Pi is an irrational number. My concept of time is rational... I think We don't *know* that time is continuous but it is assumed to be so in QM &amp; relativity. There has been [research](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronon) into the quantisation of time. So then, so must space be?

If time has no indivisible unit, and time and space are both aspects of spacetime, is it reasonable to assume that space has no indivisible unit of measure, and is therefore infinite? These are things I thought physics hadn't decided on. I am a layman though.. There's a lot of *'physicists believe...'* and *'it is thought that...'* when you start talking about things like this. The short answer is that we don't know. We can't directly probe these scales. 

Quantisation of time and space are both things that have been/are being thought about but our current prevailing theories (which are wildly successful but incomplete) assume continuous time and space.

 Ok, so my original comment was to challenge the assertion that there *is* a time, expressed in our system, that matches the representation of pi expressed as a decimal number. 

The correct answer seems to be that while it is theoretically possible to achieve an accurate representation of the moment in time expressed as a decimal, we cannot be sure that such a moment exists. Meanwhile, pi cannot be represented completely and accurately as a decimal anyway.

So the answer is no. There isn't a date and time which match exactly with 3.149...... Unless you rephrase the question to use some other method of representing both numbers and discover a way to verify the resulting point in time. 

Right? If time is continuous then, just as pi can be represented as a point on the real number line, then so it can be represented as a point in time (as long as you define 0 and a unit, of course). That's the crux of it.

We cannot possess a stopwatch with an infinite number of digits, so we could never measure such a time experimentally. That doesn't stop it existing, though. &gt; Because pi is irrational, the decimal expansion of pi cannot come to an end

So such a time may exist, but pertaining to the original question, it cannot be written as a subdivision of seconds.

I mean, I get that there is a theoretical absolute position on the real number line for pi, but we can't express it using the decimal system.

Edit: To clarify, I get your point that you could, in theory, define some other unit to measure time and represent pi using decimal numbers. I just think it veers apart from the question somewhat.  Pi seconds is a perfectly sane thing to say. It can be 'written' using the Greek letter. You don't need to represent it in decimal for it to exist. Since we are sort of on the subject, is the Planck time the shortest unit of time in which observable events can occur? To me it appears that time can be infinitely subdivided, we can surely just keep inventing more prefixes for "-second" as we get to shorter and shorter durations; yet the Planck time exists. Is it just a baseline where we say "in time periods shorter than this, nothing we know can take place"? Strictly speaking, the Planck time is just the combination of [Planck units](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_units) which together have units of time. Similar combinations exist for other unit systems, such as the atomic unit system.

The fact that Planck units are derived from the fundamental constants makes them elegant and mathematically attractive but exactly 1 Planck time has no known physical significance, it's not the quantum of time as far as we know. 

Many physicists believe that the physics we know breaks down at the Planck scale (times ~ Planck time, lengths ~ Planck length etc.). They just stop making sense when you put numbers like that in.

Sorry for the walls of text, brevity is not my strong suit. That wikipedia article linked above concerning the Chronon explains this. The Planck time is the shortest time possible between events, but it is possible for something to take slightly longer that one, but less than two. It is not an indivisible unit of time. If times continuous then pi would still be a time. It being irrational just means it can't be expressed as a ratio of two integers, it still lies on the real number line.  Ah ok, I had thought that pi could not be accurately and completely expressed as a decimal number.  Ah sorry if I wasn't clear, it can't. But that doesn't mean its not on the real line! The decimal system merely represents numbers, just because it doesn't have a finite decimal expansion doesn't mean its not on the real line :)
edit: typo Got it. It's my comfortable, general understanding of things that's throwing me off. Makes sense now.  Awesome :) Time is a continuous concept, so it can reach irrational values.    
    
Intermediate value theorem: If a function f is continuous on a closed interval [a,b] and if w is any number between f(a) and f(b), then there is at least on number c in [a,b] such that f(c)=w.    
    
Basically, a continuous function takes on every value in between two of it's values. To expand upon what others are saying- time is (as far as we know) continuous so we can divide it infinitely, just like numbers. Think about it- even if we can only measure a circumference as 3.14, we know that if our diameter is exactly 1, the circumference will be exactly pi, regardless of how far we are able to measure it.  Infinite subdivisibility is not a sufficient condition for Cauchy-completeness (basically the existence of irrational numbers).  The rationals are infinitely subdivisible (the average of two rationals is rational and for a=/=b a&lt;(a,b)&lt;b), but definitionally (ish) do not contain irrational numbers. Planck time is the amount of time it takes something traveling at the speed of light to travel one Planck length, which is about 5.39 * 10^-44 (.0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000539106) seconds.

If time weren't continuous, then the accuracy of the closest specific Planck time on Pi day would be:

March 14, (20)15, 9:26:53.589793238462643383279502884197169399375106 Date and time are arbitrary. Everywhere else in the world, the date is either 2015-03-14 or 14/03/2015. The fact that in the US it's Pi day is totally arbitrary and only occurs because you use the wrong date format (wrong in every sense of the word. The most "right" date format (in fact the only right one, really) is 2015-03-14) I'm curious, what makes one date format more right than another one? I dislike the way he phrased his point, but I'd tend to agree that day month year has more apparent benefit than month day year.  Year month day is the most sensible from a cataloguing/sorting point of view, which our modern society trends to make much use of. 

There's also the aspect of adoption. The percentage of the human race using the American system is much smaller than those using, what I think is, a more sensible system. 

This is not apparent within reddit's heavily biased bubble.  I tend to prefer the non-U.S. way of doing it--d/m/y--because it makes much more sense in orders of magnitude.

However, the argument itself calls that into question--since we do time in the opposite order--such as 08:07:13. The order is from greater to lesser (hour:minute:second). As it is with most mathematical expressions. Which suggests the most rational expression would be y/m/d--e.g. 2015/03/14 08:07:13. I think it has to do with placing emphasis on the most relevant piece of information. In day to day life, we're more likely to question the day than the year. It's perfectly reasonably that, for example when signing a form, you ask someone what day it is. You're probably having a very bad time if you cannot think what year it is on the spot. Which is why we say the day first, and continue to express the date in decreasing degrees of relevance.

The time, however, is changing more quickly, so that it's reasonable to be unaware what hour it is, and unlikely that you need to know what second it is. We use hour/minute/second in order because they in order of magnitude. Year/month/day is also in order of magnitude, but m/d/y or d/m/y seem to be arbitrary by comparison. i appreciate the way you explained this. it suddenly makes a lot more sense. Thank you. The only right one, which is in a date system that was made by european Christians. You forgot that even our choice of year 1 is fairly arbitrary considering how other calendars use the supposed beginning of the world (Jewish) or the year Muhammad went to Medina (Muslim).  http://www.cnet.com/news/the-count-counting-pi-to-10000-places-will-drive-you-batty/ How does pi day work? Chris Hadfield's book *An Astronaut's Guide to Life on Earth* talks about the medical isolation Astronauts undergo before heading to space.

[This article](http://www.space.com/6628-routine-quarantine-helps-astronauts-avoid-illness-launch.html) states that 10 days before launch, they're screened for illness and cleared for quarantine if good. Quarantine lasts a week to allow latent symptoms to surface. 

So it's still possible to get sick, but NASA and the Russian Space Agency try to minimize this risk. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'll be going to a talk featuring Chris Hadfield! I'm genuinely hoping to pick up his book and get it signed, it sounds so fascinating. Head colds actually significantly impacted Apollo 7, the first manned Apollo launch.  All three astronauts developed head colds during the course of the 11-day mission.  They became snappish and irritable, and refused a number of orders from the ground.  The blame for this "mutiny in space" is mostly placed on mission commander Wally Schirra.  One of the original Mercury 7, he was NASA's most senior astronaut and the only person to fly in all three manned rocket programs: Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo.  When he began refusing to cooperate, his two crewmates followed his lead.  Experiments outside the scope of testing the new capsule were scrapped, one of those "live from space" TV interviews was refused, and the entire mission took on an air of stubborn negativity.  Everything came to a peak before re-entry: the astronauts were supposed to put their helmets on, in case of depressurization.  But the astronauts, with head colds and fearing burst eardrums, wanted to be able to pinch their noses to equalize their sinus pressure as they landed.  They ended up disobeying a direct order to put their helmets on, and Schirra basically told the flight director to go to hell.

None of the three astronauts flew again: Schirra retired, while the two younger astronauts kept their jobs but were permanently grounded.  Schirra actually used the experience to star in commercials for a cold remedy.

For later missions, I'm unaware if illness has ever significantly affected performance.  However, there have been recorded infections: at least 29 according to [this article from 2012](http://science.time.com/2012/10/22/dont-sneeze-in-space-when-astronauts-get-sick/).  These can potentially be serious, as zero gravity is a terrible place to get sick.  For reasons we don't really understand, the immune system is significantly weakened in zero-g, while pathogens are strengthened.  And the aerosol cloud from a sneeze doesn't drift to the ground like it does on Earth - it just flies outward, to land on and stick to all the instrument panels and such.  Infection control in space is serious business. Followup question: am I right that, if nobody had a cold when they went up, and there wasn't residue from some previous sneeze for them to pick up, they couldn't catch a cold once in space?  If nobody had one, there'd be nobody to catch it from, right? Pathogens can't come from no where, so if no one going to space had any pathogens on them, and the equipment didn't either they could not become sick from infection, while in space.

That said this will never happen, because that level of sterilization would almost defiantly kill the astronauts, if we assume it is possible.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Can you please elaborate on how extreme sterilisation can kill the aatronauts? You can't just clean the outside of a body and expect to kill all microorganisms.  The human body hosts many thousands of species of bacteria and microorganisms many of which are beneficial and help us with things like digestion. In order to completely sterilize a person you would need to eliminate so many diverse forms of organic matter that it would be hard to not destroy the human body in the process.   I would like to reiterate that he said THOUSANDS of SPECIES. You have TRILLIONS of bacteria inside of you right now, constantly in competition with eachother. Every animal with a gut has them. Many of them are "bad" bacteria but are acting in a good way. You are also ingesting "bad" bacteria every single time you eat, breath, ANYTHING. You just are not ingesting enough of the bacteria to get sick.

Furthermore- what is a "bad" bacteria for some may be a "good" bacteria for others. There are so many possible variations and combinations of natural gut flora (what us scientists call that bacteria in the gut) that scientists just don't know enough to prove they cause/don't cause/are related to anything. 

For example- H. Pylori is present in more than 40% of the population's urethra. If it gets in your stomach, it will most likely cause ulcers. However, just having live H. Pylori in your stomach will not cause ulcers. BUT 99.9% of ulcer cases have this specific bacteria in their stomach.  &gt; You have TRILLIONS of bacteria

Trillions of variations of simply the grand total? If less than trillions how many different types?  About 10^13 human cells in your body.
  

About 10^14 non-human cells in your body.
  

We all are just hotels for microbes. Huh. Out of curiosity, how do we make that distinction between human and non-human cells? It seems like if there are an order of magnitude more "non-human" cells than human, shouldn't we consider those to be human after all? Every human cell has the DNA of you. Every non-human cell has DNA not of you. It's an easy technical distinction, but doesn't really answer the more philosophical question posed. Also, human cells make up about 98% of our mass.. Bacteria cells are very tiny.  Biology as a subject likes to laugh in the face of clean distinctions and easy categorization.  

That being said, human cells are eukaryotic; the microbes are prokaryotic.   They are also much, much smaller per cell.  [Here's a video of a human white blood cell hunting down a staph bacteria.](https://youtu.be/JnlULOjUhSQ) 

My understanding is that human cells are much larger than bacteria. By number you are more bacteria than human but by volume you are more human than bacteria.

Also I think these bacteria are mostly isolated to the digestive tract. I'd imagine they just go off of DNA? Trillions grand total. Not trillions of different types. The average GI tract contains something along the lines of 2-6 pounds of bacteria (for a 200 pound adult).

Edit: My microbio teacher was a liar.
Source: http://www.nih.gov/news/health/jun2012/nhgri-13.htm Not all bacteria are capable of being pathological, even with a diminished immune system. Intestinal bacteria will not suddenly take up residence in the lungs or throat, because they've adapted to thrive in an environment with food to ferment. The same applies to skin flora (who've adapted to break down various oils/other secretions on the skin and in turn offer some sort of protection such as making the skin less hospitable to other bacteria). Most symbiotic bacteria are not capable of being pathological, and the few that are only do so in an extremely diminished or absent immune system. If you have intestinal bacteria in your lungs (assuming you've not aspirated vomit), you're probably already dead or almost there, because that implies that the bacteria have been allowed to erode their way through the intestinal wall into the bloodstream. At this point you'd probably already have sepsis.

[What the astronauts experience is a mild partial immune system impairment](http://www.nasa.gov/content/study-reveals-immune-system-is-dazed-and-confused-during-spaceflight/). The cells affected once impaired allow asymptomatic infections to spring back to life; however the immune system is still capable of mounting a response. You can think of it as an early-warning system being disabled. So when they're suffering this immune dysregulation, a latent virus may temporarily bounce back to life, but is rapidly suppressed before it can manifest it's own symptoms. The symptoms the astronauts experience are actually more of an allergic reaction; an excessive response from the immune system causes some swelling, nasal congestion, throat irritation, etc.

**TL;DR: Naturally symbiotic bacteria are not involved in the "infections" the astronauts experience.** Most are not capable of actually infecting the host systemically due to having evolved to their very specific locations, and the few that are can only do so under situations of extreme immune system impairment, which is not the case here. Even if you could sterilize human body without harming human cells, you'd be declaring a feast for anything that can get there first, depriving said human from most of their barrier defenses and starting a chain of (auto)immune disorders. If not something more. And defiantly at that? &gt;Microbes inhabit just about every part of the human body, living on the skin, in the gut, and up the nose. Sometimes they cause sickness, but most of the time, microorganisms live in harmony with their human hosts, providing vital functions essential for human survival.

&gt;The human body contains trillions of microorganisms  outnumbering human cells by 10 to 1. 


http://www.nih.gov/news/health/jun2012/nhgri-13.htm
 I want to know how someone can be killed defiantly by sterilization.

Does the sterilization just become really stubborn and refuse to comply during the killing process?  Sorry if this was repeated somewhere else. In Colonel Chris Hadfield's book he also talks about a period of time where all the astronauts are kept in quarantine before they launch. I forget the exact time period, but it's something like 1 or 2 weeks. It's possible to be exposed to a cold that could be incubating for several days, but doesn't manifest until after you've launched. Putting the astronauts in quarantine is a way to minimize possible contamination pre-launch. [deleted] Honest question: Can't environmental conditions and body "malfunctions" (if that's even a thing) cause some sort of illness without any pathogens?

Maybe if the air was colder and drier than expected inside the spacecraft, for example? Wouldn't that affect the body negatively?
 There is far less shielding for radiation. So there's always a chance of DNA damage, which might lead to cancer. Likely not fully developed before you return, but certainly one risk of going into space. Then there's the weakening of the bones caused by lack of gravity, which even the stringent exercise routines on board the ISS can't fully prevent. And finally the redistribution of fluids in your body due to lack of gravity can cause several problems, once again both during the flight and after. It's just not a terribly healthy profession. &gt;  Can't environmental conditions and body "malfunctions" (if that's even a thing) cause some sort of illness without any pathogens?

Certainly. An astronaut could break their arm, or suffer a heart attack, or any number of other things, without any pathogens at all. 

To minimize the risk of those things happening, astronauts have to be fit and pass a physical exam before the mission, and they are trained in how to move safely in the free-fall environment.
 It's certainly possible that environmental conditions could affect the crew adversely.  They wouldn't cause a cold in the traditional sense because environmental conditions don't create viruses but it's certainly possible that something could trigger, for example, an allergic reaction. Thought I should point out that environmental conditions can cause latent infections to become active. For example, most of the population has a latent infection of a herpesvirus (not genital herpes) resident in some of the nerves in your face. Stress, as being in space might cause, plays a role in determining when these infections become active, generally causing cold sores. Yes the cold can favor the appearance of Rhinitis (stuffy nose). All you really need is cold air and some sort of irritating particle to rub against the membranes made overly sensitive by the cold. The body is pretty resilient to most fluctuations. Given adequate hydration and clothing, a cold and somewhat arid environment would not cause much of an impact. Also keep in mind it's certainly feasible to maintain humidity/temperatures aboard a spacecraft, which is why astronauts on space stations can take their suits off.

The only fluctuation that it does not handle so well is changes in gravity; it tends to negatively affect cell division which is crucial to maintaining the immune system. Children would be more at risk to the effects of gravity given that their entire body is undergoing far more cell division than an adults, though this would be more of a concern for an extended stay (months to a year) rather than just a few days to a week.

Although it's not known exactly why significant changes in gravity disrupt cell division, it's possibly due to the fact that gravity significantly effects the inner-cell mechanics and abnormal amounts of gravitational force could perhaps disrupt certain signalling processes that lead to cell division. Also some bacteria colonise our respiratory tract. These are a common source of infection even on Earth. Diseases can also lay dormant and not come out until a critical mass is reached or the immune system becomes highly stressed. Space flight may actually be really great at reactivating latent viruses.  This [Cytokine](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23107825) article from 2013 (published by scientists with the Immunology Laboratory for the Johnson Space Center) discusses elevation of plasma cytokines in relation to shedding of herpes viruses in astronauts. Shingles is a good example.  If you've had chicken pox, the virus can remain dormant for decades inside you after you've recovered, but if you have an outbreak of shingles (caused by the chicken pox virus) you become infectious again and anyone who hasn't had chicken pox around you can potentially catch it from you. One can carry a virus with them and not immediately show signs of infection. I think the spirit of OP's question is this: "For extended missions, let's say a group of astronauts go up and have no cold for the first month. Do they ever develop a cold after that first month even though they haven't docked with any other vessels since they went up?"

The current answers imply that no, this shouldn't happen. The only way to get a cold is to bring one with you, and if you brought one with you then you would be sick within the first week (I say this because I assume the incubation time for all common infections is a week or less).  One thing to remember is that astronauts--especially those who were part of Mercury and Apollo programs--have an immense incentive to not report illnesses to medical. They don't want to miss what might be their only chance to go to space just because of a cold. I thought they were sequestered for nearly a week before launch to give time for such things to manifest and subside?  The only exception I can think of is if someone were to become immune-compromised during the flight they might develop infection from something they carried but used to be safely resistant to. You're correct in that assumption. I meant if an astronaut was on a 6-month mission on ISS, what's the likelihood he'll be fine until Month 5. This of course means no one new has come aboard since he arrived. People can also be carriers of infections they are immune to, the classic well known example being [Typhoid Mary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoid_Mary). She refused to listen to legal orders to cease being a cook. Infected 51 people, killed 3. A very "evil" person, she even changed her name to avoid being caught.  I don't think she was evil. She was a relatively uneducated, poor, single woman, living in a time and place that have uneducated single women few options for work. She was arrested and quarantined against her will by a system that she might reasonably have felt cared little for her well being, and then was released with no support. What was she to do? Wasn't it also not understood at the time that it was possible to carry a disease while being immune to it?

So when they told her "You have typhoid", she was like "but I feel fine, you are lying!" [deleted] &gt; Upon her release, Mallon was given a job as a laundress, which paid less than cooking. She soon changed her name to "Mary Brown", and returned to her old occupation. For the next five years, she worked in a number of kitchens; wherever she worked, there were outbreaks of typhoid. However, she changed jobs frequently, and Soper was unable to find her.

Uhhhh, no, she had other career opportunities, and was perfectly aware that she was killing people. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Changing her name to "Typhoid Mary" wasn't that bright though. Bit of a give away if you ask me. Yes.  Astronauts have weakened immune systems in zero g which can lead to opportunitistic pathogens already present to kick into high gear.   This is the correct answer. 

Not all respiratory illness is viral. If your immune system stuffs up (like, you're stressed and in space)  the bacteria that colonise your skin and nose could take the opportunity to colonise deeper in your sinuses and become a serious infection.

One of the reasons that for major surgery you are generally screened for what bugs are already up your nose. Those bugs up your nose are generally kept in check fine, but surgery is a major stress and that combined with the possibility of getting some of those bacteria into a semi open wound can lead to a real bad time.  This is why they quarantine astronauts before a mission now. I think they started with about 3 weeks quarantine for later Apollo missions. Shuttle and space station missions had/have a 10 day quarantine typically. This way, they get through the incubation period (where you are contagious or infected but don't show symptoms) of many common illnesses. You are, technically, but as others have pointed out, you could carry it onboard in big number of ways.  But assuming you're healthy, and for the purposes of discussion, sterile, i.e. don't have any infections diseases on your clothing, in your system, or on your body, and the space ship is sterrile as well, you are correct.

Now, with that said, there are infections you can get from normal bacteria from somebody else who has poor hygiene (read poop on their hands), but you're question was about a cold. &gt;CAPCOM Number 1 (Deke Slayton): Okay. I think you ought to clearly understand there is absolutely no experience at all with landing without the helmet on.

&gt;SCHIRRA: And there no experience with the helmet either on that one.

&gt;CAPCOM: That one we've got a lot of experience with, yes.

&gt;SCHIRRA: If we had an open visor, I might go along with that.

&gt;CAPCOM: Okay. I guess you better be prepared to discuss in some detail when we land why we haven't got them on. I think you're too late now to do much about it.

&gt;SCHIRRA: That's affirmative. I don't think anybody down there has worn the helmets as much as we have.

&gt;CAPCOM: Yes.

&gt;SCHIRRA: We tried them on this morning.

&gt;CAPCOM: Understand that. The only thing we're concerned about is the landing. We couldn't care less about the reentry. But it's your neck, and I hope you don't break it.

&gt;SCHIRRA: Thanks, babe.

&gt;CAPCOM: Over and out.[14]

Good lord.  Is this a real transcript? Its hilarious and I want to read more surly astronauts. I yanked it off of the Wiki page on Apollo 7. 

Them were some surly astronauts. 

The best part is the ground crew starts being surly right back.  Modern spacesuits (at least the EMUs, and I believe the David Clarks) have a silicone "valsalva device" that basically plugs your nose so you can equalizse your eardrums.

Basically a silicone thing that will plug your nostrils if you tilt your head down.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valsalva_device According to [this article](http://news.discovery.com/history/first-contraband-corned-beef-sandwich-in-space-50-years-ago-150324.htm), Schirra instigated the smuggling of a sandwich onto one of the Gemini missions.  Ah yes, the infamous corned beef sandwich incident.  I hadn't known that Schirra was involved in that; I had always thought it was just John Young being John Young.  Thanks for the link.

Yeah, NASA did not take that one well.  Gemini 3 was already in hot water.  Commander Gus Grissom, infamous since his Mercury capsule had sunk after splashdown, named the craft *Molly Brown* ("the unsinkable").  When NASA ordered him to rename it, he rechristened it *Titanic*.  NASA was furious, but they allowed *Molly Brown* to stand.  Then the corned beef sandwich happened, and they were *pissed*.  They transferred Grissom to Apollo, which wouldn't have a manned mission for years, and nearly fired Young.  

 It's interesting how much childishness and "office politics" affected NASA's manned space missions. I'd always imagined astronauts as perfectly professional at all times. Or more like, being an astronaut always seemed like the kind of job where so many people wanted to do it that they'd have no trouble firing problem astronauts. A lot of NASA's fuckups indicate some pretty deep malfunctioning in the organization that doesn't seem to go away.  Some of the things I've read are rather concerning, to say the least, and that is a very euphemistic way to put it.

In terms of firing problem astronauts, though, they want people who are in very specific physical parameters (e.g. being too tall can disqualify you), and they also want people who are extremely physically fit, extremely intelligent, and in near-perfect health.  Since most of us seem to have one problem or another even if we don't realize it, this is an extremely difficult combination to come by.  Add in the extensive schooling and/or military experience most of these people had (most are Ph.D.s in terms of payload specialists and most pilots and commanders were test pilots and fighter pilots), and the amount of time, energy and money one has to go through in terms of training to be an astronaut, and factor in how many people who fit in all of these criteria and are motivated and willing to go through all the training, and the pool starts getting a lot smaller than you'd think. I would expect that it's not so much finding people who would want to do it as finding people who could actually do it. For example, A-Rod's a dick and I'm sure there are millions of people who would want to play 3B for the Yankees. He's still going to play 3B this year.  Imagine the worst bureaucracy you've ever had to deal with.

Now imagine it suddenly got 10x worse.

Chances are good that, unless you've dealt with NASA in the past, the bureaucracy you are imagining is not as hard to deal with as NASA. Any flak Grissom gave NASA was well deserved.  They should have had his back. Look how that ended up for him :(

Really pisses me off how NASA and North American's pissing contest basically got Grissom, White, and Chaffee killed. What happened to them? Sorry. Not super familiar with space history.  To expand on the other reply, they were experimenting with high pressure and the capsule caught on fire. They didn't get out. They were "experimenting" with 100 percent pure oxygen, and they'd been using it since the first space flights.

Hell, the Soviets lost a guy in an isolation chamber in 1961 (6 years before the fire) because he was in a **50 percent** oxygen environment; [Valentin Bondarenko](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valentin_Bondarenko) threw a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol on it onto a hot plate by accident and the whole chamber went up. The only parts of his body that was spared from horrific burns were the soles of his feet.

But of course the USSR never talked about that so we weren't able to learn from their tragedy and had to have our own tragedy instead. They died in the Apollo 1 mission. Basically, due to the damned cold war, we were in such a hurry to get to the moon that we let too many corners be cut in the initial Apollo command module, and three good men paid with their lives. Oh is that the one that caught on fire?  Yes. Some frayed wiring under Grissom's seat sparked and in a 100 percent pure oxygen environment that's going to start a firestorm.

Not to mention the inward opening hatch that took them 90 seconds to open under ideal conditions. The pressure caused by the fire made it impossible for them to get the hatch open, and they were dead in 15 seconds after the fire ruptured the capsule's hull due to the pressure.

[Good explanation of it here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0W9bQ2Jg3A) The actor speaking in the beginning is Grissom. It's really strange to imagine how the concept of a pure oxygen design even came to be, in an orgnization filled with intelligent and knowledgeable people. Sure, there was no hindsight specific to a pure oxygen module. But the dangerosity of pure oxygen was already well known. Nevermind the wiring, any kind of static charge could trigger a blazing inferno. Don't forget that "damned cold war" got us to the moon in the first place :-)
 Thanks for the posts. You seem to have a wealth of information regarding space flights!  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] So, if Grissom didn't pull these antics would he not have been on the doomed Apollo 1 mission? Well it wasn't like they set him up to die in that fire; IIRC they wanted their most experienced guy to be on the first Apollo flight, and had everything gone well he would have been the first man on the Moon. Wasn't the capsule in a testing phase when they had died? I'm pretty sure they weren't airborne when the fire occurred. Correct, but they were doing a "plugs out" test to simulate transferring power to the capsule during the last few seconds of the countdown, but the whole test was a shit show and should have been cancelled at like 3 p.m., well before the fire started at 6:31.

EDIT: Okay nobody asked but I will expand on this.

The plugs out test, as I said before, was a fairly routine simulation to see if the capsule could operate on internal power once all the external umbilicals and connections were yanked (hence plugs out). The astronauts (Gus Grissom, Ed White, Roger Chaffee) got into the capsule at around 1:00 p.m. to start the test, but as soon as they hooked into the air system, Gus said the air in his suit smelled like sour buttermilk so they stopped the test 20 minutes in to try to figure out what was wrong.

About an hour and a half later, they hadn't found the cause of the smell but they decided to go ahead with the test and put the hatch on. It was a three piece monstrosity that opened internally and was quite cumbersome to get on and off; in simulated emergency escapes, they couldn't get the thing off before 90 seconds had elapsed. With the capsule sealed off, they fully pressurize the cabin to 100 percent pure oxygen at 16.7 psi.

So they're in the capsule, simulating a countdown, but stuff is still going wrong; the astronauts are moving around in their seats too much, which is setting off high oxygen flow alarms for their spacesuits. More delays. Grissom's microphone was stuck open, so the astronauts had a hell of a time communicating with Mission Control and vice versa; Grissom told the CAPCOM (Deke Slayton IIRC) "How are we going to get to the Moon if we can't talk between three buildings?" They stopped the countdown again at 5:40 p.m. to try to fix the mic problem.

They get going again by 6:20 and had everything up to the power transfer done, but at 6:30 there's another hold in the countdown. At 6:30:54, there's a voltage transient. Ten seconds later, Chaffee notices the fire and calls it in. Grissom pushes down White's headrest so he can start opening the hatch. By this time, the pressure in the cabin is 29 psi, which pretty much prevents any inward opening hatch from opening. 15 seconds after Chaffee calls in the fire, the hull ruptures and shoots flames out of the capsule. By this time, the three astronauts are dead. 

The white room (the room immediately surrounding the capsule) is devastated and filled with smoke and noxious gases and all manner of unpleasant stuff. It took rescue workers 5 minutes to get all the hatches open and another 90 minutes to get the astronauts' bodies out. If it's any consolation, they died of asphyxiation and not from burns.

There's recordings on YouTube of the radio communications when the fire broke out. I listened to it once and it still haunts me. The weird coincidences in life...I'm reading Mike Collins autobiography and today I just read about this incident and the naming of Molly Brown for the first time. And then I came on here and read this. The magic.  Do you know when they started quarantining astronauts before space flight? I wonder if that would have prevented this situation.  Half-hearted attempts at quarantine started during Gemini I believe, but they weren't really enforced.  After the Apollo 7 incident, management tried to crack down, but still the astronauts didn't take it seriously.  Gene Cernan got a speeding ticket the night before he launched on Apollo 10.

They didn't start really cracking down until after Apollo 13.  Command Module Pilot Ken Mattingly had to be replaced at the last minute because another astronaut was exposed to Rubella.  Backup pilot Jack Swigert performed admirably, but the possibility of disease had still broken up a team that had trained together for months.  Added to that, Apollo 14 commander Al Shepard had already been grounded for *years* by disease, so he wanted absolutely no chance of some infection keeping him off the moon. Al Shepard had Meniere's disease, which is an inner ear problem that causes vertigo.  Not contagious though. They never implied it was contagious. They are saying he hadn't been able to work for years and then didn't want to ruin his chance because someone got sick. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; Meniere's disease

I have had this for 11 years, but I had no idea what it was until i just googled that. you just solved an 11 year mystery, scrote.  As dramatized in the film, NASA grounded Ken Mattingly for Apollo 13 because he was exposed to measles via Charlie Duke from the backup crew. In flight, Fred Haise developed a serious UTI due to insufficient water intake and was suffering pretty badly when they returned. awesome info. thanks! And Fred Haise came down with a nasty urinary tract infection on Apollo 13 due to not drinking enough water.
 I always thought gravity helped keep a lot of dirt and crap out of the air.  Dirty air would really bother me and gross me out.  We take for granted the fact that our sneeze discharge naturally falls to the ground.
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I would imagine zero g would also impact your ability to clear excess mucus from your respiratory tract. I can't imagine the lymphatic system functions at full capacity in zero-g. &gt;  Everything came to a peak before re-entry: the astronauts were supposed to put their helmets on, in case of depressurization. But the astronauts, with head colds and fearing burst eardrums, wanted to be able to pinch their noses to equalize their sinus pressure as they landed.

Wonder if (from a safety point of view) they were more right than the guy giving the orders. A burst eardrum will heal nicely.

A loss of pressurization not so much. It's hard to say, but by the time of Apollo 11, NASA notes "The crew will make re-entry without suits or helmets on. Although this was a controversial decision on the first Apollo flight, Apollo 7, when the crew wore suits but no helmets contrary to MCC's advice, by now it is regarded as routine."   To be fair, if the cabin had depressurize it probably would have ruptured their eardrums anyway. Among other things. [deleted] Are pathogens actually strengthened? I find that hard to believe. Yes.  Discovered due to experiments on the Space Shuttle and ISS:

http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2007/09/070924-space-bacteria.html This sounds more like a Michael Crichton book then a real fact. Very interesting. The "mutiny in space" reminds me of Skylab.  Ground control demanded so much out of the astronauts that they refused to do anymore experiments until they were given more downtime aboard the space station.  A few days went by and the astronauts did absolutely nothing.  It also reminds me of archer. &gt; For later missions, I'm unaware if illness has ever significantly affected performance. 

I'm not entirely sure it was illness or not, but Frank Borman had issues with nausea and "intestinal distress" on Apollo 8.  I've heard a couple accounts for the crew and they're a bit vague on whether it was simply motion sickness or a viral stomach illness though.   [deleted] &gt;  For reasons we don't really understand, the immune system is significantly weakened in zero-g, while pathogens are strengthened.

Can you provide any sources? This is a topic of personal interest to me and I would like to read more. Are transcripts of that mission available?  http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/history/mission_trans/AS07_TEC.PDF

It's an 11-day mission, so you're in for some reading.  Ctrl-f should work though. Thank you much!  It's a pity the younger Astronauts careers were cut short by a lousy cold.  They weren't grounded because they got colds, they were grounded because they refused to cooperate after getting them Still, when you have a commander telling you one thing, and NASA on the ground telling you something else... that's being put in between a rock and a hard place. Which is probably why they kept their jobs yet never flew again.  That way, NASA kept them on to keep them happy without having to worry about trust issues with them in space again. Would you follow your boss' instructions if your boss's boss told you directly to do it differently?  This wasn't a case of not knowing the higher order. If in a space craft?  I would be hard pressed to go against what the commander said to do, considering he/she is there, and the other person is thousands of miles away, and I can lose contact with them through a button being pushed.

 Especially when you and your boss are worried about your eardrums rupturing if you follow your boss' boss' orders. [deleted] Tagging on, I understand that astronauts are in peak health and are unlikely to experience something like a heart attack, but is there protocol/equipment to deal with serious medical problems while traveling in space? They can deal with small issues like broken bones, infections etc. They have a board to fixate people on, I think it was shown in a walkthrough by Andre Kuipers. Surgery is not really possible, think of what would happen when you cut someone open when there's no gravity... Could be a good horror movie scene, blood would be spraying everywhere. 
Research is being done on fully submerged surgery, where the cut is being made in a closed box filled with liquid. The liquid is continuously refreshed, so the surgeon can still see properly. I wonder if there are any surgeries or other procedures that might actually *benefit* from weightlessness? Do your organs/blood start floating around or something? That's interesting. I'm sure someone has thought about this before?  Well,most of what comes to mind would be negative, but one bonus is that when you're in space, your body needs less plasma volume as a side-effect of not having to combat gravity to maintain blood pressure, so for transfusions, plasma would be much less of a necessity.  Blood volume in space is about 1/5 lower than on earth.

The other side of the above is that, if you have a weak heart, you're much less likely to have heart problems while you remain in space, because the heart has to significantly less work while you're there. [deleted] Maybe back and spine related surgeries, no force of gravity on the spine to compress the discs in your back. Can you imagine future operating rooms in space for these procedures?? This sounds fairly problematic on the journey to Mars? Isn't it going to be about 8-9 months optimistically (if we send humans)? People (mostly Russians) have been in space longer than that and not needed surgery or any other advanced medical care.  I imagine the risk of going to Mars is higher than being in a space station though.  [NASA is currently preparing for a year-long mission to the ISS.](http://www.nasa.gov/content/one-year-crew/) If you really *needed* surgery on the ISS, they would probably put you on the rescue Soyuz and drop you home (at the cost of millions of dollars, of course). This would be someone more impossible once you're beyond Earth orbit. The tough thing is, the Soyuz operates with a crew of three, so if Terry Virts needed surgery today, the station would have to be abandoned completely in order to get him back safely. That isn't just the cost of the capsule, that's the cost of the capsule PLUS all of the current experiments on the station PLUS the cost of a rushed launch of Cmdr Kelly and his crew. Astronauts and cosmonauts are more valuable than all of that, but they'd have to be damned sure they couldn't handle the problem in orbit. 12 months optimistically just to fly there and back, but they would also have to stay on Mars or in orbit around it for a year while they wait for the planets to line up again.  You made me think of another question. Does blood clot normally in zero gravity?
 Yes. The coagulation cascade isn't influenced by that.

Nevertheless, if you cut an arteria, clotting isn't helping you anymore, neither on earth nor in space. Then it's time to have medically skilled people very near.

Despite the benefit in space, that the little flying blood balls would definitely look fabulous. Link on the research? Aqueous Immersion Surgical System: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/during-medical-emergencies-on-deep-space-flights-fluid-filled-domes-could-stanch-bleeding/

Andr Kuipers covering the medical facilities of ISS: https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=QF2w2Dx_QMs#t=889 (14:50) Could they not use a small sucking tool, to suck the globules of blood out of the air as they exit the wound?

 We use suction on earth so it would be used in space. James Irwin had a heart issue that came up during apollo 15, and what the head doctor said was this :

"In truth, he's in an ICU. He's getting one hundred percent oxygen, he's being continuously monitored, and best of all, he's in zerog. Whatever strain his heart is under, well, we can't do better than zerog."

So I guess that you're already in more or less the best possible conditions in case something pops up. No idea how it would go for actual surgery type things needed. What happened when he came down?! Surely, that would be hard on the heart. Apparently, the issue went away during the flight back - keep in mind that it would take them days to get back to earth and the heart issues appeared during a pretty stressful moment of the mission, so he had time to recover, especially since he was in optimal conditions. He did, however, have a heart attack a few months after the mission, and he also went on to search for Noah's Ark in Turkey (no kidding). Depends on what kind of heart trouble it is. Assuming he was generally in very good condition as astronauts tend to be, it may well have been a passing phenomenon, a minor clot or something, as opposed to weakness or damage to the heart itself, so once that's passed, he'd be fine to re-enter. As of 2014, most of the blood draws that take place in during space flight are for research purposes rather than immediate diagnostics and get sent back to Earth for analysis.  Laboratory equipment, while constantly advancing, is still pretty large or requires reagents/produces waste in quantities that are not conducive to the space environment.  

Per NASA's medical requirements, all astronauts have a pre-flight complete blood cell count with white cell differential, clinical chemistry analysis, C-reactive protein, thyroid-stimulating hormone, bone markers, iron studies, and a routine urinalysis.  This same profile is repeated as soon as the astronauts return from flight and any deviation from the pre-flight baseline is addressed and treated.

However, clinical diagnostics in space are making improvements, with NASA recently evaluating and selecting a miniaturized analyzer for use on the ISS to provide one of the most basic and essential labs, a white blood cell count.  This will be the first WBC analyzer to ever be used on a space vehicle.  Equipment that is currently onboard the ISS includes blood collection supplies, a fixed-angle centrifuge, a portable ultrasound, and the Abbott i-STAT, a handheld device that uses separate cartridges to measures a variety of constituents, primarily pertaining to clinical chemistry.

edit: And for what it's worth since you mentioned heart attacks, the i-STAT offers a cassette that measures cardiac troponin-I, the new gold standard in acute myocardial infarction.  Depending on if the ISS stocks that cassette, it could definitely be utilized.  Just a fun aside.  :) [deleted] For the ISS, in the worst case scenario they can get an astronaut in need back on the ground and in a hospital very rapidly, because the station has enough spacecraft docked to it at all times for an emergency evacuation.

The big down side is that there are usually *exactly* enough seats for all the astronauts, so the craft used to evacuate the sick/injured person would have to be filled with other crew as well.  Depending on the staffing level of the station, this could mean fully evacuating it and suspending station operations for a long time. Do you know if it is standard protocol to never leave an astronaut aboard the ISS with no evacuation vehicle? Let's say there are three people up there and the standard one Soyuz escape vehicle. One of the astronauts becomes extremely ill to the point where they have to be sent back to Earth immediately. I assume at least one of them would have to go in order to assist in the return, but would they all have to go simply to not leave someone stranded there with no means of evacuation?

On the other hand, I am not entirely sure these are situations that NASA sets a protocol for. Obviously situations like this are highly variable and maybe these are decisions that would be made in the moment.

Oh, and a somewhat related question: are there ever more people aboard the ISS than there are seats on the evacuation vehicle? Right, yes, it's procedure in that case that they would all have to leave.  There always has to be enough seats to evacuate the station. For sure - this is a big concern with space travel (especially as the possibility of travel with non-specialists gets closer). Your immune system may operate differently in space, though exactly how is not well-understood. On top of obvious things like radiation, things like zero-gravity may affect your body in complicated ways.

There are a few research efforts starting to look into these kinds of things, e.g. I think [this woman](http://www2.lbl.gov/lsd/People_&amp;_Organization/Scientific_Staff_Directory/Pluth_Lab.html) is beginning some work on animal models of the effects of space travel on the immune system. There are other people who are trying to figure out how you can manufacture antibiotics while in space, since carrying lots of supplies can be quite heavy and you obviously don't want to run out of medicine / food / fuel / etc. [This guy](http://vcresearch.berkeley.edu/faculty/adam-arkin) is doing some cool research along these lines.

I haven't studied any of this myself, but I'm a graduate student at Berkeley and an editor for the [Berkeley Science Review](http://www.berkeleysciencereview.com), and we've been working on a piece on space travel / space health that'll probably be out in the next month or so. I haven't read the other comments to see if it's already been mentioned but we (NASA) are actually doing an experiment over the next year on two twins, one in space orbiting earth, and one on earth in order to see the effects of prolonged exposure to the tundra of space on the human body. We are hoping to get a better idea of what might happen to the brave men and women that travel to Mars in the not so distant future. As far as cold/flu, I doubt it.  As others have mentioned, the astronauts have a pre-launch quarantine period.  Back in the days of the spice trade, when ships were out at sea for months at a time, they observed that if a sickness were to happen, it would be in the first week or two.  If there crew remained healthy during this period, they would remain cold/flu free for the duration of the voyage.   When they were at sea, they were effectively quarantined.  Same thing with the ISS.  If they don't get sick within a short period of a crew rotation, they're going to remain healthy throughout the extended mission.

Note: this doesn't take into account things like nutritional deficiencies, like scurvy, or reduced immune response due to microgravity. One of the Apollo 13 guys had a serious urinary tract infection. There return was timely for his survival from what I understand. Just another variable to pile onto the list of reasons they probably shouldn't have survived.  Fred Haise. His infection may have been caused, or made worse, by his reduced water intake as he was trying to avoid needing to urinate since they had to "bag" the urine instead of dumping it, to avoid affecting their course. And IIRC this was just miscommunication between Houston and Apollo. They were only supposed to halt urine dumps temporarily. I've read an article - http://www.nsbri.org/DISCOVERIES-FOR-SPACE-and-EARTH/The-Body-in-Space/ - that talks about the changes in body fluid that occur in space. The same gravitational forces aren't at work, obviously, and so fluid collects in the face and head and creates a temporary puffiness. You also get slightly taller in space due to an expansion of the spine, and maintaining a proper sleeping schedule becomes difficult so I can only imagine this makes it more likely that someone would get sick up there. Is it job demands making getting enough sleep a challenge or something physiological?  Although I think most things are sterilised pre-launch, human beings are still walking bags of germs and living in close quarters for long periods only makes the chances of transmission of illnesses even higher.
Research suggests that long periods in space not only has a negative effect of our bodies ability to function normally in general, but has also shown that it can make some bugs even stronger, the effect of gravity somehow limiting their strength.
Long term effects of missions include reduced bone density from zero-g and cancer from higher levels of radiation.     You could probably counter it to a great degree by keeping the crew in quarantine together for a while before the flight to ensure they get any diseases they're going to give one another and develop immunity to them before the actual flight. Very true. Although I doubt they develop any kind of meaningful immunity over a short space of time. Keeping people in quarantine for too long can also have a negative effect on the immune system or even increase the chances of one of them passing something onto another crew member. You'd have to keep them all separate and being completely alone does not favours for a persons mental well-being, especially before they strap you into a pod on top of a missile and hope for the best. [deleted] Not a chance, the biological world consists of a lot more than just humans, influenza in this case infects a wide variety of animals, hence the "swine" or "bird" flu you hear about. Also a lot of diseases can have incubation times or even be dormant for decades like in the case of TB. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You mean isolate all humans from mosquitoes? Same principle. Also this may be a fun site for you to explore if you're interested in parasitic lifecycles and vector biology: http://www.cdc.gov/dpdx/az.html

EDIT: did I interpret this way too literally? :) I think what trolloc1 was asking was if every organism was separate from each other, from mosquitoes to elephants, would that eliminate the cold virus? Well, going that far isn't really possible, even in a hypothetical sense. Mosquitos for example need hosts. Wouldn't many species die separated? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Same reason we have them in the Oregon mountains, but only during August (give or take a few weeks). When it warms up and the snow melts, there is water everywhere. The eggs then hatch, the larvae grow up in the ponds and stagnant water that forms from the snow melt, then the mature mosquitoes fly around, mate like crazy, lay more eggs and then die. The following year, the cycle repeats.  Scandinavia is notorious for mozzies in the summertime. Same principle.  Canada here. From the middle of May to the middle of September I am basically just one giant mosquito bite. Lemme guess... Manitoba? You guys are lucky. Mosquito bites all over my legs from yesterday. Texas here Without mosquitoes, huge numbers of small fish near the bottom of the food chain would starve.  Can't afford to do without those mosquitoes. Some scientists disagree https://cogito.cty.jhu.edu/43255/up-for-debate-should-we-eradicate-all-mosquitoes-from-the-world/ There already have been massive mosquito eradication programmes in most of the developed world, it's why there isn't any malaria in the US or Europe any more. Malaria used be a big problem in those areas but it isn't any more, because they killed all the mosquitos. The mosquito population bounces back, obviously, you just have to break the cycle.

Most scientists believe the harm caused by mosquito borne diseases far, far outweighs the  potential ecological damage from eradicating the things. I've survived two mosquito borne diseases in the last few years, the most recent one earlier this month, and Christ it was the sickest I've ever felt in my life. And I didn't even have a particularly bad one, it was only dengue. Kill the fuckers. To further this and clarify, the flus don't infect the animals, so to speak, there is typically no disease or illness. They treat the host species as a vector, mutate for one or several generations, and then we catch this new, evolved version.

"Zoonotic vectors" are what we're talking about. Are humans vector for any animal diseases? I can't think of any specific animal diseases which *require* humans as a vector. However, humans are entirely possible of serving as vectors for diseases such as Foot-and-Mouth Disease. Humans who work with animals could also serves as de-facto vectors for pathogens such as *Staphylococcus aureus* (MRSA). 

When you actually look at pathogens, particularly bacterial ones, you realise that they are often far less fussy about hosts than you'd expect. Within this context any animal which contacts other animals could serve as a vector for these diseases.

(by the same logic milking machines are one of the most significant vectors for MRSA transmission within dairy cattle) Getting into semantics but don't confuse vectors with fomites and vehicles. Can you elaborate on the difference between the three? I thought they were the same Vectors: living organisms that transmit infectious agents typically one species to another.

Vehicles: contaminated food, water, fomites (objects), and aerosols 
So fomites are any object that isnt edible or drinkable?
 Be careful because the terminology can get tricky and you get to a point where you can be arguing semantics.  When he says Vectors are living organisms and fomites are "objects," this can be confusing.  A vector, in biological terms, is actually a fairly broad word, but generally means a delivery mechanism or vehicle of some sorts to "transfer" something.  The key word is "transfer."  For example, DNA can act as a "vector" to carry genetic material somewhere.  A Virus can act as a "vector" to carry RNA/DNA somewhere.  Thus, we call em "viral vectors," but again, a virus is not actually "alive," depending on who you ask lol.

A fomite is basically a delivery object, and more broadly, a "vehicle."  In other words, it is generally something like a dirty bed sheet, a stethoscope in the hospital, and so on. Yes, a fomite is not typically "alive," but that is not 100% accurate as we can say dirty hair and shedded skin cells(which I suppose are technically dead) can act as a "fomite."  But ya, typically when I think of a fomite I think of a dirty doorknob, the toilet seat, maybe a remote control or cell phone people spit on all day as they talk. &gt;Thus, we call em "viral vectors," but again, a virus is not actually "alive," depending on who you ask lol.

To me, this is still so fascinating. Maybe I just don't understand enough, but it still surprises me that we can't define 'alive' well enough to come to a consensus about what is going on with viruses. The fact that they literally look like little nano-machines designed by advanced aliens just adds to my mystification. Grain of salt.
Vector. Can replicate in host and don't cause illness. The bats in Contagion
Vehicle. Pathogen fan live on host. The pigs in contagion?
Fomite. Same thing as with vehicle Cept it's not "alive" Bed sheets, hair, stuff like that.  While we're complaining about terminology:  also don't confuse a vector with a reservoir.  Just a slight correction:

&gt;Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)

MRSA is a *methicillin-resistant* staphylococcus aureus. The Desert Tortoise has an interesting history.  It's numbers have been declining in recent decades so the powers that be chose to put them on the "threatened" list.  At that point, it became illegal for people to keep them as pets (they do very well in captivity), so people did what they thought they were supposed to do... They took their pet tortoises out into the boonies and let them go.

...And the law of unintended consequences hit like Mike Tyson in his prime.

Turned out that humans carry an illness (sorry, I never caught what it was) that becomes chronic in tortoises.  As long as they're well fed and such (as a captive tortoise tends to be), their systems are strong enough to resist it and all is well.  But when times are hard and their system weakens (like during the summer in the open desert), they develop pneumonia and die.

So... All those people releasing their pets turned out to be catastrophic for the tortoise population.  The newly released tortoises ran around the desert spreading the disease (OK, crawled around...) and the next summer the population crashed.  It hit them HARD.

These days they tell people that if they have a captive tortoise, under no circumstances are they to release said tortoise back into the wild as said tortoise is most likely doomed and will take others with it.
 Any source for this? Not doubting, I just think it's interesting and would like to read more. It's just something I have to get trained on every year.  Where I work there are a lot of desert tortoises so we have to get annual "be nice to turtles" training.  Thus, every year I have to see the population graph and listen to the lecture from our staff biologist, but it's not something I've researched on my own.

edit:  Here's what [wiki had to say about it....](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desert_tortoise)

Upper respiratory tract disease (URTD) is a chronic, infectious disease responsible for population declines across the entire range of the desert tortoise. It was identified in the early 1970s in captive desert tortoise populations, and later identified in the wild population.[24] URTD is caused by the infectious agents Mycoplasma agassizii and Mycoplasma testudineum, which are bacteria in the class Mollicutes and characterized by having no cell wall and a small genome.[27][28][29] Mycoplasma appears to be highly virulent (infectious) in some populations, while it is chronic, or even dormant in others.[30] The mechanism (whether environmental or genetic) that is responsible for this diversity is not understood. Infection is characterized by both physiological and behavioral changes: nasal and ocular discharge, palpebral edema (swelling of the upper and/or lower palpebra, or eyelid, the fleshy portion that is in contact with the tortoises eye globe) and conjunctivitis, weight loss, changes in color and elasticity of the integument, and lethargic or erratic behavior.[24][31][32][33] These pathogens are likely transmitted by contact with an infected individual. Epidemiological studies of wild desert tortoises in the western Mojave Desert from 1992 to 1995 shows a 37% increase in M. agassizii.[29] Tests were conducted on blood samples, and a positive test was determined by the presence of antibodies in the blood, defined as being seropositive.

[stuff deleted]

The second study indicated that captive tortoises can be a source of disease to wild Agassiz's desert tortoise populations. 

[more stuff delted]
 Short answer: No.

Long answer: Anthroponotic disease is what you're asking about but we aren't specifically a vector for anything chiefly because we are fairly new on the scene. We are a common reservoir for a lot of diseases, Leishmaniasis is a good example. Lots of interesting little side stories though like how we may have first developed TB and initially gave it to cattle and thus evolved the varying forms.... Not so much a vector but humans can spread bovine foot and mouth disease very easily. Does "anthroponotic" refer specifically only to humans?  Or does it extend, say, to all hominids? Pigs express a strong immune response and get runny noses and cough from the flu....

[Swine Influenza H1N1 Virus Induces Acute Inflammatory Immune Responses in Pig Lungs: a Potential Animal Model for Human H1N1 Influenza Virus](http://jvi.asm.org/content/84/21/11210.full) Also birds can get very sick from influenza. For example, there were multiple outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in chickens in the United States such as in Virginia in 2003ish and in Delaware a little later. These strains did not infect humans but did have the potential to mutate to ones that did and were (somewhat) quickly stamped out.  &gt;the flus don't infect the animals

An asymptomatic infection is still an infection. And those infections are productive enough for the virus to spread to other animals. If there were no infection, then no virus would be produced and we would not have a problem. Also many of these animals, such as pigs do indeed show symptoms as /u/PHealthy points out. Others like seals do not, but they are still infected and producing virus. ([source](http://www.sciencemag.org/content/288/5468/1051))

&gt; They treat the host species as a vector

You're confusing vector and reservoir. A vector is an organism that serves to spread a pathogen from one species (often the reservoir species) to another species, often an arthropod like a tick or mosquito. In some vector borne diseases like malaria, the vector is an essential part of the parasites life cycle -the plasmodium parasite matures in the mosquito. This is different from a zoonotic disease which is caused by a pathogen that can jump species -originally from a reservoir species to another. You seem to be equating these two classifications when they're in fact different. Certain animals are the reservoir for influenza A (aquatic birds, chickens, wild birds, etc.), but they are not vectors.  They crap out the virus or cough it out and we in turn catch it.  Short answer: vector-borne diseases are zoonotic, but not all zoonoses are vector-borne. 

So we're talking about reservoirs, among other things. One reason OP's proposal would not work is because influenza A resides in a reservoir species. No matter how perfectly isolated and cleared of infection the human population would be via the hypothetical quarantine, the virus is replicating away in the reservoirs waiting for us to emerge and get back to business.  Thank you!  Your post should be at the top.  Can you clarify one thing for me tough: If humans were isolated long enough that any active flu infections were resolved, couldn't we still see an elimination of the human-adapted flu stains?  Meaning that while flu would still exist in the guts of waterfowl, it would have to go through a successful host shift, which might give us at least a few years of flu-free humanity? (Followed by the emergence of a likely more-virulent-than-we're-used-to strain?) This is nonsense. Influenza does indeed infect a large number of species, and cause symptoms in many of them (although this has no bearing on whether we say they were infected or not - all that takes is for the virus to get in and replicate, which it most certainly does).

Technically speaking, flu is primarily an avian disease, it just occasionally spills over into humans (and a few strains linger as seasonal human infections).  The "flus" do infect animals. Influenza began in birds, and currently circulates in wild avians, domestic poultry, swine, and humans. There are also strains that circulate in horses and more recently dogs. Birds and swine are much more than vectors, they are reservoir hosts to strains which may also infect people. More importantly, since swine are often susceptible to both human and avian strains, the risk of antigenic shift occurring is higher. Antigenic shift is where a single individual pig is infected with multiple strains of influenza, and genome segments are shared among these different strains. This makes an opportunity for a more contagious and/or pathogenic variant to be generated. Furthermore, influenza does cause disease in these other animal species, contrary to what has been said. For example, HPAI (high pathogenicity avian influenza) is currently a huge issue affecting the poultry industry, killing thousands of birds when outbreaks occur. Thankfully, there aren't yet any HPAI strains which can infect humans. I'd be happy to give a more mechanical explanation to how influenza virus works. Slight correction, the more virulent strains of the flu do often cause the host to become sick and often die. [Per the CDC](http://www.cdc.gov/flu/avianflu/avian-in-birds.htm)

&gt;Avian influenza A viruses are classified into the following two categories: low pathogenic avian influenza (LPAI) A viruses, and highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) A viruses. The categories refer to molecular characteristics of a virus and the virus ability to cause disease and mortality in chickens in a laboratory setting[2.5 MB, 64 pages]. Infection of poultry with LPAI viruses may cause no disease or mild illness (such as ruffled feathers and a drop in egg production) and may not be detected. Infection of poultry with HPAI viruses can cause severe disease with high mortality. Both HPAI and LPAI viruses can spread rapidly through poultry flocks. However, some ducks can be infected without any signs of illness.

So, you're not wrong that they can be asymptomatic hosts, but they can also be severely affected depending on the specifics for a strain. Is their any kind of transferable human illness that *would* be ended?  One illness is already down for the count, smallpox. It only transmitted human to human, no piggybacking or skipping, and so it was possible to eradicate it. It took them 10-20 years of aggressively hunting it down, going to any outbreak in even the most remote and inaccessible areas of the world, to inoculate anyone in and near the location and stop it from spreading.  polio is another that's only in humans, and we've almost killed it all. Actually it's making something of a comeback in unsettled areas, and from there spread even further. In places where the government has just about collapsed there is a lack of systematic vaccination of children, and people going around vaccinating against it have been accused of poisoning people or of being secret spies. Some of them have even been murdered. Because of such resistance they are not able to eradicate it, and the trend is going the wrong way.   &gt;or of being secret spies

Which is reasonable, as some of them WERE secret spies. It was under the cover of a fake vaccination programme in Pakistan that the US conclusively identified where Osama Bin Laden was, by the fake vaccine workers obtaining DNA from his family. 

http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/jul/11/cia-fake-vaccinations-osama-bin-ladens-dna Well, it's more of an explanation. Murder is rarely reasonable. Pakistan has had an ongoing program to try and get rid of polio since 1994, and still haven't succeeded. Corruption, lack of rigor, and inhospitable conditions conspired against it. To the population it seems like a never ending project. Meanwhile India has more of less succeeded in getting rid of polio. They are also plagued by low education, and have imams running around calling the illness a curse, and the best protection is a warding amulet they happen to make.  So conspiracists started to come out of the woodwork, claiming it was a western scheme to sterilize muslims. It outdated Dr Shakil Afridi by quite a bit. The organised Taliban assassinations of polio vaccinators however started one year after that. Since 2012 there has been around around 89 polio related killings. The amount of of people who died from contracting polio in 2014 was 15-30 people. The law of unintended consequences is a vicious little sod.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Pertussis (whooping cough). It has no animal reservoir and the contagious phase is only a couple weeks [deleted] [deleted] While we cannot truly prove it, scientists are confident that HIV crossed into humans from chimpanzees. It has crossed more than once, and not only from chimpanzees, but the main epidemic is likely caused by a transmission from chimps, probably from someone preparing or eating chimpanzee meat.  Yeah I was actually thinking of Ebola, I don't know why my mind mixed that up with HIV.  But Ebola comes from fruit bats... so that wouldn't be eradicated either. I don't believe ebola coming from bats has been confirmed. Wiki says it's suspected but not confirmed, and I don't believe they've ever found a host animal carrying the virus near the area where it originated. Though I have not looked into this in a while so if you have more up to date info I'd love to read it.  The last i heard was that the recent outbreak came from consumption of bush meat.  Suspected but I've seen nothing that proved it [This article](http://news.sciencemag.org/africa/2014/12/bat-filled-tree-may-have-been-ground-zero-ebola-epidemic) isn't exactly breaking news but it confirms suspicions... While it admits that the evidence doesn't constitute "a smoking gun", the body of research on ebolaviruses over the last 40 years repeatedly points to bats as the culprit.  But Ebola has virulence too high for it to survive in human populations. It would burn out if we were its only home, so it seems safe to infer that there is some animal reservoir, whether our not it's fruit bats. Ebola can also infect simian populations and create zoonoses to humans if they consume infected meat or come into fluid contact. What if every animal also decided to stay at home? Would we wipe out anything? Or is this true for every single sickness Guinea worm has no animal reservoir.  We're on the brink of wiping it out as it is. This was a touch of depressing news while I was killing the damn thing in South Sudan.

http://www.ajtmh.org/content/90/1/61
 Does this conflict what /u/abbaworm said about it having no animal reservoir? I'm sure it makes funders feel a bit uncertain about the future but dogs are a lot easier to "cure" than people. So what did guinea worms do before humans showed up? Have they only existed for 200,000 years? A particular parasite that is species specific likely evolved with that species.  What did a guinea worm nom on before humans?  Likely they were chomping on proto-humans.  Either we are not different enough from our ancestors (in a way that effects them) for them to have changed enough to be considered a different species, or they have changed enough to be considered a different species and they evolved to keep chomping on us.  

In all likelihood, humans and our ancestors have been have been with that particular parasite or its ancestors for a very long time, especially if they are so species specific that humans are all they go for. Species-specific parasites are fantastic! There were a few bird species (including the Hamerkop iirc) whose taxonomic placement was unclear because their evolution had taken them in surprising directions compared to their relatives, where for a while (before DNA sequencing) the best guesses we had were based partly on their feather lice. (E.g looking at the birds themselves, Hamerkops looked about equally close to herons and to ibises; but their feather lice were much closer to herons' feather lice, suggesting a more recent common ancestor with herons.) I don't know.  The disease has existed throughout recorded history, though.  It might have afflicted humans' ancestors as well, and then evolved its way into a corner, too well-adapted to humans drinking unfiltered water. If, though, you had a pathogen that affected humans only, you would have a chance. However, even most of these would lay dormant (asymptomatic) in those who had it, waiting to infect the next person that they came in contact with. Not to mention, some viruses (like colds and chicken pox) can lie dormant within various parts in your body- waiting until the chance when your immune system knocks down.

Think Arkum Asylum inmates and their sporadic rampages through the city. Ironically you'd probably start an epidemic due to the isolation.

There are well known conditions of isolation where humans don't get sick due to lack of exposure.  For example when sailors are isolated at sea for months their immune system is so weak from not having to fight off anything they immediately became ill when in contact with people in cities again.  Likewise long term isolation in SkyLab, Mir, and ISS produced similar results.

So in theory if we could isolate everyone from everything for an extended period of time, and then suddenly let everyone mix again with the natural environment (animals, viruses, etc.) most people would become sick almost immediately. &gt;Also a lot of diseases can have incubation times or even be dormant for decades like in the case of TB.

Not influenza. The [xkcd-book](https://whatif.xkcd.com/book/) has a section about this, and the answer comes down to: Almost, but not really.

The common cold is usually caused by some variant of the rhinovirus, which is eradicated from the human body by a healthy immune system after about a week. And since this virus doesn't cross species, and can't infect anyone due to the isolation, it should die out.

The problem is that not everyone has a healthy immune system, and therefore a few strains of the virus will survive beyond the quarantine. And so they can spread across the population again, and the 2 months of isolation would have been for nothing...

 So then how long would quarantine have to be? The quarantine could remain in effect for as long as you want, it wouldn't change the underlying problem. Immunocompromised individuals can harbor the virus indefinitely, because their bodies simply aren't capable of clearing it out completely.  Okay, let's say we go overboard crazy and somehow find a way to identify and euthanize all immunocompromised people during the 2 month isolation and burn the bodies, would we *then* be able to eradicate it completely?  So you're asking, if we completely eradicated everyone with a cold, would it completely eradicate the cold? I mean, it's not an unreasonable question for diseases in general.  Many diseases can survive for long periods of time without a host, including many viruses. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] No, he means just the individuals that cannot completely erradicate it. Based on previous implications I'd say that it was a minority that couldn't completely get rid of the virus, so if we could hypothetically identify and eliminate these individuals would that destroy the cold or would there be another hurdle? I mean as long as we're going overboard crazy, why don't we just kill everyone and then that'll make sure it'll be gone. The scary part is, we'd be gone but the diseases will probably be hanging around, somewhere.  I don't think "diseases" still hanging around is any scarier than them dying along with humans.  They're also not really diseases anymore, if everyone who would be diseased isn't around. You really don't need to euthanize people for having a cold. Just quarantine them until they die. &gt;The quarantine could remain in effect for as long as you want, it wouldn't change the underlying problem. 

Well, you could certainly just wait a full lifetime, and solve all those pesky disease problems at once.  Interesting note- Quarantine comes from the latin word "Quaranta" meaning 40. The number of days a ship would have to remain off-port before docking. It was believed that holding the ships off port for this time would allow any occurances of the black plague to become symptomatic or die off. When under Quarantine, the vessel would fly an off white/yellow khaki flag or sails to indicate it was under quarantine.  

I've been working in the field of Quarantine in Australia for about 8 years now for both Governmental and Private Industry. As to why this wouldn't happen in an actual scenario you just need to understand human nature. There are speeding limits on our roads-because we know that excess speed increases the chance of fatalities in the event of a crash. Yet people still speed...  

The same goes for Quarantine. We have a system in Australia that has existed for over 100 years (Our main piece of Legislation- The Quarantine Act of 1908) for the arrival of passengers into Australia through our airports and seaports called *Pratique*.  

Pratique is a simple enough concept to understand, it states that as long as the **W.H.O** or other relevant organization hasn't declared an epidemic worthy of note, then Aircraft and Vessels may land and unload passengers and cargo without Quarantine Approval (we still check with most anyway), however it mostly relates to Sick Travellers.  

If a plane, for instance lands in Australia at an airport with a sick passenger on board, it is the Captain's or the First Officer's duty by law to announce they have passengers who are ill, so that we may assess their health and determine whether or not they are carrying a "Quarantinable Disease". Such diseases are Rabies, Avian Influenza, Ebola and other Viral Haemmoragic Fevers, Bubonic Plague and so on.  

They rely on the cabin crew and the honesty of passengers to declare their sickness to flight crew *this doesn't always happen*...  

However, if an epidemic has been declared such as during the height of the Ebola epidemic of 2014 or the H1N1 epidemic of 2009, then Pratique is no longer automatically granted. Any itinerant flight or voyage to Australia is subject to massive fines and legal action if they attempt to land and unload  without prior authorization from the **Australian Quarantine Inspection Service** (AQIS as they are mostly known by, also known as DAFF biosecurity and DoA biosecurity due to Governmental changes). Passengers are required to undergo either medical surveillance and/or medical examinations on arrival into Australia and her Territories.  

The reason for this is because of the reproductive rate of the Virus or Pathogen in question, the r0. If you have an r0 of 1 then you have a low risk epidemic- One infected person will only usually infect 1 other person before either dying from the infection or their immune system recovering. An r0 of 2 however allows for exponential growth of the virus through human hosts. It doesn't take many infected people to start an epidemic and it doesn't take long either.  

People are usually surveilled by Quarantine Authorities depending on the time of the incubation period, which determines how long they're symptomatic for and in some cases how long they're infectious for. It changes from infection to infection. It *should* work, except people are unpredictable. They're afraid of scientists, they're afraid of government intervention, they don't approve of vaccinations, etc etc etc. As long as we remain as diverse a species as we are, viruses and pathogens will always be prevalent in our society.  As long as it takes the person with the weakest immune system to kill the virus.  And considering the some people (with AIDS or on chemo) have virtually no immune system, they would not be able to kill the virus.

So counting the entire human population, never.  I'd conjecture that the immune responses would be bell curve shaped so with, say 90-95% of the population you would have eradicated the virus within 2 months. [deleted] Something important I'd like to add which was also in the book: wiping out the common cold is *not* a good thing. They serve as a sort of "training" for our immune system. If we never get in contact with a minor illness like cold, our immune system will be too weak to fight some bigger diseases and we die from it more easily. [deleted] I'm surprised that no one has mentioned abiotic reservoirs. Some viruses can exist outside of organisms. For example, influenza particles have detected in water and ice. Even if we eliminated it entirely from humans and other animals, there would be a chance of someone picking it up from the environment. Yeah nobody mentioned this when it's quite obvious. Most influenza/cold are passed via surface contact with hands and then hand to mouth. Direct human contact or contact with animals still happens but is far less common than indirect contact. The reason it's not obvious to me is that I am not aware of how long the flu can survive on these surfaces. The Flu? Not at all. Humans aren't the only carriers, and isolating us alone won't eliminate the reservoirs in other species. As soon as we get out, one strain or another will mutate and cross the species barrier, and we'll be back where we started.

The common cold, on the other hand, might be doable. Many rhinoviruses are human-specific, and we only take a week or two to adapt to them, becoming immune and killing off the population within our own bodies. After two months, they'll all be gone.

In the majority of people.

And that's the problem. Not everybody has a working immune system. Anyone on immunosuppressant drugs (for an organ transplant, for example) or with a reduced immune system (through diseases such as AIDS, or just natural variation) might well *still* be showing cold symptoms after two months. Once they're brought back into contact with the rest of humanity, it won't take long for those reservoirs to spread to a batch of uninfected people, where they can mutate and infect the rest of us.

 So if the quarantine was 2 months for the healthy, and until 2 months after last symptoms for anyone sick, would that do it? The problem isn't the symptoms, it's the virus itself. Immunocompromised people can't completely clear out the virus. Even if they can clear it up to the point where symptoms aren't present, there can still be a small number of viruses hanging around indefinitely. Once they're exposed to the population again these can infect other people.  The influenza virus is not unique to humans, different strains are able to infect different animal species (that's where the "avian flu" and "swine flu" names came from). These viruses use these species as their natural hosts until coming into contact with people. Quarantining people for two months might decrease worldwide incidence, but the virus would still be present in these natural hosts. No, not only because as others have suggested there are mutations from our contact with animals, but because analysis of the Spanish Flu of 1918 determined that the reason for its virulence was because of its incubation amongst soldiers who would not be moved from their fighting positions unless they were near death, thus allowing the virus to self select toward more fatal strains to keep movement going.

If everyone was required to stay at home for 2 months, only the strains that would FORCE a hospital visit (i.e. the most deadly strains) would survive to be transmitted, and we would end up with yet another deadly pandemic.

It's a weird irony of evolution, selection, and transport, that the more people who get sick by viruses, the tamer the virus is.  It evolves to force transport to find new hosts.  It will do this by any means possible, including both ramping down its symptoms, as well as ramping up its ferocity. Something does not seems right about your explanation. It won't have much time to evolve if it's dead in three weeks and no where left to go. Except as others have pointed out, viruses are not harbored only in humans.  They're harbored in animals, who are still in contact with each other.

As soon as we step outside of our 2-3 week / month bubble, we come into contact with viruses that have still been mutating amongst the animal population, and we're back at square one.

And also, virus selection pressures may just develop longer incubation periods within humans.  Think about how HIV has become so successful.  It targeted us at our weakest points: long incubation time with a method of transmission we were loathe to give up (sex). A professor of mine that does research on influenza recently claimed that if the Chinese stopped raising ducks the flu would virtually disappear. (As a side note, she also joked that this would never happen because we will never convince the Chinese to stop eating duck)

Ducks must be raised outside (unlike chickens) with access to a body of water where they come in close contact with wild birds. This creates a reservoir for the influenza virus to cross from bird species, its main vector, to humans. This is exacerbated by the popularity of wet markets in this region of the world. Animals are sold live in these busy markets and there is a lot of fecal contamination from stacking animal crates on top of one another. 

I think this paper describes it well: 

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4111196/ Humans, and even animals, are not the only reservoirs for viruses that infect us.  There has been a significant amout of research documenting bacterial mats floating in the oceans as a breeding ground for cholera, for example.  I suspect further research will show that common diseases have many vectors, some of which will continue to surprise us.  Fungi, bacteria, soil, microbes, plants... I posted previously askjng if you keep people with uncurable STD's never had sexual relations with people who didnt have them (sort of make the newest generation only have sexual relations with their generation and younger) would wipe out STDs and I never got a good response. I assume yes

Edit: or as others have mentioned, quarintine or keep one partner. I dont think it is morally right to limit people in their sexual autonomy but I was curious Well, we *barely* managed to eradicate polio and  that was with the help of a cheap and effective vaccine.

If you consider that some STDs aren't solely sexually transmitted - herpes, crabs, HIV etc. - then we're left with a handful of STDs that *could* be eradicated by an incredibly rigorous quarantining, but that would require exponentially more money and effort over what the eradication of polio took making it *technically* possible but effectively impossible.

And in some ways, we are working towards a similar thing with HIV - in the developed world tons of people are HIV positive but have negligible viral loads due to antiretroviral treatments, meaning that it's very unlikely to contract HIV from them - which in itself is much harder to contract than you might think. Perhaps with some more advances in ART therapy and with better community education (condoms, testing, access to post-exposure prophylaxis etc.) then one day we might have even HIV on the ropes. A couple of things: polio is still around, global HIV rates are increasing. Also don't forget about [pre-exposure prophylaxis](http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/prep.html) Global HIV rates are increasing, but in the developed world, much of that is due to sharing of needles.  If we tackle the sharing needles problem, that'll have a huge impact. aren't there some pretty negative effects from using pre-exposure prophylaxis for long periods of time? Great question, don't really have any long term studies, short term there haven't been any serious side effects noted. It's possible, but both drugs in the approved PrEP treatment, Truvada, are pretty mild. Most people only report transient GI effects and drowsiness, these typically subside within the first month. The research I've seen suggests that the most significant side effects are related to kidney function, but that they are [restricted to HIV-infected individuals.](http://www.nature.com/ki/journal/v78/n11/full/ki2010344a.html)

In some populations, the rate of new HIV infections is about 10% per year; the number needed to treat in a recent British study was 13 (treating 13 men with Truvada for 1 year prevented 1 infection). That's an incredible figure, along with this latest study's finding that [PrEP prevented 86% of infections](http://www.proud.mrc.ac.uk/news/study_results.aspx); its efficacy in past trials has been hobbled by poor adherence, even though just 4-times-weekly dosing likely confers [at least 90% protection to HIV infection.](http://www.aidsmeds.com/articles/iPrEx_OLE_results_1667_25922.shtml)
&gt; A mathematical model suggested that taking Truvada four times per week would provide 99% protection, and in an open-label extension of iPrEx none of the men who took Truvada at least this often became infected.

It's also worth considering the impacts of temporary PrEP versus long-term HIV infection and treatment. Since you can go off of Truvada if your risk of acquiring HIV changes, and actual HIV treatments require more drugs with more side effects for the rest of your life, it's a pretty remarkable innovation. Although Truvada is probably covered by insurance, it still costs $10,000 a year to make :/ we're not there yet but it's getting close. It costs around $13,000 a year to get the drug in America. The cost to produce the drug is much lower and the drug is provided at very low cost to countries in Africa. Most of that cost is R&amp;D costs. In places where U.S. patents aren't enforced, such as India, Truvada runs $200/month. The cost would be a lot less if there was more demand. Thanks for bringing up all those points!! Definetly things I hadnt thought of. There are so many other routes for exposure. Education certainly can make a difference, I hope. This is an interesting question. 
The answer for most diseases is no, because humans are not the only reservoir for the disease, and hence will cross over from other species eventually. 

I do believe that it should be compulsory for people to remain at home/away from work when they have something like flu or the common cold. While it isn't possible to eradicate these diseases, we would massively cut down on the amount of transmission, as most transmission obviously happens between humans. I would estimate that even with the increased amount of people "pulling sickies" to get off work, there would still be less work days lost as the amount of people with actual illness would be almost non-existent. Of course that's assuming we are able to implicate a system where people are not permitted to have any contact with people during their illness.    No. The virus mutates every year and affects a variety of animals in different ways. We could probably get very close to making it as minimal as possible, but I'm afraid as long as some living creature can be infected by it, it will come back in some way or another. This came up on XKCD's weird question thing, and in his book 'What if?' , basically it theoretically possible, with everyone about 70' away from each other, but not possible because society would quickly collapse, our infrastructure would crumble, and a lot of people who need care would die too. As mentioned, animals get, incubate and spread the flu as well. But we'd severely reduce the number of people suffering from flu. Human deaths from famine brought about by the suspension of agricultural activities tend to do that. Any people who have a weakened immune system, from chemo treatment for example, can host somthing lime the flu much longer than healthy people. Even though healthy humans would have eliminated the flu after two months, it would live much longer in plently of people. So is there a new patient zero every year? Or is it always cold/flu season somewhere in the world?

And if there is a new patient zero every year, is it always a bird or a pig? Or is it always a human? Or is it always different?  Apparently the answer is no but i want to ask a related question. If 95% of the world's population wore surgical masks 95% of the time, washed their hands and face every hour and everyone ate in a place and with utensils solely for them how much of a dent would be done to disease numbers? Decreased tenfold, hundredfold, eradicated? It may end up like overusing soap - where your immune system is never exposed so small diseases become deadly and the rates of allergies increases. Considering the cold virus doesnt spread through animals, we would be able to get rid of it with this meathod. The only obstical would be those humans who have compromised immune syatems. We have no way of knowing how long the virus would hide out in their bodies. A better solution (and a more cost effective one, I might add) would be to give everyone hazmat suits. Believe it or not, the common cold and flu are actually good things. It helps develop medicinal science research and builds up a stronger immune system. It sucks when you get it, and the more vulnerable individuals get it a lot worse for longer, but it's a natural part of living. In fact, you appreciate good health a lot more when you get over a bout. Couldn't agree more. I enjoy getting a big headcold or a mild flu, i spend a lot of time sleeping, can think on things, and come back with a lust for life. Of course for some people it can be fatal, so it's all dependant on the individual. no there'd still be remnants in other species which could cross over, once one did you'd be back where you started. Surprisingly no one has gotten the right answer to this yet! Mass plays a role in tidal forces but what's really important is more often size, not mass. The reason you have a tide at all is the difference in the pull of the tidal body from one side to another. We get a tide on the earth because the side of the earth on the opposite side from the moon experiences less gravitational pull from the moon than the near side that is close to the moon. This makes a net force on the object which stretches it out toward and away from the object generating the tide. Not everyone realizes this but there is actually a high tide on the side of the earth close to the moon as well as the side on the far side from the moon. Low tides are at 90 degrees from the moon on either side. 

The only time tidal forces can act on small objects is when the masses involved are extremely compact. Spaghettification in a black hole is actually caused by tidal forces. Basically your head and feet are getting a high tide while your waist is getting a low tide! This is right. When I teach it, I draw a diagram that looks something like this...

W E W - - - - - M

Water = W
Earth = E
Moon = M

The moon pulls hardest on the close water since it is closest   The moon pulls the close W off the E and it pulls the E off the far W. On my whiteboard, of course, the diagram has shapes and texture. 

The answer has nothing to do with the mass of the objects getting pulled. The answer is that there is a difference in the moon's pull on either side of the earth. Water close to the moon gets pulled away from Earth while water farthest away from the moon gets the Earth pulled away from it. 

EDIT : Added the [image](http://i.imgur.com/AAdQhTG.png).
New Edit : Thanks for the gold! I hear "thank you" so rarely that your gesture really made my day. [deleted] It gets crazier. The earth's crust also has a very minor tide as it gets pulled on with respect to the mantle and core. The nearside gets pulled more toward the moon than the mantle and core and rises ever so slightly, and the mantle and core get pulled more than the far side which gets left behind ever so slightly.  Is this a factor in plate tectonics? This was my thought too! But, i'd guess it's insignificant compared to the flow of the core Unless it's a factor in the flow of the core! I have no idea if that's right though. Moon/earth tidal forces absolutely effect plate tectonics. 
Look up the work of Alfred Wegener, George Moore, and more recently, a team of Italian scientists. 

 http://www.dst.uniroma1.it/sciterra/sezioni/doglioni/Publ_download/RotationScoppolaEtAlGSABull.pdf

Or Google tidal lag. 

Interestingly, it has also been suggested that if Venus or Mars had a significantly sized satellite/moon their cores may not have cooled so quickly.  

The theia/earth collision 4.5 billion years ago saved our asses. 

The only point I'd add to the moon gravity answers is that the reason the earth's size is the major factor in the tides is that Gravity is very weak (that's why it doesn't rip out trees). The force drops off significantly with the square of the distance. So with any relatively large celestial object the gravitational pull from an orbiting body is dramatically reduced between the opposing sides. 
 This is the process by which Jupiter's moon IO stays warm in it's interior if I remember correctly. Jupiter is much more massive, so the tides it can cause are stronger, all else equal. It's also the cause of tidal locking (where the orbiting object always shows the same face to it's parent, the moon is tidally locked to the Earth) It's been hypothesised that eclipses and near-eclipses can trigger earthquakes, but the evidence for this appears to be laden with confirmation bias. Maybe we'll find out next year. We have a total eclipse passing right through frack central. 

http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/SEgoogle/SEgoogle2001/SE2017Aug21Tgoogle.html There might be a corresponding increase in geologic events during the New Moon phase, as that generates the highest tidal forces on the earth. If that's the case, we'd expect a corresponding decrease in geologic events when nearest to a waning or waxing half moon, when the high tides are lowest.

The difference in tidal forces on the earth from a perfectly on-axis new moon (solar eclipse) vs a slightly off axis new moon is miniscule, so solar eclipses are unlikely to cause a huge difference. Since a full moon has smaller tidal forces than a new moon, a perfectly on axis lunar eclipse doesn't really matter either. The moon has a very miniscule impact on Geologic events. Though it is true, if a Geologic event is on the verge of occuring, the position of the moon could be the grain of sand that tips the scale.

If anything, the sun's gravity has more of an effect. 

http://bigthink.com/eruptions/on-earthquakes-eruptions-and-the-moon

 &gt;If anything, the sun's gravity has more of an effect.

No. Remember that gravity drops off with the inverse of the ~~square~~ cube of distance. The effect of the Sun's gravity on Earth is felt less than the effect of the (much closer) Moon's gravity.

Edit: Forgot what gravitational gradient means. [deleted] Tides come from the gravity differential, not the force. The Sun pulls harder, but it pulls more equally, so it doesn't cause tides.  &gt; The sun is 11 times further away from us than the moon

The sun is about 389 times farther away from us than the moon.   no it is not. Plate movement is caused by plate tectonics fueled by the Earth's inner core in constant turmoil. (Geologist for 30 years) Barely.  Earth's interior would be a bit colder without the moon's influence. Plate tectonics is driven by differential heat, and there are greater sources of heat within the Earth than tidal friction with the Moon and Sun. So you could say it's a factor, but probably not a major player. Actually, tidal forces deform the land as well as the water. But, since land is much more elastic than water, the effect is much smaller. 

 Nice explanation. If I understand it correctly, water at the top and bottom of the E on your diagram, where low tide would be, is being pulled parallel to the earth's surface and not away from it. Does this mean that low tide is actually the natural sea level *in the presence of the moon*? Without thinking too deeply about it until just now I always assumed natural sea level would be somewhere in between the two extremes.

Edit: didn't mean to imply the absence of the moon. Well the resting point without a moon would split the difference between high and low tide.  Yeah I thought about that as I was formulating my question. Without a moon there would be plenty of time for the water to seek equilibrium. But with a high tide every 12 hours I would imagine it barely has any time for that. Which is what got me thinking that in the presence of a moon that is perpetually collecting the water into 2 places, low tide is sort of the default state. Low tide is only achieved when the water is displaced somewhere else. If the moon became massless, it would stop pulling the high tide water away from low-tide areas. This restores the default state of halfway between high and low. Does our atmosphere experience tides by the moon?
And how big a role does the sun play in this? I geuss its a pretty easy equation mass/distance to earth wich would give the ratio between the pull of the moon and that of the sun. Now i did a small calculation on the figures i could find:
Moon: 7.35 x 10(22) kg / 380 000 km ~ 1.9 10(17) kg/km
Sun:1989 x 10(30) kg / 150x10(6)km ~ 1.3 10(25) kg/km

Now this is rounded of and im not scientific but, thats a huge factor difference. Now if the moon can shift the water meters at some places you'd expect the sun to throw it around like a pinball machine.
I think the spin of the earth counters some of this. 
But more importantly on larger scale big (composed) bodies should be aproached as a pointmass. Just as our black hole Sag A* just pulls us in gently as a solarsystem and will only affect the integrety of our system when we are getting much to close. 

Going far beyond my knowledge, but its been facinating me lot lately. (jupiter was very bright and seemed so close last night) 
 The atmosphere does experience tidal forces from the moon but to a lesser extent than the oceans due to a lower mass density and the properties of air itself (e.g. air moves and redistributes much more easily, drag is also much less).

The sun plays a role in tides but the effect is not as great as the moon due to the sun being much further away and the law of gravitation being inversely proportional to the distance squared between two objects. The reason the moon plays a greater role in the tides than the sun is that the *difference* in gravitational forces between the near and far sides of the Earth (which causes the tides) are greater for the moon than they are for the sun.

When the Sun-Earth-Moon system is aligned (such as occurs at new moon and full moon) Earth experiences Spring tides tides where tides are higher and lower than typical high and low tides respectively. 

Conversely, when the Sun-Earth-Moon system is at a right angle to one another (i.e. quarter moons) then we have neap tides where high and low tides are relatively mild.



**tl;dr** Atmosphere experiences tides but to lesser extent. Sun plays a role but not a huge one because it is so far away. The Sun does have a significant impact on tides. Spring tides are when the Earth, Moon and Sun form a straight line and Neap tides are when they form an L-shape. The difference between a low spring tide and a high spring tide is much more pronounced than for low and high neap tides.

In [Avonmouth, UK](http://www.ntslf.org/tides/hilo) the tides are as follows:

* Neap
 * Low: 3.78m
 * High: 9.99m
* Spring
 * Low: 1.06m
 * High: 13.33m

That's a huge difference. The range from low tide to high tide has doubled from 6m at the neap tides to 12m at spring tides. What are these values measured from? I mean, what is at 0.00m? Because you'd imagine low tide would be a negative (below the average sea level..?), but its still positive 1.06m during spring low tides, what is 1.06m below that point? The tide is measured relative to a chart datum (the lowest astronomical tide -- LST). LST is a computed value based on the last 18.6 years of tide levels. This 18.6 years corresponds to the nutation period of the Moon (a swaying of the axis of the Moon's rotation about the Earth). I'm guessing the Earth, Moon and Sun can form a straight line at any time of the year, and not just Spring. What changes with the seasons is the angle the Earth's tilt is compared to its direction of motion. Would that not have the biggest effect on "Spring" tides compared to similar tides in other seasons?

So taking any point in say, the Northern hemisphere, the tidal forces exerted by the Moon would remain the same in all seasons. But as the Sun rises higher above the horizon into Spring, that point on the Earth is getting closer to the Sun in relation to other points. Would that not be the case? Not sure I've explained it well. It's not spring as in the season, but spring as in coiled wire or as in "a spring in your step". That is, the tide springs above its normal high point. 

What you describe would effect the tide, but I'm not aware of what the magnitude is.  If you go to youtube there is a crash course: Astronomy that explains all of this (at least I'm pretty sure it was crash course I also watch a lot of Scishow Space). If I recall correctly there is also a difference in the tide when the moon is at its nearest point to the Earth on its orbit. If you are interested and have trouble finding the episode I'll get the link when I get home from work.

Edit: It was crash course enjoy https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KlWpFLfLFBI&amp;index=8&amp;list=PL8dPuuaLjXtPAJr1ysd5yGIyiSFuh0mIL I think your calculations might be off (it's not just mass/distance, [gravity decreases as a square](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverse-square_law)). 

Keep in mind it's also not just the strength of gravity at the center of the earth, it's the DIFFERENCE between the close side and far side of the earth that causes tidal effects.  The tide exists because the close side is acted on with a significantly stronger force than the far side, not because the strength at either point is particularly strong. It's not like the moon is causing high tide in exactly two points and the rest of the Earth is at a "default" sea level. The effect of gravity gradually changes based on the distance.

Let me put it this way. If you were to unroll the circumference of the Earth into a straight line, the tides would form something like a sine wave, where the bumps are the high tide and the dips are low tide. In the absence of a moon, all of it would be constant in the center, between the two extremes. Actually, the net difference in force between where there is low tide and the average force on Earth (ie the force that Earth would experience if it were a point mass) is toward the center of the Earth. 

https://www.lhup.edu/~dsimanek/scenario/stress.gif [the "natural sea level" is actually far from a trivial question](http://www.esri.com/news/arcuser/0703/geoid1of3.html) Low tide would be in a circle around the whole planet wouldnt it? Not just at the top and bottom. Kind of like what the equator is to the north/south pole? actually, if i'm remembering this right, with no moon or a mass-less moon, the water would all move toward the equator because of the earth's spinning.. like if you take a water bottle and spin it fast enough the water will move to the outside-most area of the spinning bottle-- same idea, different principle. Think of it like the earth is an oval. Place the moon at a long end. The long ends would represent high tide, the perpendicular short area would be low tide. If you spin the objects, you can imagine the long ends as the sea level rising as the moon spins around the earth. If you take the average of the two heights, you get something called *mean sea level*. 

You can have daily highs and daily lows depending on where the moon is in relation to your location. High tide would be when the moon is approximately parallel to your location. Highest tide is when the moon and sun are approximately parallel to your location. Lowest tide is when the moon and sun are approximately perpendicular to your location. 

If you wanted to, you could graph the position of the moon and sun to find out when your local highs and lows are. You can also look these things up on the internet. 

Hope this helps. [deleted] As far as I'm aware, the spin of the earth is more of a factor to your weight; you are slightly lighter at the equator than you are at any other point.


EDIT: 
&gt;...you weigh almost a pound less at the Equator than you do at the poles.

[Source: second/third paragraph](http://what-if.xkcd.com/92/)

Also, to answer your question:
&gt;the Moon's gravity affects your weight by one part in ten million

[Source](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/1tt4da/how_much_does_the_moon_gravity_effect_my_weight/ceb8191) Would this subtly effect things like competitive high jumping records when taking place at lower latitudes vs higher latitudes?  It seems there are more things to take into account that affect performance such as temperature, humidity, altitude(and therefore air resistance) although some people do argue that it makes a difference. Some people argue it causes a big enough difference, but the Olympics apparently don't take any of that into account. If everyone competing in the game does so at the same place then most of those extra conditions aren't particularly worrisome because all competitors will be under the same conditions. However, records would be.

A high jumper at a high altitude near the equator would experience less gravity than if they were at sea level closer to the poles - thus, higher records in Colorado compared to say, the shores of Russia. The lower concentration of oxygen at high altitude has a higher impact than the lower gravity. 

That's why high altitude locations are known for training camps, rather than world records. low oxygen would have less of an effect on anaerobic activities, like the long or high jump The difference in your weight at the equator would depend on your mass as well. If I weighed 1 pound less at the equator then someone twice my mass would weigh 2 pounds less. I'm neither a physicist nor an engineer, so I am not qualified to give a professional answer. However, from what I learned in my studies, yes it can affect weight/height. You have mass, so you are effected by and affecting the moon, but the change in weight/height is likely negligible- meaning it doesn't really matter (heh). Just like mookieprime answered, your head is closer to the moon, assuming the top of your head is pointing to the moon, and your feet are farther. so your head get's pulled a *tiny* bit more than your feet do. And changes your gravitational acceleration just a *tinnnnnnny* bit, and in turn your weight is also changed.  Why is the far water being pulled away?  It looks to me like it should be getting pulled closer to the Earth's surface, meaning a lower tide. Perspective, you have it backwards.  
The earth is being pulled away from the far water, since the center of mass is closer.  It's not being pulled away, it's just being pulled towards the moon less so than the earth is, just like the earth is being pulled towards the moon less so than the near water. The far water doesn't get pulled *as much* as the Earth, since it's further away. If I understood correctly, it isn't the water being pulled away from Earth, it's the Earth being pulled away from the water, causing a high tide. If his diagram had the top and bottom water, I think it would look something like 

       W
   W--E--W------M

       W


Where the water on top and bottom are pulled parallel to the pull of the Earth caused by the moon. This would cause a low tide because there isn't any &amp; in pulling the water and Earth apart at those points. I hope I cleared things up. :)

Edit: Sorry about the formatting of the diagram. I'm on mobile and I don't know how to fix it any better than that.  Not quite parallel on the top and the bottom. The water on the bottom is being pulled slightly upward, and the water on the top is being pulled slightly downward. In both cases, toward the center of the Earth. So if Earth were completely covered in a very deep but uniform height pile of leaves, the leaves on the close and farthest sides would be taller than the perpendicular sides? Well put, that's what I want to know. I suspect the missing piece of the answer is the "slipperiness" of water. The "slipperiness" of water, and liquids in general, is called viscosity, which is a measure of the friction a liquid has against itself. The higher the viscosity, the less "slippery" the substance. Water has a lower viscosity than, say, honey or maple syrup.

I suppose the friction of the leaves (equatable to the viscosity of seawater) would matter to a degree, but since leaves have very, *very* small individual mass, they may not be affected by the moon at all. The most effect you could see is the far and close sides of the Earth having a slightly taller (probably no more than 2 cm at best) pile of leaves. Leaves are light, but water molecules are lighter. The atmosphere also experiences tides, and there are some really light particles in the air. The effect that matters is the **gravitational force per unit of mass.** You, your cat, a toothbrush, and the nearest tree all experience the same gravitational force per unit mass across the entire object - so none of those things experience tidal forces. The ocean is big and a gallon of ocean water one one side of the earth experiences a different gravitational force than a gallon of water on the other side. A pillow on one side of the Earth experiences a different gravitational force than an identical pillow on the other side, but, since it's not a continuous object wrapped around Earth, a pillow doesn't experience tides.

The problem with leaves is that there's not a flow of them wrapped around the Earth. There is no one leaf that can experience a difference in gravitational force on different sides of the Earth. 

With tides, the "missing" water at low tide is moved a little to either side and is raising the tide somewhere else. It's water's (or any fluid's) ability to flow well that makes tides noticeable.

Even very small masses are affected by gravity. Everything is affected by gravity. Tides only work with planet-sized things that flow. My intro to astronomy teacher used the same thing except using his shirt as water his body was the earth ,  pulling the front and back away from his body.  It was silly looking, but made sense.   Are you still close enough to high five your teacher? They deserve it. *and it pulls the E off the far W*

Woah! That's cool, thanks for explaining that point. Couldn't seem to figure out how the other side had a high tide too, but your line above and the last one *while water farthest away from the moon gets the Earth pulled away from it* did a perfect job of explaining it. It took me a long time to get to this explanation. Now it finally clicks for my students most of the time. If it works for you, go explain it to someone; you'll love the rush you get when it makes sense for them. Interesting explanation. I always figured the high tide opposite the moon was from a huge standing wave or something and the moon reinforced it at or near a resonance frequency or subharmonic. It is moving after all and waves happen. I discussed it with a mechanical engineering friend that was trying to figure it out back in grad school. He had some interesting and complicated journal articles on it that seemed to agree with me. Could you be over simplifying it a little? Based on the size of the moon and how slowly it is getting closer to the earth, I'm not sure the way I understand your explanation energy and momentum can be conserved... If there is a contention, I hope tidal energy generation takes off. We'll find out based on whether we destroy the tides or not. So will a person will weigh less when they are on the side of the earth facing the moon than when they are on the opposite side?  Yes, but only very slightly. The moon's gravitational pull will displace the Earth's only a tiny bit, not one you could measure with a household weight scale. Oh, now I've seen that diagram, it explains to me how Spring tides can be higher (in the UK) - it's down to the tilt of the Earth's axis and when it is pointing towards the Sun. This is the first time in my life that I've understood why the moon causes high tides on the opposite side of the world.  I've been wondering about this for years.  Great explanation! I see that no one has mentioned this yet but another factor is the properties of water itself. Water molecules are highly attracted to one another do to very strong intermolecular forces. This combined with waters extremely high density allows for the moons gravity to manipulate it easier. Although the following is NOT an accurate representation of how the forces play out this may help anyone confused by  what I'm trying to explain visualize it better. Think of the water on Earth as a string of magnets, if you used your hand to pull one magnet at the end of the string across a table the entire string will move even though you are only directly moving one of the magnets. Now think of your hand here as the Moons gravity. Although not directly pulling every single individual magnet across the table they all move together because of their attraction to one another and preference to be as near to each other as possible. The real question is, do I have a better chance slam dunking when the moon is directly above me? You would probably have an even better chance of slam dunking if the moon were directly under you. All these explanations are only applicable under a Newtonian interpretation of the physics. Do you teach a relativistic interpretation as well? Under a relativistic interpretation, the moon doesn't really "pull" anything. Since I teach mostly introductory high school Physics, we don't talk much about relativity. I explain why we needed to figure it out and a little about how special relativity works. My goal is to give kids an appreciation of Physics and the scientific method. If they want, they can study more at a University.

For the most part, I'm the last science teacher they ever meet, so my goal is to leave them knowing how science works and some good experiences asking and answering interesting questions with Physics. I appreciate where you're coming from. I wish we had more resources available for teaching science in the USA. For kids that grow up with Newtonian physics, it can be very difficult to wrap their heads around general relativity, as some of the most fundamental concepts are mutually exclusive (like thinking of gravity as a force). Relativity is just so interesting, too, even if you don't dive into the nitty gritty bits of it. I'd wager that if you worked relativistic interpretations into your lessons even just a bit (like describing gravity as a curvature of spacetime when you first touch on gravity and why looking at it that way *really* matters for things like observing things from very far away) you might spark some interest in curious kids who don't bother with science because they find it boring. If you introduce kids to general relativity at the same time they're really getting introduced to physics, too, you might lay the foundation for a kid to have a *much* easier time grasping those concepts in college. No need to go into it in too great detail--just insomuch as, "Hey guys, Einstein gave us something really cool to think about on this topic!" Well that puts a big grin on my face. Let me rephrase... It sounds like you and I are totally on the same page on this one. Since it's non-math course, we can't perform many calculations beyond basic D=VT or i=V/R stuff. When I talk about relativity, I do just what you said. We talk about it in a general way as the science of the very large. We talk about the three domains of Physics: quantum, Newtonian, and astrophysics and the sort of investigations they can perform.

When it comes to the "big" stuff (cosmology etc.) I try to let them know what some of the major questions are these days. Like I said, most of my students are 17 and 18 year olds who barely passed (or not) algebra.

For the math-savvy ones in AP Physics, we definitely talk about relativity and do a little bit of calculations with special. Once the test is over and the dust has settled (mid-may) I usually invite my old astrophysics professor to come talk to them about the birth, life, and death of stars or whatever the students think would be fun. Apologies for reposting, but it seems reddit doesn't show comments of comments.

Just remember that the tides don't folow the sun and moon exactly as people usually draw it. As a sailor I can tell you the tides are delayed by a few hours from the position of the moon. I can't tell you why, but it's probably to do with the way water sloshes about the Earth until it comes to rest at a 'stable' place. Do you also let them know how land also experiences tidal forces, Just much less extreme Yeah, but that comes after they have a good grasp on why ocean tides are noticeable. We also talk about atmospheric tides and the effects of the sun and moon combined. So why arent small animals on the moon side getting pulled up? (I'm a chemistry/pharmacology guy, this moon-physics stuff is beyond me) They are. The net force on a squirrel isn't quite the same as the net force of trillions of liters of water pulling in the same direction.  Ah, this makes sense. Thank you. So If i were to jump when the moon was perfectly above me, would I jump higher than if the moon was on the opposite side of the earth? (Even if its an immeasurably small difference) Yes! The net force would be slightly greater and you would jump slightly higher. And when I say slightly, I mean very very slighty Just to state for the record, based on some google searches, the tidal variation is a maximum of about 0.3 mGal - orders of magnitude smaller than variation due to variable crust density, the equatorial bulge, and centrifugal force. (Of course, technically, the equatorial bulge is _itself_ caused by centrifugal force). The reason those don't affect the tides is because they don't change over time. IT would seem from the other answers that if you jumped on the side of the earth facing moon you would jump higher as moon pulls you, if you jump on the side away from the moon you would jump higher as earth is pulled away from underyou. (this is compared to jumping on earth at 90 to moon) Careful, that's not the reason. It's about the difference in force on a continuous object that exists on both sides of the Earth. Small animals do not experience *differences* in gravitational attraction. The mass is not important, it's the (Force/Mass) that's important.

A squirrel at the beach experiences the same force/mass as the part of the ocean that's at the same beach. The water is "embedded in itself"! This means the force doesn't have to be as strong to have an effect. It's not like tidal forces can lift up water into the air. It's changing its position on a very large scale.

 Little things are not noticeably affected by tidal forces because they are surrounded by air while resting on the ground. Air has a significantly lower density, the moons pull would have to *overcome* earth's gravity. In the case of water tides it only has to *shift the balance*. The water is not taking off. It's just a huge body of water that is being deformed. There's actually an excellent graphic that portrays this extremely well.  Here ya go!

http://www.mmscrusaders.com/newscirocks/tides/tideanim.htm That's only a *spring* tide graphic though. Not a normal tide graphic.

Normal tides are going to follow the moon around the planet. Not just happen when it's lined up with the sun.

That graphic confused the heck out of me for a minute.  That's terrific. I've bookmarked that for use next November when I teach this again. It's worth mentioning that the sun also affects tides, but it is much weaker than the effects from the moon. So when the moon and the sun are relatively lined up during a full moon and new moon you will have stronger tides because the pull from both objects is along the same line. Much weaker? I've read that the effect of the sun is about half that of the moon. Which is pretty interesting to me because it implies we would still have significant tides without a moon, even though most people attribute tides fully to the moon. I didn't know that but you're right. The tidal force from the sun is about 45% of the tidal force from the moon according to the Wikipedia page on tidal forces.  The variation in the size of tides from day to day is caused by the sun. When the sun and moon are on the same side of Earth (new moon), tides are largest. And when the sun and moon are on opposite sides (full moon), tides are smallest. By comparing the tides when they are largest and smallest, you can determine how much of an effect the sun has. That's not exactly right. Even though the moon is on the opposite side of the Earth relative to the sun during a full moon, it still strengthens the tides. The tides are at their minimum during a quarter moon, when the moon is perpendicular to the Earth relative to the sun. Also water has a very low shear stress. This shear stress is a 'sliding stress', the lower the shear stress the lower a force required to slide these molecules. This adds to the tidal effect How about momentum? Once a tide starts moving out, does its momentum help to make the low tide just that little bit lower than it would if we never had a Moon and it was placed there suddenly, today? If we had smaller oceans would we get smaller waves? It depends, tidal effects can be seen in lakes (where they're often called seiches), with smaller ranges than coastal oceans, but coasts have a big effect on the amplitude of tides, by resonance (giving the largest tidal ranges in the world in the bay of Fundy) and also because the movement of the tides behaves as what is known as a Kelvin Wave, which have greatest amplitude near a boundary.  Yes.  Tides in the Mediterranean and Black seas are so small as to be unnoticeable.  Bays and gulfs can sometimes concentrate tides, increasing them, but those are being driven by connections to the larger ocean. I don't know the answer for certain, but just in case I felt I should point out that waves are not caused by the moon. Normal ocean waves are caused by the wind. Tidal waves (now more commonly called tsunamis to prevent confusion) are caused by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below water.

That said, with smaller oceans, the waves would have less time/distance to build up, so most likely we would have smaller maximums for the waves. You forgot one important aspect. The adhesion of water (H bonding) would multiply this effect for the water molecules. Do you have a source on that? If anything I would think the adhesion of water would make tidal forces less of an effect. My thinking goes like this, it's known that there's a tidal bulge on the earth's crust just as there is in the water but it's much smaller because it's harder to pull and squeeze the rocks then it is to pull and squeeze the liquid water. The reason it's harder to pull and squeeze rock is because the individual constituents making up the rock are bound together more tightly. Adhesion is just tighter binding of the constituents making up water. I would expect a less adhesive, less viscous substance that is still relatively dense, like ethanol, would have a larger tidal bulge than water.  &gt; The adhesion of water (H bonding) would multiply....

I see what you are thinking, but I don't think the adhesion of water would be a factor over such large distances.  The important thing is that it has a low enough viscosity, so it can flow freely. Another reason water gets effected but not small objects is because water is a fluid while the other things are not. It has large mass, the molecules are attracted to each other, and it flows. While the molecules of a rabbit are indeed stuck to each other, it has very little mass and it's not a fluid so it doesn't flow or deform very well.

Maybe if you filled the ocean full of rabbits instead of water you might get some rabbit tides. That sounds like conjecture. Where's the data? I never quite understood why there's a high tide on the side of the earth opposite the moon. Maybe it's due to centrifugal force of the earth-moon system? Nope, the earth is being pulled closer to the moon than the water on the far side of the earth is.

Perhaps you're thinking in a coordinate system centred on the middle of the earth, which possibly isn't helping. That still doesn't make a whole lot of sense. I realize that the bodies are orbiting a point somewhere between the center of the Earth and Moon, but why would the water and the earth "separate" like that? What's pulling it away?

If we were to somehow stop the orbit of the moon around the earth and sit it atop a colossal tower so it doesn't fall out of the sky, would we still see high tide on the opposite end? Yes. 

Gravity has a larger effect the closer it is to something. 

High tide on the side of the earth closest to the moon because it pulls the water there more than the earth, right?  That's fairly intuitive. 

There's also a high tide on the far side, though, because the moon pulls the earth more than the water on the far side, leaving a bulge of water behind. 

 But the earth and moon are in equilibrium... why would some stuff be "pulled more" than other stuff when neither body is moving like in my example of the moon on a tower?

It occurs to me that the force you are talking of and centrifugal force are perhaps the same thing, but in different reference frames. &gt; why would some stuff be "pulled more" than other stuff when neither body is moving like in my example of the moon on a tower

Forget about bodies. Think of an individual atom in the center of the earth. It is some distance away from the moon. The equation for gravitational force between two objects is:

    F = G * m1 * m2 / r^2

G is a constant, m1 and m2 are the masses of the objects, and r is the distance between the objects. So put in the mass of the moon and the mass of the individual atom, and this equation tells you how hard the moon pulls on that particular atom in the center of earth.

Now imagine an atom on the surface of the earth, on the side furthest from the moon. This atom is further away from the moon than the atom in the center of the earth (about 6370 km further, as it turns out). Since the distance is larger, in the equation above, r is larger, and since it's in the denominator (and since everything else is the same), the force will be smaller.

So the moon is pulling on the atom in the center of the earth with a certain force, and it's pulling on the atom on the (far) surface of the earth with a weaker force.

Of course the same thing applies to every atom within the earth: the closer it is to the moon, the stronger the force pulling it toward the moon.

The uneven forces tend to try to stretch the earth out. Of course the earth resists this somewhat because earth's gravity is trying to pull it all back together into a sphere too, but the earth does stretch out a bit anyway. &gt; why would some stuff be "pulled more" than other stuff when neither body is moving like in my example of the moon on a tower?

Because the centre of the earth is closer to a significant source of gravity than the water on the far side of the earth. Therefore, it experiences more pull from that source than the water.

The equilibrium thing is irrelevant. Both the earth and moon still exert force on each other. look at this [picture](https://web.njit.edu/~gary/320/assets/tide_fig2.gif). If we just were to look at the forces on the equatorial plane shared with the moon clearly the force on the side closes to the moon is the greatest and it is weakest on the opposite side. At the center of the Earth the force is somewhere in between. 

The right side of the picture shows what the forces would look like in the "rest" frame of the Earth, which is done by subtracting the from all the forces, the force at the center of the Earth, making it at "rest". Now we can clearly see the tidal bulges.  So would the loss of our moon have any serious impact on life on Earth besides the loss of ~~tidal waves~~ high tide/low tide? 

EDIT: Clarified to avoid confusion. Thank you /u/neurospex. Tidal waves are not caused by the moon. They are caused by large displacements of water set off usually by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below the water.

Tidal waves are not related to the tides caused by the moon. And they differ from normal ocean waves which are caused by the wind.

It's more common now to call tidal waves "tsunamis" to help avoid this confusion. Ah, thanks for clarifying your question. I think the loss of tides would have a great impact on our current life. Keep in mind that we have had our moon, and thus tides, for a long enough time to have deep impacts on evolutionary paths. Those creatures which had adaptations to the tides were more likely to survive. This is to the point where some creatures are dependent on the tides. So a loss in tides would result in a loss in creatures who depend on the tides to survive, of which there are many. A loss in those creatures would have a ripple affect on those who depend on those creatures either for their own survival or to keep their populations in check.

Here are some creatures which depend on tides from a quick Google:
http://www.ehow.com/info_8075047_animals-depend-tides-survival.html

 &gt;the side of the earth on the opposite side from the moon experiences less gravitational pull from the moon than the near side that is close to the moon.

&amp;

&gt;there is actually a high tide on the side of the earth close to the moon as well as the side on the far side from the moon. 

So how does this not contradict each other? How does the stretching away from the gravity source work? So it's kind like Coulomb's law? If the moon was x miles closer, would we experience x^2  the gravitational pull of the moon? Is the moons pull visible on the ocean? will it kind of "bulge" to the area closest to the moon? So...I was just thinking about this today, if the moon were overhead and our bodies are mostly water, does that mean we technically lose earth weight as it pulls ever so slightly on our bodies? **Serious question** Your composition doesn't matter. Each object on Earth is *extremely* slightly lower in weight when the moon is overhead.

The moon is much less massive and farther away from you than Earth, though, so Earth's gravity remains dominant. Yes, though that has nothing to do with our bodies containing water.  Everything weighs slightly less when the moon is overhead.

It's worth noting that the surface of the earth (which is, after all, just a thin crust floating on a vast sea of lava) also rises and falls (by about 4", as I recall) with the tides.    Wow thank you, that's a great explanation! So do the great lakes experience high and low tides?  It does lift those things up! The surface of the Earth will vary in distance from the center by about a meter every twelve hours due to tidal forces acting on it. Trees and small animals *are* lifted up, but so is the ground beneath them.


You can maybe (depending on how much unnecessary technical language you can swallow) learn more in this hard-to-follow [wikipedia article about these so-called "Earth Tides"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_tide) To follow up, according to that Wikipedia link (thank you /u/rat_Ryan ), the Moon's gravity causes a twice-a-day terrestrial tide with a magnitude of about 0.38 meters (1.25 feet).

That means when the moon is directly overhead, you are approximately 1.25 feet further away from the center of the Earth than when the moon is just below the horizon. Could this motion also affect the movement of fluid in the mantle as well? Those tidal forces would affect the entire Earth but it is most noticeable at the surface. The exception is the very center of the earth because it is our point of reference. Everything else would experience some magnitude of deflection away from the center as a result of the moon. Interestingly this generates some heat. This heat has to come from somewhere and that's the gravitational potential energy of the moon and its kinetic energy. After an arbitrarily long period of time (assuming the moon wasn't escaping us which I believe it is) the moon would fall to earth because of this lost energy.

EDIT: I have since been informed that the heat from these strains will cause the moon to get further as it slows until it is tidally locked to us and much higher. See the replies. Tidal forces slow down axial rotation of the bodies. By now only the Earth is slowing down as the Moon is already tidally locked - same side always faces us. This energy transfers to the rotation of the bodies around each other, speeding it up. This is why The Moon is moving away from us. Moon is not escaping however and eventually the Earth too would become tidally locked, if the Sun didn't start wrecking things long before then. Correction: you'll find that because the earth rotates faster than the moon orbits it, the tidal bulge is pulled ahead of the moon, slowing the earth's rotation and increasing the angular momentum of the moon, moving it to a higher - and slower - orbit.

The moon is not going to fall to the earth after any amount of time, but rather the earth would become tidally locked to the moon, which by then would be at a higher orbit. Part of the reason that Earths core is still spinning is because of the tidal forces created by the moon Yes, and it almost certainly plays some role in Vulcan activity. Tidal forces of this nature are responsible for a lot of the volcanic activity on Jupiter/Saturn's moons. That tug and pull on solid matter creates heat which eventually builds up enough to liquify the matter. Great point! It's too bad that this is getting out shined by an answer that doesn't really address the question at hand.  I just want to tack on the comment that the force exerted by the moon is proportional to the mass of the object.  Yes, the moon can shift the ocean (which is extremely heavy) because it exerts a lot of force on heavy things.  No, the moon can't lift a squirrel off the surface of the earth and into orbit because it exerts a little force on little things.  This is because the moon has a gravitational field, and these fields work by apply acceleration.  force is acceleration times mass, thus more massive things will experience more force.  Nowhere on earth will the moon's acceleration be greater than the earth's acceleration, so nothing will ever get sucked off of the earth.   Do we weight less during this time?  &gt;Do we weight less during this time?

Yes!  Although by such small amounts that it would be very hard to detect.  As you get further from the center of the Earth, the force of gravity acting on you will decrease. I'm afraid I came too late for this to get seen, but here goes:

Everything on the surface of the earth gets lifted up with the terrestrial tide of about 40 cm.  That includes things like tree leaves and small animals.  However, they are getting lifted up just the same as every other part of the earth's surface, and so this movement isn't really apparent.  

So what's different about the ocean?  Well, it's big and made of water.  It feels the same _pull_ as the surface of the earth.  But because it is liquid, this sets up an oscillation in the ocean basin, causing waves (the tides I mean, not regular waves which are caused by wind) to slosh around it.  [Here's](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5e/M2_tidal_constituent.jpg) an image showing the circulation of tides in the ocean basins.  The white spider-lines show where the crest of high tide is every hour, the arrows where the lines converge show the direction the tide moves from hour to hour.  And the red shows areas where tidal variation is highest.  While land tides pretty much match up with the pictures you see in books, ocean tides don't at all, and so they aren't moving "in synch" with the land.  They are also often a lot bigger, because of the water sloshing around in the basin.

To get a physical example, fill a cake pan half-full of water and rock it slightly back and forth a little bit.  The small movement of the pan should set up a large movement of water in the pan, with the highest amplitude at the edges of the pan, just like you see in the ocean basins. In order for a tree, leaf or small animal to be "lifted up" it would have to experience a negative gravitational force. That is to say that the gravitational force of the moon acting on the object would have to exceed the gravitational force of the Earth acting on the object. The force that an object on Earth experiences due to the moon's gravity is nowhere near strong enough to cancel out Earth's gravity but it will cause a small change in an object's weight. This means that such objects would deform or "grow" upwards slightly.

Animals and small objects are all solids and are relatively, well, small. That means that any deformation caused by a change in the local gravitational field will also be small.

Oceans, on the other hand, are very big. So a relatively small percentage change in their depth is very noticeable to us.

Edit to clarify: In the first sentence I should have said "a negative net gravitational force". Negative gravity doesn't exist as far as I know. Fun Fact: The moon/sun system does cause small deformations  in the earth's meaty parts, and the LHC accelerator ring is large enough that its magnet systems have to compensate for distorting beam profiles due to squishing of the beam tunnel.  It's all calibrated and automatically adjusts depending on where the moon and sun are at any given time.

You can read more about it in my thesis, on pages 31-32.

http://highenergy.physics.uiowa.edu/Files/Theses/JamesWetzel_Doctoral_Thesis.pdf I haven't seen this here, but a [tidal wave](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tidal_wave) has nothing to do with tides. For this reason, the term [tsunami](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsunami), a Japanese word, is preferred.

A tsunami can be due to an earthquake which generates a wave in the water, like what happened a year ago and caused the [Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fukushima_Daiichi_nuclear_disaster) in Japan.

Others have discussed tides and are entirely correct.

Edit: I guess I was half asleep when they mentioned the anniversary on the radio this morning. Yes, it was four years ago. It's a really confusing term, as the tides do (in general) travel as a wave (Kelvin Wave or Poincare wave with periodic forcing), and the model we use from them is derived from the same set of shallow water equations that model tsunamis! Doing a course on Geophysical fluid dynamics at the moment and the lecturer uses "tidal wave" all the time, but always talking about actual tides, not tsunamis! [deleted] I believe this is the *real* answer to OP's question. If you read the question carefully, OP seems to think that the moon's gravity is very strong because tsunami's (which he calls "tidal waves") are very large. In reality, the moon's gravity is only strong enough to cause the tides, and in fact it does not cause tsunamis (earthquakes do).  It's theorized that the term tidal wave developed to describe how the waves roll in, like a tide. It's not meant to indicate the waves are caused by tides, but rather the the waves resemble the waves caused by tides. We tend to forget in today's video-era that for hundreds of years, basically anyone who saw a tidal wave died, so there was no one to really describe what they looked like until recently, when we started catching them on film.

Based on the destruction, we used to think tidal waves rolled in like a gigantic surf monster, a 100-foot wall of raging water. When we thought that, we also thought "Well, tidal wave is a pretty stupid name for something that big, and besides, we know they're not caused by tides now, so it's a stupid name. Let's call them tsunamis."

Then, when we actually caught a tsunami on film, we realized, oh, those waves don't come in in a single massive wall of water, they actually roll in, in smaller, multiple waves, similar to the way the tide comes in in a large tidal basin.

The term "tsunami" means "harbour wave", and considering that tidal wave are not limited to harbours, the name "tsunami" itself is inaccurate. Although tsunamis are not caused by tides, the term "tidal wave" could also refer to a [tidal bore](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tidal_bore) As no one seems to answer the actual question:

Since the gravity of the moon is not stronger than that of the earth at earth surface level it cannot lift stuff. It just makes stuff a bit lighter on the side nearest to the moon. (And because the whole earth with everyting on it influenced by the moon's gravity, also on the opposite side). But it does not make stuff to light it would float in air.  [deleted] Could this effect our brains and emotions? Any studies to back it up? The moon isn't what causes tidal waves, it just causes the tides. The moon tugs on one side of the earth, just a little, but enough that it creates a "Low Gravity" zone, which water moves into because it is pushed there by the water that is only being pulled down by the earth. 

Tidal waves, are caused by abrupt changes in the ocean, like earth quakes and under water volcanoes erupting.
http://neamtic.ioc-unesco.org/what-to-know/the-causes-of-tsunamis

The Indonesia Tsunami / Tidal wave was caused by an earthquake in the ocean that caused 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHljDIDf6js  it's basically because water is liquid, and oceans are all connected.

lakes don't have tides, because the water is all in one spot experiencing the same gravity.

However, since the oceans are all one giant pool of water surrounding the earth.  As the earth rotates, there are different spots around the earth that experience less gravity.

there is no significant difference in gravity for an object and the ground directly beneath it.

there is a slight difference in gravity between the side of the earth facing the moon and parts 1/4 of the earth away, enough for water to flow a bit. The Moon's gravity does not cause tidal waves. I assume you are asking about the ocean tides.

For one thing, gravitation is proportionate to mass and inversely proportionate to the distance *squared*. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton%27s_law_of_universal_gravitation and the ocean is much more massive than tree leaves or small animals. But that's not really what is going on here.

Everything on Earth feels the attraction of the Moon, including the Earth. So we are being pulled, but so is the Earth (and to a greater degree because of its greater mass) so we are just pulled with it and don't notice. 

But water being fluid allows it to collect in the lower gravity area created by the Moon. The Earth is not entirely solid either and it also deforms to a lesser extent. So the water isn't being "pulled up" it is flowing into the Moon's gravity well while at the same time not leaving the Earth's gravity well. Solid objects like leaves and small animals don't have the tendency to do that, just as they wouldn't flow down a slight incline that water would flow down.

That brings us to the real reason for the tidal bulges. The bulge on the Moon's side isn't because the Moon is lifting all that water up higher. All the water that is flowing towards the Moon into its gravity well pushes the water in front/above it up since that is the only place for it to go. The bulge on the other side is because the Earth is also being pulled in the direction of the Moon and so water collects on the other side since at that location the ocean feels less attraction to the Moon than the more rigid Earth and the near-Moon ocean.

I guess certain style guides specify to use lowercase names for the Moon and the Sun and maybe even the Earth, but those are proper nouns and should be capitalized.
 Not sure if this has been touched on yet but the moon DOES exert force on all objects. You don't notice it because the entirety of the earth surface is acted upon, pulling everything up, so you actually weigh less when the moon is directly overhead. The tides are more pronounced because they are liquid and also out of phase from the moon. They're out of phase from the moon because over the ages the tide moon system has lost energy due to friction/erosion.  so when the moon is at high noon it's a perfect time to go parkouring? The best time would be at the time of year when the earth is closest to the sun, at midday, during a solar eclipse.  Thanks for the answers all. I'm not very knowledgeable in the sciences, and even less so when it comes to gravity. The fact that the moon's gravity affects the ocean because it is a large mass and doesn't affect squirrels because they are a comparatively tiny mass makes sense. Especially considering the local gravity of the earth would have a much greater affect on said squirrel. Its not about the mass.

If a squirrel weighed 1 kilogram but was 1000 miles long it would also experience the tidal effect.

It's about the size of the object. Tides come from the fact that the pull from the moon changes with distance.

The part of the object which is closer to the moon is pulled stronger. For a regular squirrel, since it's so small, this effect is extremely small.

For our 1000 mile long imaginary squirrel, one end is being pulled by the moon much stronger than the other. This will result in stretching the long squirrel.

In a similar way, the moon pulls harder on the water which is closer to it. Since, the water can move freely around, it simply flows slightly more towards the moon (or away from it). This is 100 percent correct, but I'm still having fun imagining a 1000 Km squirrel. To be technically correct, the gravity of the moon does affect the squirrel, just in an extremely tiny amount.  As I understand it, the tides are caused by the fact that the gravitational force is proportional to the inverse square of distance.

The center of the earth is 4000 miles further from the moon than the ocean under the moon, so it isn't pulled as much as the sublunar ocean is, so the sea-level is higher under the moon.

The ocean on the far side is another 4000 miles further away, so the earth is pulled away from it, leaving a bulge on that side too.

A mouse or a leaf isn't big enough for there to be a significant difference in force to distort it.

Also the gravity of the moon doesn't "lift" it because, like the rest of the earth, it's in orbit around the center of mass of the system. For anyone curious, the tides aren't created by the gravitational force alone. If we only accounted for the gravitational force, then we would expect to see only one set of tides (low-&gt;high) per day, when there are actually two! 

The secret lies in the centrifugal force. Yep, the force that you were told in high school physics that "doesn't exist." The reason you never learned about it was because it appears in non-inertial physics. Usually we take our frames of reference as inertial frames - that is, frames that aren't spinning or accelerating. But the earth has an acceleration by orbiting around the Sun. Long story short, the centrifugal force actually points AWAY from the moon; the combination of the grav force and the centrifugal force create high tides both on the side facing the moon and the side opposite the moon. 

Here's some info: http://co-ops.nos.noaa.gov/restles3.html

You can also check out Taylor's mechanics textbook. It's a classic Mechanics textbook and deals with the tidal problem thoroughly. Ironically I'm actually studying right now to become a science teacher and I was reading about this yesterday.

Here is what is written in one of my science books:
[The Sun's Role in tides]( http://i.imgur.com/RBtqZgY.jpg)

[The Moon's Role in tides]( http://i.imgur.com/NQYOZyAh.jpg)

Hope the pictures help The gravity doesn't create the tidal waves. Gravity from the moon is slowly pulling the ocean, each molecule just a *tiny* bit. This overall causes some water to move towards land (in the case of high-tide), and when that body of water hits the rising ocean-bed, this causes the waves you see. 
Gravity isn't actually pulling the waves up. 
[Edit: for clarity] With the ocean, the gravitational pull of the moon is acting on a very large volume, which isn't static. You also have to bear in mind that the things you mentioned are on the Earth, which has a stronger gravitational pull. Between two masses, a third mass will not simply float in the sweet spot where the forces cancel out, it will accelerate towards one of the masses.

As to why smaller things aren't simply moved around by the gravitational pull of the moon, I (Unfortunately, only speculation) think that it's due to the mass of the objects. The ocean as I mentioned earlier is a huge, fluid mass. Kind of how you'd expect a large, heavy object to stay put in a flowing river, but a small marble to go flying down the river bed, the larger object has more surface area for the force to act upon. On top of that, the Earth is pulling us  "down" with a considerable force.

Maybe very large objects or structures like skyscrapers are affected by the moons gravity? Perhaps somebody more knowledgeable could chime in on that. About the third mass...wouldn't floating in a sweet spot be a Lagrange Point? Of course good luck getting a fluid to stay there, but for a solid body it would. Yes, but it wouldn't be stable. Any perturbation toward one of the large masses would result in it accelerating in that direction. It depends on the Lagrange point you're talking about.  There are five of them.  Two of the five are fully stable, like a valley.  Two of the five are stable in one direction but unstable in the other, like a saddle.  And the fifth is completely unstable, like a hill.

 This is probably the best explanation I have ever heard for the lagrange points. This is true for L1, L2 and L3, but L4 and L5 are stable  any small perturbation results in the third body orbiting the Lagrange point (in a manner that is very aesthetically pleasing when plotted in the rotating reference frame where the two major bodies are stationary). If gravity can be demonstrated with "wells" (google "gravity table" for a visual demonstration), then the point at which two gravitational forces cancel each other is the top of the ridge between the two gravity wells.

(This is an explanation of how it would look when demonstrated in three dimensions and not an explanation of raw gravity physics, so bear with me....)

The problem is that any point that lies on that ridge is just that, a point. Points have no dimensions, so it is practically impossible to place a three dimensional object exactly on a point. For this reason, you will never be able to sit in the "sweet spot" between two objects. There will always be a net force pulling you towards one of them, it's up to the precisions of your placement to determine how much force that is, but it will never be zero. Right. Mathmatically, it makes sense, an unstable equilibrium is still an equilibrium. But realistically it won't work. I'm not totally sure but I think satellites sitting at/near Lagrange points have to periodically adjust their position to stop accelerating too much one way or the other That makes sense to me but can you explain why this reasoning doesn't work when you only have two objects, one orbiting around the other, like earth and moon? How do orbiting bodies 'settle' in their orbits? I mean, you just replace the one's big body gravity with the smaller body's movement and suddenly you don't have a point/line whre forces cancel each other but you now have this belt of tolerance. &gt; Between two masses, a third mass will not simply float in the sweet spot where the forces cancel out, it will accelerate towards one of the masses.

Well it _would_ float in that spot if it got there to begin with. But leaves are far closer to the center of the earth than they are to the moon. Yep, even skyscrapers are affected by the moon's gravity, even we are!  The force is just not strong enough to pull away from earth's gravity and so it has very little effect.   "Tidal Waves" are misnamed. They are not caused by the moon, but by earthquakes. Tides are caused by the moon. 

The earth is a lot more massive, and a lot closer, than the moon. That's why stuff that isn't attached doesn't fly away to the moon. That being said, the moon pulls the oceans enough so that all the water in the oceans moves a tiny bit closer to the moon. That is enough to create high tides on the side of the earth the moon is on, and low tides on the opposite side.  Not only earthquakes, but also volcanic eruptions and other underwater explosions (including detonations of underwater nuclear devices), landslides, glacier calvings, meteorite impacts and other disturbances above or below water :)  &gt;That being said, the moon pulls the oceans enough so that all the water in the oceans moves a tiny bit closer to the moon. That is enough to create high tides on the side of the earth the moon is on, and low tides on the opposite side.

No, the tide is high on both the near side *and* the far side. The moon isn't pulling all of the water in the ocean to one side. It is *stretching* the oceans so they bulge on both sides.

 You are referring to tsunamis. Tidal waves are not tsunamis, although somehow the term tidal wave has come into the vernacular to mean tsunami. Because the earth's gravity is stronger. The moon doesn't really pull the ocean. It just makes the earth's grasp on it slightly weaker, causing the water to become less compressed, causing it to expand, causing the water level to rise. The moon creates bulges in our oceans surface. Those are amplified by coastal effects to make tides of fifteen to thirty feet. In narrow spots rip currents develop. Still all of that is a second order effect on top of our earth's gravity. The earth is mostly solid and floats away from the water a bit when the moon is high in the sky. On the far side away from the moon water accumulates away from the moon. 

If a body much larger than the moon approached the earth very close it wouldn't loft leaves, squirrels and small objects any more than large objects. Everything would float up. 

The tides, while they are floating up are not doing it off of a surface. Its only a small disturbance piled on top of other water. The actual reduction in g due to the moon is minuscule. Most of the tide is simply the amplification effect of coasts. The earth itself has a tide of several inches moving towards and away from the moon. The regular tide of the oceans is on average only 2 to 3 feet in the open ocean near the equator. The moon affects leaves and squirrels exactly as much as it affects the ocean. A squirrel with equal density to sea water, floating in the ocean, will respond in exactly the same way the ocean does. A squirrel won't get lifted off the ground, but neither will a bucket of water, because they're both more dense than the surrounding air. The ground doesn't move noticeably because it's relatively rigid and just plain harder to move. It might help, though I'm not certain it would, but the Earth itself experiences the pull of the moon. In other words, there are not only tides in the Earth's oceans, but in the rocks as well called [Earth Tides](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_tide). And while Earth experiences these Earth tides upwards of 8", the pull of Jupiter on Io causes [Ionian tides](http://spaceplace.nasa.gov/io-tides/en/) upwards of 330 ft.   It's a common misconception that the tidal bulge exists because the water is pulled towards the moon; in fact it's more to do with the [gradient of the gravitational field lines](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tidal_force). (There's a good explanation of where those arrows come from [here](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-JdIoZWciQZY/VDrQmFk2cXI/AAAAAAAAD2I/fvo0IksEcnI/s1600/Gravitational%2Blines.jpg)).

From the diagram, you can see that there is indeed an "up" arrow directly underneath the moon, but the thing that makes the water rush in is all the "pointing-sideways" arrows everywhere else.

An appropriate analogy might be tilting a tray of water slightly, causing one end to get deeper and the other end to get shallower, even though the net force experienced by an ant standing at each end of the tray hardly varies. **Short answer:** During full moons it would be about 8x brighter.

**Long answer:** The *albedo* of a body determines how much light it reflects. For the moon, that number is about 0.1, meaning that it reflects about 10% of the light. [This book](https://books.google.com/books?id=c-v7OSaxGSsC&amp;pg=PA112&amp;lpg=PA112&amp;dq=albedo+aluminium&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=XUXTa7N79d&amp;sig=ms8D3mnC-ey6PjbtM7fPIfshSiQ&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=AcMFVZbyF_eCsQS0yIGwAQ&amp;ved=0CB8Q6AEwAA#v=onepage&amp;q=albedo%20aluminium&amp;f=false) has a nice table of albedos for various building materials, including "bright aluminum foil," which it lists an albedo of 0.8, or 80%. 

Therefore, the moon now reflects 8x more light. Depending on the moon phase, we'll receive variable amounts of light on the earth. For reference, I want to show your some numbers for the luminous flux (or lux) or various light sources. Although this sounds like what a mad scientist might call his death ray, I assure you this just means how much light we get on a given area. 

Anyway: 

    Cloudly, moonless night: 0.0001 lux
    Full moon: 0.271.0 lux
    Twilight: 3.4 lux
    Full moon (with aluminum foil): 2.2-8.0 lux
    Dim Office Building Hallway: 80 lux
    Sunrise/Sunset: 400 lux
    Direct sunlight: 32000100000 lux

So you'll easily be able to see at night provided there is moonlight. Since the full moon is now considerably brighter than twilight, I'd suspect the sky would take on more of a navy blue color and that we'd have fewer stars visible in the night sky. The Milky Way is already quite hard to see when there is moonlight, and with a foiled-moon it will be a sight reserved for the few moonless nights each month. 

Even the light from a crescent moon covered in aluminum foil is brighter than a full moon without one. Fun fact: you can actually see the dark part of the crescent moon even without aluminum wrapping. Even though the dark part is not receiving direct sunlight, it's being illuminated by sunlight reflected from the earth (in much the same way the earths get a little bit of light from the moon). This is called [earth shine](http://www.mattastro.com/gallery/earthshine_07may08.jpg), and would be easily resolvable at night, and it might even be possible to see it during the day. 
 This is a bit off topic, but what has always surprised me is how insanely bright a sunny day is. The fact that we can see at all in that kind of light, and be able to see fairly well at night too is pretty awesome.  The Sun is indeed **very** bright. But the eye can adjust to really quite an enormous range of light levels; the full range reaches across 9 orders of magnitude, although at any given time it can only manage a contrast ratio of ~1:1000 

Given up to 30 minutes to adapt to darkness, or 5 minutes to adapt to bright light, it can redefine what level of light is "fully black" to move that 1:1000 range around within the full range, to whichever point is most useful for the light level around you.

So if you walked directly from full sunlight to a darkened room you'd be pretty blind for a while. Hell, I've noticed it just with the illumination from my phone when I'm in bed - if I'm lying with half of my face covered by a pillow I end up with one eye that's dark-adapted and can see okay, but the other is adapted to the brightness of the phone and can't see a damn thing in the dark. 

Edit: [please stop](http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.co.uk/2010/02/please-stop.html) telling me about pirates, *I know* &gt; But the eye can adjust to really quite an enormous range of light levels; the full range reaches across 9 orders of magnitude, although at any given time it can only manage a contrast ratio of ~1:1000 

That's awesome. Do you have a source? It's a fact I remember being taught in a university lecture (albeit a Computer Science lecture rather than Biology, in a course about graphics programming - colour theory and the characteristics of the eye were part of the intro)

But [Wikipedia has my back on this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptation_%28eye%29). Does this translate into contrast ratios on LED TVs?  I'm not sure, and can't find a great source on it; there's what seems like conflicting information saying the eye has a static contrast ratio of only 100:1, but that may be reconciled if paired with the idea that it adjusts after every saccade by changing the size of the pupil and making quick adjustments to its own chemistry (to get back towards the 1:1000 "at one time" figure). 

Given that LCDs routinely claim contrast ratios in the millions it seems like there must be something else going on, unless they're being massively over-hyped. There seems to be at least some element of marketing-fiction involved but I suspect we may also have more ability to jump around within the wider range from moment to moment (with the brain smoothing over the switching in the same way as it "covers up" various other limitations on our vision; like the blind spot, or the lack of colour in our peripheral vision). 

Eyes aren't all that easily compared to the technical specs of cameras or display technology - it's the same with trying to compare pixel-based resolution to the eye's ability of the eye to resolve small details, or comparing a frame rate to either the shortest events we can notice or to the threshold on persistence of vision. They just work too differently to make a direct comparison, especially when you include post-processing done by the brain. LCDs that claim [contrast ratios](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contrast_ratio) in the millions use the "dynamic contrast" value, the contrast between fully-black cell with minimal backlight, and fully-white cell at maximum backlight. To achieve this the monitor varies backlight according to what it thinks is suitable for the screne it's displaying.

The more realistic value of how much difference between black and white levels a panel can display simultaneously is called "static contrast". For TN panels that's typically 800-1200:1, IPS -- 600-1500:1, *VA types -- 1500-5000:1. Very interesting. Thank you.  Oh. Plasma can go up to 20000:1, and AMOLED up to +INF, theoretically. But that's because those devices can have "perfect black" -- i.e. they actually emit their own light per pixel, and pure black pixels don't emit anything. CRT is somewhere around plasma, but that varies grietly by the technology used.

In real life, the screen's contrast is greatly dependent on the ambient light, but in most situations Plasma/AMOLED technology still beats LED at static contrast.

But in high-illumination areas (like daylight/direct sunlight) [transflective LCD technology](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transflective_liquid-crystal_display) can have significantly better visibility and contrast than backlit/emissive "normal" display types. I've seen some of these in the 2008-2010 NOKIA navigator phones, they were really awesome to use in daylight, too bad the tech never really took off. One thing that demonstrates our own eyes amazing ability to see a great range of light is look at camera technology. Most consumer camera sensors still can't "see" as well as our eyes can. So we have to resort to doing things like longer exposures or HDR(stacking multiple images).
 Arguably, this has more to do with our brain than our eyes. Both our eyes and modern (2005+) sensors can see individual photons. There isn't much you can do sensitivity-wise beyond that. Our eyes also have comparably transmissive optical media to camera lenses.

But whereas photographic media take snapshots or video footage and just... store it, our eyes process the visual information and give meaning to the image. This allows us to recognize features even though the visual information is only marginally there. The brain and the eyes are better thought of as a visual system rather than individual organs. in the same way we think of a camera, rather than just it's photosensors.  &gt; Both our eyes and modern (2005+) sensors can see individual photons. 

That's only part the picture though... 

How many photons they can collect before pixels become full? (AFAIK, ~100,000 -- this limits dynamic range to a maximum of about ~10 stops)

What happens when they become full?  (They can bleed into neighboring pixels, which is bad.)

How do the sensitivity to light differ from pixel to pixel? (AFAIK, a couple percent)

How much read noise is generated? (small but significant)

How much does heat affect noise?  (a LOT -- fancy instruments are cooled to avoid this as much as possible)

How accurate is A/D conversion?  (reasonably okay in consumer goods, very good in scientific instruments)

CCDs are amazing but there are plenty of areas of potential improvement. :-D
 Ah, this I can actually answer in quite a lot of detail. Well, I can't personally, but there is this super awesome great website that details silicon sensors and gives some of the best insight into Bayer sensors: [Clarkvision](http://www.clarkvision.com/articles/index.html#part_4). Everything you ask and lots more is on there, including comparisons to the human vision system and a plethora of hard data on read noise, thermal noise, full well capacity, ADC nonideal behaviour, etc. etc.

Can't recommend this enough. Worth every minute of the time spent reading this website. One could argue our eyes can't "see" as well as cameras can, Cameras have no blindspots, and can see light we can't. I think he meant in terms of dynamic range and performance in low light.

If I'm on a walk during a moonless night I can still make out the path ahead of me, especially if it's been a while since I left an area illuminated by streetlights. But when I bring my camera, even at ISO800 with f/2.8, I still need to expose for 4-5 seconds to get an image that's similarly defined. Lots of noise at ISO800 at night, yes, just like our eyes, but the camera definitely performs poorer than our eyes do. I'm reading this in bed, you might wanna try the twilight app (NOT vampires and werewolves). Dims down the phone's screen and takes out the blue colors.  Pilots used to, and some still do, wear eye patches over one eye to preserve night vision when looking at instruments, maps or dealing with a dark sky over bright cities.  I thought it was pirates, so they had one eye for on deck and the other for the dimness below decks. I was told it was to preserve a eye for vision in the event of a nuclear blast that they may see. Not close enough to knock them out of sky but close enough to blind them. This way at least one eye still had vision.    
Of course this was told me way back in the 60's when we also used to practice hiding under our school desks in event of a nuclear attack. Better approach was the bend over and place your head between your knees. From that position you could at least kiss your rear goodbye. I thought the hiding under desks thing was for not getting hit by glass ~~sharks~~ shards if you were far enough away that you didn't get vaporized, but still got hit by the pressure wave. 

Edit: Glass sharks are actually pretty friendly.  You've been watching too many Sharknado movies.   
   
That was the reason given at the time but if you are close enough to be hit by the pressure wave then the radiation would probably have killed us anyway. So dying from a thousand cuts or death by your flesh rotting off your body? Hmmmm, difficult choice. The aim of duck and cover was to save/reduce injuries to as many people as possible by instructing them to do something that they could do without any special equipment or shelters being constructed, what they could do with what they had.

Obviously if you were within a certain radius of ground zero you were toast, nothing you could do would help, but most people affected by a nuclear explosion are outside this and it is about maximising their chances and saving who you can. 

A lot of the lessons were taken from Hiroshima and Nagasaki and indeed Nagasaki was one of the very first places that duck and cover was deliberately practiced- word had got there from Hiroshima as to the nature of this new bomb and what might help save you (when you see the flash, don't stand up looking at it, immediately get cover.) There were several examples in both cities of people only metres away where one died and the other survived because one had cover and the other did not.

&gt;in the days between the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan during World War II, some survivors of the first bombing went to Nagasaki and taught others about ducking after the atomic flash and particularly the dangers of window glass. As a result of this timely warning, far fewer of those informed by them in Nagasaki died in the initial blast when compared to those who were in in similar surroundings but were caught completely unaware.

Glass WAS indeed one of the risks to avoid, although there was of course also the heat and blast waves, and this was taken directly from Hiroshima. 

&gt;In the Testimony of Dr. Hiroshi Sawachika for example, although he was sufficiently far away from the Hiroshima bomb himself and not behind a pane of window glass when the blast wave arrived, those in his company who were, had serious blast injury wounds, with broken glass and pieces of wood stuck into them.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_and_cover

Duck and cover is often unfairly derided, it was probably for its time, perhaps even now, still the best advice on what to do if you happen to witness a nuclear explosion.  &gt; if you happen to **witness** a nuclear explosion. 


And that's the point. If you are in a place where your brain has time to register and recognize a nuclear attack you are outside the "become radioactive dust" radius. Hence duck and cover might give you marginal chances of survival.
 I take death by glass sharks.   
Would at least look cool on my tombstone.  Yeah, how awesome would that be? I mean they would do a complete series on, "Glass Sharks, Myth or Nighmare? You Decide" &gt; Of course this was told me way back in the 60's when we also used to practice hiding under our school desks in event of a nuclear attack. Better approach was the bend over and place your head between your knees. From that position you could at least kiss your rear goodbye.

As far as I'm aware (and would appreciate correction if I'm wrong), this actually makes perfect sense. It's obviously not going to help you against a *direct hit*, but it was never intended to.

It's possible to be far enough away from the blast where it won't incinerate you but close enough where the shockwave will cause major damage to buildings. It seems better to train people to take cover when they see a blast in the distance, rather than rushing to to get a closer look out of the soon-to-explode windows.

I know it's not the best source but wikipedia [seems to back me up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_and_cover), including referencing [testimony](http://history.hanover.edu/courses/excerpts/111hiroshima.html) from survivors of Hiroshima. I know someone else mentioned all this in another reply, but I feel like the fact they were able to interview (distant) survivors means that there's probably some merit to it beyond being movie-logic.

Like I said, if I'm wrong, I'd appreciate a correction. We were still learning to hide under desks in 86-88ish. Always having been interested in science, I thought it was rather foolish from the beginning.

Unfortunately, the IET Soldier's Handbook prescribed in basic training wasn't much better. The MOPP gear would be nice, but otherwise it was basically get in a foxhole, curl up and pray. If no foxhole, skip to step two.

You're right, not much you can do that close. I'm really a bit surprised they didn't see more psychological effects/damage from scaring the hell out of little kids about a nuclear holocaust for 30 years.
 [deleted] I'd never considered it, but you're right! Our worst case scenerio (from non-statesponsored terrorism, non bio) is a nuke in a city or two. Absolutely horrific beyond belief, but nothing compared to the entire world being wrapped in flames and the devastation of the survivors to try and pick back up again basically alone. Reminds me of the Twilight Zone episode "Time Enough To Last" or the British "Threads". tell me more about "threads", is it a television show? Yep, as a kid in the mid-1980s, I had nightmares about nuclear attacks. I graduated in 2003 and we were still doing duck and cover nuclear drills.

But could have been just a midwest regional holdover from being surrounded by missile silos and about 15 miles from the home of the B-2 stealth bomber.

Also did boot in 2003 and I don't think the handbook changed at all from what you described.  Some of the scenarios just made you scratch your head and think 'this was the best they could think up?'

But growing up like that was a trip.  Tornado alley as well, where we would all file into the first floor hallway and hold our hands over our heads facing the wall. and at some point we started doing short-lived earthquake drills (which were pretty much the same as the nuclear drills) when they started reminding everybody missouri has a fault line that is "just going to move any day now".    Add to that the fire drills, every week was some kind of panic drill. &gt; Unfortunately, the IET Soldier's Handbook prescribed in basic training wasn't much better.

What they taught us for open fields was to fall towards the blast, face down, arms at your sides. We even had a couple of days out in the field where drills would randomly blow a whistle in the middle of other tasks and we were expected to act as if the whistle was the blast site direction.

It was explained this was definitely intended to protect you from blast wave debris and that no one expected it to save you if you were close enough to the blast. What kind of pirates are you hearing about that wear eye patches in case of nuclear blast? That is a theory, and it's plausible since it would work, but there really isn't any evidence that pirates or sailors wore eye patches more than anyone else in a similarly risky profession, so it can't go beyond "well, it would work if they did".   
Pilots on the other hand definitely did.  Marines are actually taught to cover one eye/look away if encountering bright lights during land navigation at night. Army teaches this as well, reinforced by the random firing of flares over the night land nav course. 20+ years later and I still close one eye (my left) when encountering bright lights at night. Granted, these days it's more likely someone flipping on the room light or my checking my phone, but it's a hard habit to break! I am gonna need a source on this.

All production vehicles have a dial to allow you adjust the display brightness.

I would bet that pilots have a way to avoid loosing night vision in a 20 million dollar aircraft that doesn't involve reducing depth perception. http://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/publications/atpubs/aim/aim0801.html  
8-1-6 section b paragraph 2.  FAA advises pilots that circumstances exist where cabin light or flashlight is required, and advise keeping one eye closed to maintain a degree of accommodation in those circumstances. 

Note that not all pilots fly multimillion dollar commercial aircraft, and that the practice was more prevalent in the past than it is now.  You wouldn't have to wear it the entire flight, just while turning on the bright ones.  Thanks for the source.

There is quite the difference between wearing an eyepatch to preserve night vision instead of just closing an eye while using a flashlight to inspect something in the airplane or look at a map. In smaller single engine cessnas and whatnot the instruments aren't very bright so you need headlamps to see. The headlamps have to be red lights though, because your typical LED white lights not only cause loss of adjusted night vision but they leave floaters so looking for traffic becomes damn near impossible. Red lights don't cause that problem. I don't think that's regulated, just something my flight instructor taught me that stuck.  Yup. It's also why astronomers like red flashlights. It helps preserve the rhodopsin in your rods. Except for those of us that it makes sneeze when too bright. I couldn't go outside in Reno :( Hello, fellow [Autosomal dominant Compelling Helio-Ophthalmic Outburst](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photic_sneeze_reflex)(ACHOO syndrome) sufferer!  I never knew about this condition, but I have it! Very interesting, thanks for the info.  It's actually very convenient, because whenever I have that feeling like I need to sneeze but can't,  I look for something bright and look at it on and off, and it works like a charm.   There are other people like this!? It's very common, affecting 18-35% of the population according to the wiki link above. Pretty much the same goes for the ears with their logarithmic sensitivity. And they dont even have anything like a pupil. Actually, there is at least one [mechanism](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/sound/protect.html) that increases the allowable sound range.  When this happens to me, I get really crackly sound... it's pretty irritating. Keep in mind we evolved to accommodate the suns light. It's not a coincidence  i find it hard to accept that a sunny day is 32000 times brighter than a night with a full moon (if i understand the numbers quoted). ninja edit - to be clear, i don't doubt the figures, it just isn't intuitive. Your eyes adjust a LOT to compensate. If you had a disorder that prevented your pupils from ever adjusting, and had one set for "daylight", and one set for "moonlight", the night eye would be destroyed by daylight like an ant under a magnifying glass, and the day eye would be completely blind at night. &gt; i find it hard to accept that a sunny day is 32000 times brighter than a night with a full moon

I'm not sure where the commenter got those numbers, because they actually *under*estimate the difference in brightness between the Moon and the Sun:

- Full Moon apparent magnitude: -12.7
- Sun apparent magnitude: -26.7

That's a difference of 14 magnitudes, which corresponds to 100^(14/5) = 400,000 times difference in brightness. Can I ask where you got the /5 part from? &gt; Can I ask where you got the /5 part from?

That comes from the definition of the astronomical magnitude system.

Unlike a lot of other sciences, astronomy has several thousand years of legacy nomenclature - many of the constellations we still use today were originally established by the ancient Babylonians.

Some 2000 years ago, Ptolemy went about creating the first fairly complete catalogue of stars visible to the unaided eye. In addition to marking their positions relatively accurately, he also tried recording their brightnesses. Since they didn't really have instrumentation for measuring brightness back then, he did it all by eye, assigning the very brightest stars a magnitude of 1, and the very dimmest a magnitude of 6. It wasn't exactly precise, but the system caught on since it proved useful.

When the 1800's rolled around and astronomers wanted to codify that old magnitude system into a more precise quantifiable system, Pogson realized you could do that fairly well if you treat the scale as logarithmic and assumed that the magnitude 1 stars were 100 times brighter than magnitude 6 stars. That means every 5 magnitudes is another factor of 100x brightness. The math then works out such that one magnitude is 100^(1/5), equal to roughly a 2.51x change in brightness. That math also means if you know the difference in magnitude between two objects is X, then their ratio of brightnesses is 100^(X/5).

**TL;DR**: Because 2000 years ago Ptolemy arbitrarily decided that the difference between the brightest and dimmest stars was 5. Without any human made lights, and no moon, it would be too dark to see well. Especially if you were outside 90% of the day as humans have in the past without eye protection.   
  
I have heard people say when the milky way was up, with zero light pollution they could read star maps just by star light. Pretty awesome.   
 
 What if the tinfoil created a smoothing effect on the surface of the moon. Wouldn't a greater percentage of the light then be reflected in directions that are not toward the Earth? The same way that a wet patch of ground appears darker because the light is not dispersed as much when the reflective surface is smoother? Exactly. If the moon was a flat mirror, you would only be able to see it when the reflection of the sun was perfectly aligned. Seeing the moon would be as rare as a total eclipse.

If it was a curved mirror then you would probably only see a speck of light at any time that was reflected toward you, much dimmer than the moon is now.
 &gt; you would only be able to see it when the reflection of the sun was perfectly aligned


Well if the mirror was completely smooth (i.e. a perfectly spherical mirror), then you would always have some sort of alignment except during a new moon or a lunar eclipse.


Think about those convex mirrors used to hope you check around corners.  You don't have to worry about getting the alignment correct, right? Nope, it would be much brighter than the moon is now, but also much smaller.  It would essentially be a very small area, but with nearly the same brightness per square arc-second (had to think for a while about the units for that one) as the sun. I tried to work this out, the sunlight would be diverging from a convex surface so would have lower brightness at the Earth. There would be a virtual image of the sun at around the Moons distance that would appear to be 3% of the diameter of the Sun. I think the brightness of this would be 44% of the sun's brightness though so it would look nearly the same magnitude to our eyes.

If I've done this right it would provide 1.3% of sunlight, so 60-70 lux, much brighter than the current moonlight.

 When tin foil is wrapped around a ball it gets all krinkled up. You wouldn't get a smooth, mirror like surface from that.  Another fun fact:  [Venus has a bond albedo of about 0.9](https://www.google.com/search?q=venus+albedo&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8), which might mean that it is more reflective than aluminum foil.  Though, it's probably debatable whether bond albedo or geometric albedo would matter more for that comparison.  That also means that [Venus actually absorbs less light from the sun than Earth](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bond_albedo#Examples) despite being closer.  Venus receives about twice as much light, but scatters three times as much of it back out into space.  It also means that the proposed cloud cities on Venus could put solar panels on the bottom and top. I saw it while I was out walking the dogs after dark the other night, I thought it was a hovering helicopter with a spotlight in it, it was so bright.

I ended up having to break out my 3D night sky app to figure out what it was. Having a "3D night sky map" in your pocket is exactly what futurists from a hundred years ago would dream of. Right there beside flying cars and sky cities. Just imagine how blown their minds would be if it was for instance just a slab of black glass that lit up when you talked to it and could also access most of the worlds knowledge for you in just a few seconds...

Cat videos, eh? Even better, use that slab of black glass to get live video from a huge space station [in orbit.](http://www.ustream.tv/channel/live-iss-stream) I sat outside one night waiting for Sirius to land at the local airport.   Looked bright enough to be the landing lights on a plane a few miles out.
 This is why Venus is so commonly reported as a UFO. You were just walking, but imagine someone in a car seeing that as though it was pacing someone. Can someone translate this into layman's terms. What would a moon 8x brighter appear like on earth? Would that be comparable to, say, pre-dawn light? Or a very overcast day? As someone who works night shift and only sees 2-3 hours of daylight/day, I fully support covering the moon in aluminum foil. Thanks a ton for the educated and easy to ready answer!!

 So now that the moon is 80% brighter, how would that effect ecology, plant and animal life, on earth? Is that bright enough to disrupt natural cycles? Not 80%. 700%. The albedo is currently 0.1, which is 10%. After foil-ification, that would be 0.8, (80%), but that's a 700% increase.  Further, what would be the ramifications for organisms that use moonlight (polarized or non) for orientation/navigation? Might they be blinded, or at least impaired?

And what about nocturnal creatures? Although I'm dirunal, as an analogy: I struggle with sunlight (sunburns, [sun sneezing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photic_sneeze_reflex), etc), and if the intensity was suddenly 8x's greater, then I could be in trouble. You're comparing the albedo (diffuse reflection) of an object with the reflectivity (specular reflection) of another. I don't think these two things are directly comparable.

I'm not a scientist, but I've done 3d modelling and this is how we handle light: http://bensimonds.com/2010/08/27/plausiblematerials/

In fact [the 5th picture down shows three spheres](http://i.imgur.com/rmz7GUJ.png), the first of which behaves like the moon (no specular reflection) and the last of which looks like what I'd assume an aluminum foil moon would. The more polished the surface, the smaller, but brighter, the reflected sun would appear. 

So, to conclude: One area of the aluminum moon would certainly reflect at 800%, but I predict that the rest would reflect much less... Actually, one area of the moon would be 80% as bright as the sun, but many orders of magnitude greater than the current moon.  The total light reflected by the moon would be 700% greater.  &gt;Actually, one area of the moon would be 80% as bright as the sun

That's not accurate.  Only a small fraction of light from the sun strikes the moon at all, so that is not 80% of the sun's light, but 80% of the fraction of sunlight that hits the moon.  

Further, it would reflect specularly off of the moon.  At certain angles between the three bodies, we would get almost all of the light in a small place on the Earth, and at other angles, almost all of the light reflected off of the moon would bounce off into space, never to reach our eyes.

But at no moment, even completely covered in tin foil, would the moon ever appear to be 80% as bright as the sun. If the moon now reflects 10% of the light, and our foil ball moon reflects 80% of it, wouldn't that mean it reflects 800% more, and not 80?

EDIT: Clarity? I'm not sure I understand your question. Albedo tells you what fraction of incident light is reflected. If it increases from 0.1 to 0.8 (or 10% to 80%), that's a factor of 8 increase. 

Before foiling, the moon reflects approximately 1 in 10 photons from the sun. When we foil it, it's closer to 8 in 10 that get reflected. 

Assume the luminosity of the sun doesn't change during this project. 

Edit: Caught it, there was a typo. I said "reflects 80% more light," when it should read "reflects 8x more light." It's been fixed in the original post, thanks for pointing it out.  Looks to just be a confusion in wording, you originally said that the moon covered in tin foil would reflect 80% *more* light, when I think you meant it would reflect 80% of the light hitting it.

So in comparison, the tin moon wouldn't reflect 80% more, just 80% total, 800% of the original moon. You're right, good catch, that was worded poorly in my original post. I've changed it, thanks.  This is a small point, but you still have an incorrect version: "8x brighter", "8x more light", when you mean "8x as bright", "8x as much light". (Those both mean "***add*** 800%, to 900%".) (Counterexamples: "100% brighter" doesn't mean "no change", and "20% brighter" doesn't mean "one-fifth as bright".)

 Thanks for pointing this out.  A lot of (otherwise well written) articles mess this point up and it drives me nuts.

700% more, 7x more, 8x the original, 800% the original. &gt; Before foiling, the moon reflects approximately 1 in 10 photons from the sun. When we foil it, it's closer to 8 in 10 that get reflected.

That's an 800% increase, not an 80% increase like you said in your original post:

&gt;Therefore, the moon now reflects 80% more light.

Edit: 700% increase, not 800% 80% of all available light is 800% more than the 10% previously. Same thing from a different perspective.  A 100% increase would result in twice the initial number, an 800% increase would be 9 times brighter. Your point is still valid though. I missed it the first time; he's refering to a minor error in the second paragraph where you mean to say "8 times":

&gt;Therefore, the moon now reflects 80% more light But if you cover the moon with the bright foil, that means that only the foil's reflectivity is being taken into the equation, cause the moon has been covered over.  Right? Yup.  If 0.1 is 100% of reflected light from the moon, 0.8 is 800% more light, not 80%. 

80% increase would mean 0.18 not 0.8 &gt; If 0.1 is 100% of reflected light from the moon, 0.8 is 800% more light, not 80%.

Close.  Saying it that way would be 700% more.  It's 800% in total.  (100% + 700% more = 800%)

If it were 800% more: 0.1 + 0.8 = 0.9 = 900% total.  It's the "more" that's the issue. I'm glad someone pointed this out, it was irrationally irritating to me to read the comments correcting the original post, then saying it's 800% *more*. It's an easy mistake to make, hence why it's irrational that it irked me.

200% of 100 = 200, which is an increase of 100% (100% *more*)

800% *of* something, and 800% *more* are two entirely different things. imagine the moon has a statistic that says how much light it reflects, at the moment this is 0.1 if we shone 100 units of light at the moon it will reflect 10 (100*0.1=10) of those. Now the moon levels up and gets its new tin foil armour which brings the moon's new light stat up for 0.8. Shining 100 units of light at this new moon armour means that it will reflect 80 units of light (100*0.8=80) To be precise, it is 700% more. If this is confusing, remember that doubling the albedo would give 100% more light. You mean 700%, right?

1x = no change = 0% increase

2x = double = 100% increase

4x = 300% increase

8x = 700% increase However, if the foild made the reflection specular instead of diffuse, the result would be a lot dimmer in total - only a small, very bright point would show as the demagnified reflection of the sun. To make sure I've got this right in my head, you're considering the case where we've got a perfect sphere of aluminum foil, something more like a polished mirror?  Yes, I assumed this to be the point of the post (as he mentions "highly reflective", not "white" or "bright"). Wouldn't the moon be further away too an effective solar sail effect? With the increased brightness would it affect the growth of plants?  Would you be able to get a moonburn?  Just to add: OP choose tin foil as "highly reflective material", probably because it reflects light like a mirror does (without scattering light), and most people assume a mirror is most effective in reflecting light. 

However, a good white paint can have an albedo of up to 0.9 (better than aluminium) and standard mirrors often have pretty low albedos, as there is a significant, often slightly tinted, glass layer. I can totally see this being some super villain's new plan on disrupting people's sleep at night. &gt; (in much the same way the earths get a little bit of light from the sun).

Do you mean a little light from the Moon?  Yup. I've fixed it. Thanks.  From the inverse-square law, does that mean the energy from the light is about 3 times greater (square root of 8)? Would that also increase temperature at night? Very Interesting, thanks! Would the earth become hotter at night?  So is it actually accurate to say that a full moon night could be 1000 times brighter than a cloudy, moonless night?

Or am I misunderstanding the whole lux thing? (1.0 vs. 0.0001) How would this extra light affect the Circadian rhythm or antiphase light cycles affect plants?  For some reason I'm always surprised that a ball of grey rock dust reflects as much light as it does. Is it because it has no atmosphere to scatter the light more? Note that the surface of the moon right now is a combination of a retroreflector (like a stop sign), a rough Lambertian-like surface (like chalk) and a rather crappy mirror. If you took away the retroreflection and Lambertian parts, the shape that the moon makes during its phases would change dramatically because it would only reflect light at a very specific angle relative to the light source (rather than diffusing the light in all directions and reflecting a large portion back towards the light source, as it does now).

Source: http://graphics.stanford.edu/~henrik/papers/nightsky/nightsky.pdf So what would the moon look like, in that case? /u/VeryLittle's answer is probably the most numerically accurate you're going to get, but I'd like to clarify a few things.

Strictly speaking, the moon itself *is* highly reflective. The issue is that it reflects light in many different directions, and not directly back to us. This is because regolith is a rough, heterogeneous material that ultimately causes a [diffuse reflection](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffuse_reflection). In this sense, energy is still being conserved - it's just that only a portion of it is reflecting *back towards us*.

Highly reflective in the sense that you mean typically means that the material generates a [specular reflection](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specular_reflection) - that is, that instead of scattering light in all different directions, the distribution of light is much closer to the ideal angle of reflection.

For the moon this means that, yes, when you actually can see the reflection it could be thought of as approximately 8x brighter (assuming that the surface albedo of 0.8 is including the specular reflection as well - this is a common simplification of lighting models used in that area). The problem is that as you move away from ideal the angle of reflection the light will attenuate quickly. The math gets [a bit crazy](http://www.heldermann-verlag.de/jgg/jgg01_05/jgg0312.pdf), but we call the phenomenon [specular highlights](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specular_highlight) because they only appear on the surface where the angle of incidence, surface normal, and scattering of light coincide such that light is reflecting back to you.

A great visualization of this can be found at [this shadertoy](https://www.shadertoy.com/view/XdfGWf) - you can click and drag the light around to get a good idea of how the position of the light in relation to the camera affects how much is reflected back to you.

Unfortunately, this is about where my ability to answer breaks down: to model it correctly (while conserving energy) requires the use of multiple reflectance models and an understanding of the material properties of the surface of the moon that I simply don't have. In practical terms, objects tend to have a mix of both specular and diffuse reflections, and even these wind up being approximation of effects such as sub-surface scattering that may further change how it would appear.

THAT SAID. Someone did a visualization of what [the moon would look like if it was a giant disco ball](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8I25H3bnNw) that I believe is probably a pretty decent approximation. But this disco ball visualization uses a much closer version of the moon. That way we can't see the sunlight reflecting at night. &gt;But this disco ball visualization uses a much closer version of the moon. 

Definitely - it's not even close to being an accurate portrayal, and a lot of artistic license has been applied. However, the portrayal from low orbit - specifically [at about 4:30 in](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=w8I25H3bnNw#t=270) shows about what a highly reflective surface in orbit would look as opposed to a diffuse one. 

The difference at that point is largely one of scale and accuracy/material properties: because of the nature of specular reflections, light reflected off of a highly reflective surface is going to appear to fall off significantly less than that reflected off of a diffuse surface because it scatters less. This analogous to how a laser is able to illuminate (and appears brighter) at a much greater distance than that of an incandescent light bulb: the emitted photons of light are spread across a much smaller area, and thus do not spread as much over distance.

It is also likely that the reflection of the Earth would be significantly more prominent than it is today if the surface of the Moon was smooth enough. You can already see light reflected off of the Moon (earth shine) during certain phases, it would simply be a matter of the light being scattered less. Might take a telescope, but it's theoretically feasible in any case.

&gt;That way we can't see the sunlight reflecting at night.

Not sure what you mean here, but I don't think it's quite true. The people who made the video positioned the Moon closer to the Earth simply so you could actually see the reflection. In it's existing orbit, the difference between adjacent surface normals is enough to ensure that it is highly improbable the Earth would actually intersect any of the light reflected off the Moon.

If the Moon was still a continuous sphere, however, that wouldn't be the case. I saw a video on youtube talking about this once. They used the example of the moon being a giant disco ball. According to the video, we might rarely see a flash of light from the moons surface, but only maybe a few times a month. You can watch the video [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8I25H3bnNw) My back of the envelope maths says to try this experimentally would only take 115 years. Ignoring the pesky transport problem.

Aluminium is 2,720 kg/m^3. Lets make that easier to read one metric tonne is 0.36764705882 m^3. According to [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aluminium_foil) household aluminium foil is 0.016 mm (0.00016 m) thick, so let us divide by that to see how many square meters of foil we can make with a metric tonne. That comes out as 2297.79411762 m^2 per metric tonne. [world-aluminium.org](http://www.world-aluminium.org/statistics/) states we produced 53057000 metric tonnes of aluminium in 2014. So that would cover 121914062499 m^2. [space.com](http://www.space.com/18135-how-big-is-the-moon.html) says the moon has a surface area of 38 million square kilometers. 3.8*10^7 km^2 / 121914062499 m^2 = 114.835047657. So lets say a nice 115. Only a little longer than the [pitch drop experiment](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pitch_drop_experiment).

edit:grammar Fortunately, only about 59% of the moon is actually visible to Earth, due to tidal locking and librations, so you could achieve the desired results at about 2/3 the cost.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tidal_locking#The_Moon A question occurs to me. If we were to do this how much additional radiation pressure would we add and how greatly would we perturb the moon's orbit? I don't know enough physics to calculate an answer, but the moon is heavy and radiation pressure is weak so I'm going to go with something on the atomic scale i.e. negligible. Oh most definitely small but never the less it would be interesting. I may take a shot at figuring it out later. There has to be some aluminium on the moon, let's send robot refineries up there instead, we'll save a ton on fuel ! Or haul an asteroid that has al, then start melting it with a solar mirror and spray it onto the moon's surface like paint.  Would a neon orange moon reflect more light than a tin foil moon?  No, reflective foil would be reflecting vary nearly all light that shines on it. Neon orange would reflect only/mostly orange light while all other wavelengths are absorbed.  He's got a point, though. Neon paint works by turning UV radiation into visible light. So we might use special white paint doing the same. But then the light reflected would be tinted. Do you want orange tinted light all night?

Is there a way to reflect as black light? Then night time would be sweeeeeet! &gt; Is there a way to reflect as black light?

And everyone who has dandruff will never go out at night. Or a cure will be found ASAP as the demand surges.  It all depends on the albedo of the two materials. Aluminium/Aluminum has an albedo of 0.8, meaning it reflects roughly 8 out of every 10 photons hitting the surface (The other 2 are absorbed)

I'm not sure of the albedo of a neon orange material as it depends on what the material is, whether it has a clear coat, what kind of paint it is, the shade of orange, etc. If the albedo is lower than 0.8, it would reflect less light back.

Expanding on that, only orange light would be reflected back as the rest would be absorbed. Lunar regolith is about 10 % aluminium, so you could feasibly extract it. Each spot on the moon has about 14 days of continuous sunlight, so a large solar array would be a good way to supply the lunar tinfoil factory with energy.  How many boxes of foil is that? The aluminium foil box I have lying around contains a 30cm x 30m sheet, that's 9m^2 . You'd need 4.22*10^12 (4.22 Trillion) of those. Fun answer: 24/7 disco party
Real answer: The earth would not be lit 24/7 but stars would be less visible at night. If you live in an area with low light pollution you might lose a hobby but anyone who lives in a city wont notice much difference.  Limbs falling asleep due to lack of blood flow is an urban myth. If blood stops flowing to a limb, that limb starts to die. You are pinching a nerve in the limb which makes it go to sleep. That tingly feeling when it comes back is your peripheral nervous system starting back up in that limb (more or less) No harm done.

Wow this blew up. Ok, sorry for not being specific enough. I took from what op stated that this was the usual falling asleep on a limb and waking up with a "dead" limb. This is mostly not harmful at all. This is not taking into account the nerve being pinched for extended periods of time or repeatedly from use like a wrist over a keyboard. Those events can cause damage and should be looked at if feeling has not returned after a short while. I just wanted to put people at ease that 99 times out of a 100 your limb falling asleep from a nap or just sitting in a weird way will be completely fine. Physician here. There's a phenomenon called "Saturday night palsy" where the radial nerve in your arm can get compressed (the classic story is the drunk passing out with their arm draped over a hard edge like a bench). This can cause a temporary neuropathy of the radial nerve leading to wrist drop (inability to extend the wrist). It's usually temporary, but in some cases it's severe enough that it has lasted weeks to months or can even be permanent. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Could the lack of nervous stimulation to lead to neuroapoptosis? If so, how long would that take?  It's not the lack of nervous stimulation. What happens is the compression of the nerve causes compression of the vasa nervorum (small blood vessels within the nerve sheath responsible for blood flow to the nerve itself). Once you compromise the blood supply of the nerve, you begin to compromise the nerve itself. Interesting that bloodflow is essentially the problem, but not the kind of bloodflow that the layman imagines in the urban myth version of a limb falling asleep. Gotcha, thanks for the quick response. So it *does* have to do with blood flow restriction then? Why haven't we evolved more painful awarness of this? Is it an evolutionary design flaw in that the means to transport the 'damage' signal is itself 'damaged'? But there is pain. The reason that "Saturday Night Palsy" got its name is because the classic case is a drunk passed out with his arm in a bad position. The reason this just doesn't happen all the time while sleeping is because the discomfort will wake the person up, unless the person has their consciousness lowered by something more potent than just sleep (such as large amounts of alcohol, or drugs, head trauma, et c.) &gt; Why haven't we evolved more painful awarness of this?

It seems to work well enough. Until there is a survival advantage to being different it will probably stay just as it is. [deleted] [deleted] This exact thing happened to Dave Mustaine, the guitarist of Megadeth about 10 years ago. He passed out with his arm hanging over the back of a chair. He had to re-learn to play guitar and still has permanent nerve damage iirc.  why is it called "Saturday night palsy"? because thats the night people are most likely to get the drunkest and fall asleep or pass out in weird positions? It occurs in a small percentage of patients who suffer from Saturday Night Fever.  

Sorry, in all seriousness, I would assume that it is because people are more likely to pass out on Saturday nights.   ^ that. Comparable to "Blue Tuesday" when post-MDMA binging on the weekend, dopamine levels finally drop lower than before they spiked, leading to clinical depression/chemical imbalance. And horses get Monday morning disease, which is rhabdomyolysis from having lots of exercise over the weekend when the owner comes to ride in a horse that is normally very sedentary. I like all the 'days of the week' diseases How out of it do you have to be before that's a risk? In medicine things that present similarly and have a certain patient history that leads to them typically get funny names like this. So in this case, impingement of the radial nerve is a pretty rare/weird thing for a patient to come in with. Then along the way some doctor noticed a pattern where most of the people complaining about it had been out drinking a little too heavily on the weekend, passing out in a weird position, and then showing up for treatment. So he starts referring to it as "Saturday Night Palsy". This catches on, spreads around the medical field, and then starts getting taught to future students as a way to remember the condition. 

Other times, rather than the cause they just get named after a notable physician/someone who discovered it/etcetera. Bell's Palsy would be a good example of this that you've probably heard of.  Yes and no.  Yes, the cause is nerve impingement, not lack of blood flow.

No, it's not always "no harm done."  Long-term nerve impingement can actually have nasty consequences for the use of the limb.  There have been cases where people only ever recover partial use or feeling. There was a story on NPR this morning with a guy that passed out for 20 hours straight from carbon monoxide poisoning.

It messed up his arm.

Edit:  It messed up his arm from laying on it so long. Did they say in the story whether the arm issues were from nerve compression or from CO poisoning (not sure if it's possible for CO poisoning to be implicated in this type of condition)? Would have to be nerve compression. The way CO does damage is by preventing oxygen from reaching tissues, so think of it as your entire body having a heart attack (this is grossly oversimplified FYI). If his arm wasn't receiving enough O2, it would undergo necrosis and die (giving you arm problems), but the rest of him would be dead too, and things like his kidneys that have much higher O2 demand than an immobile arm would have died before his arm. 

With all that said, I have absolutely no idea how you maintain a steady CO level for 20 hours of unconsciousness without running out of oxygen at some point. Unless there was some other factor, like hitting his head when he passed out, that kept him unconscious after the CO cleared out. It could potentially cause nerve damage though I'd imagine. CO is a reactive oxygen species and those could potentially cause neuroinflammatory responses to nerve tissue, especially in the periphery. While I think you are overall correct, and have a good chance of being the more correct response to mine, I still could imagine CO causing some neural damage in peripheral tissue. CO poisoning is because carbon monoxide gets a death grip on your hemoglobin and prevents oxygen and carbon dioxide from binding to it, basically stopping your blood from working in any respiratory fashion. It's really impressive he's still alive. Enough carbon monoxide to knock you out, but not kill you? And maintaining that balance for 20 hours straight? In one of my public health classes the professor told us a story about carbon monoxide poisoning on a boat when one of the heaters malfunctioned. There was a family of 6 on board and 5 of them were rendered unconscious. The one guy that did have consciousness dragged everyone off the boat. The only person to die was the guy who got everyone off. Supposedly the physical activity of pulling everyone off greatly increased his exposure due to increased respiratory rate. I'd guess the guy OP is talking about May have survived due to the fact that he was unconscious and was breathing more slowly. Obviously he is still lucky.  Was this the guy in the tent with the BBQ? He's had a ton of surgeries but he's pretty much normal functioning now. If I'm remembering the story correctly, it was due to someone leaving a small gas stove on overnight in a rural village in China. One of the occupants died, the other survived but had complications with the arm he was laying on making it difficult to do his job (barber). 

It was brought up because the man's son was the focus of the story and was having his father cut his hair before his wedding as a sort of thank you / confidence boost thing for his dad.

edit - [Here's the base article](http://www.npr.org/2015/03/26/395124315/a-reporter-chauffeurs-a-chinese-couple-500-miles-to-their-rural-wedding), you'd probably need to listen to the associated report to find the relevant bit. Ah ok, I'm aware of a different story. A couple had been camping and brought their BBQ into the tent after it had gotten cold but it was still giving off CO, the woman died but the man was passed out on his arms for 20 hours and had to undergo surgery to repair the nerve damage. [deleted] [deleted] He likely suffered limb ischemia from laying on his arm as he was unconscious and immobile, essentially starving the tissue of oxygen in the affected limb. This is not uncommon in the elderly eg. after a fall with prolonged immobilization. The CO may also have been contributory by causing a state of baseline hypoxemia. I actually heard that same story this morning.  Roads of Shanghai or something along those lines.  They did specifically say the blood supply was cutoff. Rock singer Eddie Money has permanent issues because of being passed out and laying on his side for many hours. This happened before he was hugely successful in music. If you ever saw him live, or in his videos, it is very noticeable. How long would it have to be pinched to cause damage? It would depend highly on the positioning of the limb and how severe the impingement was; it's pretty hard to put a concrete timeline on it.  Notably, though, our bodies are pretty well wired to move or wake when things like this arise.  Most of the situations where permanent issues occur are due to being somehow incapacitated or held in place (passed out, pinned under something, etc.). Like during surgery!  We monitor some surgeries purely to make sure the patient doesnt wake up with peripheral nerve damage from positioning etc. Not even how long, but how frequently, too. Like hearing damage can occur from one big noise or a long term exposure to lesser noise. [deleted] [deleted] I know some notable guitar players like Dave Mustaine and Yngwie Malmsteen had to re-learn how to play after suffering nerve damage. The only thing more impressive than learning to play like either of them is learning to do it twice. Not exactly. They still know how to "mentally" play. In your head it's all the same. They know where exactly to put their hands, they just have to make their hands do their part. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Do you have any peer-reviewed sources for your answer? You'll pardon me if I don't hang my hat on "There have been cases...". Source? Id like to know more about how much harm can be done and if there is any measure of severity  These two articles give a pretty good primer to the whole issue:
http://www.todayifoundout.com/index.php/2012/01/what-causes-arms-legs-and-feet-to-fall-asleep/

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radial_neuropathy

You'll note that the major difference between long-term damage and short-term discomfort is whether or not the injury to the nerve is limited to sheathing overtop of it, or if it goes to the fibers of the nerve itself. How long is "long-term"? My physician said nerve cells grow at 1 inch per 3 weeks, and it has to make a whole new strand, thats if you totally break the connection What about if you fall asleep with your hands interlocked behind your neck?  Like this: http://hemacintosleep.com/images/banner-expect.png

Then you wake up and your arms flop down onto your chest and they are completely numb and cold.  I always thought that was blood flow compression, not nerve compression.  Am I correct? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What about times where your arm/leg fall asleep to a point where you can't feel it at all, and it's "dead"? Is that also a pinched nerve scenario? (Cause the dead-limb happens to me a lot). [deleted] [deleted] You can have restricted blood flow to limbs for a fair bit of time before it starts to die. Upwards of hours.
 That's not true. A person intoxicated or otherwise incapacitated can lay on a limb long enough such that its reperfusion causes compartment syndrome. It's necessary to get a fasciotomy in those cases.  What about in the case of Carpal Tunnel? When some people affected by CT sleep they flex their wrists in a way that prevents blood flow and leads to numbness in the hands which leads to atrophy in the hand muscles.  CT isn't caused or affected by blood flow.  Some of the nerves to the hand go through the "Carpal Tunnel" in a wrist bone, which has tissue in it to cushion the nerves. When the tissue becomes inflamed, it chokes the nerve and causes numbness. I'm not saying Carpal tunnel caused by circulatory problems and I think most people here understand what it is. However, what I'm referring to  is well documented, such that the inflammation that occurs does affect the median nerve, of which, it is commonplace when sleeping to have your hands flex in toward the wrist (which is why they recommend wrist braces) for very long periods of time, combined with the numbness and poor circulation resulting from prolonged flexing it is presumed to be part of the cause of the atrophy that occurs in the hands.  I didn't know about that, thank you! The tingly feeling is usually related more to nerve impingement/entrapment. It's actually pretty hard to completely cut off blood flow to your limbs by compressing/ligating vulnerable vessels. Using the arm as an example, here is the [blood supply](http://imgur.com/CMtLdm4), and the [nerve supply](http://imgur.com/CgykZRR) to the upper limb. (Source: Netter's *Atlas of Human Anatomy*). In the first image, note all the vessels that branch off of the subclavian, sections labelled 1 &amp; 2. The vessels that wrap around the back of the scapula (shoulder blade) and connect with the others around the glenohumeral joint (where the ball of the humerus meets the socket of the shoulder blade) provides *collateral circulation* even if the subclavian/brachial artery is pinched shut in the axilla (armpit), the most vulnerable point.

Now look at the nerves. With the exception of the musculocutaneous nerve, all the nerves that innervate the upper limb pass through the 'pit' of the axilla that is vulnerable to compression (The MC nerve is also vulnerable, just less so).

The same applies to compression at other vulnerable points, there's almost always better collateral blood supply than there is innervation, since taking out nerve supply upstream cuts off the downstream more effectively than with blood flow. I believe those are the three sections of the axillary artery rather than subclavian. 

And I could be wrong, but I believe ischaemia can also cause paresthesia if the Vasa nervorum are affected.  Depends on your source as to the exact point at which the name changes. Netters has the swap from Subcl to Axillary around where the pec minor fascia attatches to the coracoid. Then axillary becomes brachial after the posterior circumflex humeral artery branches off. I've seen it slightly different in other texts/atlases. Anatomists need something to argue over, after all.

From what I understand, the ischemia can cause paresthesia if you take out a large enough chunk of the vasa nervorum, but there tend to also be redundancies/anastomoses, especially for major fibers. Additionally, you can severely injure yourself if you were to try and walk on a leg that is asleep. Many instances of sprained/broken ankles, wrists, strained tendons, etc. are a direct result from trying to walk on sleeping limbs.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Hey, yeah theres a few instances of this happening. People refer to one example of this as 'Saturday night palsy' which relates to having a nerve compression of the radial nerve often with intoxication (because usually you'd wake up before there's long term damage)
Here's a link to give you a bit more info. To answer your question- permanent, unlikely. Long term, definitely 
http://www.ncemi.org/cse/cse0919.htm [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] We do not offer medical advice on /r/AskScience. If you have concerns about your health you need to speak to a medical professional. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] If the nerve is pinched for a long enough time, yes. This is called (if I'm not mistaken) "Saturday Night Palsy" in which the nerve tissue becomes so damaged, signals from your brain can't get to that nerve, disabling not only the nerve itself, but any muscles connected to/operated by it.  Yes it can. It's called Saturday night syndrome because if it happens you're usually intoxicated on something. Basically imagine falling asleep drunk on the couch with your arm hanging over the back. The part of your brain that would usually tell you to move your arm because it's tingling is inhibited by the alcohol and thus you continue to pinch the nerve until you wake up. Feeling and function will usually restore but in severe cases it can cause permanent damage..  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] While not exactly falling asleep, putting pressure on a nerve (e.g., resting your arm on the back of a chair) for a significant period of time, can lead to nerve damage.  Eddie Money (the singer) suffered for years when this happened to him.

* At a party one night back in 1980, after drinking heavily, the singer snorted a substance on a mirror that was being passed around the room. Money assumed it was cocaine, but it was really a synthetic barbiturate. He nodded off and spent the next 14 hours lying on his leg, severely damaging a nerve.

SOURCE: http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G2-3493400063.html Your limbs falling asleep are cause by a pinched nerve. A loss of sense or feeling is prob due to nerve damage, not so much loss of blood supply (which is way more dangerous). In most cases, its pretty harmless and will go back to normal after you shake your arm or leg and move around a bit. 

In some cases it can be harmful tho. A good example is a pinched sciatic nerve (the one that runs down the back of your leg and butt). There is a famous nerve problem from having a wallet in your back pocket and sitting on it all the time, pinching the sciatic nerve. This can cause long lasting problems with your legs.  [deleted] No.

You are either obstructing ("pinching") the nerve, or blocking the blood flow to the nerves. The lack of blood flow means less oxygen for the nerves so their functioning slows down and there sensitivities drop. Once they get blood flow returned, the sensation will come back.''Genuinely nothing to worry about.

I've heard of rare cases when nerves and limbs get a decreased oxygen supply for a long-time - sometimes the damage is irreversible - but you would only find that in people who are unconscious for long periods of time. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] "Saturday Night Palsy" is a somewhat common diagnosis. It occurs when the radial nerve is impinged due to someone falling asleep on their arm for many hours. While it is usually not permanent, it can lead to the muscles that extend the wrist being temporarily paralyzed which, if not splinted, can lead to muscle shortening (contractures), and possible long-term problems.  On mobile but didn't see the answer when i quickly glanced through.

Alcoholics and elderly are most at risk for passing out or falling and unable to move or get up while lying on their limbs.  If this happens for a long period of time it can lead to rhabdo http://www.thenakedscientists.com/HTML/content/kitchenscience/exp/-0c2ee7e805/

What to do

We are trying to compare what happens to the temperature of milky tea when you add the milk at the beginning or at the end of a wait.

So make 2 identical cups of tea and pour a measured amount of milk into the first at the beginning of the experiment.

Wait 15 minutes then add the milk to the second cup of tea and measure the temperature of both cups.

What may happen

You should find that once you add the milk to the second cup, the cup which you added the milk to first is the warmest.

Below you can see a graph of the temperature of the tea against time made with a mutilated electronic thermometer plugged into a computer. You can see that the tea which has milk added first cools down more slowly than the tea with no milk in it. So when you add the milk to the second cup of tea it ends up colder.

EDIT: The source here is better and was measured, not theoretical. BTW, this source doesn't account for the tea bag heat retention, so someone smarter than I am can figure that part out. A similar result was found for coffee by [Rees and Viney, Am. J. Phys. 56, 434 (1988)](http://www.loreto.unican.es/Carpeta2007/00TorreonCartes2007/CafeyLeche.pdf), showing that as long as the milk is not significantly above room temperature, adding milk first will result in warmer coffee. The reason is that cooling is related to the difference between the temperature of the liquid and the ambient air. The larger the difference, the faster the heat loss. Would the slower heat loss offset the increase in surface area caused by an increase in total volume (by adding milk)? If the cup was square, the addition of an equal volume of milk to coffee would cause a 66% increase in surface area, provided that the cup itself does not offer any insulation and the milk was at ambient temperature. No, as cups are cylindrical, the top of fluid in them, in contact with the air, is always just about the same circle.  

Some cups get a bit wider towards the top, but not nearly enough to make up for the lost temperature exchange.  You would need to quadruple the surface area (think martini glass) to make it worth running the numbers to see. [deleted] We regard the making of tea as a very serious business. Luckily the British Standards Institute have a document to codify best practice. The matter of the addition of milk is specifically addressed though there is still some controversy concerning it, particularly on /r/britishproblems
  
[ISO 3103](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3103)
 ISO standards are just a standard so that any tests you do are comparable. It's the agreed upon method for tea that will be tested, not the best possible tea preparation. so since you are posting this I am going to assume you read/understood that thing, (I have to excuse myself for not doing that, since my theoretical understanding of physics is not the greatest and english is not my first language either) but do you know the reasons for why it changes when the milk is "significantly above room temperature"?
I ask, because I personally tried listing off all the negligible factors, looking for all situations (realistic or not) in which method A would not be faster and this seems to be one. In Thermodynamik, if you want to know the rate the temperature drops you measure the objekt (the tea) and it's surounding medium (the room). The bigger the difference between them both is, the faster the temperature will fall. So by adding cold milk you drop the temp. of the tea sharper, hence it will fall in temp hereafter weaker than the hot tea. By exchanging the milk with warmer milk you reduce this effekt. sry for the long text and the bad english. I hope i could help It's to do with the fact that adding cold milk gives a sharp drop in temperature. If the milk is warm, however, adding milk at a later time after the coffee has cooled, the drop will be smaller - at some point, you would even increase the temperature of the coffee.

However, they do point out that you need to add a lot of milk at a high temperature to cause Method A not to be faster. Their example is that a 66%/33% coffee-milk mixture requires milk at a temperature of 43C for it not to work, for a room temperature of 20C. Had this been published in the 70's when I attended MIT, I do not know what we would have discussed during the 30% of our meals in the cafeteria when this topic formed our primary topic of conversation. Yeah but OP said 3 minutes, not 15. By waiting longer, you are just giving the curves time to converge [deleted] If we wait until thermal equilibrium, adding milk at the end trivially produces the lowest possible temperature. If we wait 15 minutes, it also produces a lower temperature as shown in the experiment. If we do not wait, the situations are equivalent.

I think it's reasonable to assume that final temperature vs wait time will produce a smooth continuous function for both cases where adding milk at the end will always be better until they converge at a wait time of zero. For the 3 minute scenario, the answer is to add the milk immediately before you drink it. Wouldn't the milk change the temperature by a different amount depending on the temperature of the tea?  
  
Ie. 50%milk at 10 degrees and 50% tea at 50 degrees would be ~ 30 degrees, T=20.  
50%milk at 10 degrees and 50% tea at 90 degrees would be ~ 50 degrees, T= 40.  
  
Edit: op has changed virtually his entire post since I commented. This isn't as relevant as it used to be What's implicit in the question is that the target temp is below what the milk alone is capable of delivering by its own cooling.  So milk and air are going to have to work together.  Since the milk is a fixed mass that is going to remain part of the drink and always arrives fridge-cold, the total energy it brings to the system is fixed.  When it pulls heat out of tea,  it still keeps it in the mug.  The real question is: can the *air* pull more weight with the milk present or absent?  And the answer is absent,  because that's when the air can suck the most heat out in the shortest time from the fixed surface area being made available.  I think we can assume this is a cylindrical mug.  In cooling, we try to maximize delta T between cooling medium and cooled medium to increase the rate of heat transfer and maximize cooling capacity of a system.

That means we would add the milk later. Yeah that was the main thing that came to mind. It's not really about surface area or anything, it's just that a higher temperature difference results in faster energy transfer.  [deleted] [deleted] Just to be clear, is the reason the air can suck the most heat out before the milk is added because when milk is added, heat is lost quickly to the milk and the air, warming the air and decreasing the rate at which the air removes heat? In this case, I think everyone's assuming that there is a lot of air, and its temperature never appreciably changes. When you add the milk, ignoring some minor details, heat isn't being *lost* at all from the drink. It's just being redistributed. Rather than having boiling-hot tea and cold milk, you now have pretty-hot milky tea. Heat energy will transfer at a faster rate between boiling-hot liquid and room-temperature air than it will between pretty-hot liquid and room-temperature air.  I edited my response with a better source. [deleted] Correct, note also that the final mixture is still colder in the first of your examples. /u/warlizard edited his post, in the original he tried to show theoretically that it's faster to allow the milk to cool first by assuming T was constant.  
  
Also my example doesnt take into account the three minutes and is irrelevant in answering the original question Shouldn't the increased evaporation from the tea also be a factor in the additional heat loss?

Adding milk at once means lower amount of water is evaporated taking heat with it, while waiting means you add milk at the point where evaporation has helped taking heat out of the tea, this is the reason I've been adding milk at the point of drinking instead off at the time of removing the bag, but apparently I've been doing it the optimal way for the wrong reasons... Doesn't the addition of the milk change the specific heat of the tea?  Does it have a non-negligible effect on the rate of cooling? Makes sense to me, as you aren't just cooling the tea, you're also heating the milk. Less energy would be transferred to the cold milk from the tea after the tea has cooled than before, so it ends up at a cooler temperature in the end. Would that be about right, or am I missing something? I think here might be the reason behind your result: in the first group, the early added milk makes overall viscosity increase, which causes heat travels slower than it is in pure water. However, if you add milk latter, heat can be traveling in pure water for longer time which disperse more energy.  The heat is being absorbed by the milk, and not leaving the glass, the second cup the heat is being carried away by the ambient air, simple thermpdynamics, you are welcome. &gt; So during the experiment the cup with no milk will loose more heat

I'm saddened this page makes the classic and annoying "loose/lose" mistake. [deleted] [deleted] Is this a logarithmic function? This seems like a good concept but the multiple volume samples should be taken into account. I really like that you included how to conduct the basic experiment to test the hypothesis as well as the theoretically expected results, i think more threads should be answered this way (for questions that can be reasonably tested at home, of course)! Good way to get people actually doing science and thinking with the scientific method. Thank you! [deleted] Lol, this is why this would have been a better question for /r/askengineers What the TLDR is if you want to wait 15 minutes so you can cool down your tea a little bit faster with milk, you're waiting 15 minutes. As opposed to adding milk after 3 minutes, and then having a blast for 12 minutes. [deleted] I don't like that explanation. 

The quality of the tea will be better in A method. But the heat dissipates by the process of diffusion. Thicker the medium of the longer the time is. 

Given the same amount of the fluid, and the same temperature differential between the room and the tea temp, the time to cool will be the same, but the thing to remember here is that the temperature differentials between the two methods are **not** the same. 

Given the ambient temperature of 25C and the boiling temp of 100C the differential that has to dissipate is 75C. 

Given the tea cooled with milk to, say 80C, only has 55C in temp differential to dissipate which means it will take less time to cool.  You have a fixed amount of energy in the mug.  It's slowly dissipating, as you say, into the room.  The rate of diffusion is dependent on the temperature differential.  Heat diffuses much more quickly when the temperature differential is high, which is why the slope in those graphs is steepest at the left side.

&gt;Given the tea cooled with milk to, say 80C, only has 55C in temp differential to dissipate which means it will take less time to cool. 

The experimental data contradict your hypothesis, the one with the milk added later ends up coldest.  If you start with a hotter liquid and let it cool, it will initially cool faster, (shedding more energy,) than a liquid that was initially the same temperature but immediately dropped 20 degrees by adding another liquid that was cold.  Since you shed more energy starting with a hotter liquid over the same timeframe, adding the cold liquid ends up with a cooler drink at the end of the timeframe. Now, we've determined what procedure cools the tea faster, *BUT* that isn't enough to be the solution. The goal isn't to make *cold* tea, it has to be *just drinkable* or else you may end up with a cold/luke warm cup of tea before you can finish it and who wants to drink that?

So, now there are more tests required..which method achieves just drinkable temperature faster&amp;controlled without overshooting and cooling out to fast?

What about brew temperature? Would say 80c get you faster to drinkable temperature or does it have a negative impact on the taste?

What if you prepare milk (when you start boiling water) in advance and let it get closer to ambient temperature? What about *pre cooled* cups, that were stored in the fridge?

What about the temperature retention of the cup? Couldn't you use a metal cup and mabye a water bath to intentionally bleed heat and then pour it into a isolated cup for better heat retention?

There are so many potential variables to account for!

*What if..* you boil your tea with proper lab equipment instead? You have a temperature controlled heatplate and then funnel it through a heat exchanger straight into the cup so it ends up at perfect drinking temperature..

So many possibilites.. [deleted] in the Middle Ages there was a joke about how scholars were arguing about how many teeth a horse had and they finally turned to their books to see what Aristotle said, instead of going to their stable and finding a horse. You did the same thing!
Be The Scientist! Make 2 cups of tea at the same time and pour the milk differently.  Let us know the result  Also include taste tests, since adding milk to boiling hot water basically cooks the milk, possibly changing the taste. Oh yeah! Also in his explanation, if he adds the milk early then he pulls out the teabag really early too - so the tea will have a lot less steep time. So much less tea and cooked milk- these cups are gonna taste totally different It's something that is completely missing from scientific discussions about food. Cooking, while based in science, depends largely on the technique. So while you may be able to describe a thermodynamic system of hot water, cold milk, and open air with mathematical models, the end result is going to be completely different when you are talking about cooking. Chemical A into Chemical B at Temperature C might not matter in a laboratory, but it certainly does in a kitchen.  That's not really true though. Chemical reactions are highly dependant on temperature which is sufficiently described by scientific models.

This thread's question is about the temperature of the tea so it would be unnecessary to deal with the exact chemical process in the tea. That doesn't mean that you couldn't describe it, using a more precise mathematical model. It just gets more and more complicated especially with complex stuff like food.

By the way, thermodynamic processes are often path dependant, so it matters if your conversion from Temperature A to B is isentropic/isochoric/... . I'd say you could describe that as "technique". Thermo has so many contradicting factors and differentials that going to the horse is the only way I ever really feel comfortable with an answer. However, that horse has to be exactly identical. Heat diffusion is fueled by the temperature difference (temperature gradient), which is higher for hot water in air than hot water+milk in air. So you lose more heat in the same space of time in case of hotter material.  
[Fourier's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermal_conduction#Fourier.27s_law) of thermal conduction explains it with equations.  
So - case A is better for you.  
  
EDIT:  
/u/Warlizard gave a very nice answer, try and give it a read!  
Also:  
Yes, as many redditors mentioned, there are many more things to consider if we want to look more deeply into the problem, as: heat convection (as /u/Karnaugh_Map calculated and arrived at Rayleigh numbers of about 30 million, which would make convection dominant), heat radiation (which is very small in this case), surface change due to the addition of milk, change of viscosity and wetting, shape of the mug, etc.  
It mostly still comes to the conclusion that the smaller temperature difference the slower cooling, so the conclusions match.  
Thanks to all for great insight and curiosity! This depends on how cold you need it to be. The above is true but the same physics will cause the tea-milk mixture to quickly find equilibrium. The milk is much colder than ambient air, so adding the cold milk will result in a cooler milk-tea mix much faster than air could, especially because the milk is seeing more of the tea's surface area. Yeah, but after letting the milkless tea cool rapidly, he's going to add the cold milk.  He's not concerned with how quickly the heat is lost, rather how quickly he can get the finished product to a drinkable temperature. [Something like this](http://imgur.com/aVC8REs)

Note: The numbers are made up, but the concept is what matters. Method B will have a short term edge over method A, but there is a "sweet spot" where method A is preferred. This points out the fact that you would want to run some experiments to collect real data to determine if Method A overtakes Method B before or after the ~~100 degree~~ target temperature mark. Your graph is inaccurate - once they are at the same temperature they would cool at the same rate. It should be like this roughly:

https://imgur.com/NoF7Ntu



 I think maybe you want to shift the red line to the left. As is, it implies that you make one cup of tea and start it cooling, then make a second cup of tea and add milk to it at the exact moment when the first cup has cooled to the point where the two will be equal in temperature when you add the milk to the new cup.

**Edit**: Somebody [already did it](http://www.thenakedscientists.com/HTML/content/kitchenscience/exp/-0c2ee7e805/) As someone who's color blind, can someone please let me know which line is red/green. (serious question; nobody home to help)  At the far right of the chart on that website, green is the highest line, then red, then blue. Just a quick question... do you have any color-blind apps on your computer/tablet/phone?  There are apps that can act like a screen filter that help you easily magnify, select a pixel or area, identify the color and all similar colors on the screen, and change colors.  Also, phone-camera apps that can help you identify colors by taking a picture and then doing the same with the photo. &gt; I think maybe you want to shift the red line to the left.


I'm fairly certain this thought crossed u/IshKebab's mind.  It seems clear to me that the time was intentionally offset to illustrate this point:


&gt; once they are at the same temperature they would cool at the same rate Rather than adding the milk to method A at the exact moment that method A and method B have the same temp, it would be best to add it at the exact moment that it's effect will be to reduce the temp to ~~100 degrees (~~the target temp~~)~~. I think that would be the most efficient version of method A. Yes, with one correction. 100C is the initial temperature -- that's the boiling point of water. The target temp is not specified, but it's well below that. Ah yes - my Fahrenheit brain was playing tricks on me. I may have just crashed my Mars probe...

EDIT: Note that my graph is in F and targets 100 degrees. I feel so American right now. Yes, the cooling is not linear, but why do you have a time delay in adding the milk (to the red line). Should that happen at time 0? t=0 is at different places on the x axis for each method so you can see that the cooling curves are the same. That's not good - you are losing important information from your chart, such as the fact that method B starts out "ahead" of method A. A problem here is that your temperature drop upon mixing is identical in both cases.  The hotter the tea is upon mixing, the greater the dT will be.  This is because the total combined enthalpy of the tea and milk will remain unchanged.  A hotter initial temperature = hotter post mixture temperature = larger dH change for milk = larger dH change for tea (equal to that of milk) = larger dT for milk.  Make sense?  Another way is to imagine the extreme, where the tea was already at as cold as the milk, and then there would be no temperature change, but as the temperatures diverge, the dT of mixing increases. Good point, but that wouldn't be enough to make them equal would it? There are two major problems with your graph.

The first is that the rate of cooling is proportional to temperature (the effects of the added volume of liquid and potential change in surface area being assumed negligible). As such, the lines should never cross - if they were to touch, they would follow the same curve thereafter.

The second is the extremely odd assumption that we care about the temperature of the tea *before* we add the milk. You're not going to start drinking it after 2 minutes and add the milk after three... you're going to add the milk before you drink it regardless of what method or how long you've waited.

Combine these two facts, assume the tea is being drunk well above ambient temperature and that the milk is cooler than the desired final product... and you'll find that "wait then milk" is always cooler.

Edit: I see several other people have already said the same thing. OP is asking two different questions, though. One question, their title, does not make time a constant. The other uses time as a constant.

The reality is that we don't know what temperature OP likes to drink their tea at. They say they don't like "extremely" hot tea. At what temperature is tea no longer extremely hot, though? That is up to OP to decide.

So, I think we all agree that if OP waited 3 minutes, then put milk in, their tea would be cooler than the cup where OP put milk in immediately. What will that temperature difference be, though, and when will the tea become drinkable?

What if OP likes their tea at 75C? It's possible that if OP adds milk immediately, their tea will be drinkable before the 3 minutes is up, which would make that the winning choice of the two options.

The reality is that the fastest possible option for OP is to let the tea steep for X amount of time before adding the milk to get the combined temperature down to 75C. That might mean letting it steep for 90 seconds, then adding milk, letting it steep for 10 minutes before adding milk, or somewhere in between. The lower the temperature OP likes their tea, the longer they should let it steep without milk in it. I assume that stirring is part of the process, which makes the milk-to-tea temperature equilibrium happen almost instantly regardless of when you put it in. The point is the tea loses energy more quickly when it is really hot, so leave it really hot until the last moment when you add your cold milk. &gt; The milk is much colder than ambient air, so adding the cold milk will result in a cooler milk-tea mix much faster than air could

The question isn't which cools the the tea more, adding cold milk or being exposed to cold air. The question is, is the result different depending on the order in which these two are done, and the answer is yes. Letting the tea sit before milk is added (when it is hotter) cools it down more, because hot tea sitting leaks more heat than lukewarm tea sitting. Is it accurate to say that method A will cool the tea the most over 3 minutes and one action of pouring cold milk. Where as method B may bring it to drinking temperature quicker which may be higher than the total change in temperature from method A. &gt; Where as method B may bring it to drinking temperature quicker

Because of the fact that the hot tea sheds heat more quickly than the milk-tea, it follows that method B **can never bring the tea to drinking temperature more quickly, no matter what that drinkable temperature is**. Here's proof:

Let's say that the tea is drinkable at temperature T (heat energy per volume), and is at temperature T to begin with. The volumes being equal in both cases, we can refer directly to the heat energies of the beverages, i.e. the average kinetic energy. H is drinkable, H is what we start with.

Now, in time t, the hot tea sheds off an amount of heat equal to D, and the milk-tea sheds off D. We know that heat seeps out of the hot tea more quickly, therefore for time t, D &gt; D . This is a kind of fundamental premise that you just have to accept, that hot things lose more of their heat energy in an equivalent time.

Now, let's get back to our desired temperature. The final volume always being equal, we know that our desired energy in that volume, H, is a sum of the following: The heat energy of the tea, H, the heat energy of the milk, H, and the some amount of heat H that was shed due to waiting for time t. To pre-empt what may be your next question, we'll allow t to also be zero, i.e. we spend no time waiting for the tea to cool and only use milk.

Since we're using the same cold milk, and the same amount, both times, H remains an (unknown) constant.

The temperature of the final mixture is determined by this sum: H + H - H, and we know our desired temperature is thus attained, therefore:

 H = H + H - H

Now, we always started with the same hot tea, so H doesn't change between methods A and B. The milk is also the same, so H doesn't change between methods A and B. What really determines how fast we get to H is the speed at which H increases. H is either D (method A), or D (method B). For the same t, D &gt; D. But if they are allowed different times, t for D, and t for D, then D = D implies t &lt; t

If H is zero (the tea doesn't require time to cool, just adding milk brings it to the temperature we want), then t, t, D and D are all zero, and t = t .

It follows from this, that t *is always either less than or equal to t*. Therefore:

If the tea does not require time to cool, but just adding milk is enough to bring it to the temperature we want, then methods A and B are equally fast, as both simply involve pouring milk, and no waiting time. But in every other case, method A always involves less waiting. Method B **is never faster than method A, regardless of the target temperature**. The time required for method A, t, is never more than the time required for method B, t. OP phrased the question poorly , because it seems one would be able to drink the tea  at a certain temperature which may be reached directly by adding cold milk. If the goal is really the coldest tea possible, then adding the milk later will result in a colder tea, but who wants cold tea? 

Edit : I guess the 3 min is time for the tea to steep, and I guess it must not cool off enough in that time to drink, but who ads milk to tea while it's steeping?  That depends on how you think about it.

Both methods state waiting 3 minutes. But if the target temperature can be reached simply by adding the milk right away, then that wait time can be skipped. If we assume the person drinking the tea would notice it was cool enough without having to wait, then B would be faster.

So, if you look at it from the perspective of quickest route to the target temp with perfect knowledge, yeah, adding the milk at the end is never slower. But if you reword it to waiting 3 minutes and adding milk vs. adding milk and waiting 3 minutes, it gets a bit fuzzier. In method B, you can monitor the temperature and drink when it's cool enough, which could be in less than 3 minutes. In method A, you're always waiting at least 3 minutes, which could be slower. &gt; Both methods state waiting 3 minutes.

If you specify a constant waiting time of 3 minutes, then it's no longer meaningful to ask which method is faster. And it doesn't matter which you ask, the question of which method is faster in getting to a target temperature, or which method gets to a lower temperature in a target time, such as three minutes. It's method A in either case.

The OP's question was the latter, and it was answered. Next, I was answering the former question, as asked by a commenter. Nothing is achieved by this oscillation whereby you contest the answer to one question by switching to the other question. They have the same answer. OP's post is a bit conflicting. The title and the body ask slightly different questions. 

Taking his question literally, your answer is correct. However, looking at the spirit of the question, things become less certain. The second method may be more practical, depending on other variables. &gt; If the tea does not require time to cool, but just adding milk is enough to bring it to the temperature we want, then methods A and B are equally fast, as both simply involve pouring milk, and no waiting time. But in every other case, method A always involves less waiting. Method B is never faster than method A, regardless of the target temperature. The time required for method A, t, is never more than the time required for method B, t.

This is exactly what I was trying to say.  I may have used the wrong words. I'm going out on a  limb here but I'm guessing that 3 seconds of air vs 3 seconds of cold milk, milk wins in net change in temperature of the tea.  If this final temperature is enough to not burn my tongue I will drink. I understand that once the milk is added the tea losses heat less quickly over 3 min than the cup that was left to air cool over 3 min and then have the milk added. Method A seems to be the most efficient way of losing heat, method b may get us to drinkable tea quicker though.

The OP didn't say they wanted a drinkable cup of tea, although it was implied. they said they wanted to know which method cools the tea more.  Yes that is A.  But since it is implied that we are trying to find how to cool tea the quickest to a subjective drinkable temperature it seemed valuable to bring up the other question.
 it is also accurate to say that B will never bring the tea to a lower temperature in the same amount of time using the same amount of milk, thus A is the correct answer. The question clearly indicates that both the milk cooling and a waiting period is required to achieve the desired temperature.  Specifically, the question is which requires a shorter waiting period to achieve the same target temperature. Actually the question was which method will provide a colder temperature for a given wait period. The title and body don't really match.

&gt; Will my cup of 100C tea cool faster... Your way might cool the tea faster. But the important point isn't the temperature of just the tea, it's the temperature of the tea-milk mixture.  Im not arguing but wouldnt it be more appropriate to use Newton's Law of Cooling? That being said, we've only been studying convection for about a week and I also understand that conduction still happens in liquids. You're right about diffusion, 
but you came to the wrong conclusion.

/u/Warlizard posted the right answer:
http://www.thenakedscientists.com/HTML/content/kitchenscience/exp/-0c2ee7e805/ Isn't /u/warlizard the guy from that timestamp forum?? If this milk is sitting in the fridge the whole time, you are correct. If the milk is sitting out of the fridge in a milk jug and warming up while OP waits the 3 minutes, it's going to depend on the air temperature and initial temperatures of tea and milk, and relative sizes and shapes of the teacup and milk jug. But in the typical case it's still better to wait before pouring in the milk. Interestingly enough, I saw a very interesting research paper when I was younger (sorry no link, pre-internet days) that proved that when it comes to coffee (slightly different question) the final temperature is lower when you add the milk at the beginning. Although the third order relation between temperature delta and heat loss seems like the primary physics at work here, when it comes to coffee it turns out that COLOR actually has a larger impact. The darker coffee actually loses less heat through radiation.  Case A is also better because it allows the tea a proper amount of time to steep. If OP wants better Tea they should actually steep the tea for 3-5 minutes while the water is just under boiling at ~208 Degrees Fahrenheit or 97.7 Degrees Centigrade. If OP wants even better tea they should switch away from bagged tea which is generally stale before they even package it, and get some loose tea. Any chance of an update with a worked example?

I'm interested in finding out more about this topic, but unfortunately the equations on the wiki really aren't that intuitive.

Edit: Is there a exponential form of the question? Obviously it wouldn't make sense to do recalculations for every second of heat loss to find out the final temperature at time 'x'. I can imagine it's similar to excretion of drugs, but again, I don't have the know how to apply the wiki equations into this context. Yes: temp_tea (t) = (temp_tea (t=0) - temp_room) * 2^-t/k + temp_room where k is the amount of time it takes for the temperature difference between the tea and the room to drop by half. (Half-life)

This is modeling an exchange of energy between two mediums of different temperatures.  For a given surface area, they will exchange a certain amount of energy.  The loss of this energy will lower the temperature of the liquid.

Also, adding the milk will perform some sort of averaging function on the tea, which will be a linear reduction in temperature.

Lets take half a liter of hot tea at 96^o C, and lets claim that the room is at 32 degrees, and I'll be adding in half a liter of milk at 32^o C at some point.  That will result in the temperature (above room temp) being cut in exactly half, as equal volumes of liquid are averaged.

Let's also state that the half-life of the tea (k) equals 1 minute.  So every minute, the tea will drop in temperature (above room temperature) by half.

One last caveat - we're going to assume that adding milk negligibly increases the surface area, and therefore doesn't alter the rate of energy exchanged for a given temperature difference.  However, the heat capacity of the liquid will have doubled (loses only half the temperature for losing the same amount of energy).  So once we add the milk, instead of halving the temperature every minute, the temperature of the liquid will drop by only a quarter of the difference.


Minute 0: Tea - 96^o C

Minute 1: Tea - 96 - (96 - 32) / 2 = 64^o C

Minute 2: Tea - 48^o C

Minute 3: Tea - 40^o C

Minute 4: Tea - 36^o C

Minute 5: Tea - 34^o C

Add Milk at Minute 5: (34 + 32) /2 = 33^o C after 5 minutes.


Now lets try adding milk first:

Add milk at minute 0: (96 + 32) / 2 = 64^o C

Minute 1: 64 - (64-32) / 4 = 56^o C

Minute 2: 56 - (56-32) / 4 = 50^o C

Minute 3: 45.5^o C

Minute 4: 42.13^o C

Minute 5: 39.6^o C

As you can see, adding the milk early drops the temperature, which reduces the amount of energy the liquid gives away at any given time.  So the net result is that dropping to a certain temperature, where the milk-tea mixture has some specific amount of energy, will take longer to reach.


 In method A, from minute 1 to minute 2 it goes from 64 to 48, but in method B, from minute 0 to 1, it goes from 64 to 56. Why does this happen? I would think that if they're both the same starting temperature, then they would lose the same amount of heat in one minute.
Edit: oh i see, because there's twice as much liquid Because I realized half-way through that there are a lot of topics to cover to explain why this happens.  So first, I apologize for this being unclear.  And I apologize for the long response here - just want to cover all bases for similarly confused people.

The physical mechanism for something cooling off is exchanging a specific amount of energy per second between two materials at different temperatures at their contact point, for a given amount of contact (surface area).  So that's energy, per second, per square centimeter.  *Note: loss of energy depends on surface contact,* not *volume*.

The amount of energy exchanged is a linear amount that scales with the difference in temperature between the two mediums.  So twice the temperature difference means twice the energy exchanged each second, for a given amount of surface contact.

But when you have a small amount of material that has a significant difference in temperature, like a cup of tea, the temperature of the tea will drastically change as it loses energy.  And because temperature is *energy density* in a material, a loss in temperature is linearly related to energy loss.  This is why it's an exponential decay.  Because as the liquid loses energy, it cools down, and thus the rate that it loses energy, and thus drops in temperature, goes down.

*All of the above* is combined and encompassed into that single half-life time constant **k**.  Which does a good job of modeling how much time has to pass for the temperature difference between a medium and the general environment to be cut in half for a scenario with all parameters fixed apart from the temperature.

**Answer to question here**

But when we add the milk, we change something else.  We change the *volume*.  Temperature can be thought of as a measurement of energy density based on the properties of the material.  For instance, water has a specific heat of 4.14 Joules/ml (or Joules/gram).  Which means it takes ~ 4 joules of energy to raise 1 gram of water 1 Kelvin/degree Celsius.  And a loss of 4 joules means the temperature of 1ml of water will have decreased by 1 degree.

So if I have a scenario where my 500ml of tea is bleeding off ~2000 Joules per second for a given temperature, the whole volume is going to be dropping in temperature by 1 degree per second.

*But* if I have I have 1000ml of tea/milk mixture and otherwise the same set-up (roughly same liquid, and same surface area), then I'll still only lose ~2000 Joules per second.  Which means that for 1000ml of liquid, the temperature *will only drop by half a degree per second*.

So that's the answer.  For identical set-ups, but different volumes, the two cups of liquid will lose *energy* at the same rate, but one with twice the volume will only drop *by half the temperature* for each second.  So for a given 'k' which is the rate that my smaller cup of tea loses half its temperature over a certain amount of time, a volume twice as big can be approximated as only losing *one-quarter* of its temperature for the same amount of time.

*Edit* - I see your edit, but I'm going to leave this up anyway for people that have unimaginable attention-spans. If you don't like calculus, you could just drop it into an excel sheet and do that calculation every second, heck you could even add a section whuch evaluated the mixing of milk after cooling and evaluate exactly how many seconds it would take to make a perfect cup of tea. What about the container? Not all the heat is lost, the container can act as a heat-sink. The quicker the tea is cooled the less heat will be stored. 

Maybe I'm overestimating the heat storage ability of common hot tea containers? Interestingly, if you want it frozen this is not entirely true...

Check out a very cool, not fully understood phenomenon: 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mpemba_effect But this isn't taking into account the induced convection when you add the cold milk, which is a much faster form of heat transfer.  This is one of the few things I remember from physics.  The way they worded it to us was this: Your hot coffee stays hot longer if you put cold milk in it because of the fat content of the milk.  It slows the cooling.  Thus the opposite in the above example, when adding milk later it will cool faster.   You are technically correct -- adding fat to the tea so that it insulates the exposed surface of the tea will slow the cooling process, both by reducing convective cooling and reducing evaporation. 

However, waiting to add your cold liquid will result in lower temperature *regardless of fat content*. The fat is not the main player here, the temperature and volume are.  Nobody has mentioned the effect of the increased volume (of adding the milk at the start). Would it not also affect the rate of heat transfer to the air? A higher volume means there is more mass to 'trap' the heat (like a photon, in the sun, which can take a really long time to escape the sun's surface because of the sun's massiveness), contributing to a longer cool-down. Nor the conduction through the insulator ceramic mug, or evaporative cooling... Except the milk and tea have nearly equal heat conductivity. Air has horrible conductivity in comparison. Plus, the tea has to convect in order to have cold top surface tea at the top fall down so hot tea in the middle can rise to the top and transfer its heat to the air. Pouring in the milk is more turbulent and invades the middle quickly to transfer even more heat faster.

Depending on the temperatures desired and starting and volumes of tea versus milk, adding the milk at the beginning could easily be faster than waiting to add it. The air isn't conducting, it's convecting. So the heat transfer is appreciable. You also have steam coming off the tea. The process if evaporation is one of the most energy dense means of heat transfer. Regardless it doesn't actually matter what the relative thermal resistances are, adding the milk later will be more effective. You're arguing that the addition of milk will generate sufficient turbulent flow such that the increase in convection will offset the decrease in thermal gradient. You're also assuming the convection is the dominant form of heat transfer as opposed to conduction.

I believe the first is wrong simply because in my experience, turbulent flows in a cup of tea tend to settle very quickly, much faster than the three minute timescale. 

As for the dominant form of heat transfer, I arrived at a Rayleigh numbers of about 30 million, which would make convection dominant. However the decrease in thermal gradient reduces the efficiency of heat transfer from both conduction and convection. [deleted] Not sure if this is just an academic question; it seems like you actually want an answer for the practical application.

You seem to be ignoring steeping time/temperature. In Case A you are actually steeping the tea for 3 minutes in the boiled water. In Case B are you putting the teabag back into the water-milk mixture to steep for 3 minutes? I would assume so, otherwise you are getting really weak tea in Case B.

In any case, if you drop the temperature of the water(+milk) in Case B, you are steeping the tea in cooler water. If you are talking about black tea (I assume this because I'm not really familiar with milk being added to other kinds), then you should be steeping it in the boiled water, so Case A is preferable.

Note that this is completely ignoring your question about the overall coolness of the cup of tea, but I think your primary concern should be yielding a properly brewed/steeped cup of tea, and then dealing with the milk and drinking temperature. Bottom line (IMO), brewing/steeping temperature is much more important than how to get to a comfortable drinking temperature. i.e. why would you want to drink something at a comfortable temperature if the drink isn't made properly. This is the response I was looking for when I saw this thread. Thanks for pointing out that the quality of the tea should be of utmost importance! For those who appreciate a fine cup of tea;

[A Nice Cup of Tea by George Orwell](http://www.booksatoz.com/witsend/tea/orwell.htm)

Edit* - I now see that this link had been posted within this thread, but oh well. After. 

The tea is hotter before you add the milk, which means that the temperature difference between the tea and the surrounding air is a bit higher. And the hotter something is compared to the surrounding air, the faster it will lose heat. So the tea will lose more heat faster before adding the milk.

Consider this example: if you added enough cold milk to make your tea room-temperature right away, would it continue to cool down after? No, because it is already the same temperature as the surrounding air (temperature differential = 0 degrees). Meanwhile, if you let your tea cool down normally to room temperature and THEN added cold milk, your tea would actually become colder than room temperature. In a similar vein: should I add milk or sugar to my hot beverage first to get the sugar to dissolve?
If I add sugar first, the beverage is still hot and will dissolve the sugar easily. 
If I add the milk first, the liquid is cooler but there's more of it (beverage + milk) so the sugar will dissolve more readily. So I guess the question here is what matter more for solubility: volume of solvent or temperature? It will dissolve faster in a hotter beverage, as sugar has finite surface on which the dissolving can occur, and to achieve a saturated solution (which is where you could run into problems with volume) of sugar in water you'd need extreme amounts of sugar (water can hold up to 160g of sugar per 100ml even at 0C and it rises very quickly with temperature).

This is of course without any outside interaction (stirring). Plus the milk has its own dissolved solutes and sugars which can effect solubility of the sucrose. It depends on the exact parameters of the substances. In the real world, though, you're unlikely to be adding enough sugar to approach the saturation point of the drink, so adding the sugar to the drink when it's at its hottest will probably make it dissolve faster. Well isn't this kind of a double edged sword..

If you don't steep the tea you won't get proper mixture of tea particles with the water.

If you cool too fast it will lengthen the time it will take steep, or will make a poorer quality tea. 

Seems regardless of what is the faster cooling method, the steeping supersedes the cooling.   If we're talking about tea quality, I can't *not* [link to George Orwell.](http://www.booksatoz.com/witsend/tea/orwell.htm) If you don't leave your teabag to sit for a few minutes why are you even making tea? [Just drink some hot water with milk in it.](http://www.pierkuipers.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/asterix-and-the-british.jpg) While most of the answers on this thread are correct, they use only explanations that dance around the simplest explanation: Newton's law of cooling. This law suggests that cooling is logarithmic with respect to time. Therefore if you have a constant period of time, there will be more energy lost to the air if there is a higher temperature gradient. (Cup A will be cooler after a constant time.) Method A :

The hotter tea is in comparison to its surroundings the quicker it will cool.

If you put milk in the tea quickly it will lower the temperature quickly but slow the cooling after that you'd likely find it at a drinkable temperature later rather than sooner. 

P.S. This is the MOST English thread Reddit has ever seen. Classic thermodynamics question.  Rate of temperature change is proportional to difference in temp between room and tea (i.e. the hotter the tea is, the quicker it will cool down)  So if you add the milk the tea right away it will drive down the temp of the tea and cool slower than the hotter tea.  Therefore, waiting for the tea to cool then adding the milk will result in the cooler cup of tea (at least in the short term.  As time goes on the tea will end up room temperature) Running the numbers and assuming 250 mL of tea at 100 degrees, 20 mL of milk at 5 degrees, and room temperature of 20 degrees (and instanteous equalization of temperature between the milk and tea once it is added, which is true unless you don't stir), it is a small fraction of a degree cooler if you add the milk at the end. Not meaningful in a three minute period; if you cool off for 15 minutes it is about half a degree cooler.

But really you should add the [milk before the tea](http://www.theguardian.com/science/brain-flapping/2014/oct/03/how-to-make-tea-science-milk-first?CMP=twt_gu) so the milk doesn't scald. [deleted] No Experimentation Required:

A will yield a cooler cup of tea.

Just looking at one heat transfer principle. 
1. Heat will transfer fastest when the temperature difference is greatest. 

This tells us that heat will transfer faster when given an extra 3 minutes at the near-boiling water temperature, rather than an extra 3 minutes when at a temperature that has been reduced somewhat by the milk.  Shouldn't we consider:

-The distance between the fluid surface and the top of the cup? (if the surface is higher there will be more cold air passing it in 3 mins)
-The surface that's shared by the fluid and the cup? (since cup transfers heat it gets from fluid to the air too)
-Density/heat capacity of milk or milk mixed with water?

Or is this all marginal? All I know is B would yield a very weak cup of tea removing the teabag so quickly. I'd go with A My high school physics department actually made an experiment with this problem, however they wanted to know which way their coffee was hottest after being left 5 minutes. The tl;dr is that it stays hottest when milk is added at the beginning, sugar doesn't matter. The explanation for this, which is also given in [this stackexchange thread](http://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/81910/would-a-cup-of-tea-be-hotter-if-you-add-the-milk-before-or-after-boiling-water), is that for a liquid that has a lower temperature gradient the evaporation rate und thus the cooling is slower.

So, if you want your tea cool, we twist it around and arrive at the conclusion to let it sit for 3 minutes, then add milk (which further drops the temperature).

Also, if you don't have milk handy or drink your tea without, [this user](http://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/5265/cooling-a-cup-of-coffee-with-help-of-a-spoon) made an experiment with dipping, stirring and letting the spoon sit in a cup of water. The idea here is that the metal spoon acts as a sort of thermal conductor into a cooler reservoir, i.e., the ambient air in the room. Dipping wins the cooling race here. First comment, in fact I created an account to take a whack at this question, seeing as it is a good way for me to exercise my newly acquired knowledge of heat and mass transfer. 

With the cooling on your tea, the mode of transfer that is removing the most heat is convective heat. That is the heat exchange between two fluids, or a fluid and a solid. 

If you look at the equation for heat exchange on this Wikipedia article: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convective_heat_transfer you will see that a greater rate of heat transfer occurs at a higher temperature difference. This makes sense when you think of the heat exchange of a room temperature beverage, there is no heat exchange. But as that difference grows, the heat exchange rate does too. 

So, in summary, your best shot is to let the tea cool for 15 minutes with the bag in, then add milk. The milk will then cause a quicker rate of heat transfer than the air alone and your Tea should, be cooler than it would have been had you added the milk immediately.

I, on the other hand, will continue to add milk as quickly as possible and risk the burn as I sip my hot beverage! - Enjoy THERMODYNAMICS!!!
My field of expertise :D
Now on to your question. It really depends on the temperature of the room you are in and the temperature of the milk.
Laymans terms,if your room temp is 25 Cels and milk is 2 Cels, it is a lot better to put the milk in first since it will cool it to about 60 Cels in less than 30 sec (With the assumption that milk is 20% of the whole drink). HOWEVER after that you will have a lot slower dissipation of heat than if you let it just sit there. As of air cooling,if we use the example above,then you will get around 85-90 Cels in 30 sec,BUT the temperature will continue to fall at a steady pace, not suddenly as with the milk. So, Pick your poison if you will. Not an answer to your question but i think its equally as important, you shouldnt actually be having your tea at 100c - except for Black tea that is.. 

Most tea should be between the 70c-90c. 

Just a bit of advice from a tea lover.

http://coffeetea.about.com/od/teabrewing/a/teatemp.htm Thank you for addressing the important questions!  (and I just had someone in the office tell tell me that coffee should be brewed with 100C water, grrr!)

For those playing at home, if the water gets to boiling, you'll flatten the water (let the air out).  Seriously, compare the flavor of "fresh" or aerated water with distilled or cooled boiled water.  It's just not there. (this is 

Also, if you dowse the tea or coffee in water above about 95C you'll lose some of the nuances of flavor as a variety of compounds in the product will break down around boiling temperatures. It's B. Pour the milk right away and let it sit. The rate of temp drop in this case will be slower than if it were starting at 100C, but will be cooler at any given time. It's due to the equation: IN-OUT+GEN=ACCUM. IN and GEN are zero. So it's  -hA(T-Tambient)-5.6703 10-8 *A*T^4 = -mCpdT. Convective and radiation heat loss. Integrate wrt Time. You get your answer. Just change the starting temp and mass, which will be different w the added milk.
Me: Ex chemcal engineer remembering heat transfer class 12 years ago. 


Edit: I did the math with assumptions below. For A, in 3 min, 8oz tea will be 98C if just the air cooled it down. Add 2 oz of 4C milk will make it 84.3C. 

For B, adding 2 oz of 4C cold milk into 8oz of 100C tea will make it 80.8C. 3 min later, it is at 79.7C

Edit: assumptions: cup is 5in in diameter and 5 in high, convection heat transfer coefficient is 25 W/m^2 K. Heat capacity is 4.18 kj/kgK. Same for milk and water. 
Ambient temp is 25C. No assumptions for cup material. Assume the tea bag removal takes away an insignificant amount of mass. 


Somebody get two similar cups, boiling water, milk, a stopwatch, and a thermometer to test and let us know!!

Consider this too: The 100C cup will drop in temp at a faster rate initially, but then drop at the exact rate as a colder cup of equivalent temp and mass. If you really want to get crazy, specify the mass of cup and material to account for those affects as well. 

Edit: I was using KJ instead of J initially. Number have been corrected. Answer B still stands. I'd say you have your area and/or coefficient too high. Heat transfer out the sides and bottom will be limited by conduction. Also personal experience says a cup of tea will still be tepid after 10minutes The answer is A because of one simple principle:A larger temperature difference will have a faster rate of cooling. 

The tea is 100 C and the room is about 20 C making it a difference of 80 C in scenario A. The milk will be the same temperature in both scenarios and the heat from the tea will transfer almost immediately in both cases and any cooling effects here are completed seconds after adding the milk. In scenario B, the tea will instantly drop to about (guessing here) 90 C and cool from 90 to 20 C. This is a difference of 70 rather than 80 and therefore the rate will be slower. In each case, the closer the tea get's to 20 C (about room temp) the slower the cooling rate will be. Actually, this kind of depends on your cup.

If your cup is v-shaped, then adding milk will increase your drink's surface area, and thus result in faster cooling.

If not, than I have no clue. At least its a factor. The temperature of the milk is a constant.  The temperature of the tea is variable.

By waiting, the variable is closer to room temperature so even without doing any real math I'd think that a mix closer to room temperature results from waiting.  The experimental results posted by others bear this out. The cooling rate is a curve. The slope of that curve is directly related to the difference between the temp of the coffee and the outside air.   

If the initial temp between 2 cups is the same, the cup with added milk will cool slower.

They will both reach the temp of the outside air, the hot one does it faster, and!! And!! you are adding a dose of cold milk "later".  

They will both eventually be room temp, But the " milk first " will be there last 

This is an intro question for physics thermo classes.
 Heat transfer is proportional to the temperature difference of the two surfaces and so a cooling body will normally follow a negative exponential curve in temperature (cooling rapidly at first then then more slowly).  If the cooling were linear it wouldn't matter when you took away some of the heat (adding the milk) but since it is exponential you get more bang for the buck by allowing nature to transfer the heat more rapidly for you first. I remember this being mentioned almost as an aside in one of Martin Gardner's Scientific American's Books of Mathematical Puzzles and Diversions. The short answer was that adding the milk first yielded a hotter cup of tea a few minutes later because of the increased volume of liquid and the reduced difference between the temp of the tea and the ambient room temp. I would say adding after the 3 minutes due to [Newton's law of Thermal Cooling](http://www.ugrad.math.ubc.ca/coursedoc/math100/notes/diffeqs/cool.html) which states that the amount of thermal cooling is directly proportional to the temperature difference, so if you leave the tea hot (100 C) then the temperature difference will be much greater than if you add the milk first. So let the tea cool faster then at the end seal the deal with the cool milk. Your title and your post ask two different questions, but given the practical nature if your inquiry I assume you meant what you wrote in your post. You'll always have colder yea if you let it cool then add refrigerated milk. 

The dominating factor in your tea's final temp is the refrigerated milk. Given your refrigeration temp is so much lower than the ambient temp adding almost any amount of milk will lower the temp of the tea more than the heat loss to the air. This reduces the question down to will I have colder tea if I add milk to a cup of 100 degC tea or 99 degC assuming absolute minimal heat loss. When you look at it like that then it becomes obvious that letting the tea cool first then adding milk will always net you colder tea. 

 You put your milk in *after you've poured the tea*? Barbarian. :)

Of course my goal is always to keep the beverage hotter, not get it cooler (or rather find the sweet spot between too hot and too cold), and if you add milk first, the tea gets perfectly blended as you pour without any use of a spoon unless you need to stir in sugar. It seems objective testing has borne out that the "milk first" method makes it retain heat longer, and this is also what empirical personal testing has shown. So pour milk later.

Barbarian.

;) All of these answers and no one is addressing the flavour issue? I've experimented with this a lot and can tell you, subjectively with 10 tea drinking respondents, if you don't let the tea rest before you put in the milk, the taste is less rich. Adding some hot water after milk makes the whole a bit creamier / gives a more "bound together " (better mixed) taste.  That seems correct. Different flavours in the tea come out at different temperatures, so if you put the milk in straight away you will lose some of the flavours that come out at hotter temperatures. So you should let it stand a couple of minutes before adding the milk (but not too long, else you will end up with cold milky tea). As a drinker of tea myself, I generally recommend leaving the bag in for longer before adding the milk, as it allows the tea to be fully absorbed by the hot water as intended. Being that I also dont like especially hot tea, may i suggest you pull your kettle off the stove before it is at a rapid boil, or alternatively make the tea with 3/4 boiling water, 1/4 cold tap water, then add your milk. First off, all else being equal, taking the teabag out sooner means less of the desirable chemicals from the teabag go into the water. So you want to leave the teabag in for a few minutes if you can (and if you aren't finding the tea ends up too strong).

On to the main question: In principle, the longer you wait before adding the milk, the colder the tea will end up after the milk has been added. See, the greater the difference in temperature between two environments touching each other, the greater the rate at which heat will move from the warmer environment to the cooler environment. So if you leave the hot tea as it is for 3 minutes, it loses heat faster than if you had added the milk. Which means, the earlier you add the milk, the more heat is retained at the end of the 3 minutes.

Note that this is true even if we assume that the volume of the tea remains constant. In the real world, adding the milk will also increase the volume of the tea. Assuming that the cup is some fairly consistent geometric shape, such as a cylinder, this will further enhance the effect described above, in the sense that the extra liquid helps to insulate itself from the air outside and reduce the rate at which heat is lost. However, it would also be possible to arrange special scenarios where the reverse is the case- for instance, by having the cup widen out a great deal just above the initial level of the tea, or by making the upper part of the cup out of a more heat-conductive material (e.g. metal vs plastic). 
This was a question on college bowl a long time ago. Adding the cream earlier would keep the tea warm longer: 1- light colors lose heat slower than dark colors 2- cooler tea would lose heat slower because of lesser temp differential 3- Lesser surface area per volume for heat to more rapidly escape. 4- cream forms insulating area (not true for milk) 5- greater volume slower heat loss. 6- perhaps there was on about lower density also. 

You got double points if you could name the associated law of thermodynamics. [Molecular Gastronomy- Chapter 19](http://books.google.com/books?id=qO-e-JFViVYC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;source=gbs_ge_summary_r&amp;cad=0#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false)

This is one of my favorite sci-ency food books. This is covered in it explicitly including using a spoon as a radiator (1* per minute drop) and stirring/ blowing and doing both. Highly recommend this book one of my favorite parts was how they talked about amount of chewing per bite.  The temperature difference is what matters. The higher the temperature of the cup, the more heat transfer away from the cup and to the colder surrounding areas. Look up convection heat transfer, and conduction heat transfer. The bulk of heat transfer occurs through these two modes of heat transfer. It might depend on the exact temperature you need it to be, the amount of the milk you add, the temperature of that milk, the room temperature. 

Even with simplifying assumptions like the thermal conductivity between whatever is in the cup and the atmosphere is constant, there's no curdling, and that water and milk have the same heat capacity, the partial answers can be expressed:

T^0 = initial temperature of water

T^R = room temperature

T^M = milk temperature

t^m = time milk is added

f = fraction of milk in tea

k = thermal conductivity

T^Am = T^A (t^m ) = [T^R + (T^0 -T^R )exp(-kt^m )](1-f) + fT^M

T^A (t^m ) = T^R + (T^Am - T^R )exp(-kt^m )

T^B0 = T^B (t=0) = T^0 (1-f) + fT^M

T^B (t^m ) = T^R + (T^B0 - T^R ) exp(-kt^m )

There's a start, at least :) A cools quicker. If you always add the same amount of milk and it is the same temperature.

The boiling water looses more heat more rapidly for the given time period than the cooler drink so given all other factors are constant then your answer is A Dark matter cannot interact via the strong force or the electromagnetic force.  It may or may not interact with the weak force, although many models have it doing so.

Yes, there could be additional forces that ordinary matter does not feel.  In fact, we already have examples of something like that, in that electrons do not feel the strong force. How could we measure such a force, if it doesn't interact with matter?

If we couldn't measure it, how meaningful would it be to us? If we can indirectly measure dark matter distribution - which we can, through its gravitational influence on ordinary matter and energy - we could see if there are anomalies in its distribution that cannot be explained by interaction with any of the four known forces. I don't really know anything about this topic, but if there was more than one force that interacts with dark matter but not normal matter, would there be any way to distinguish them?

I'm thinking of a math problem with multiple variables, but we have no way of knowing that X is actually multiple variables. So then we'd try solving for X but have a lot of problems because sometimes X would be Y or Z and we'd still be working on the problem as though there was only an X. Neat question. Not that it'd show up on a galactic scale, for instance, but what if the two forces corresponded to not-always-coincident properties of dark matter (or normal matter)? You could observe that in some cases only one of the forces seemed to be present, in other cases a second, and in still other cases both at the same time?

In a sense, this isn't unique to dark matter. You could similarly ask how we can tell the difference between gravity and electric forces, even though both are 1/r^2 forces acting along the same line -- and the solution, I think, is the same. If we develop statistical regression models to predict the force interactions we would need to have an idea as to what is occurring.

I would guess that people would develop such a model using one/two known forces, i.e., indirect gravity and the week force. Then identify that those models don't entirely explain the phenomenon, and search for another mystery force. If we use an equation that has either both gravity and the weak force as variables or just gravity and an extra variable as the unknown force, could we not solve for the properties of the unknown force as it interacts with dark matter since we know the properties of the known forces? We could first solve for the X force, the "sum total of all field interacting with Dark Matter that are not the 4 fundamental forces", and attempt to measure the results of that force. Once we are able to measure that force, variations in that field that are not caused in some way by variations in the 4 fundamentals would then logically be the result of changes in a separate force, a part of X, in that fields only change for a reason.   so with "dark matter", it could be made up multiple factors that exist to create force in the system.

It doesn't just have to be 1 variable?

so dark matter could be made up of 3 things?

so would it be better to call it "other forces on matter?" which better considers the point i'm making above, so it's less likely to be interpreted as 1  thing which is what I think is confusing /u/eidoK1  as well?

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] 