This is honestly the most exciting prospect for 'finding life in our solar system' that I've ever read!   It seems almost all of the "there totally could be life here" articles are a stretch at best, but this one makes it sound like finding life there could honestly be a very strong possibility! Hopefully NASA can follow up on this finding relatively soon.  Aside from finding life- the second most exciting prospect is spreading life! There's a secular movement that's been around for a few decades that believes the purpose of life on earth, and humanity in general (as we're the only species capable of achieving the goal), is to spread earth's biology beyond earth.

Finding life already existing elsewhere would be cool, but ultimately not as relevant, and we should do what we can to not contaminate other planets' life with earths biology. Find planet with no life of its own but is capable of supporting life, and spread earth's biology to those planets. Leave planets with their own biology/ ecology alone. Hard to believe that we'd find ET life then just "leave it alone."

Don't get me wrong, it's be a very wise thing to do, but I just don't think we could help ourselves if we had the capability. We certainly don't have a good record of leaving terrestrial life alone, if that's any indication. We don't have a good record of leaving other people's private matters alone.  We don't have a good record ~~of leaving other people's private matters alone.~~

 D+ at best! Question 1: Is it intelligent? 

Question 2: How does it taste? Question 3: how do we kill it? [deleted] Question 5: Will it blend? [deleted] We would definitely "mess up" the first couple of ET life because we would wanna study them and potentially move into those planets (since thy're the easiest), but after it becomes "yet another planet with life discovered" I think we would have laws and stuff in place to leave them alone. We would probably have the technology to study them while not being any danger to the ecology of the planet. I'm talking way in the future though... We are barely in space right now. &gt; I think we would have laws and stuff in place to leave them alone.

A "Prime Directive", if you will. Unless there is stuff we want on said planet. Then democracy is coming.  Sounds like advanced alien species might be "leaving us alone" at this very moment! Nope. They've travelled light years to dissect our cows And fingerbang our rednecks in the ass. [Awesome article on the Fermi Paradox.](http://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/fermi-paradox.html) The Fermi Paradox being the question of why every indication we have seems to point to life, particularly on a universal scale, being abundant yet we seem to be the only intelligent critters about. Made even stranger by how fast we're advancing and the fact that our planet is a baby in the timescale of the universe. [deleted] I'm no scientist, but how would one find a planet capable of supporting life but not having any? This is a critical question that we are scouring the galactic neighbhorhood for evidence to answer.  If we find a lot of hospitable places (like Enceladus) but no life, then it would seem there *is* some "wall" that blocks life's development despite friendly environments that we would have to identify (I believe this is called the "Great Filter").  On the other hand, if we find life wherever it can be accommodated, we would know the Filter, if it even exists, is chemical in nature, and perhaps not a very strong one.

I know this isn't exactly what you were asking, but we don't know the answer to your question.  We're still trying to figure out if the question is even relevant in the actual universe.  But it is a good one!

Edit:  Really good point about the Filter possibly still looming in our future, hadn't even considered it.  =X This is a good comment. For anybody wanting to learn more about the Fermi Paradox and the search for extraterrestrial life, I found this article awhile back that lays out some ideas pretty well (for a layman like me, anyway): http://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/fermi-paradox.html Very well done article, learned a lot. Thank you In any case, if we don't find any equally or more advanced civilizations, it could mean the Filter is still ahead of us and that we are likely to die :) As /u/the_schnudi_plan notes, it could be very, very bad if we find out that the great filter is *not* at an early stage of development like early cellular life or some other early stage, because it then implies that the great filter (as a solution to the Fermi Paradox) occurs at a later stage of development, i.e., the development of nuclear fission, or some other form of self-destructive devices that would make a species unable to continue reproduction. *Capable of supporting life* is generally used to mean that the planet/moon/body has the elements required for life to form. From a scientific perspective, life comes to being by chance chemical reactions that occur when these elements are able to interact with each other. Life on Earth, for example, is thought to have from from the simple, abundant elements Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and Oxygen connecting to each other in various forms of various complexity. Over the last 4 billion years, this has led us from simple, self-replicating molecules (the precursors to life were likely chains of molecules very similar to DNA) to things as complex and diverse as chimpanzees or squid.  

If this sounds a little complex and crazy, that's because it might be. It could be that life on Earth is a freak phenomenon that doesn't happen often at all, and that we are alone in the universe for all intents and purposes. It could be that it is exceedingly common given the right conditions - and what we *think* are the right conditions are the ones we just found on Enceladus. The right elements, heat, and moving water. The thing is, we just don't know how common life is, even given the perfect conditions.  

So, it could be that Enceladus is *capable* of supporting life - it has all the right conditions - but those *chance* chemical reactions haven't occurred there in the right order, timing, rates, or whatever - we don't know what could go wrong, we've never seen life somewhere else before. It could also be the case that Enceladus is swimming with life, because it certainly seems *capable* of it. Enceladus is a pretty good example, actually. It has all the requirements for terrestrial life - warm water, nutrients, and the like - so if there isn't life on the moon already, it might support our life. We should follow the Prime Directive Yeah, that's a bit of a sticky concern.  NASA already attempts to sterilize any probe that we send to other worlds, but they'll have to be extra careful when they send probes to Europa and Enceladus.

Not only do we want to avoid "false signals" of life in any instruments, but we also don't want to risk contaminating those worlds with our germs.

If we do find life after exploring a while, the ethical concerns about whether we should mess around with it will be interesting.

My guess is that as long as it's not advanced life, we'll not be in much of a quandary about settling those places. Unfortunately, China does not sterilize their space equipment to nearly the same level.  I don't know why, but sterilizing everything made me think, "Spreading MRSA across the universe." It's the hospital employee inside me... [I wrote this in response to another comment, now deleted, that suggested we introduce Earth evolved bacteria and see what happens. Your comment is in a similar vein.]

This seems like a pretty terrible idea to me. What if there's life that we don't immediately recognize? We're still finding new and exciting archaea in hydrothermal vents in our own waters. See for instance [*Nanoarchaeum equitans*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanoarchaeum_equitans) which was discovered in 2003 and is so alien that it was put into its own phylum. It would be heartbreaking to contaminate the environment only to discover later that there was indeed native life that we potentially destroyed with Earth based organisms. Hmm I wonder if we also brought bacteria to Mars already.  Like I imagine that some engineers may have sneezed on the rovers before sending them up, so maybe we've already brought life to another planet. We have been extraordinarily careful to avoid that, actually. Protecting potential Martian ecosystems from contamination is a major point of concern to NASA. IIRC extreme measures are taken specifically to avoid this.  Seriously. Went in expecting the "ocean" to be liquid sulfuric acid.

Warm slightly salty water? Shit, I'll take it. right? That's usually how these articles go: "If there exists life that could possibly live in boiling sulphuric acid, that life could exist here!" Even if there's not life there, we could totally dump some bacteria in its oceans and see what happens. Time to send a probe with a prop. 

Can you imagine how exciting it would be to send a little probe down in to the depths of another planet. Only to have it be eaten by some ET mega fish minutes later? Totally worth the $8,000,000,000! To be fair, this has been known since around 2005. Take a look at this 2010 documentary by Prof Brian Cox. Skip to the 40 min mark, although the entire series is amazing:

http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x1cysfg_bbc-wonders-of-the-solar-system-2-of-5-order-out-of-chaos_tv "With temperate, vent-warmed waters that contain nitrogen, methane, carbon dioxide, and various other chemicals required for Earth-like life, Enceladus could very much look like the Lost City hydrothermal field under the Atlantic Oceanan environment where many scientists believe life first originated on Earth."

!!! ELI5: How do they know all of this? Do we have a nearby probe or camera or something that can see all this? [Cassini](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cassini%E2%80%93Huygens) has been in orbit about Saturn since 2004, it was the first to discover and image Enceladus's "tiger stripes", the surface features corresponding to the vent openings. [image](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/5/5f/Enceladusstripes_cassini.jpg).

Cassini has several chemistry experiments onboard which have been able to detect the listed chemicals in Enceladus's plume, and tracking of its orbal velocity during flybys of Enceladus has provided us with evidence of a low density (water is less dense than rock) region centered on the south pole. 

Edit - actually I think the south polar region is over-dense, due to having a volume full of liquid water rather than ice. Of course water is denser than ice, which is why icebergs float. There's a paper floating around the internet that came out about a year ago detailing the gravity measurements that one should be able to easily find on google to get some more info on the topic. is this photo real or an animation? its pretty neat dude.. It is real. Cassini has some high quality cameras. Real, colors are false though if I remember correctly. The lines would not be that prominently blue.  I don't think so. I could be mistaken, but since it looks like a washed out version of the ~~visible~~ color map of the planet, I would guess that this is just a standard photo.

http://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov/catalog/PIA18435 From the source you linked: "The colors shown in these global mosaics are enhanced, or broader, relative to human vision, extending into the ultraviolet and infrared range." Oh, you are right!  But probably not true color. Astrophotography is more designed to convey info to researchers than to provide a photorealistic image. Like for example, the tiger stripes are likely much less blue irl, but accentuated in the image to help identify the cryovolcanic regions. I think that's normal -- hardly anything on /r/earthporn is true color either. It's not fair that the early astronomers never got to see the photos we have now. Herschel discovered this moon in 1789, but the only thing he ever saw was a tiny dot.

I wish we had time-traveling parcel delivery: "Dear William: We sent a space ship to your moon. Here's a close-up. Sincerely, the Future" And in another two hundred years someone will make your comment but commenting on the landing, whilst we only got the photos.

Weird It's a composite made from about 20 different photos. Cassini took pictures with different filters (ultraviolet, visible and infrared light) and they got this photo by combining all of those. How large is Enceladus in reference to earth?  Very small.

http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f4/Enceladus_moon_to_scale-PIA07724.jpg What would your horizon look like on a planet like that? Could you drive around the equator in a days time? 

I want to go there. Check out http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extraterrestrial_skies#The_sky_of_Enceladus

Saturn would cover 30 degrees of the sky, 60 times bigger than how we see our moon. I like this wiki page Interesting.  Imagine if Earth orbited something like Jupiter.  It would be tidally locked of course.  Now suppose that the gas giant only was visible from the western hemisphere.  World history would be about the same up until 1492, then things gets weird. That is equal parts fascinating and terrifying.  Especially in light of this:
&gt;since Enceladus rotates synchronously with its orbital period and therefore keeps one face pointed toward Saturn, the planet never moves in Enceladus's sky  Its diameter is 500km. You could drive around it in a day at highway speeds. Equator is approximately 1550 km, so if you go 100 km/h that's 15.5 hours. That seems like it must be pretty close to the size or mass limit for the propensity of an object to be gravitationally rounded. I just did a quick google search found this article that agrees with you. 

http://www.spaceanswers.com/deep-space/what-is-the-minimum-size-a-celestial-body-can-become-a-sphere/ I knew the brits don't belong here [deleted] We'll call it Planet Australia They'll still beat you at cricket.  Plaustralia. We should just take enceladus from Saturn and bring it back to earth as a second moon and space resort. And because it will be closer to the  sun the ice will melt and we'll have a new ocean to cruise and we can put fish there as a giant fish farm.

On second thought the oceans might reflect the suns rays back at us and act as a second sun, that could be good or bad.  Super tiny. It has a radius of 157km/97mi.   It can almost fit in the Texas panhandle.  Earth's moon is roughly 10 times larger.

http://i.imgur.com/0Qjk4NX.png


It has a 986.46km/612.96mi circumference.  You can drive around it at highway speeds (~100kmh/~60mph) in about 10 hours.  9 hours if you don't drive like an old lady. OMG, Enceladus is over my town!  

I'll have to go outside and look up now! The image was an xray, get a shovel Earth is about 12000 km across, Enceladus is only 500. So a lot smaller. Damn. That's disappointing. Looks like I know where the global elite are moving. Looks like Eeloo Well they did plan to make eeloo a moon of the second gas giant, so really, that's what they were going for Impact ionization mass spectrometry of Saturnian stream particles.
Its mounted on the Cassini space probe It's hardly a garden world, but it's the closest thing in our tiny, minuscule solar system. 

If you think about probabilities, this bodes very well for prospects outside our tiny corner of the universe. &gt; It's hardly a garden world, but it's the closest thing in our tiny, minuscule solar system. 

well, second closest. Touch. Does this mean that the "waters" are flammable?  There are lots of dissolved gasses in our oceans, many of which are flammable, and yet the ocean doesn't burn... Hell, even the two elements that make water are flammable. It may seem unintuitive, but pure Oxygen is in fact not flammable by itself. Literally NOTHING is flammable by itself...  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Not true. Ammonium perchlorate for example. There are lots of others. [deleted] No.  You need molecular oxygen for combustion, and that's one of the gases that Enceladus doesn't have in significant quantities. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Cool, cool, but how do you pronounce it?

Any way but enchiladas, please.

(And despite the joke I really care about the pronunciation, because I want to tell my friends about it) Rhymes with "Men sell a bus". ("a" pronounced loosely, like "uh") Rhyming is definitely the best way to demonstrate! 

In gratitude, I'll impart a little pronunciation knowledge of my own. Hopefully you don't already know it. The loosely pronounced a is a [Shcwa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwa) (Schwa Vowel and Schwa sound are also acceptable).  Hey, I did not know that! Achievement Unlocked: "Mutually Beneficial Reddit Post"! This warms my heart.
 I know you're warmed up, but don't go venting. Love it.

Source : I run a mostly male dominated sales team for a bus factory. One of my profs who was studying its ion field pronounced it in-sill-AY-dus. The Latin pronunciation would be in-kel-ah-dus. Its Greek root (enkelados), was pronounced in-kel-ah-dos. Dictionary.com pronounces it en-sell-a-dus, which I have never heard anyone use. The switching from the K noise in latin and greek to the S noise probably happened because French was still predominant during its discovery. I've only ever heard en-sell-a-dus en-sell-adus I'm thinking en-SELL-adus? en-sell-ADUS sounds like enchiladas. &gt;Enceladus could very much look like the Lost City hydrothermal field under the Atlantic Oceanan environment where many scientists believe life first originated on Earth. That's a far cry from the scientific state of affairs 15 years ago, when scientists were sure Enceladus was a lump of boring, uneventful rock. This idea would have been laughable.

Thanks for not giving up This is further proof that space programs should continue to get funding. In 15 years we might have a totally new and exciting discovery.  What about Europa? I thought that one also had a sub ice crust ocean. Europa is 6x bigger in diameter than Enceladus and probably has a much bigger ocean. But Europa's is under kilometers of ice, and there's only been a hint of venting water vapor (caught only once by Hubble, not by any local spacecraft). Drilling down would be exceedingly difficult and expensive.

Enceladus has obvious big plumes venting a lot, so collecting samples would be relatively easy; plus these latest results maybe put it a step ahead of Europa. Except that Saturnian moons are twice as far away as Jovian moons .. 
A bit more tricky to study The cost in savings from the much smaller and less complicated spacecraft it would take to explore Enceladus's oceans compared to Europa's would more than make up for the cost of sending it to Saturn over Jupiter. Yes yes but I want aliens now Careful what you wish for. If you can get a probe to Jupiter you can get it to Saturn with only a tiny bit more fuel.  Its not any trickier, just a slightly different trajectory and longer wait time.

Once you get to earth orbit you're more than halfway to everywhere! Of course, Europa is also in a less friendly radiation environment, as the radiation belts around Jupiter are much nastier than Saturn's, and Europa in right in the middle of them. Making a probe which isn't killed by the belts within weeks would be really, really hard.

EDIT: radiation from the increased travel time might make this unimportant. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;The water is less than 4 percent salinity, has a pH between 8.5 and 10.5 (Earth's ranged between 8.0 to 8.3 before the industrial revolution),

What happened to Earth's oceans' pH range after the Industrial Revolution? It's gone down 0.1 pH. It's now 7.9 to 8.2. Which is really rather dramatic when you think about it. The whole world's ocean? How many moles' worth of water's been changed by us? How many hydronium ions have we contributed? CO2 production has increased water acidity

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbonic_acid  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ocean_acidification Ocean acidification! That's what I'm looking for.  &gt;  Between 1751 and 1994 surface ocean pH is estimated to have decreased from approximately 8.25 to 8.14,[5] representing an increase of almost 30% in H+ ion concentration in the world's oceans.[6][7] Can we repurpose [the submarine to Titan's methane sea mission](http://news.discovery.com/space/alien-life-exoplanets/nasa-wants-to-send-a-submarine-to-titans-seas-150212.htm) for some actual salt oceans with heat vents and accelerate some time frames? 2040 is too long to wait! Does Saturn have a radiation belt like Jupiter and is this moon outside of that belt?   It wouldn't matter, water makes a pretty amazing radiation shield, anything a few feet below the surface would be untouched. As always, here is the [relevant XKCD](https://what-if.xkcd.com/29/) Amazing. The life of that diver was saved by a few measly feet of water. Just incredible Wonder what the pay rate is for being the spent fuel pool diver.. According to this [article,](http://popularlogistics.com/2012/04/nuclear-divers-swimming-in-hot-water/) some start at $30,000 Nope.  I'm cool. To clarify, I was thinking more of how hazardous it would be for humans to get there (through the radiation belt) to get to the moon.  I wonder if there is a chance that some of the silica particles found in the geyser ejecta could be the shells of silica using life similar to diatomes found in the oceans here on earth? Great question! A lot of organisms on Earth have silica bodyparts. Diatoms, radiolaria, silicoflagellates and even plants have tiny silica bits called phytoliths I always imagined all those greek scientific sounding words to be mysterious and awesome. Then I began studying biology and realized that they are far less creative than anything else. Phytoliths. Plant rocks. Goddammit. ELI5... How is the water liquid, so far from the sun?  Wouldn't it be super cold, all the way out by Saturn?  If it's Saturn's gravity field that keeps the ice as water, (ELI5 here too... I don't really get how that works), then wouldn't we feel crazy gravitational forces, that make it inhabitable?
 So basically how it works is as the moon orbits Saturn, saturn's gravity squishes and squeezes it like a stress ball. All that friction keeps it warm, and the warmth keeps the water from freezing.

For an explanation of why this is true for some moons (it happens for many of Jupiter and Saturn's moons, iirc) and not others, you'll need to ask someone smarter than me. My best guess is that since (I think)/Enceladus is nowhere near proportionally the same to Saturn as our moon is to Earth, Saturn's gravity affects it more powerfully than Earth's gravity affects the moon. I am by no means an expert, but am taking Astrobiology in college at the moment and your explanation is pretty much the same as what my professor has been telling us.  They offer courses on Astrobiology? That's awesome! Yeah haha it really is. I needed some upper level electives outside my major and the course description of learning about the possibility of life in the universe, where it would be likely, and if it existed how we should react/communicate with it  was too good to pass up.  I'm not sure about the others, but I know for Europa specifically, it's not only the forces from Jupiter, but also the orbital patterns of two other moons, Io and Ganymede, which create a sort of "orbital resonance" that amplifies the effect of Jupiter's gravity. The orbits of the other two moons line up with Europa's in such a way that this creates extra tidal force on Europa itself. It's called tidal heating. 

Rotating in the gravity of Jupiter and/or saturn squeezes the planet back and forth as it rotates. As it squeezes the planet, it gets hot from the friction.  This keeps the inside warm enough to have liquid water.  How does the conservation of energy figure in? I'm actually having a hard time grasping where does energy comes from? Is the moon slowing down its rotation because of it?

Edit: spelling Yes the tidal forces will slow down the rotation of the moon, this is what a tidally locked moon is. The lowest potential energy state of the moon and its rotation.

EDIT: Replaced planet with moon, although the moon also slows the rotation of the planet aswell. In the case of the earth there is energy transfer from the rotation of the earth to the moon, there is total conservation of energy in the system but individually the earth slows its rotation and so does the moon, at this point the moon is locked (energy minima), so to compensate and maintain conservation of angular momentum (of the system) the moon gets slightly farther away as it gets heated by the squishing effect of tidal forces. 

We are actually in a unique period of time where the moon is the same angular size as the sun, and being just a hair smaller allows for very intense solar eclipses with the coronal ejections visible. In a few hundred million years the moon will be too far away for total eclipses, the energy to push it out comes from the slowing of the earths rotation, but the reason it recedes rather than just heat up and melt is a result of conservation of angular momentum.

To demonstrate the significance of this effect, even though the moon has been tidally locked to the earth for a significant portion of its existence (evidence by the large disparity in the number of craters between the "day"/"dark" sides). It has moved almost twice as far as it originally was and the earth's day has lengthened to almost twice as long as it was when life first appeared (evidenced by fossilized ancient coral growth rings shows day cycles as short as 12 hours in the early earth).

The effect on saturn from its moons will be much smaller due to the enormous size disparities, but the effect on the moons is amplified significantly, causing enough heat to maintain liquid oceans under the ice. There are two primary sources for heat. Radioactive decay and tidal forces. Based on the size and location the biggest is probably tidal forces.

To ELI5 it up: The spinning of both Saturn and this moon cause the shape of the moon to warp as gravity pulls at it from different angles. This warping of the moon causes friction. Friction turns to heat. This is an educated guess, but the presence of hydrothermal vents indicates that there is a molten core radiating heat outwards to the oceans. I would bet there are other factors in play also. edit: decay of radioactive isotopes is also a possible heat source A "molten core" would probably be unlikely due to the small size of Enceladus. Our Moon, for example, is an order of magnitude larger and likely doesn't have a molten core (perhaps partial melting though). There definitely may be hydrothermal vents on Enceladus, as this study purports, but the heat source is likely from dissipating of tidal energy rather than a molten iron/silicate interior dissipating heat into the water. High temperature water-rock interactions are still possible, which is very exciting. That does make alot more sense, i didnt realize how small Enceladus was. 
" It's estimated that the ocean could have about as much water as Lake Superior."
http://www.vox.com/2015/3/11/8190411/Enceladus-hydrothermal-life
 To be fair, Lake Superior is pretty big and deep as shit. Interestingly enough, the decay of radioactive isotopes is usually the source of most of the core's heat, so those statements go hand in hand. Tidal friction also plays a big role for Enceladus. No, it is tidal forces. If it's like Europa then it's likely the moon's orbit around Saturn causing friction and heating up it's core.   Known as tidal forces, for those interested.  Tidal forces from Saturn's gravity, made possible by the steep slope of the gravity well.  It's a heat generator that runs on gravity! For perspective, here's the (edit: ***approximate***) distance between Earth and...

Saturn:  792,248,270 miles.  (1,275,000,000 km)  
Jupiter:  390,674,710 miles.  (628,730,000 km)    
Mars:     48,678,219 miles.  (78,340,000 km)    
Moon:  238,900 miles.   (384,400 km)
 well...kinda.. 

the only measurement there that is somewhat accurate is the moon.  The rest are in constant flux. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You absolutely should be excited. Hopefully we can get another mission to Saturn in a few years. So why is it that we hear of scientists talk about whether or not planets light years away contain water, yet we are only now able to conclude that a moon within our own solar system contains water?  Just a guess here:

The way we learn of water in distant planets is from certain wavelengths of radiation from the stars, indicative of O-H bonds. This requires there to be a star on the other side of the planet, acting as the light source for the planet to filter.

Enceladus obviously lacks such a star, because our star is on the other side of the sky from it. The fact that we can deduce so much from things like the radiation levels is astounding to me. I say we send a probe immiedtely  I agree, lets pull one off of the shelf and send it post haste! Besides the life question, could this also mean Enceladus could be a site of future colonization?  Relatively easy to access geothermal heat with potential drill-able water Doubtful. A very big problem is that it's very small: only 500 km across. Surface gravity is just over 0.01 *g* (1/100^th Earth gravity). And though it's apparently above freezing somewhere far down, the *maximum* surface temperature is -128 C. What very little atmosphere there is to speak of is mostly water vapour, with little or no free oxygen.

It's not impossible to live there, but it's not much different from living on *our* Moon. The main advantage is an apparently abundant source of water. So you could probably do hydroponics with no problem, as long as you had an energy source.
 What do you know. Maybe I will get to see extraterrestrial life in my lifetime.  This is such amazing news I got a tear in my eye.

To imagine, in our own solar system the prospect of life!

This is an amazing discovery. 

Also I teach science so this maybe hitting me more than most. &gt;To imagine, in our own solar system the prospect of life!

We've known about life in our solar system for quite some time now. I feel like if we could get one probe in there and post a pic like[ this](http://i.imgur.com/KIUrnbd.jpg) everything would change. From what I understand the liquid water is covered by a thick layer of ice. Ah ok, that makes sense.
 Hypothetical scenario: There *is* a planet with a motionless ocean out there, and they do one thing to disturb the water and it creates a ripple through the whole planet. Huge layer of ice though :/ 

A picture like that would be pretty amazing though. Like the first pictures of the moon.  Over/under on how long before we land a probe to search for life there? 4 years until a presentation (elections as well) then another 7-9 before launch if greenlit. If.

Then, 3 to 5 years transit time depending on gravity assists available within that window. I'm 45 in a few months. I may not see this probe reach the target.
 You will make it. Says the robot, pfft. Hey now, we are approaching the medical singularity. You may not be immortal, but I bet you at least hit triple digits. Medical singularity, is that the point at which lifespans increase so exponentially that immortality is reachable by everyone who gets extended life treatment? Yes. Basically, it is the point when our "life extention technology" increases at a faster rate than time itself passes. If you were supposed to die at 85, the tech exists to get you to 90. And then when you turn 90, someone figures out how to extend it to 95, and so on. This is one of the most optimistic threads I've ever seen, your comment especially made me smile :) Come on man. By your numbers, the oldest you can possibly be by that time is 62. That's no age! We found liquid surface water on another planet?

This should be huge and in the news!  Unfortunately amazing discoveries like this often go unnoticed by major news organizations. The water isnt liquid on the surface.  Plumes of liquid water erupt from under the icy crust of the moon when Saturn's gravity causes fissures to form in it.   Not on the surface, under. And the "water" part has been known since 2005, when Cassini detected the plumes. And enceladus isn't technically a planet We're close. Only a few more years before humanity confirms, once and for all, that we Earthlings are not alone. I hope so man, I can't wait to hear them say it.  It's going to change a lot. What will it change A lot within the scientific community, yes. But politically/socially I don't think things will change much in the foreseeable future (I mean, of course, assuming these life forms cannot talk to us).  I'm definitely excited for us to find life in the universe, I really hope to see it in my lifetime. 

However, I think if we find life (especially intelligent life) there is going to be somewhat of a sadness surrounding it. I think a lot of people have this feeling that when we find it we will be able to answer the major questions of the universe. I think when we do find life we're just going to find another species that is as lonely and confused as we are. The very exciting thing is that life is probably very common, and even intelligent life probably is.

The very sad thing is that statistically, we're very unlikely to ever meet them.
 More likely, we'll just find some simple archaebacteria, and be like "what?  That's it?"

Obviously the scientific community would recognize it as one of the most important discoveries in human history (if not the most important), but I feel unless it's actual multicellular life, it's less likely. I hope it can be described as a few *years* but I suspect it'll be closer to a few *decades*. Ya.... Don't get your hopes up. ELI5: how did we "miss" this? Hasn't our solar system been scoped pretty robustly? This is the first we are hearing of it? As you can see on this list, we've not sent vast numbers of probes out in the 60 or so years we've had a space presence. They're pretty expensive.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Solar_System_probes
Just been reading about our history with this moon Enceladus. We've had a probe doing multiple flybys since 2005 as an extension to its previous mission, scheduled to do 11 in total. No idea why it took so long for this particular revelation. Look at all the places it's got to visit! http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cassini%E2%80%93Huygens#Itinerary That made me stoked on the good old USA. 

Like 10 probes can't leave earths orbit by the USSR, we launch our first and it flies by Venus.  Good for you... Oh, no. We have lots and lots and lots more left to learn about our own system, believe me. Outer space is big and dark, it's tough to find a place to park.

Edit: What the fuck, I explain like you're actually 5 and I get downvoted? What has reddit come to? Can you imagine in fifty years (IF they find life or something  comparable to it) The conversations young students will be having about us? I imagine it would be with the same attitude as we have talking about when people believed the earth was flat! The flat-earth trope is well worn, but greatly misplaced. People as far back as the Ancient Greeks knew the earth was spherical. By and large, it's been a minority view ever since, except among the most profoundly ignorant people. (Columbus, for example, would have considered it a very stupid notion.)

What distinguishes us from many earlier peoples, I believe, is our informed awareness of our own ignorance. We are less certain because we can readily reflect on the well-documented history of scientific presumption and error.
 &gt;What distinguishes us from many earlier peoples, I believe, is our informed awareness of our own ignorance. We are less certain because we can readily reflect on the well-documented history of scientific presumption and error.

Many Ancient Greeks were aware of this notion as well. The Socratic Paradox is the original example of this thought process.

edit: that I know of. It'd be cool if someone else knows of an even more ancient version of this thought At least we were looking for life. And didn't imprison the one who found it. No one's found it yet but I say that we arrest that fucker for consistency. Shots fired. This isn't the right way to look at it. We're actively searching for life out there. They'll look at us as explorers, like those who landed on the moon. We're not ignorant at all about the universe. Just because we don't have all the answers doesn't make us laughable.  The technology isn't proportionate to that time period though. I imagine students then would have a lot of humility, considering fifty years is a young boy today being a student's father then. [deleted] I was not aware there was a sentiment that earth was the only habitable planet [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Yay Panspermia!

Keep in mind that the signals we've sent out have barely been out there 100 years.  In the cosmic scale we haven't even reached the edge of our own back yard with those signals.

Even if we have reached another world we have to consider that the recipients may not have developed radio yet.

If they're on our level it may take another 100 years for them to get the "Hello" back to us again.

And/or they're so far ahead of us they're waiting for us to mature before they bother trying to talk to the meat flappers (us).



Yet another angle.   I read a [fascinating Panspermia paper](http://www.technologyreview.com/view/513781/moores-law-and-the-origin-of-life/) that examined the rate of increase of complexity on DNA.  It is an exponential value, with the number of *distinct* genes to doubling roughly every 376 million years.  Run the timeline backwards and it suggests the first DNA strands were created around 10 billion years ago to a simple enough molecule that it wasn't "life" at all.   They could have even formed in early nebula long before the cell wall was evolved.  If that's true then nearly every living thing we ever meet will almost certainly be from the same seed content and if it takes 10 billion years to reach where we are today there's a decent chance that no other aliens would have more than a few million year head start on us.

edit:  The full paper is linked in the article. [deleted] Also the signals we've sent out will only persist for a relatively short distance. The idea that advanced ET life would use our primitive technology for deep space communications is laughable.  We've advanced well beyond smoke signals and drums for long range communications but we haven't forgotten them and would still recognize them if we saw them in use.

adv. ET wouldn't use radio waves, but they would be well aware of them and know what they can be used for.
 Agreed, wavelengths are pretty basic knowledge. Just like the hydrogen atom diagram on the voyager probes...any "intellIgent life form should know what that is. Your analogy serves my point. Our assumptions that we can "listen in" on radio waves or send out radio waves as a form of deep space communication is like trying to use drums and smoke signals to contact a town two states over. 

Even if our signals didn't dissipate in the background radiation of space after a few light years (which is exactly what will happen) it would still take an impractically long time to reach anyone and then receive a response. Surely ETs beyond our level of technological advancement would be able to pick up our radio waves *if* they (or relays) were already in range, or already knew where to listen. 

To then assume that our cosmic neighborhood must contain little to no intelligent life because we haven't detected anything, as far too many people do today, is just plain silly.   Why would it be laughable? Id imagine theyd use a myriad of signals and wavelengths, 'primitive' and otherwise to increase chances of contact. Sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from nature unless discovered otherwise.  We could be bombarded with alien signals and not even know it. Due to the vast distances between stars and the short range of radio, it is an inefficient and unreliable method of communication. Even if our signals didn't dissipate in the background radiation of space after a few light years (which is exactly what will happen) it would still take an impractically long time to reach anyone. If we have intelligent neighbors at or below our own level of technological advancement, we wouldn't be able to communicate this way. If we have intelligent neighbors significantly above our level of advancement, they would have to situate craft within the short range of the signal, which implies that they were already passing through or that they were already studying us. In that scenario contact would occur thanks to the advanced technology of the ETs and not the viability of radio.  Well, I imagine some aliens just like us sending signals to a random planet hoping to find an intelligent species... well, at the time thay would have contacted us, we ere still fighting in the cristian crusades... [deleted] [deleted] Well,  a few things would happen. DNA analysis (if applicable) will tell us if we are related organisms. 

Related: If related, panspermia is now reality. The details would require more research--are we closer to the source, or are they? Do they have similar functions in regards to reproduction/sex/feeding? Do viruses plague them as well? Are viruses that are prevalent on earth present there? Do earth viruses affect them? Everything has its own implication.

Unrelated: Our solar system is confirmed as superhabitable, spawning TWO different kinds of life.  Searches for life will follow planets with hydrothermal vents--which are plentiful enough. 

Plenty of political implications: the presence of two independent sources of life implies that we are not alone. That means that everyone else in our galaxy is purposely quiet. Why are they quiet? 

A) intelligent life has a habit of killing themselves off before they reach the level of communication we have. 

B) we are not advanced enough to intercept intergalactic communications. They purposely do not initiate contact because we are primitive,  destructive,  and violent. 

C) Something has killed off all the intelligent life that made enough noise to be heard. These aliens hunt either for resources or for fun.  They do not negotiate,  they are out there,  and they wait quietly until they hear a noise ...

A is most likely.  We see it happening now.  The possibility of C will scare the shit out of every country on the planet. We will advance our weaponry not to defend against each other, but to defend against the unknown. Together,  Earth would learn how to whisper, instead of blasting radio into space. We would expand from earth,  exploring our area of the milky way and establishing colonies, likely on planetary systems that drift by. We would learn techniques that preserve resources and climate stability on other planets.  We may go 100,000 years with no communication between colonies, since they would have a different orbit around the galaxy. We would continue to look for life--quietly. &gt; C) Something has killed off all the intelligent life that made enough noise to be heard. These aliens hunt either for resources or for fun. They do not negotiate, they are out there, and they wait quietly until they hear a noise ...

After reading Existence by David Brin, this possibility haunts my dreams. Awesome in the most literal sense, and quite spooky.  Thanks  For? Probably the book "recommendation" And when we do encounter a civilization that is louder than we are, we'll eliminate them in fear of the hypothetical C, ignoring how we have now become C ourselves.

...at least, that's how it always works in Sci-Fi. ...yep! Hopefully we will be smarter by then, though. If you would like to read something along these lines (especially C) try reading the hard sci-fi by Alistair Renolds. Revalation Space comes to mind. Although  a lot of his books follow this theme. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The Vatican accepts the existence of dinosaur and says the 6,000 year old Earth isn't correct. 

The Vatican is surprisingly up to date and accepting of new scientific discoveries. The crazy, loud nutjobs that are in the tiny minority are the ones that won't accept it. My honest opinion of finding microbiotic, very early level life on another body, in an ocean like this is that it will only matter politically for hundreds, thousands, millions of years.

Primarily, scientists will want to explore it. Funding it will become a debate for viability and popular opinion.

Political positions will be swayed and moved based on the over-all voting opinion of people in those countries who believe we should/shouldn't intervene.

A religious debate will open up among those voting peoples, contesting questions to the politicians running to determine their stance on the matter.

100 years from now, if it's decided to leave it alone, and collect small samples to study for scientists, it will be mostly forgotten. The debate will be between the higher learned, the scientists and politicians, to discover whether they can keep harvesting samples without creating conditions that would destroy the life present. If it's decided that we should "do something" about it, they would think of ways to affect it, and eventually people will forget.

However, what people won't ever forget, is the religious debate. Eventually, the religious debate will keep coming up, until eventually, "Yeah but other life on other planets....." will just become some random quip used. The same way we have, "But the big bang..." It's a quip that proves there's no religion for some, is disregarded by highly zealotous, and somewhere in between for everyone else.

Evolution would take thousands of years to even see a single mutation that's worth talking about in the scientific community. And even then, it will take a half a million years for a noteworthy difference from what we originally found for, "Normal people," to care.

Generally scientists will marvel and people will shrug. I think this is exactly what would happen. While it would be cool, our daily lives would remain pretty much the same. Hey neat, I just got a picture of Ganymede two nights ago!

http://i.imgur.com/aYw7VYH.jpg

(it's the middle of the 3 moons) Woah that is awesome, is the large one Jupiter then? Thanks!  Yessir the large one is jupiter.  If you're curious, this was just a regular old digital camera and $200 telephoto lens in the heavily light-polluted city of Toronto, no telescope involved here:

This final image has been enlarged 150% using Photoshop's bicubic smoothing enlarger.  This was taken in RAW format on a Sony A55v SLT-type camera, with an f/5.6 280mm zoom lens (420mm in 35mm equiv) at ISO 1600 and 1/3sec.  Original photograph had the left side of Jupiter's glow completely blue, I assumed it was chromatic aberration and used Photoshop's automatic blue aberration remover on it, and then tweaked the RAW file's white balance settings to get the colours close to grayscale without actually desaturating to grayscale.

Here's the unedited version.  Maybe that blob sticking out of the top right of Jupiter is Io?

http://i.imgur.com/wfOUnrm.jpg I had no idea that was even possible with that type of equipment, thanks for the info. Just curious, what part of the globe did you take the photo from?  Toronto, where the sky glows a purple-orange at all times of the night.  A few things that helped to get this photograph were: Jupiter was almost at the zenith of the sky, so the atmosphere and pollution between me and jupiter was the absolute thinnest it could have been; I had to bracket the focus, because it turns out that "infinity" on my zoom lens is actually *beyond* infinity, so I had to keep taking pictures to figure out when the moons were actually focused;  And a much faster exposure than I expected - Over-expose, and they just look like any other star in the sky.  But if you keep cranking the exposure down to the minimum, that's when you start seeing the details like the sun hitting one side of the moons. Hate to be a killjoy, but the moons look like crescents due to the lenses or focus being off. Only the planets Venus and Mercury can be seen as crescents from Earth due to the geometries involved. Our orbit is so close to the sun in comparison to Jupiter's that the sun might as well be right behind us and illuminating the entire disk every time we look at Jupiter.  It would take a very powerful telescope to resolve a disk of one of those moons.. And they'd be MUCH smaller than jupiter Are you absolutely certain about that?  The sun appears to be shining from the right on jupiter, as well, not just the moons.  I have plenty more photographs from the same night with a slower exposure, and it just stretches out the crescent shape.  I think it is more complicated when you consider the amount of light being reflected from jupiter itself, as well.  And if it were just a focus or lens distortion, I would expect this effect to be visible on jupiter itself, but I don't see it there.  And I did a lot of bracketing with focus, this was actually the best focused image out of all of them.  And I have been able to find similar pictures of crescented moons of Jupiter taken by amateur astrophotographers elsewhere on the internet.  And I showed this to plenty of astrophotographers, and not one of them suggested what you did. 

Not saying you're wrong, but the evidence isn't convincing, yet. They are absolutely correct. Think about the geometry involved and also the fact that you never see a detailed picture of a crescent Jupiter taken from Earth. All crescent Jupiter images were taken by space craft very close to it. 

Here's a top down graphic of our solar system out to Jupiter that appears to be roughly to scale to help you understand the geometries: http://i.imgur.com/O1sps0y.jpg

From our perspective, Jupiter is always almost entirely fully illuminated by the Sun because it is so much farther away and so the angle relative to the Sun is small. The same is true of it's moons.

From Wikipedia:

&gt;Because the orbit of Jupiter is outside the Earth's, thephase angleof Jupiter as viewed from the Earth never exceeds 11.5. That is, the planet always appears nearly fully illuminated when viewed through Earth-based telescopes. It was only during spacecraft missions to Jupiter that crescent views of the planet were obtained.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jupiter#Observation

**Edit:** Added solar system orbits graphic and additional explanation and wiki.  &gt;And I have been able to find similar pictures of crescented moons of Jupiter taken by amateur astrophotographers elsewhere on the internet.

Since this hasn't been addressed yet, could you include the images that you're referring to. I can say with certainty that they were taken using the Voyager, Cassini, or Galileo spacecrafts (or another if I'm forgetting a spacecraft that we've sent) that either orbited or flew by Jupiter and got to see the "backside" from farther out than Jupiter is from the Sun. Yeah just look at Jupiter itself. If there's no crescent (gibbous actually) on the planet of Jupiter, there shouldn't be any on any of it's moon. How can the sunlight only hit the moons on the right, but somehow hit Jupiter on the right and left? He said Toronto. That's crazy. I just looked at Jupiter through a large telescope (roughly 1 ft in diameter, 7 ft long -- I know nothing about photography or telescopes) a few nights ago. It was roughly the same scale as in this image, a little smaller even. However, the color was much more clear/crisp, ie: the stripes on Jupiter were plainly visible.

Really cool that this can be captured with just a camera and a nice lens. This is a little deceiving.  Ganymede is roughly 25 times smaller than Jupiter but the image makes the moons look much larger.  The size and the crescent shapes of the moon makes me think that there is a lot of distorting occurring ether by the atmosphere or the optics.  Yep looks like the four Galilean Moons. Awesome. Mate this is fucking outstanding. I never would have believed you could get such good photos without going to a fucking observatory.
 Here's one I took in February! http://imgur.com/L7310Ao.jpg  If we're sharing pictures we took of jupiter,  here's the one I took back in February that I'm particularly proud of because I was able to capture some details:
http://imgur.com/djg2RfJ

Edit: Ganymede is top right Don't those moons [look a little big?](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/7d/Jupiter-moons.jpg). Something to do with technique maybe? They would appear quite a bit larger (and dimmer) if the lenses were out of focus. That's probably what's going on here. The moons seem wayyyyyy too big /r/astrophotography represent heres my view from maryland.
http://imgur.com/skk3eot This is cool and all, but has absolutely nothing to do with the headline. As a mobile user, I just had to scroll entirely too far to see actual discussion about the article, as opposed to a lengthy debate about
 photography...  What amazes me is the perfect synchronization that the moons have with Jupiter and each other to not just eventually collide and explode in some sort of cosmic fireworks. They orbit hundreds and thousands of years and years and years and haven't collided... Yet. 

Edit: A word, and I meant millions and billions of years... But the huge numbers tend to mess with my head. You know... Like the size of the known universe.  Hard to fathom. It's so cool! 

Edit 2: What would it take for one to be knocked out of orbit and what would we witness realistically?  They've orbited for *billions and billions* of years and haven't collided yet! One reason for this is that they (the 4 Galilean moons) have settled down into a stable [mean-motion resonance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orbital_resonance#Mean-motion_resonances_in_the_Solar_System) with each other and Jupiter. This means that they are continually perturbing each other such that they remain in these stable orbits, and it's unlikely that they will ever collide, even in the distant future. Piggy-backing off this, any orbiting system that collided and exploded, we probably don't know about.  Only the ones that work long-term last long enough to be seen by us.   An interesting corollary of your point is that almost every single body in our solar system has an impact crater that is just a little bit too small to have catastrophically disrupted the entire body. What this is really telling us is that there were many bodies that we don't see because they were hit by impacts big enough to disrupt them. We see the stable survivors today. They will never collide. They're in the orbits they're in because they're in resonant orbits. All the natural satellites that weren't in resonant orbits have already collided, fallen into Jupiter, broken up into rings, or been flung out of the Jupiter system. The 4 large moons that remain are the ones that you see left. It's selection bias :) I'm sure it certainly wasn't like that when they were forming. They seem to sync "perfect" now, but when those suckers were crashing together because of getting caught in Jupiter's gravity; it was completely mental.  I imagine Jupiter had more moons at some point in its lifespan. 

I wonder what would happen if a large body collided with Jupiter? It's easy to imagine what happens to a rocky planet, but not a gas giant.  This is basically correct. the early solar system was like a pool table. balls crashing around everywhere.  what we see now is the remains.  take 400 balls on a pool table and smack them around, eventually you will be left with a few, which don't hit each other.. (bad example) Play a little KSP and you start to get a better idea of how incredibly far apart things are in the solar system. Then play it with RSS, and weep. Then download Orbiter, play with it for a bit and go back to an easier game like Dark Souls. They say the solar system is "looking like a pretty soggy place"- what are other places they believe have water? I'm thirsty for life on other planets.  [A lot of the large icy moons and dwarf planets may contain liquid water oceans](http://www.planetary.org/blogs/emily-lakdawalla/2015/03121716-ganymede-ocean.html).

The places where we have some direct evidence for it are Earth, Europa, Enceladus, and Ganymede.

Ganymede's ocean is bounded on the top and bottom by ice.  Europa's and Enceladus's oceans are bounded by rock on the bottom, giving them a higher probability of hosting life. Is Europa's *surface* not composed of a thick shell of ice, though? Yes, a few kilometers to tens of kilometers thick.

It's believed that liquid water being adjacent to rock/minerals/nutrients is what allows complex molecules and life to develop.  The energy source is tidal heating in Europa's core rather than the Sun, similar to deep-sea [hydrothermal vents](https://microbewiki.kenyon.edu/images/thumb/d/d4/Hydrothermal-vent.jpg/400px-Hydrothermal-vent.jpg) on Earth. They all have a thick layer of surface ice which insulates the warmer liquid beneath. The greatest difficulty in detecting life on these planets will be digging through 90 miles of thick frozen water and methane ice. One interesting method is a [nuclear powered thermal drill](http://large.stanford.edu/courses/2014/ph241/dunham2). 

The probable location for life won't be Ganymede though, it'll be Europa. Carbonaceous rocks is an important ingredient for organic compounds to attach and accumulate. [This graphic](http://i.imgur.com/ffrfIys.jpg) of the proposed interior of various planetary moons highlights the vastness of Ganymede's icy rind and the sandwiched band of water.

[^source](http://www.planetary.org/blogs/emily-lakdawalla/2015/03121716-ganymede-ocean.html) [deleted] [deleted] Saturn's Enceladus is another one As well as Jupiter's Europa. Don't forget the polar ice caps on Mars. Even Mercury has ice. http://www.space.com/27450-messenger-mercury-water-ice-photos.html 

Was difficult to believe first time I heard about it. Craters on the planet receive no sunlight what so ever. Thanks for linking this. I was pretty confused as well. Just want to mention Mercury being tidally locked to the sun is a misconception!  If you owned a house on Mercury, each day/night cycle would last two Mercurian years!  At this speed of rotation, it's also possible to walk around Mercury's equator and stay in the region between light and dark.

In the book 2312, there is a city that runs on tracks around the planet staying in the terminator region. Oh wow that sounds really cool! I'll have to check out that book So Mercury essentially has an ever-moving zone with habitable temperatures that might be exploitable once we find a good solar wind parasol? But that like 16 earth days, right?  176 Earth days at 88 days per year. 88 days instead of 8? Just an order of magnitude off!  [deleted] Also factor in the fact that it has a minimal atmosphere so it becomes incredibly hard for the planet to retain heat. I'd think that the lack of atmosphere is probably more helpful in not carrying heat through convection into the perpetually uninsolated regions. [deleted] If we're talking water ice, Titan is in too. Not water, but we're almost certain Titan has Liquid. The liquid is methane/ethane. Almost all that "rocky" surface you see on Titan is plain old water ice.  [Titan might also have a liquid water ocean under its ice layer.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/3e/Titan_poster.svg) I don't know if it's confirmed though.

We also know for a fact that Titan has rivers, lakes and seas of liquid methane. It's a fascinating world. I wish I'll live long enough for some HD videos of either a robot or a person walking around on these worlds. Even just some HD images of a person walking around and showing what is on the moon would be awesome. There's no almost about it, we know Titan has liquid methane at the surface. The solid terrain is water ice. Meh, frozen water is everywhere.  Asteroids and comets are largely made of ice, too.  *Liquid* water is what's exciting, because it's such a good environment to support life. If we're counting water *ice*, basically every body out past the asteroid belt is "wet". If we're counting *liquid* water, pretty much every moon that is subject to tidal friction and is large enough to have differentiated probably has a liquid layer (or two, or three). That being said, the most promising still look to be europa and enceladus as they have layers that are closest to the surface. Wait...if mars has polar ice caps how come we sent rovers there in search of water? Liquid water.

The ice caps get down to about -150C in winter and are covered in a metre or so of frozen carbon dioxide. Isn't that like an entire atmosphere worth of co2?  Pretty close. Now you know where much of Mars' atmosphere went. I thought most of it was blown away?  It's a bit of both. As atmosphere was blown off into space by the solar wind (a very, very slow process), temperatures dropped, causing CO2 to condense, which robbed the atmosphere of still more insulation, causing even more of the remaining CO2 to condense. Ahh I see :)  [deleted] [deleted] The Mars Polar Lander was suppose to land on the edge of the south polar ice cap but it crashed. Is that confirmed? I thought we just made an educated guess about water existing under the ice and do not have the required evidence to confirm the claim yet. Wouldn't ice confirm it? It's ice.. Made of water, no? [deleted] [deleted] Enceladus, Europa, Mars, Mimas, Triton are the water ones and of course Titan has a methane cycle similar to our water cycle and recent work has showed you can make a methane based cell wall. [deleted] The website is having trouble, so you may want to go directly to the [NASA press release](http://www.nasa.gov/press/2015/march/nasa-s-hubble-observations-suggest-underground-ocean-on-jupiters-largest-moon/#.VQ7O1PnF_wY).  It also has a bit more detailed of a discussion of what they did, so it is better than just a straight up mirror. Fun facts: Ganymede is actually larger than Mercury and only slightly smaller than Mars. If it had formed orbiting the Sun, it would be classified as a planet.

Also, the ocean is likely to be saline, there is a neat visual (disclaimer: theoretical interpretation duh) of the moon's interior below.

http://www.space.com/28807-jupiter-moon-ganymede-salty-ocean.html

Edit: Holy crap top comment, thank you! Glad I could bring a little science to your day. :D Does anyone know why there is a layer of ice on both sides of the ocean layer? It makes more sense to me that there would be just ice on the outside and that the planet gets warmer toward the center. It's an unusual (on Earth) phase of ice that occurs due to the high pressure of water and "regular" ice above it.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ice#Phases. While I'm really not a good source, I imagine the pressure at the bottom (assuming it's very close to the center of the planet; it's not the core, is it?) would be high enough to force the water there into a solid state. This is the first time I've ever heard the suggestion that water's state could be changed through pressure and not temperature. I was under the impression that water doesn't compress like that. [this](http://www.sv.vt.edu/classes/MSE2094_NoteBook/96ClassProj/examples/941.jpg) graph is pretty good at showing the relationship between pressure and temperature on the state of water. At the point where the 3 lines converge, Water is actually a solid, liquid, AND a gas. Its known as the triple point. 

This is true for all matter, not just water. The state of matter is a function of the temperature of the matter and of the pressure acting on it. What is "Ice III"?? Ice has many different forms which are designated by numbers (1-17). Ice III has a tetragonal crystalline structure as opposed to ordinary ice (ice 1h) which has a hexagonal structure. We didn't really get into details in my pchem classes but in order for Ice III to form, water has to be cooled to 250K (~-25C) at 300 MPa (~3000 atmospheres). Larger than Mercury but less massive.  I love that this sentence works in the scientific sense but doesn't in the typical sense (see differences in definitions between 1 and 2, http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/massive). [deleted] It turns out that gas giants in a habitable zone around another star are actually more common then rocky planets. Moons are undoubtedly the most common habitable environment in the universe. That's true only up to an extent. We have observed more gas giants than smaller terrestrial planets because of the selection effect our limited technology creates: it looks like there are more gas giants, but only because those are the easiest to find.  Among the existing methods of discovering extrasolar planets, gas giants are easier to discover because they are bigger (obviously) and have a larger pull on their parent star. Since we have only very recently started to find extra solar planets, we are only able to find the most obvious candidates. As our technology increases in quality and precision, we may find that the ratio between terrestrial and gas giant planets is quite different than it appears to be now. For example, super earths are becoming more and more common to find, and astronomers expect to find smaller planets as time goes on. &gt;It turns out that gas giants in a habitable zone around another star are actually more common then rocky planets.

Actually, we don't know this.  Gas giants are simply easier to find, especially when they orbit close to the primary. Observations by Kepler show that terrestrial planets are far more common than gas giants, both in and out of the habitable zone. Could it have originally formed orbiting the sun, and then have been affected over time being pulled into orbiting Jupiter? No, because it's formed in the same plane as the other 3 Galilean moons, it's most likely that it formed from the same accretion that created Jupiter. If it were a captured dwarf planet or asteroid, it would be in a more inclined orbit like the other 60 or so captured satellites Jupiter has. That's a really good answer, thank you. [deleted] Check the recent report about how they figured out Enceladus has water. I believe they checked the size and silicate content of dust in the orbit. Say what?

The Cassini photos of water/ice geysers weren't conclusive? It wasn't conclusive as to if there was a liquid ocean, just that in localized areas there was liquid water [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think that was just to confirm that the water source inside Enceladus was in contact with rock.

http://www.esa.int/Our_Activities/Space_Science/Cassini-Huygens/Hot_water_activity_on_icy_moon_s_seafloor

We already knew there was liquid water on Enceladus from the [pictures of jets/geysers](http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/spaceimages/details.php?id=PIA14858) taken by Cassini. I heard they sent radio emissions towards the Earth as the probe did a flyby. From that they measured the redshift, which gave them the gravitational acceleration of the object, which gave them the density, from which they hypothesized it had a liquid water core.  There's a team that wants to use the James Webb telescope (successor to the Hubble) to look at exoplanets in an attempt to determine if there's both water and CO2 by looking at the reflection of supposed oceans and atmospheric density. They hope it will be a strong indicator of life. I really hope it doesn't get defunded before it's built. The funding is secured as of now. They have also built much of the telescope already, so defunding in the future is unlikely. I think this page went down. If so, I have attached an image of the page in case you wanted to see it prior to being unavailable.

[This is an mirror of the page, before it went down](http://i.imgur.com/9KQVVOz.jpg) 

If you have any comments or suggestions, please send me a PM. Thank you! What a useful bot! Thank you! I ran into this issue a few weeks ago twice on the front page and figured I'd try and help change that :-) ... And the website is crushed with the hug of death. Anyone know of a mirror? NASA Press release is [here](http://www.nasa.gov/press/2015/march/nasa-s-hubble-observations-suggest-underground-ocean-on-jupiters-largest-moon/#.VQ7O1PnF_wY) Thanks! This is very interesting. When do people expect to send rovers and such there?  Rovers would be useless, the ocean is hundreds of kilometers under the surface, and there's no tectonics like on Europa. Well if there are geysers, they wouldn't be completely useless.  True, but there's no evidence for those either.  What if we like... shoot lasers at it and make some... or something?

I'm not a scientist.  [deleted] [deleted] Very unlikely to happen, submarines probably within 100 years, but I've been called an optimist before  In less than 10 years a reconnaissance vehicle will arrive at Europa.. http://m.space.com/18901-nasa-mission-jupiter-moon-europa.html

Chances are good that within 30 we'll have some sort of lander/driller/camera on Ganymede. 

How amazing would it be if we shoved a camera into it's ocean and a fish or other creature showed up? Don't we have trouble just drilling a few miles into Antarctica? It's not like these probes will be drilling anywhere near the water. A probe would probably need a nuclear reactor on board. That way, it could generate enough heat to melt through the ice, and could briefly heat itself to sterilization temperatures if we want to be really sure we don't contaminate Europa with Earth microbes. It could leave a floating antenna behind on the surface of the ice, and leave a wire tether behind it that could allow it to communicate with either Earth or an orbiter, or both.  Once it got to the liquid part, it would operate sort of like nuclear submarines do. RemindMe! 100 years "See if /u/TheNosferatu is right" Thinking about your children, I see. [deleted] Well the Cold War was what spawned our original space exploration, so maybe the wars aren't pointless for us. Could there be a potential for life there? Or are the temperature too low?  Liquid water, temperature is fine.  Its just under a ridiculous crust of ice Ice has a an insulating effect above liquid water, so that might actually be a good thing. The life doesn't necessarily need to be reliant on solar energy to survive either, with Jupiter kneading that moon, its core could provide enough energy to sustain life; we've seen examples of extremophiles here on earth that sustain themselves solely off of earth's core heat energy. Where's there's liquid water and consistent energy and nutrients here on earth, we've found life; and if it's that pervasive here, that's very hopeful for Jupiter's and Saturn's wet moons.  Drilling through the ice crust could introduce contaminants to a closed system destroying a closed ecosystem. I'm already worried for a theoretical space water mite on a moon.  Definitely! If we do eventually send probes, they'll need to be sterile on a level we have yet to worry about for everything else we've sent to space. Got you covered space cowboy.

http://planetaryprotection.nasa.gov/methods There is a possibility for a habitable environment in these locations, but we have to throw out the idea of photosynthesizing life as we know it. These environments, if they bear life at all, would have [life more akin to what you would find at the bottom of a mine shaft](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2013/13/130517-billion-year-old-water-mine-canada-ancient-microbes-science/) than what we see at the surface. Some of these environments could be habitable for great spans of time, but a lot of this is speculation. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] How is that confirmed?

They're theorizing a possible explanation, is that conclusive?  Where are the experiments? [deleted] This may be a dumb question, and I apologize if it's covered in the article and I didn't see it. How do we know it's water? It could also be Mercury, could it not? I read through a few times, and saw a heavy handed mentioning of water. I understand the dream of finding another habitable planet, I really do, but why not state other possibilities? I'm excited for this discovery as much as anyone, but I don't see why we can't state all the possibilities. 
(This came from the mind of a seventeen year old. Take my opinions lightly, because I haven't had much time to understand many things.) Water is far, _far_, more common in the universe than mercury; as well, the surface of Ganymede is water ice - so, under that would be liquid water where it's warmer Thanks for the clarification, I guess I didn't have enough information before I posted. I should probably work on that Good to see a 17 year old interested in space. Keep on it.  I most definitely will this seems by no means "confirmed". the abstract says that one model suggests there's an ocean, but i bet other scientists could come up with other explanations for the scale of the oscillations being lower than expected. publication bias is a huge problem in a lot of fields, and this maybe an example of it. healthy skepticism of results like these deserves a bigger place in popular science outlets like this. I believe the term "confirmed" is in reference to the fact that other scientists using other means have suggested that Ganymede hosts a ocean and this additional study independently "confirms" their results by providing further supporting evidence. One exciting aspect about this study is that [it's consistent with other results suggesting Ganymede hosts an ocean](http://www.planetary.org/blogs/emily-lakdawalla/2015/03121716-ganymede-ocean.html), and as we learn more and collect more data hopefully future studies continue to hone in on one interior model for Ganymede and convincingly discards others. Statistically there should-- with almost 100 percent certainty be other life somewhere right? It's just amazing to think that there could be maybe hundreds or thousands of other life on distant planets... and that we all live together yet unbeknownst of each others existence... Life is strange... There is not enough information to answer your question.  The only data point we have for life is ourselves and while most people speculate that life is somewhat abundant it is all based on speculative odds. I don't know if this can be properly answered, but would it be the same type of water common on Earth?  Or would it more likely be the so-called "heavy water"?  Would that affect how life could evolve? Unlikely to be heavy water as the isotopes of hydrogen an oxygen aren't (much) more or less common in any part of the universe as any  other.

As to its effect on life, probably minimal. Heavy water can be toxic to some/most earth life because its chemistry is very marginally different to regular water and our bodies expect rather precise reactions to happen at precise rates -- also Deuterium and Tritium (isotopes of hydrogen) are rather short lived -- the radiation might be harmful but would be negligible after a few centuries. Heavy isotopes of oxygen are more stable. If there were somehow an ocean full of water with Oxygen-18 or Oxygen-17 I imagine earth life could adapt and flourish quite quickly. While tritium is indeed radioactive, deuterium is perfectly stable, just less common. Heavy water is only toxic in large doses - i.e. if you are drinking only heavy water for several days as your only source of water. The title is misleading. This phenomena does not confirm it has an ocean, it just suggests it may have one. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Mirror: http://www.space.com/28807-jupiter-moon-ganymede-salty-ocean.html [deleted] Is there anyway we can tell if these oceans on moons have thermal gas vents? [deleted] I never understand why water=life. What if there alien life forms out there that rely on a completely different source of sustenance or even no source at all. Kinda naive ton assume they need water I'm guessing it's the same line of thinking that says Carbon is necessary for organic life. And the critics say "but why not Silicon?"

I think I remember Neil Tyson offering an answer, and it was something like this: Why not? Why not carbon? Why not water-dependent life? That's all we *know*, that certainly makes the most sense, so why go looking for some life-form that is even *more* unlikely when we are familiar with carbon-based life and its water-dependency? There is a hell of a lot more carbon in the cosmos than silicon, so it's a lot more likely; and by the same token, I'm guessing it's a lot more likely we'll see life develop around water than some other liquid (or none at all). 

So yeah, of course it's possible, but the search is already hard enough without being distracted by things that are even more unlikely. Because:

- it's a universal solvent, 
- it's a simple molecule, 
- it's polar
- it's liquid at temperatures where reactions can occur.
- When solid, it floats, protecting lower layers from further solidification.
- it has a huge dielectric constant, a huge thermal capacity, and a huge mobility for protons and OH-
- it forms H bonds.
- it can take parts to reactions also as a reactant, or for catalysis.

No other solvent has all the same characteristics. Life requires complex reaction mechanisms, for which a solvent like water is too good to pass.
 It is the most commonly occurring substance which behaves like a catalyst for most biological chemical reactions. It's good at mixing up chemicals and allowing them to do their thing without interfering. It also exists as a liquid in the temperature range where most of these reactions take place. 

Could life exist in some environment without it? We believe it could such as on Titan where methane behaves a lot like water when it's several hundred degrees colder. Water is just a very simple and abundant molecule; it's the most looked-for candidate because it's what we have here, and life most certainly could not exist here without an abundance of liquid water at the planet's surface.  Similarly with Carbon, it's more versatile and flexible than Silicone. Could Silicone be the basis of life? Maybe. But I'd venture a guess that life would preferentially pick Carbon if it could. that's why a lot of scientists qualify it as "life as we know it" You're right water doesn't imply life. But we don't know what else implies life. The only life we know is water-based. If we're searching for extra terrestrial life, the only beginning point we can look is the presence of water because that's the only thing we know. It is "life as we know it" It says it "suggests", not confirms.
It indicates there's an electrically conductive medium beneath which could be salt water, it could be copper or anything similar. It's not exactly going to be an ocean of molten copper, is it? It was an example of a conductive material.
It could easily be solid or any other material with free electrons. Could be graphite, could be most metals.
 What do you suppose is likely, based on what we know about other worlds? An ocean of conductive metal? Actually, yes.
Considering how far out Ganymede is, it's unlikely there is any liquid any where on it's surface (beyond things that are gas on earth, such as nitrogen), meaning we should probably be considering solid materials,of which the chief suspects are graphite or metals.
(Note: You may have misread "metal" and "material") [deleted] If you have some valid to say, please say it and quit trying to blame me because you can't read properly.

Also, you think that salt water, which at it's maximum saturation, freezes at -21.1 Celsius, can be liquid on a world who's temperature ranges from  -113C to -183C, I'd love to hear you explain it.
You'll notice how this is a science reddit, not a childish schoolyard insult reddit. [deleted] How likely is it that Ganymede is fostering life? nobody knows the answer to that, until we send some kind of probe/camera into the water. I'd say if anything its plausible there might be some microscopic life that hasn't/can't evolve due to the harsh conditions. Sentient life? Unlikely. Are you asking whether Ganymede harbors life or whether it *could* harbor life?

The first, I believe is generally understood to be "extremely unlikely" (but we are all hopeful). The second seems to be, "given what we know, it remains possible". Hopefully we can get tangible evidence in the next decade! Someone knowledgable, please answer this.  An Ocean of what though?  Water?  Don't these things usually turn out to be methane or some other completely destructive substance? The article says that it might be water, but doesn't say for certain. Methane doesn't fit, it needs to be something particularly conductive to make this magnetosphere. With this new information, why have we not tried something like the Mars rover, but on Ganymede? Obviously this would take time, money, and a huge amount of planning, but as far as I am aware there are currently no plans for an expedition. 

Now that this information is considered fact, not speculation, why are we not taking further steps to explore the possibility of life in our own solar system?  They're working on a mission to Europa at the moment! Good! Considering how "close" Europa and  Ganymede are, hopefully they can get a good look at both.  It is just an orbiter however. To get good results we would need to send something to drill through or melt through the ice, and that would be considerably more expensive, which would mean getting Congress's approval and Congress is not the biggest fan of Science. Other nations are available of course. Other nations GDP's are nothing though, the ESA only gets a fraction of what NASA does for funding. Yea, hopefully they need to do a little tour of the moons in order to get into orbit around Europa. 


new pics of the other moons would be cool!

 paper: http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2015/03/12/1413383112 What everyone here wants to know is, why won't this actually work?  It's not that it won't work, it's that it is an early-stage discovery. Not a new ingredient for cigarettes.  Right. It sounds like they've only induced the change *in vitro*. The next step is to induce the change in cells *in vivo*, that is, inside the body, via drug or other intentional method.  but unlike most *in vitro* work, where you use cell lines, they took their starting material directly from patients. lots of different patients too.  So it at least works on actual cancer freshly isolated from patients.

And the treatment is cytokines already found in the body. so the only question is, can the body tolerate that dosage of those cytokines, and does something in the body interfere with their action.   That's farther along than most *in vitro* studies. Continue? it's a form of [differentiation therapy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differentiation_therapy).  Differentiation therapy is one goal for leukemia treatment as many leukemia arise as a failure of cells being able to differentiate.  It's already highly successful form of therapy for treating acute promyelocytic leukemia and can even be done without the need for chemotherapy. Doomhammer458

I can't access the journal or article, but I was wondering if you could elucidate on how exactly its possible to reprogram the B-Cells from the lymphoid to myeloid lineage, since the B-Cells have already differentiated past the CD-34 stage of development on to the Pre-B Cell stage.   &gt; 100ng/mL Fms like tyrosine kinase 
&gt; ligand  (FLT3L), 10ng/mL interleukin  7  (IL-7), 20ng/mL  IL-3, 20ng/mL granulocyte macrophage  colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and 25 ng/mL macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF).

seems to be a pretty standard cytokine cocktail for myeloid differentiation.  It's often used to guide stem cell towards myeloid cells.

I assume the transdifferentiation is possible due to the amounts of the cytokines and lack of cell type stability of the cancer cells.

they also just transduced  C/EBP or PU.1 and got similar results. [deleted] Thanks for your response!

Very cool stuff though, and maybe they will engineer it to work similar to ATRA therapy, depending on how efficacious the targeted lymphoid precursor destruction is, after transdifferentiation to macrophages. Albeit, ATRA therapy alone is only successful short term.  I remember Stanford Med School administration alluding to this work five years ago. The survival rate of childhood leukemia from 20% 20 years ago to 80% today is one of the huge success stories in oncology, and everyone has great expectations for adult leukemia because of it. I'm not sure how wise those expectations are. Exactly. The big questions are: what effect will the treatment have on any non target cells? Can it even be delivered effectively inside a living organism? What's the proper dosage? Etc. This will likely take many years of research, and if past "cures for cancer" are any indication, 5 years in, they'll decide it's completely non-viable. [deleted] Cancer Biologist here.  Therapies like this actually have a very good chance at working.  See AG221 and AG120 Before true in vivo testing (in mice or whatever), would they be likely to conduct in vitro testing on other kinds of non-cancerous cells to determine the effects?  Or would it be more likely to move straight to in vivo? Straight to in vivo mouse models.  Kind of suprised they didnt do that in this paper. Sounds like they were just too excited (or possibly impatient) to wait. Its a fine balance between putting out all your data and putting out enough to get a paper.  Drug studies in in vivo models take at best months.  maybe they submitted and a reviewer didnt ask for it.  Its a great and novel study.  I think differentiation therapy will be how we treat most if not all cancers in the future. I'm just excited that I am not seeing a "somewhat misleading" comment as the top comment.  This is still pretty exciting.   Right?  I don't even read the articles on Reddit anymore about why it works - I go right to the comments to see why it won't work. Seems the discovery that these cells *can* transform into macrophages is the actual news, and it was accidental. Figuring out how to apply this discovery in the form of a treatment is a whole separate process that could take a while. A good deal of scientific discoveries end up being happy little accidents or unexpected results. I think that's kind of cool. You have to know very precisely what you're looking for to recognize when you don't find it. Science! &gt;We found that primary human BCRABL1+ B-ALL cells could be induced to reprogram into macrophage-like cells by exposure to myeloid differentiation-promoting cytokines in vitro

This means that in a petri-dish, they exposed cancer cells to signal molecules called cytokines that caused the cancer cells to turn into something benign. The problem is that there are a huge number of cytokines and each of them all have very varied effects that also depend on what part of the body they are affecting. In short, while this might work on these specific cancer cells, it could have any number of effects on the rest of the body - all of which have not been tested yet. 

[Relevant XKCD](http://xkcd.com/1217/) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The most likely problem is side-effects, as is pretty much always the case with cancer therapy. Cancer cells are very much like non-cancerous cells, which makes destroying them without causing other, potentially worse, problems. The last paragraph makes it sound reasonable.

i.e they already use a similar technique on a different form of leukemia.

Doesn't mean this one will work nor that, even if it does, it's not a long time until any treatment is available, but it does make it seem a little less like the *"Scientist discovers dynamiting a petri dish kills cancer cells"* stories that appear from time to time Hi Folks, Im Chris Dove, one of the lead authors of this paper. [Proof](http://imgur.com/CX88Yce).  Im normally not much of a redditor, but I thought I would step in and give my two cents on the discussion.  
Most of what the life scientists ITT have said about the paper is generally true (at the time that Im writing).  Theyve correctly identified the primary strength of this paper being the use of primary cells.  These are cells that came right out of a cancer patients arm, and are about as close as we can get to real cancer.  I'm glad the paper has been generating some discussion, and wanted to give a (brief) author's perspective on some of the main questions.  

**Re: Is this something that well never hear from again?**
Many ideas for cancer therapies fail  and they should.  We hope they fail sooner rather than later because that means fewer lives are put at risk and we dont want to waste time and public money on therapies with limited potential.  Glancing through the science subreddit I see a lot of things that could be one-hit wonders, but many others with results that may be validated, expanded, and translated to the clinic.  It is my genuine hope that this study falls into the second category.  
**Re: Then what does this study mean?**
Take this study for what it ispreclinical data.  A laymans one-sentence summary of the paper might read: We put signaling molecules on the outside of some leukemia cells, and this told the inside of the cell to stop behaving like cancer and start behaving like a useful immune cell.  
If I had a drug that was able to replicate the reprogramming effect today (I dont), were still years and years away from full approval by the FDA.  But thats how science works.  Often discoveries that were made in the past only come to clinical fruition decades after their initial report.  Id like to push this therapy as a real strategy, and well see in the coming years whether I (and others) can generate the data to make that happen.  
To those of you who have been personally affected by cancer, my heart goes out to you.  Unfortunately we will never have a magic drug that cures all cancers, but we are whittling away every day.  This is, without a doubt, the most exciting time in history to be part of cancer therapy development, purely because we have more and more solutions to offer patients.  Anyway I hope that was a bit insightfulIm headed back to the bench.  

PS: The lions share of the credit for this paper goes to Scott, who started this project some years ago.  Scott says hi.  
 Nice to get a shout from the authors. Congrats on the PNAS publication!

* So what would be your preferred method of therapeutic delivery, if you are not giving away your second paper to your competitors ;)?

* Are there plans for testing in any murine models of spontaneous B-ALL?

* Some have commented here about excess macrophages being a problem, you have any data on that?

 Hi!  Sorry for the slow reply--lots of meetings today.  Your questions (all good ones): 
1) I'd be in favor of a small molecule that facilitates transition to a myeloid state, simply because it's a tried and true path.  Unfortunately, I can't say too much more beyond that, but you can probably take a guess at some of the pathways we'd target.  
2) Mouse models in B-ALL are tricky.  The spontaneous models of B-ALL aren't particularly representative of human disease (controversial point here), so we engraft human tumor cells in immunocompromised mice.  The question then is whether we can get these cells to transdifferentiate.  We're still working on this, but it's tough.  For example, the best way to deliver cytokines to the tumor cells is to go where the tumor cells live.  That means injecting cytokines into the marrow of (anesthetized) mice.  Not fun for the researcher, considerably less fun for the mouse.  
3) I wouldn't anticipate this being a problem.  First, these patients receive chemo that knocks out the vast majority of the tumor cells.  The problem is cleaning up the last bit of cells that will cause recurrence.  Second, although macrophages can be involved in autoimmune disease, I haven't read a lot about them actually mediating disease.  Usually that's a lymphocyte-driven phenomenon.  Third, patients have been getting myeloid differentiation therapies for generations (e.g. ATRA), and that hasn't been a problem.   Do you think immunotherapy is already ahead of this in terms of clinical stage development? It seems like that's already curing people. Can you share if this is better / why? Thanks so much. Not a scientist just really really interested.  There are many great immunotherapies out there.  They've been attractive to researchers and pharma alike.  Our lab has a trial ongoing for a CD47 antibody right now.  But unfortunately no one technology will do it all.  Some folks have been using modified T cells in pediatric B-ALL patients with great success, and I am hopeful for adults, but ultimately expect that a larger toolbox will be needed.   As someone who is in remission for a different type of Leukemia, this makes me happy that hopefully someday people won't have to go through the shit I have/am currently going through.  

It's a good step in the right direction and hopefully this can turn into a viable form of therapy!

Edit: spelling Stay strong mate. Thanks man! Whatcha got? I'm in molecular remission for cml. I have acute myeloid leukemia and I got a bone marrow transplant in June of 2013 and have been in remission ever since!  boss!!! auto or allo?  Whichever one is from another donor haha. My donor was someone across seas. allogenic! That's what I had too.  Do you have any GvH problems?  I enjoy cancer slang. It feels good to see people who are so close to the matter be able to joke about it and to make it less serious. High-five, cml buddy! Gleevec's some amazing shit, eh? Absolutely! Coincidentally, I'm in my oncs office right now. And gleevec is ridicuously awesome. I call it my "don't die" pill Aloha! Good to know you're in remission. I have chronic eosinophil leukemia (cel) and gleevec didn't bring my eosinophil numbers down at all. Was it effective right away for you? I was told to discontinue after 2 weeks of trying it out.  Sprycel patient here! Glivec was a shitter but I love my Sprycel.  I'm hooked up to a pump getting EPOCH right now because of my chemo-resistant Hodgkin's Lymphoma. I wouldn't wish cancer on my worst enemies. Fuck the obesity epidemic, lets work on cancer. :)

Stay in the fight, brother. Keep it up!! It got better for me, I've been done with chemo for almost two years, it can get better for you!  Thanks man. Surprisingly, this new EPOCH chemo that I'm on right now is a lot more bearable than the ABVD. I'm sure Radiation+Stem Cell Transplant is going to suck, but for now I'm doing pretty well. I never received radiation but I did get a stem cell transplant from another donor and that was by far my least favorite part. But the end result is worth it. If you have any questions or wanna talk about it, feel free to message me! Maybe I've just been paying better attention lately, but it really seems like the medical research community has been making more and more breakthroughs like this. I'm just really excited  People makes the "Petri dish" joke all the time, but you only have to check a graph of cancer survival rate in the last 20 years. They found out that my dad had breast cancer 3 years ago. He went to the hospital and they got him in and out in less than a week of treatment. It's completely gone now (as well as his right nipple) but it's all gone. No chemo, not long term healing process, just one week out of his life, one week with a rubber tube in his breast and 1 more day at the hospital getting a once over to see if they got it all.

It completely blows my mind, they treated his cancer with such speed and skill. There's an important luck factor regarding how fast you detect the cancer.

Your dad was probably lucky and got it in a very early stage. It was probably some luck with it getting detected when it was. But the fact that it was detected so soon blows me away. It's not like he was thinking he had it until a doctor told him he did. If you don't mind me asking, how was it discovered? Apparently his doctor found it while doing that thing they do with the stethoscope. Further tests proved that it was cancerous. So literally, the doctor discovered a lump in your father's chest through ~~touch~~ palpation?  (and yes, this is a serious question.  Sorry if it sounds... off color.)

Edit:  changed touch to Palpation.  Thanks /u/JoshvJericho Yea that sounds about right. Discovered via touch. I've felt tumors through skin. I think it's feasible that he could have been suspicious of something just based on touch. They have a distinct feel.  What do they feel like? I have a few little hard spheres around my body, they don't grow, i've had them for more than half of my life.  I agree ,I think it is reasonable... They recommend people self check themselves and you do that by touch. So I could see how the doctor might have been like this isn't right. There are no screening programmes for breast cancer in men (it's quite unusual, so the money is far better spent elsewhere).  As a result they are usually found by touch as a lump under the skin.  It's quite common for breast cancer in women to show up this way too.  They feel hard/firm and usually quite irregular.  They can be associated with skin changes too, but that's less common. 

Because there's less breast tissue, male breast cancer invades surrounding tissue earlier, but then is more responsive to hormone therapies than female breast cancer so as far as I remember mortality is about the same. Palpation* sounds more scientific 

Some of our patients come to our office because they did a self exam, felt a lump, went to their primary doc who would test it and refer to us.  It sounds off color, but when I was getting my yearly exam and was having my breasts checked my doctor found out I'm married. He then told me my husband would be perfect for checking if it made me uncomfortable. He can check and will notice any difference especially if him not noticing means the boobs go bye bye. Mt husband is more than happy to help with this and really notices any color changes or size differences before I do. How often do you have colour and size changes? :s You can tell your husband to feel your boobs for science and it'll actually be true! Everyone wins! Now that's a good doctor. My dad had a brain tumor a little bit bigger than a walnut in his head.  They found it, and within a week he was meeting with a surgeon, who removed it less than a week later.  He was back to work in less than three months, and the only ill effect was that he lost his sense of smell.  Medical science is unreal.

Edit:  Since some people seem to think that the loss of smell diminishes how amazing the doctors were in my Dad's case, I feel the need to point out that he had already lost his sense of smell prior to surgery.  It was destroyed by the tumor before surgery. It really is, yet I'm more often surprised by how crude it is. As in, *surgery* = "there's this thing that's gone bad, so we're going to cut it out". *Medicinal chemistry* = "we need something that physically blocks these molecules from interacting, so we're going to mix some of these things together until this chemical stops those chemicals from interacting". *physical therapy* = this band of muscle is inflammed from being smashed against this bone; take a week off tennis. keep it warm". *General practioner* = "i feel that you have 3 nipples. let's take a look at that". 

Obviously a lot more goes into these things, but I guess I'm just surprised at how little room there is for mysticism. A lot of it really becomes common sense past the vocabulary barrier. 

 The notion that medical procedures are a scientific, delicate process was destroyed for me when I watched a video from a surgery. Doctors are not gentle with your meat people! Particularly in routine procedures.

Obviously nothing wrong with that. Same thing happened to a friend of mine, although his was bigger than a walnut, and he kept his sense of smell as far as I know. Complete cycle a few weeks, and he was out of the hospital in days. He lost his predilection for wearing a top hat - which had probably developed as a result of the tumour I would bet. Absolutely amazing what they can do with surgery these days.  I didn't know that men could get breast cancer. Why not? We have breast tissue, albeit a lot less than women. Its actually not really to do with the breast tissue, its more to do with the levels of estrogen in the body and some men can have abnormally high levels which produces more fatty tissues around the breasts, which in tern increases the risk of breast cancer. It's true that increased estrogen over time leads to increased risk of developing breast cancer, but breast cancer is a cancer of breast tissue, and risk is definitely associated proportionately with the amount of breast tissue. Case in point--the most common location for breast cancer in women is the upper outer quadrant, because that is the area with the most breast tissue.

Unless there is some other alternative mechanism for male breast cancer that I am not privvy to, Ragnagord was correct. That is impressive as hell.

Good job catching it early! [deleted] I'll do you one better, This was in Los Angles, California in the United States. That is great. Usually men have a higher fatality rate from breast cancer due to late detection and less fatty tissue glad to hear they caught it and got rid of it RIP Dad's nipple Without sounding callous, I think it's amazing and fantastic that your dad was diagnosed early enough to receive treatment like that, considering how little of breast cancer awareness targets men.  Women are reminded to do monthly breast exams, and get mammograms. 

Medicine is just fantastic.  I wish you many more healthy years with your dad.  Dads are awesome. Do you have a good link to such a graph? I spent a few minutes looking but didn't find anything understandable at a glance. For example: http://www.forschenheiltkrebs.eu/public/img/non_layout/projekt/DIRECT_ueberlebensraten_english_WR_101208.jpg This is for children and young adults, mortality rates for older people are largely unaffected. well, not as dramatic, but there's been a change

http://i.imgur.com/krsqSwb.png &gt;not as dramatic

Kinda like how an ant is not as big as the Titanic http://www.nature.com/nrc/journal/v14/n1/full/nrc3634.html

Fig. 1b shows survival by age cohort. One of my coworkers disappeared for a couple weeks. She came back today and said "oh, yeah,  I was in the hospital,  they found lung cancer, but they got it out. Can I have a cigarette?" 

Science is awesome and people are dumb.  As for the opposite, my aunt was recently a little under the weather.  She went to the hospital and they found fluid building up in her lungs.  They drained the fluid and sent it off for testing.  By time the tests got back showing cancerous cells in the fluid she was on life support.  She was dead within the next day.

The whole ordeal lasted under 1 week.  She quit smoking about 4 years ago.  I'm still in shock over how quick it all happened.  Scary stuff. Damn that's crazy.  No that is why **addiction** is so powerful. Even very smart people who should know better smoke. Just look at doctors. I have colleagues that started in medical school. I can't explain that. I wish we had the technology and treatments we have today back 15 years ago. I might have had my grandpa around a bit longer. But I am thankful that he was around 4 years longer than he was originally given because of the experimental programs he participated in. In a way, I like to think he was one of the pioneers that helped us get to where we are today. :)  Most of those advances are attributable to early diagnosis, but the point still stands and isn't as widely communicated a point as it should be. Diagnoses will ABSOLUTELY increase over time with a massively increasing aging population, but deaths should continue to drop, and that's really the endpoint that matters. I really hope that some day in the near future a prostate cancer diagnosis is like a common cold or flu diagnosis; sure, there can be complications, but for the vast majority of those afflicted it's a simple fix.

People think a magic pill will pop up one day and all cancer everywhere will be cured, but considering that "cancer" is an umbrella term for over a hundred types of malignant cell proliferation, it's going to be a long, incremental road. Still, I think the future is really bright for treatment of a lot of them, especially the ones caused by single hereditary or congenital genetic defects (ie some of the childhood cancers that are painful to even hear about). When I had just became an adult over 20 years ago when you found out someone got any type of cancer that was pretty much it. You just knew they were dead, at best 50/50. Now, the less aggressive cases are almost 100% survivable. Really amazing....  And how about the rate of cancer incidents? Through the roof. I tried googling a graph but didn't seem to find one that was completely up-to-date within the last few years. Do you have a graph in mind I could take a look at? ...They're really not all that much better. Maybe improved by a few months but that's not great.  Reminds me of what Pascal Finette said in [one of his newsletters](http://theheretic.org/2015/03/15/the-rate-of-change/): 

&gt; In 1903 the Wright brother's completed the first powered flight near Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. Only 66 years later, on March 2nd, 1969, the Concorde brought supersonic flight to the masses (at least for the ones who could afford it).

&gt; When you index all the technological change which has happened between the beginning of the last century and 1970, and compare it to later periods you will find that:

&gt; * The same amount of change which has happened in the 70 years from 1900 to 1970 has happened in the 30 years from 1970 to 2000.
&gt; * The same amount of change has happened in the ten years from 2000 to 2010.
&gt; * And the same amount of change has happened in the 4 years from 2010 to 2014.

&gt; Technological change is on an exponential acceleration curve. &gt; brought supersonic flight to the masses (at least for the ones who could afford it).

"to the masses" means that nearly everyone can afford it, so you pretty much defeated your own statement.


&gt; Technological change is on an exponential acceleration curve.

Sort of. There is a limit to how fast things can change though, and there is a vast difference between theory, got it to work in a lab, and ready for primetime.

People were playing with Leyden Jars centuries before electricity changed everyone's lives. Programmable computers were described long before they were practical, and even if Babbage would have done a gangbusters business in 1837 with his difference engine, he couldn't have made more than a few dozen--hundred of them, and likely set up for very specific uses like tax bureaus.

Now we have institutional inertia to deal with as well. Once you start employing vast amounts of resources in a specific endeavor, competing systems become severely disadvantaged.

Look at internal combustion engines in North America vs Europe. Look at them vs electric vehicles. The only reason they have a shot today is because their underlying infrastructure happens to already exist for a different purpose, and there is still lots of resources.

Changing courses mid-stream is fairly hard, and while ideas for possible use come faster and faster all the time, our industrial capacity lags far behind, and our ability to assimilate them increases at an even slower pace than that.

On top of all that, there is "road not travelled" issues as well. We have had the capacity to start colonizing other stellar bodies for 50ish years. We aren't doing much of anything on that front, but man do we devote a vast chunk of resources to computer and network capacity and ability. This could easily have been flip flopped given a few critical choices in the mid 20th century, or not been so lopsided at least.

Will biotech prove to be the darling child of the 21st century? Nanotech? We can only allocate a finite amount of resources. I've heard it summed up as being that technology doubles every 18 months.   You're thinking of Moore's law, which is specific to computing. More specifically, it predicts that transistor density will double roughly every two years, which is generally interpreted as being 18 months (thanks to Intel, I think). While originally specific to transistor density on a curcuit, Moore's law is often interpreted as applying to most computing-related technologies (memory, storage capacity, image resolution, etc) regardless of that technological improvement's relevance to transistor density. Huh, neato.  Seriously, thanks for that explanation.  Didn't realize it had such a story behind it; figured it was just a rough estimate based on perceived improvements across all technology. What major flight advancement has happened in the last 30 years? A bunch of tiny changes, no big leaps like pre 1970s.

Same thing with cars. The advance meen from 1900 to 1950 was huge..then not much for a while, then in the 80s some serious engine design technique were figured out, then a big jump. In engines, then fuel economy was a factor so body shapes changed.

Which isn't to say progress stops, just that initially there is a lot of low hanging fruit, ones that's gone the advance in that field slow.


If flight progress from 1970 to now the same way it progress the previous 60 years, we'd be sanding on another planet!

Now if we discover some exactic chemical that makes space flight easy and cheap, then I expect the 50 years to follow to have a huge ramp up, then level off.

 Since then to now we've gone from 100 person flights to person 500 flights, and from planes that required many stops to reach the other side of the planet to having a single refueling stop.

We've massively expanded the network of crafts in the air and exploded our GPS and air traffic controller networks to manage a mind bogglingly massive fleet of aircrafts simultaneously around the globe with catastrophic incidents coming very irregularly.

We may not have made insane increases in airspeed or fuel consumption in the commercial space, but that's because we've focused so much attention to our networking space. Yes, space travel and exploration is a noble goal, but affordable air travel for regular folks to be able to travel whenever they want across the world safely is much more in demand. Progress in technology moves in S curves. There's a big uptick upon new discoveries and new technologies, then it levels off as those technologies "settle in" and get refined. Advancements like the ones listed by /u/aradil happen, and then the really crazy shit will pick up again.  Regarding the issue of "this is so promising" vs "this is overhyped and won't translate to health outcomes," my two cents, weighing in as a scientist with a Ph.D. in molecular biology, is that to evaluate the impact of a paper, you shouldn't rely too heavily on press releases from the "news center" of the university at which the research was conducted. These news centers are basically PR centers whose job is to sell the importance of all research from the university. Maybe you could break it down for us? Sure! It's not that close to my field, so here are a few stray thoughts as I looked it over. It's worth noting that to really, truly appreciate a paper - its strengths, drawbacks, limitations, and exactly where it fits into its broader field - that requires more time than I have for this right now, but nevertheless here we go:

First up, damn. They submitted the paper in July of 2014, and it was accepted in February of 2015. That's 7 months, which is a good example of why so many scientists find the publication process frustrating. It probably includes an initial review, then getting the first reviews back to the scientists, then them having time to do more experiments to address the reviewers comments, which then has to get reviewed again but that's still a really long time.

Overall, it seems like a pretty cool paper to me. The top comment on this thread basically says it's "just another we killed cancer in a petri dish" study. Many times, that is a spot-on thing to say, but I think it sells the paper a little short in this case. One important experiment they did was that they took the reprogrammed cells, and did what's called a xenograft. That means they basically added those cells onto live mice, to see if it would turn cancerous. And the good news is that the mice generally didn't get and die of this particular leukemia, which is good! So, while that's not a purely "in vivo" result, it is a lot more "in vivo" than just doing cell culture in a petri dish.

Also, the general principle behind this finding is one worth paying attention to. Namely, it's the idea that transcription factors can be added to cells to re-program their identities. You might recall a couple years ago that Sinya Yamanaka won a Nobel Prize in medicine for converting mature cells into stem cells. In particular, he discovered that a cocktail of four transcription factors can turn mature cells into iPS cells - induced pluripotent stem cells. Overall, this is pretty neat stuff! A paper I wrote just got published almost a year after it was *accepted*.  I didn't have to make any changes and it didn't need any more peer review. Some publishers just like to have long queues of papers lined up for future publication. Like they are preparing for Armageddon.  Thanks for explaining why this is cool despite the limitations of the study! What is your personal opinion on the paper. Do you think it's promising or do you think it's too far in infancy to see results any time soon? Identifying a new strategy to come at these abnormal cells is always good.  Chemotherapy and radiation affect a majority of our normal cells, so more specific ways are needed to render cancerous cells benign.  The works reported here provide a logical basis for a whole new set of experiments for young researchers to tackle.  If one or two good labs decide to try and come up with ways to induce these changes in leukemia cells in mice, then it becomes possible to more specifically target the cancer without ruining the rest of our tissues in the process.

So yes, this work has merely identified a tiny thread to pull, but we have to pull slowly or else we're just setting the whole damn thing on fire. My little sister died of leukemia 11 years ago. She was 15. I'll never forget when I went into see her for the first time when she was in treatment. She couldn't speak because she was so high on morphine and she started to cry because she couldn't communicate. Other memories include her begging for her death because of the pain she was in. Fuck You Leukemia. I'm so sorry mate. No one should have to see their sister suffer like that. My condolences.  That's great news! Can they invent the technology to send it back in time to 2008? I'm asking for a friend.  This... This made me very sad. Due to health care privacy regulations, we can only do that if the patient themselves request it.

We look forward to hearing from your friend.

 Touche. 

Not to self: add relevant line item to my living will.  [deleted] No, but my friend did. :(

Edit: /u/disgruntledskinsfan was replying to a joke I knowingly included in an otherwise serious comment.  God, we're curing cancer and you're already on our backs about time travel?! Give me a minute to jack off and take a nap, eh? Cohort of 2011 checking in. I've been in the appealing process for years now, but people keep telling me that the case falls out o their jurisdiction.  Every time I see a breakthrough in Leukemia therapy it's like a small dagger going deeper into my soul. My mother died of Leukemia in 1999 when I was 16 years old. She went through brain radiation, two rounds of Chemotherapy, and had a bone marrow transplant. Before she died, she was suffering from a severe case of Graft versus host disease. Every morning when she woke up, she had large patches of her skin fall off all over her bed. The only way I can describe it, is she shed her body from the inside out. Then died. She chose a more painful hell at a glimmer of a chance to live over dying less violently on her own terms. I'm happy that people won't have to go through that soon enough, but if only it were sooner.  As someone who lost his dad about 2 months ago to leukemia, I hope that something comes from the stories I've heard the past few days about treating this disease. I don't wish it on anyone to have to watch a loved one die from this.  I'm so sorry for your loss. I wish for the cure to come as quickly as possible. I have Crohn's disease. I am on a drug called immuran where i just take a pill every day. It has put me in remission and I have stayed in remission for probably close to five years. The risk young males run on immuran is lymphoma. The risk of going off my medicine is actually far worse. For instance. My risk on immuran is 7 times higher than the national average for lymphoma (the NA hangs at just below 1%). My risk of going out of remission if I change to a biologic drug such as humira is 22% and there is no guarantee I would go back into remission once my body falls out of it. Also these other drugs have a litany of terrible side effects such as a 3.5 times chance of MS etc. I am slowly leaning more and more towards just staying on immuran and running the 7% chance of lymphoma then switching out to a different drug because cancer actually seems much more treatable than lack of remission, ms, etc. 

Thoughts? [deleted] [deleted] I think this is a very vapid analysis and typical of the top comment on any in vitro paper. Surely the point is, to a non-biologist reader, within that petri dish, it was an exceptionally interesting discovery opening new avenues for drug creation.  Always a lot of negative comments about research like this. I don't think a lot of people understand how long research cycles can run. This research may very well be the first step towards a real cure. It always has to start small scale in extremely controlled conditions.  This may(or may not) be the precursor to more research that eventually in 20 years makes it to human trials.  People respond negatively to these things because there are *so many* such articles that hype up some new and exciting possibility for cancer fighting, which promptly vanishes into obscurity for unknown reasons, never to be heard from again. Or heard from 20 years later.... When r and D is done Unless it turned out to not be useful. Then maybe other cancer researchers will hear about it and learn from it, but to the general public it is just another 'potential cure for cancer' that disappeared for no reason because nobody told them what happened.  We need a "Where are they now?: Miracle Cures Edition" that publishes an annual update. People also dislike long r&amp;d cycles because...well, it doesn't change anything for them does it? 'Cancer cure might be ready in 30 years.' Ok so just...avoid dying of cancer until 2045? Sure thing...

Why can't there be more manpower, more resources, driving that down to ten years? Obviously because it would no longer be cost effective but people are sort of entitled to be cynical about that. What do the profit margins of big pharma matter to them in a health context? It's economic reality but that's just how people respond. Although I have to say, sometimes research has to move by its own pace. I know the guys in Virology are able to pump out papers like its nobody's business since their "organism" replicates so quickly. I on the other hand often have 18 hour incubation periods which can't be sidestepped. A lot of the research is automated at this point (e.g., microtiter plates for growth assays) but the growth assay still takes time. 

 I agree - you can't rush these things (although I work on E. coli so don't have it as tough as you!). Throwing manpower at things and having twenty people working on one project doesn't work when half the work is sitting around waiting for things to grow (or waiting for the thermocycler, or the centrifuge, or for sequencing results...) so you can get your results and decide what to do next. I don't think anyone thinks it should be rushed.  I think the aggravation is directed more at the media than at the scientific community.  I can only imagine how draining it would be to suffer from cancer and constantly see the hopeful click-bate headlines.  &gt; Why can't there be more manpower, more resources, driving that down to ten years? 

The real "problem" is that science is a profession. You can't just throw money at it. It requires complex human thought and ingeniuity and planning and effort-- effort in the lab, in the conference room, in public speaking, and in writing and fund raising-- to articulate and refine. 

Its not a matter of hiring more drones to work 9-5. You're trailblazing when you do science. Academic research is entirely different from pharma, using your example here; sometimes i'm working on something pharma might care about, sometimes im not.

Support the endeavor as a whole, and the whole will move faster. It's not so much a manpower/cost thing; cures for cancer offer a massive potential profit, particularly for "common" cancers. It's more about:

A) Diversifying. There will likely never be a single cure for cancer, at least not with purely drug driven pharmacy (nanotechnology could offer universal cures through miniscule robotic neutralizing drug deliverers, but that's decades, if not more than a century down the line). There are tons of different kinds of cancers that require different approaches pharmaceutically, just the same as different subsets of the flu need different vaccines. Therefore the large workforce is divided across the many different cancer research projects. I'd say that the size of the workforce is not bottlenecking cancer research, except perhaps for the rarer forms.

B) Safety. A lot of the length of R&amp;D is to establish the safety of the experimental drug. While cancer patients who are pretty much about to kick the bucket are allowed early access to new experimental drugs (their doctors can seek out a trial and have their patient enrolled), you cannot actually market a drug until it's proven safe. If they were to accelerate the development of such a drug, and then people who had a cancer diagnosis took the drug, were cured, but then 5 years down the road were developing another form of cancer at an unusually high rate, there would be lawsuits all around, the drug would be pulled, and all the efforts would be wasted. Nail on the head there.  Right.  I've thought about saving these posts that say they discovered the cure for HIV, Cancer, they can regrow limbs, heal a broken spine, heal quadriplegics, cure MS, and so many more.  You hear these crazy new "discoveries", then they just disappear never to actually be applied in real life.  Question is, like mentioned below, is this step one or does the research get tossed out soon after because it was inconclusive, can't be repeated, or just won't work?  We never find out.  So in 5-10 year, if we saved all these, we could look them up and see what is actually happening in that space now. They aren't crazy. The make a finding. Look at how it might be useful.

PR and Media then drives them as a cure right around the corner.
Bitch about the media representation, not the good science. Yes, because most people don't understand how research methods work. People can also be quite impatient. It's a bad combination, particularly if they're ultimately the ones funding your study. Most of the negativity seems centered around the media's tendency to trumpet every incremental step as a new breakthrough in order to attract viewers.  It's little more than clickbait.  We've spent decades hearing about dozens - if not hundreds - of cancer discoveries and breathless news articles trumpeting the same hope for a cure. 

These days, excitement over breakthroughs has been worn down by the realities over the incremental nature of progress. Yes, cancer mortality has decreased, but a 3rd of all people still die from it eventually. 

I'm in my 50s. I've lost family and friends to it. Each colonoscopy or blood test that comes back clean feels like I've dodged a bullet. When that's your reality, it's hard to get excited about progress that still seems so far away. People also don't understand that all these small discoveries, whether or not they promise immediate eradication of cancer or not, when combined provide a huge platform to synthesize treatments from. 

Pretty tired of hearing from inexperienced research enthusiasts and/or non-science career people regarding these discoveries.  the exciting thing is they already have the drugs.  they are natural molecules your body  makes.  Some are FDA approved and are already used in people to treat other disorders, so its much closer to a clinical trial than some papers.  Agreed. You don't make progress or learn about anything if you're throwing out relevant data left and right because you don't know how to give it a practical application right this moment. 

This is still a huge breakthrough and definitely newsworthy. i really hope so. my dad was diagnosed about 6 months ago, and is slow progressing

as a point I'm a realist, and know that it's very unlikely, (my mom passed away from cancer) but i can still hope. My dad was also diagnosed 6 months ago. Not with leukemia, but with bladder cancer. Sometimes I forget that other people are going through the same thing as me, if not worse. I'm not alone, neither are you. Hang in there bud, try to stay optimistic. Hang in there. Hope things go well for you These kinds of stories always get me excited but then it becomes evident that it's really hard to implement in the 'real world'. Still, it is certainly a step in the right direction.  I'm really optimistic that nanotechnology is the way of the future here. No need for medicines to be processed by the liver, and you can theoretically perform surgery on the cellular level. 

God, I love it when Star Trek tech starts making its way into the real world. [deleted] differentiation therapy is possible.  It has been the primary way of treating acute promyelocytic leukemia for years now.  So i would say it's looks better than average of the papers posted here but blah blah blah more testing is needed.

 So basically you have nothing substantive to add because you probably didn't even read the paper.  

Starting with cells is how therapeutic discovery works.  Hell, even pharma doesn't even start with cells, they start many times with molecularly cloned proteins and they're lucky if what they advance forward from those assays even works in a cell.   I'm still rooting for the nanobots injection Actually no, its more like we were able to convert cancer cells from a uncontrolled growth state to a controlled growth state. This was proven by the fact that the treated cancer cells lost their stem cell-like properties and immortality.

While this idea has been talked about, this is, I think, one of the first papers to demonstrate the principle (remember ideas are not new, evidence for them is).

The next problem which is a wholly different question and research issue is how to deliver the therapy in vivo (or in the body). Fortunately there are several methods of targeted delivery available to scientists/clinicians.  [deleted] This discovery is all kinds of awesome:
1) A potential treatment was discovered when researchers weren't trying to kill cancerous cells but rather keep them alive.
2) The macrophages these cells change into can actually help fight cancer.  What was once cancerous cells is now fighting cancerous cells.   Hey everyone, consider donating to The Leukemia &amp; Lymphoma Society. It feels good to read news like this. I donate $25 a month. You won't even notice its absence and it could help.

Think about it:
https://donate.lls.org/lls/donate Do you want Will Smith to battle a world of zombies? Because that's how Will Smith battles a world of zombies. I think we're becoming immune to the "scientists cured this disease" type of story. I feel bad because one of these days it'll be real, huge, monumental news, and I'll dismiss the article because the Internet who cried Wolf. Heads up: This IS real huge, monumental news.

What it is not, is a product.


 When they find the drug that will prompt the same reaction, and when people start treatment of it. THAT is the real huge news.

When someone with cancer reading the article has a greater chance of survival because of the news, that's when it's HUGE. Otherwise its just progress, and while that is good news, it doesn't need to be spread across the internet like everyone's troubles are over just yet. [deleted] Just after Kitty0706 died. Nice. I wish they'd discovered this before it killed my father :( I am sorry for your loss. Too late :(

Rest in peace. If this panned out to be a viable option to treat and cure leukemia, how long till it would be widely available? My little sister has leukemia, every article I read like this one gives me hope for a cure  Not sure how they're going to transport those transcription factors into those specific leukemia cells in a patient's body. 
Now comes the trial and error stage of throwing different chemical substances at these  leukemia cells.  I feel like their where more important breaktroughs in medicine and sience in the last few months than in our last century. This is just amazing! Yeah we'll see if anything comes of this or if it's just the typical yearly "breakthrough" that disappears. As someone who lost their parent to this I can tell you that false hope sucks but I truly hope this works. Is it bad I skip these articles anymore and come right to the comments to see why this isn't gonna work. Does this shed some light on autoimmune disease?  These researchers are essentially creating an autoimmune disease that attacks disfavored cells.  (Serious question)   Note that this is a way to treat specifically B-cell leukemia. Great news.  Hopefully this leads to a therapy and leukemia will become a treatable syndrome no different than many others. Man, this one actually strikes home. I remember my 7th grade teacher discovered that she had Leukemia. She was pretty young too, like 29 years old or something like that. I remember her going through chemotherapy, losing her hair, etc. She passed away a year after the fact but she would always visit when she could. Amazing what could potentially come out of this.  Is there a doctor here who can tell me in an informed response if this will mean anything for someone with CLL? Tell those invading bacteria that immune cells are harmless!! Should be more like: "Scientists turn all of a person's leukemia cells into harmless immune cells, and prepare for the long line outside of people waiting out the door." Autoimmune disorder here. Immune cells - even B cells - are far from "harmless." 

The grass is always greener and whatever, but there are plenty of days when I'd rather have cancer. It says "harmless immune cells" not "immune cells (which are always 100% harmless)".

And no, as someone who's had both you don't want cancer.  Had a bone marrow transplant for leukemia and my new immune system tried to eat my nerves -- being paralyzed from the waist down was terrifying, but at least I wasn't actively dying anymore and feeling it happen. Fellow leukemia patient that had a bone marrow transplant. Did you have a full match? Mine was only a half match in part of a clinical trial, and it hasn't been easy. The gvhd is some intense stuff. Makes me sad that more people don't sign up for the national marrow registry in the USA. I've talked to a number of people about it and had them "not feel like signing up". I appreciate it. I think more people would register if they knew the facts. Not all marrow donations are done surgically, and really isn't painful for the donor. I had never heard of bone marrow donations before I was diagnosed. I had over 100 friends and family get tested and register when they heard I was sick, so I sadly believe that's the largest way they get the most people to get tested.

If anyone is interested in getting tested to be a donor, please visit bethematch.org. You could literally be someone's only chance of staying alive. There is also:

http://www.deletebloodcancer.org which is a global registry. 

It took a family member's diagnosis to put the registries on my radar. 

It's difficult to explain the importance but signing up is about as easy as it gets. All I had to do was swab my cheek and fill out a short questionnaire.  Thank you for sharing this, I just registered. Thank you for posting that link. The more options and exposure, the more people will hopefully be saved. Be the Match is also just a swab of the cheek to get started.  Do they accept nicotine users?  (Rarely cigarettes anymore, but some smokeless tobacco, and regular user of gum/lozenges) &gt;YOU ARE ELIGIBLE TO REGISTER IF YOU ARE:

 &gt;   Between the ages of 18 and 55

&gt;    In good general health

&gt;    At least 410 and weigh more than 110 pounds, but not exceed a maximum BMI of 40.

&gt; YOU ARE NOT ELIGIBLE TO REGISTER IF YOU HAVE:

&gt;    HIV

&gt;    History of heart surgery or heart disease

 &gt;   Autoimmune disorders such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis or fibromyalgia

&gt;    Sleep apnea, breathing problems or severe asthma (daily inhalers are acceptable)

&gt;    Diabetes requiring insulin or injectable medication

&gt;    Hepatitis B or C

 &gt;   Kidney or liver disease

 &gt;   History of stroke, including TIA

 &gt;   Chronic or severe neck or back problems

&gt;    Epilepsy or other seizure within one year

&gt;    History of blood clotting or bleeding disorders

 &gt;   History of head injury or multiple concussions

&gt;    Personal history of cancer (exceptions: Stage 0 or in situ melanoma, breast, bladder, cervical and cured localized skin cancer such as basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma)

Sounds like you should still be good! Thanks for considering registering.  I tried to register but since I am on lipitor and a statin I dont qualify:( They do disqualify certain potential donors, and I won't claim to understand why. One friend of mine was denied for having a kidney stone, and another was rejected for having had back surgery. It makes me sad, too! I've found the same with blood donation. I had two IVIG transfusions when I was younger which require pooling antibodies from over 1000 blood donations, which is just such a huge number of people, and yet when I talk to my friends about it I find most of them have never even considered giving blood, despite all being healthy young adults. It's usually apathy, and not realising that blood stocks are such a big problem, and fear of needles (which is obviously a full on physiological reaction for some people but for most there are strategies to get around that, they just need to mention it to the nurse). It's really upsetting to be honest. But hey, if I hadn't needed blood I'd probably be the same as them, so can't judge really, just need to educate. A few questions:

How did you even survive that? Wouldn't the new immune cells have attacked your brain and upper body as well?

I'm guessing that they had to give you another transplant?

Do you have any chance at recovery or is the nerve damage permanent? Sorry about your cancer, but it sounds like you should know better than anyone that when you start manipulating the immune system it's far to easy for things to go haywire. 

Just because lymphoblastic leukemia cells have been turned back into lymphoblasts does not mean that they won't mature into B-cells making autoreactive antibodies, which is the point. The paper is talking about turning them into macrophages, which are even more dangerous since they have the ability to actively destroy other cells and manipulate the rest of the immune system as they do so.  They're talking about altering genes in awry marrow cells man! Research into this might prove useful for autoimmune treatments as well!

Sorry for whatever gene mutation this cruel world has left you with.  10 years from now: "What happened to that possible cancer cure from 10 years ago?" Question from a non scientist. Is this the type of breakthrough that we hear about now but never hear about it ever again? I hope that's not the case but I'm truly wondering.  IT depends. If further rounds of experiments and observation dn't find a negative issue, or one more negative then the diseases, then yes.

If it turns out this technique will turn someone into a blob of boneless flesh, then no.

Many studies you hear about can go on to be things in the marketplace, but you never hear of it because it was combined with some other discover(or several), given a new technical name, and then a different marketed name.

We can't know until testing is done
 This sounds like one of those things you see, then never hear about again How wonderful! two cure posts for leukemia in one 24 hour period? The nanobot treatment about to cure someone diagnosed with only 6 months to live still seemed like the front runner. Apparently the dude is going to be cured in 30 days.

http://nextbigfuture.com/2015/03/ido-bachelet-dna-nanobots-summary-with.html

Either way, the real story is going to be watching the pharma companies torpedo any cures via the FDA so they can continue profiting on "treatments" that allow people to suffer for years. &gt; the real story is going to be watching the pharma companies torpedo any cures via the FDA

Is just a this a conspiracy theory or is there evidence of this happening? Plenty of evidence. Want me to google some sources for you or are you capable of using your own web browser? Reddit, why should I be skeptical of this article?  You should be skeptical of every article.  And every comment.  Because nobody is going to read the article:

How does the rainforest 'lose the ability to absorb carbon'?

Trees are dying at faster and faster rates, definitely faster than they're being replenished. This means there's fewer trees to absorb carbon and thus models assuming constant absorption by the rainforest are flawed

'Tree mortality rates have increased by more than a third since 1980 and this is affecting the Amazon's ability to store carbon'

Droughts and high temperatures are suspected culprits, but mortality rates were on the rise even before the droughts officially hit &gt; Because nobody is going to read the article

Because nobody *can* read the article. Who can afford science and nature without a university buying it for them? And then to fill the journals with advertisements on top of that... 

And in terms of the article, wouldn't the best answer be proactive forest stewardship? Cut out the dead trees, opening enough canopy cover for young trees to grow. They grow far quicker than old trees, and would provide greater offset. Link to the full article is [here](http://rdcu.be/cmiw). You'd have to bury the trees at pressures that would not support decay or form them into a stable product that doesn't break down to sequester the carbon. While they are standing, the weight of the tree represents the stored carbon. When they fall and either rot or burn, the carbon is released again. This is the problem with fossil fuels - you are taking a stable product and releasing it in a harmful form, without any way to re-stabilize it.

Edit: Thanks for the gold, but this is a gross oversimplification and not a solution. The ENTIRE reason we use these stored carbon deposits is because of the extremely high energy content you obtain with such little effort. If it were feasible to use a solar or biomass powered bulldozer to bury vegetation then we would be using that technology in the first place. Burying vegetation is not [currently] an option. Whatever the solution is, unless it's powered by photosynthesis, it requires an alternate source of fuel to power the operation. No matter how you look at it, we need to stop using stored carbon as a fuel. &gt; This is the problem with fossil fuels - you are taking a stable product and releasing it in a harmful form, without any way to re-stabilize it. 

This was insightful to me. 

What is a solution? To re-stabilize the released carbon; right? But how?  Photosynthesis! That's only capture, not long-term storage. So if that's your solution, you need someone to cut down the trees to make long-lasting wood products. Most plants are carbon neutral because they die and ferment, releasing the C just a few hours, months, or small number of years after photosynthesis.  What about using trees for lumber to build houses/buildings that last a few hundred or more years? Wouldn't that be a form of carbon storage, albeit temporary. Yes but from what I understand you'd need people searching the jungle for the dead trees and you'd need a way to transport them out. Well as has been mentioned above, young trees grow fastest. Tree farming for the purposes of building material (cutting them down in the "prime of their life", rather than waiting for the wood to age and degrade) seems the best option for carbon sequestration of this type. No Solution Exists. Not even in the science fiction realm...

This is a one way trip.

You'd need to put the equivalent of all the coal and oil back in the ground to get back to how things used to be. ie. All the mining processes done globally in last 60 years would need to be done in reverse. Have a look at volumes of coal and oil extracted over that time.

On the other hand are we going to turn Earth into Venus and cook everything? No. Here is some historical data on past CO2 in atmosphere, and average temperatures at the time:
http://www.geocraft.com/WVFossils/Carboniferous_climate.html
 Scientist here.

I'm interested obliquiely in carbon sequestration projects involving hybrid material synthesis. You might check out the chemistry folks have been doing for the past few years in the area of Metal Organic Frameworks. You can't spit without hitting a postdoc doing carbon isotherms on one MOF or another at UC Berkeley and LBNL. (that is, of course, a hyperbolic statement)

heres a random research webpage
http://alchemy.cchem.berkeley.edu/metal-organic-frameworks.html Didn't nature make all of their articles free recently? Or is that only after a certain time period? Basically, they made it so someone who has a subscription to nature can share a link to a readable version of the full article.  For this article, you can read the full article [here](http://rdcu.be/cmiw). What makes medicine regenerative?  Regenerative medicine is basically the subfield of biomedical engineering aimed at regrowing a tissue or organ and getting it reintegrated back into the body. The studies you hear about with labs regrowing specific organs for transplantation would fall under regenerative medicine. Alternatively, it can be doing something like implanting a scaffold into a bone defect and encouraging the bone to regrow back into the defect.

I am primarily on the biomaterials side (making those scaffolds), though I do some work with stem cells in my projects.


 Well go you and your Scaffolds. Thanks for the answer.  I'm not sure it's either. Maybe selected articles? My lab doesn't pay for journal access, and I've found 15 year old papers I wanted that they were still charging 40 bucks for. Here's an article about it:

 http://www.nature.com/news/nature-promotes-read-only-sharing-by-subscribers-1.16460 How exactly do you plan to do proactive forest stewardship in an area that's basically half US? Not to mention large parts of the forest are really remote and extremely hard to reach. Amazonas is completely open for exploitation, it was "remote" 40 years ago
 You're saying there are no rules or bodies of government overseeing the forest?

And having been there once, I can say it would be really difficult getting any trees in/out. Yet they manage to at great profit [deleted] However, standing dead trees provide extremely important habitat for many species - the insects and fungi that feed off the dead wood, as well as the animals that feed off of those insects. Yes. Let's start trying to "manage" nature. After all, it always works out so well. If you've been to a university in the US, usually you can log into your library site with your student ID even as an alumni and get access to these articles.
 And, if anyone is interested, the reason that the trees are dying faster and faster is that they have been exposed to higher and higher levels of carbon dioxide, which, although initially increasing the virility of the trees, eventually caused them to
&gt; live faster, and so die younger. This reminds me of ice-albedo feedback with its increase in speed. It's incredible what climate change is doing and recently what we are truly seeing with research being done. It's fascinating and very sad. This is some really funky logic. Part of "living faster" would be "reproducing faster". You would have a faster, shorter life cycle, but this on its own would not cause a net loss of trees.  Could be net loss of mature trees, which would cycle a much greater volume of CO2/O2 than a faster life cycle of saplings would. Mature trees act as carbon sinks, much like permafrost and ice and water and so forth. Once a tree dies, it begins to rot and carbon is returned to the air as CO2.

A big healthy long-living forest is more efficient than one constantly reproducing.  I thought it was common knowledge the rainforest was being deforested by humans, largely for cattle grazing area and other industry reasons. I have always been of the belief that forests are slightly carbon neutral. It's fast growing plants that are carbon negative (absorb carbon faster than they expel). 

People keep saying (without support data) that trees absorb CO2 faster than other plants because of their height. Well, most of the tree is dead (wood, bark lives but doesn't photosynthesize). It becomes their leaf surface area. That said, carbon sequestering by trees (absorbing more than they release) becomes their mass gain over the year. That is where carbon is absorbed and sequestered. As someone pointed out correctly below, trees and all plants also respirate, breathe oxygen and release CO2. So the net absorption of carbon is what becomes plant matter, haw fast a tree grows.

For this reason, cultivation of crops like hemp or other fast growing (tall growing) plants would actually sequester more carbon than a tree. Say you harvest an acre of hemp, use it as paper, fabric, or even re-till as organic matter. Compare the total weight of organic matter per acre vs an acre of forest, not total weight, just the weight gain of one tree ring and one pile of autumn leaves. That is how efficient the carbon sequestering is. Some bored engineers could probably calculate that and determine the increase and eventual decrease in sequestering for different forests, and compare that to a massive weed like growth that is chopped down once or twice a year.

Nice thing, even if you burn the mass you still can be carbon neutral since the CO2 emitted was originally in the air, one of the arguments for ethanol. Grant it that assumes you only use organic fuel in the cultivation, conversion, and combustion process.

Anyway, converting forests to high yield farmland may not be so bad, converting it to residential or industrial is. 

Also there is the water consideration. We consume a ton sequestering carbon. Would really like to see far more efficient sequestering technology, something of a scrubbing system that would be required as a tax for any residential or industrial conversion of farm or forest land. Good luck getting it passed, but that's where the benefit comes from.

Oh, and the oceans still are by far the biggest absorber of carbon, that is assuming we can keep them alive. We need to focus more on algae stimulation and controlling jellyfish, etc, keeping the oxygen balance in the oceans good. &gt; Anyway, converting forests to high yield farmland may not be so bad, 

Except for the entire ecosystem that thrives in a rainforest. A giant hemp farm may be good for you and me, but if you're an animal living in a rainforest, the extinction of your species for paper may not be so great. My answer is exclusively regarding CO2 sequestering, not forest management or species survival. If anything, I would emphasize the need to environmental impact as a basis for all land re purposing decisions. Sadly the rainforest species will eventually have to live in controlled refuges in the distant future when human populations exceeds say 20bn people (but that's a whole other conversation) Believe it or not most rainforests actually have poor soil and make terrible farmland. One of the reasons farming is such a huge issue is because you need a new plot every few years.  Most scientists who study population growth have concluded that the human population will peak at around 9-10 billion.

 [Human Growth Projections](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Projections_of_population_growth) 

"The United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs report (2004) projects the world population to peak at 9.22 billion in 2075. After reaching this maximum the world population is projected to decline slightly and then resume increasing slowly, to reach a level of 8.97 billion by 2300, about the same as the projected 2050 figure"

If overpopulation were to be achieved, it will either A) not be a problem, or B) cause many people to eventually die because of there is no way for the people to live a sustainable life since the population limit has been supposedly exceed. A) if it is not a problem there is no need to control it. B) In that case there is still no need to control it because it will ultimately control itself. even though there is suffering from route B) there is still suffering caused by controlling it. 

Just my 2 cents, had to clear that up. back to the rainforests! He didn't say kill off the trees and raplce them with hemp  but focus on a solution that would deplete CO2 levels in the atmosphere and the trees should stop dying out quicker no? There is room enough for both hemp farms and rain forests. &gt; Anyway, **converting forests to high yield farmland** may not be so bad

He said convert to farmland and converting replaces an original item with a new one. Their whole post seemed to hinge on trees not being great at sequestering carbon and hemp being better and replacing deforested regions with hemp.

Maybe I misunderstood, but the section about converting rainforests seems to suggest the opposite of what you're saying. I agree with you though, it would be nice to see hemp farms and other large scale projects to deal with climate change. And also keep the rainforests. You really can't postulate that it would be good for humans either, at least in the long term. There are significant unknown losses that come with removing the rainforest, especially in the realm of scientific study which is very valuable to technological innovation. The plethora of exotic species in the rainforest have value just for their uniqueness and potential to give us insight or show us novel chemicals that could be used in medicine or elsewhere. I think it's a terrible idea. My "may be good for you and me" was really more of a rhetorical device. If anything, I was saying that a large hemp farm *somewhere else* could be good. Maybe. Who knows.

Razing the Amazon would be terrible on every level. I haven't read some of the things you mention in your analysis, particularly about forests being slightly carbon neutral and if you have supporting documentation handy, it would be interesting to see.

I would like to mention that I think peat is also important to the carbon issue, maybe more important than dense forest.

Peat bogs account for just 2-3% of the earth's surface.  Yet, according to a recent article in Scientific American they absorb more carbon then all forests, Amazon, PNW or otherwise:  "In fact, such peatlands store as much as 500 billion metric tons of carbonor twice as much as is incorporated into all the trees in all the world's forestsroughly 1,450 metric tons of carbon per hectare. Although peatlands do emit methanea potent greenhouse gasthis is more than outweighed, in terms of the overall balance of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, by the carbon dioxide they sequester."

Plus, I love peat bogs, not that it matters. I've always known that peat bogs store carbon, but that amount is surprising. But the more I think of it, it's quite clever as our major problem with carbon is that we're adding it into our atmosphere after being gone for.. quite a while. Peat bogs do the exact opposite, it takes dead plants/material and store it underground, thus keeping the carbon from being "active" in the system. And if it can take these amount out of the atmosphere.. Interesting concept. Could we make more peat bogs for the sole reason of trapping the carbon in the terrestrial biosphere? And how easy would this be vs how effective? Guess I either gotta thank you or curse you for giving me something to ponder on.. There is also the secondary effect of cloud cover seeding through transpiration which reflects radiation back to space, cooling the planet somewhat and delivering water further inland.  That's an important part. Because more rainfall = more plant growth = more carbon storage. 

If you want to imagine the lifeforce of the rain forest as a pervasive, green cloud of oxygen, water and carbon dioxide. This transpiration cloud is being compromised by larger and larger areas being cleared for agricultural development and logging. 

The only way to change this destructive cycle is ultimately changing what products we consume, to create legislation to greatly curb the consumption of these products and introducing alternatives through incentive and education. 

We could replace our desire for rainforest - harvested hardwoods for fast-growing, sturdy products such as bamboo. Our hedonistic thirst for palm-kernal oil, which is a component in many processed foods, also needs to be greatly  curtailed. It's cultivation is doing the greatest degree of damage in this region and it's being done by farmers who are struggling to make a meager living by selling it for pennies on the dollar to multinational interests. 

So it comes down to implementing solutions that serve both the economic needs of humanity while protecting the life of the planet. This can be done by replacing palm trees with hemp plants. 

Hemp can grow in just about any condition, doesn't need cleared areas to grow and its oil is very good for you (compared to Palm kernel oil it's like comparing a clear, sweet-tasting ambrosia to sticky, foul black tar on an environmental and gastrointestinal level). A big draw-back to hemp oil is its volatility and lower - shelf life than other oils, but it's only a matter of time before the chemists of the world figure out a method to aid in its stabilization. 

Furthermore, to protect their interests and promote environmental stewardship, it will be in the best interests of the farmers in the region to form their own Cooperative. By setting their own prices, securing their own logistics, and cutting out the destructive and inflationary effects of middle-men on the global food-oil market, they will have a greater say in their business which will translate into a care for the long-term prospects of their  property and the well-being of the rainforest. 

Change will happen, it's just a question of when and how smooth it will be.  Your comment makes it sound like trees are no big deal. Just grow hemp and problem solved. Modern agriculture to the rescue. There is a gaping hole in this reasoning. 

Trees are majorly responsible for soil control. Remove them and you get deserts. The green belt in Africa is a good example of this.

They also bring minerals up with their deep tap roots which help other plants grow. 

They shade the ground and provide mulch which keeps the ground cool and keeps moisture from evaporating so quickly. 

I'm actually blown away that there are so many comments in /r/science saying basically it's not that much of a problem to lose forests. It's unbelievably short sighted and narrow minded. 

Edit:  I was getting more and more upset thinking about how stupid the logic was that I was responding to.  Basically I was seeing a lot of "who cares if the amazon gets mowed down, just plant farms because small plants sequester more carbon."  But I've been reading through more responses and see that there are many people pointing out a few very important points.  Most notably in my mind are erosion, evaporation, transpiration, microclimates, biodiversity, soil condition for farming, habitat for plants and animals and stewardship to name a few.

Edit 2: Changed "I blown away" to "I'm blown away" Except that you are drastically lowering biodiversity in the Amazon.  Rainforest are the most biodiverse land biome in the world.  Carbon dioxide absorbtion is but a single factor of the Amazon.  Droughts are also becoming more common in farm and ranch areas.  Another thing is that native people of the jungle are having their land that they have lived in for thousands of years taken away from them.  I'm sure there's more problems than that, but those are the ones I can think of off the top of my head. And what no one wants to mention: the amount of rainforest cleared daily for livestock and to grow feed for livestock. Forests are definitely carbon sequestering, they're not carbon neutral. Furthermore, there have been numerous experiments that have shown that that sequestration increases in the face of higher CO2 concentrations. In particular the rainforests are usually an extremely important carbon sink, and forests in general rival the ocean for their importance as carbon sinks.


Just growing more crops is a dangerous answer, that land doesn't come from nowhere which means increasing erosion by cutting down forests. Furthermore it means *even more* input of human-fixed nitrogen into the environment, which causes increased nitrous oxide release from soil microbes (an extremely potent greenhouse gas). Basically I'm not convinced, unless you could come up a way to make that hemp based paper so efficiently that rainforest cutting was reduced - but I'm skeptical.  "there have been numerous experiments that have shown that that sequestration increases in the face of higher CO2 concentrations"

This is absolutely true. Cannabis growers bleed tanks of CO2 all of the time into their indoor grows to increase the yield of their crop. I always found that interesting. It makes sense if you know the biophysics of it, plants only open their stomata (the holes they take CO2 in to) for as long as they need to. More CO2 in the air means they get more CO2 when they open those stomata, and conserve more water. Less stressful conditions leads to more growth. Forests are carbon sequestering however the rate of sequestering is limited by annual growth (growth ring and leaves), so a proper comparison is organic matter made by an acre of trees vs organic matter made by an acre of say hemp. Assume all is harvested or kept out of the air (not burned), which is more efficient at storing carbon? &gt;Would really like to see far more efficient sequestering technology.

Salt-water algae.

All the trees combined amount to very little compared to the ability of the oceans to sequester ungodly amounts of carbon.

The algae are also massively more efficient for producing bio-fuels.  If Reagan didn't cut all of the research Carter was funding we'd probably be completely transitioned to carbon neutral energy.

edit: I guess your last sentence recognizes the whole ocean thing ... woops. Wasn't there a plan to spread iron to fertilize the sea giving a massive bang for the buck in terms of CO2 sequestration? there were fisheries side effects on the small scale test they did. wiping out most sealife is probably not a great idea.  They tried it and it did not have tangible results. I think they did not do enough benchmarking on small scales and just wasted their seeding, one of those where it was a good idea but poorly executed. I am hoping they do some more work on that. For people who are doubting this guy and asking for an ELI5'ish explanation, I'll give a brief explanation

Trees suck in carbon dioxide, true. Carbon dioxide is one atom of carbon, to two atoms of oxygen. After they suck in the CO2, they release Oxygen, or O2. This leaves us with a Carbon.

If we stopped there, we would definitely say that trees are a carbon sink, but lets think about it a little more

We got this carbon. What does the tree do with it? Well, it takes the carbon, and with a little water and a little light, turns it into sugar. Yum! Now what do we do with that sugar?

The tree can do two things. It can use the sugar to grow bigger, or it can make the sugar into lots of energy. Everything needs energy to stay alive. We turn sugar into energy, and the tree does it the same way. 

If the tree turns the sugar into energy, then it will release CO2, just like animals do. Thus, the same carbon that came in as CO2 will come out as CO2.

If the tree uses sugar to build, then the Carbon remains trapped in the tree. So trees are only carbon neutral to the extent that they grow. If the tree (or in a bigger sense, rainforest) isnt growing, it aint trappin. And it only traps to the extent of the growth. A (literal) ton of plant matter will represent less than a ton of carbon trapped. &gt; I have always been of the belief that forests are slightly carbon neutral.

False, they are primarily starch sugars formed from free CO2. They die and are sequestered into soils where it becomes hardened rock or sorts. Assuming it does not weather for whatever reason. Shale gases give you clues, and mud stones fizz under acid.

Think about it. You see a giant tree sticking out of the ground. Its 100 tonnes or more. The ground around it has barely lifted. So where did the tree come from? The problem with your assumption is removing wooded forests would have no impact when logically it would. Growing new forests would have a positive impact. Removing all forests, as you suggest, would yield a disaster. Yes oceans *can* fix carbon too but in spite of their vastness, they are very poor and inefficient at doing it. Wooded forests will soak up their weight in carbon and not just the trees, everything under them too. The soils, and everything that exists in them and on them. 

&gt;For this reason, cultivation of crops like hemp or other fast growing (tall growing) plants would actually sequester more carbon than a tree. Say you harvest an acre of hemp, use it as paper, fabric, or even re-till as organic matter. Compare the total weight of organic matter per acre vs an acre of forest, not total weight, just the weight gain of one tree ring and one pile of autumn leaves.

False again. Autumn leaves perhaps, we know this. But you are suggesting making paper would not result in autumn leaves or worse, methane? Where does the bulk of paper end up? 

&gt;Anyway, converting forests to high yield farmland may not be so bad. 

Only if you have an agenda.

&gt;Oh, and the oceans still are by far the biggest absorber of carbon. 

Absorbing yes, doing anything with it, no. Its still there and its displacing oxygen. There is a calamity unfolding and its very silent but it will have catastrophic results. 

You are turning the Aquarium into a fizzy drink. 

I think you need to look again. We have cut down 90% of the wooded forests in the last 300 years. If you look at the CO2 gathered from ice cores you can see it ends up there. Those trees added to the CO2 slowly over time. Houses and objects were constructed then rotted, It takes quite a lot of it time, until now even, to break down. But the point is, it is breaking down or has. There is an oversupply of CO2 just because we cut the woodlands down. 

Now look at the soils they were in. Some were in sand, not even a soil. They were adapted for that. That sand did very little to contain CO2. Acid Sulphate soils? Where is the CO2 there? You cut the trees but now when it rains after a dry spell, the soils turn to acid and kill everything. 

So going back to what you claim, that farming instead of trees is a good thing. No its not. Not by any stretch of the imagination. You can farm in ways that can sequester CO2 into soils, letting them rest and then push down the wild plants and grow new crops, that works but it can never equal a 100 foot tall tree weighing in at 100 tonnes. There was a balance, an equilibrium of component gases in this ecosystem. Those gases have ebbed and pulsed for millennia. Ice ages came and went bringing the totals up and them back down again. Then humans cam along and burned forests for heat, used them for homes, destroyed them in wars - Look at the CO2 and temps during the war years, it spikes. There was balance, then there was not. 

WE need to live in a way that is in balance with the planet, not the other way around. An no engineering can fix the planet, it can only assist us. Humans need to reduce their footprint significantly or we are gone from here. 




 So what are you saying in laymans terms then? From what i gather the Amazon is not a huge Co2 consumer comparatively to the ocean or one big tree versus and fast growing sappling. would losing the Amazon pose a threat to our ecosystem? Its still just as important as the ocean sustainability right? &gt; trees and all plants also respirate, breathe oxygen and release CO2

Sorry, this is blowing my mind a little. I was always taught it was the other way round... During the day, plants breathe CO2 and release O2.  At night, they breathe O2 and release CO2.  But I thought that they breathe much more CO2 than they release at night. It's not about carbon consumption. It's about one of the most complex ecosystems on the planet, one that's taken millions of years to form. It is important that we respect these natural spaces and leave them in their existing form, if only to preserve their beauty and diversity for those who come after us. I don't want these beautiful spaces to be nothing more real than dinosaur tales to our descendants.  Hemp is not the wonder crop you think it is.

Hemp as paper is quite efficient. It is nearly a zero input crop. However pulp paper is a ZERO input crop and is absolutely renewable.

Hemp as rope or cordage is inferior to nylon. Nylon doesn't rot, hemp does. Nylon doesn't take on water, hemp does. 

For clothing, hemp is a coarse fiber. Cotton is much softer.

Hemp is inferior to other products. If it were superior it would be used more. &gt; That is where carbon is absorbed and sequestered. As someone pointed out correctly below, trees and all plants also respirate, breathe oxygen and release CO2

I thought it was the other way around, that they breathe CO2 and release oxygen? This is interesting... What do you mean by Controlling Jellyfish though. What is the purpose of that. Do they eat Algae so you're saying we should monitor their population so Oxygen flow remains at appropriate levels?

I just want to understand the purpose of the Jellyfish statement. Well maybe if we stopped plowing it over to graze freakin cattle and grow their food, we wouldnt have this issue. Theyre not just mysteriously "dying", we are chopping them down to meet the stupidly high demand for meat

As much as everybody loves meat and its great taste, there are huge consequences from its production. Choosing to be uninformed doesnt make the problems go away, people really need to understand all of the bad aspects of animal agriculture and be willing to balance them againsts the learned appreciation for its taste.

And if you dont believe that one of the worlds largest industries is actively trying to keep you as distanced from its flaws and faults as possible while still keeping you firmly under its thumb, just step back for a second and consider almost every radio ad, tv commercial, billboard, fitness magazine, cooking magazine...etc its all focused on animal based foods. Its shoved in everyones face as this glamorous consequenceless necessity, so much that people freakin lose their minds when you point out that you choose not to eat it or speak out against it. 





 Thank you.  I am not sure why everyone turns a blind eye to this.  It is all "science"! "Environment"! until it actually means people have to change.

No one is even being honest with themselves.

 Another reason for the Amazon is losing its carbon absorption ability because its losing trees to deforestation. The jungle is losing acres to private industry with cattle ranches and lumber operations. Not to mention illegal cartel activity with cocaine operations.

Edit: Softening the tone. Individual tree carbon absorption rates are an important factor but we shouldn't forget deforestation is a big issue. 

 http://rainforests.mongabay.com/amazon/amazon_destruction.html Please read the article, that is not the point of this publication.  Your point is not invalid, but it might lead others who have not read the paper to ignore its findings because of your strong tone. The top comment doesn't address "the point of this publication" either but just explains why it's happening.

&gt;Over recent decades the Amazon forest has acted as a vast carbon sink  absorbing more carbon from the atmosphere than it releases  helping to put a brake on the rate of climate change.

&gt;All across the world even intact forests are changing, added Professor Phillips. Forests are doing us a huge favour, but we cant rely on them to solve the carbon problem. Instead, deeper cuts in emissions will be required to stabilise our climate.

 I can't speak for lumber operations down in the amazon, but here in the PNW, it' mandated that they have to replant something like 3 times as many trees as they cut down, and the young growing trees are much better at absorbing carbon compared to their elderly tree brothers. Do you have a source for this claim? My initial thoughts on young vs old trees would be that older trees have more biomass and therefore higher carbon storage capacity. They may be storing carbon more slowly, but they have 50+ years of carbon already stored in them.  Old forests are pretty much carbon neutral because dead and dying trees release much of their sequestered carbon back into the atmosphere.   Some of it becomes soil. The idea is right though - the carbon has to go somewhere and a stable forest is not adding to the trees. Actually, one of the biggest threats to the Amazon rainforest is soy farming. According to this [pie chart](http://www.mongabay.com/images/rainforests/deforestation-in-the-amazon.jpg), in terms of threats, cattle ranching appears to take the lions share (65%) with agriculture accounting for most of the remaining sources of Brazilian Amazon deforestation. To add, an immense amount of soy is for animal feed for those commercial animal agriculture operations, which as you've indicated one of ,if not THE, primary threats to deforestation.

Another significant amount is for soybean oil, which is one of the cheapest to use as generic vegetable oil for prepackaged foods. I think many people feel disturbed by this news about the amazon.  

If you do. Please do consider cutting down on red meat. Chicken, dairy and egg also have an impact but to a much lower extend than beef. Nobody will ask you to become a vegan zealot (except for the vegan zealots), just cutting down and replacing the cow-protein in your diet to something with a lower footprint already goes a very long way. I hear palm oil is bad too.  More so in Indonesia than the Amazon, but yeah: http://www.saynotopalmoil.com/ soy farming accounts for small percentage, meat farming is the worst by far - "*70% of formerly forested land in the Amazon, and 91% of land deforested since 1970, is used for livestock pasture*"
source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deforestation_of_the_Amazon_rainforest#Causes_of_deforestation
I would't be surprised if majority of that soy would be fed to cattle anyway. For animal feed.  Beef is the threat to the Amazon. Increase in population leads to an increase in consumption, which in turn leads to an increase in deforestation. Isn't it rational to believe that any effort to reduce deforestation has to begin with a reduction in in population?

Without a devastating plague or WWWIII, I'm not sure the earth can continue on this pace beyond the next 100 years without a significant compromise to quality of life.

At what point in the future will people lose the luxury of talking about income equality and student loans, only to start talking about if they might be lucky enough to live to the age of 40, fighting the earth as it slowly loses its ability to provide?

Wow. Sorry to be so morbid so early in the morning. Consider this instead. Verify everything i say with your own independant searches.

You can feed someone an adequate vegan diet for a year that more than meets all nutritional needs on 1/8 acre of land.

Take California, agricultural mecca.

CA has 43 million acres of land dedicated to agriculture. 

With that land alone, you could sustain a population of 354 million people on a 100% plant based diet. Thats basically the whole US. 

 [deleted] Yep, now oppose the economic model and the daily life of every person on planet earth

That's the battle. Thank you. I need the abstract version of these kinds of articles.  Here's the actual [abstract](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature14283):

&gt; Atmospheric carbon dioxide records indicate that the land surface has acted as a strong global carbon sink over recent decades with a substantial fraction of this sink probably located in the tropics, particularly in the Amazon. Nevertheless, it is unclear how the terrestrial carbon sink will evolve as climate and atmospheric composition continue to change. Here we analyse the historical evolution of the biomass dynamics of the Amazon rainforest over three decades using a distributed network of 321 plots. While this analysis confirms that Amazon forests have acted as a long-term net biomass sink, we find a long-term decreasing trend of carbon accumulation. Rates of net increase in above-ground biomass declined by one-third during the past decade compared to the 1990s. This is a consequence of growth rate increases levelling off recently, while biomass mortality persistently increased throughout, leading to a shortening of carbon residence times. Potential drivers for the mortality increase include greater climate variability, and feedbacks of faster growth on mortality, resulting in shortened tree longevity. The observed decline of the Amazon sink diverges markedly from the recent increase in terrestrial carbon uptake at the global scale and is contrary to expectations based on models. This seems like it's almost a misstatement of "Deforestation and tree loss in the Amazon rainforest is significantly affecting its ability to be a carbon sink."

While "losing its ability to absorb carbon" is technically true, it gives rise to the ambiguity that the fauna itself is somehow losing the ability to process CO2.  I'd imagine the conversion of large swathes of the Amazon to pastures would affect it's carbon sequestration ability as well. Im moving to Brazil in May with my wife, and we've discussed how sad the situation is in the Amazon.
If you'd like a visual, check this area out on Google Earth: Ariquemes, Rondnia, Brasil. Just look into town, and slowly zoom out til you see the whole state. You can see all the straight lines? that's miles and miles of cleared forest. I'd venture to say 75% of the forest is gone in this state. Keep in mind, this state is roughly between Utah and Wyoming in square area. That's crazy isn't it???? 

 I made [an album on imgur](http://imgur.com/dTmOEkZ,lqKQLNO,7zEaKrZ,Qk7wX7o,r3UrhWg#0) of what /u/tex93 is describing for those without Google Earth or maybe on mobile. 

Absolutely incredible. 

 Yet we still pressure every single person to have children even when they don't want them.  No one wants to admit that we are reducing the amount of free space that each person gets, increasing costs of housing, increasing fights over resources, and decreasing the land used by many other species.  We need to shift this focus that is so strong on forcing everyone to procreate and making it seem like the only thing that completes a person.  We could honestly do with about a billion less people on earth. Overpopulation is a huge problem, but it's not the cause of Brazil's deforestation. That comes from messed up laws regarding land ownership, and people that pay Brazil money for their beef. (Cattle grazing is what occupies the land, not people.) 25% of Brazil's cattle are exported each year, so if you eat beef then chances are you've paid someone to cut down the Amazon at some point. &gt; Yet we still pressure every single person to have children even when they don't want them.

That's not the problem.  The planet could support several times as many people as we have on it right now, if we were forced to live sustainably.  We will extinct ourselves if we continue to like *in the way we choose to live*, but there is nothing unique to humanity that is especially detrimental to life on Earth. Couldn't you argue that our intelligence and self awareness is indeed unique to humanity and what is causing these detrimental effects to life on earth? We almost seem to be too successful. Would you describe a species as "too successful" because they were intelligent enough to engineer their own destruction as opposed to being wiped out by disease or a natural disaster? Agreed. I have no desire to bring children into this world anyway. It's not all bells and whistles. It wasn't really bells and whistles 100.000 years ago where you had to fight with animals and go after your own food, mate. The world didn't get worse, it just got different Yes, I would say it even got better. With that said, it's nothing I deem worth repeating.  I always smile when I see someone bring this up.  Too few of us are willing to consider having kids as being a bad thing for the planet.

Factoid:
A [study by statistics professors at Oregon State University](http://oregonstate.edu/ua/ncs/archives/2009/jul/family-planning-major-environmental-emphasis) finds that the biggest impact a U.S. citizen can have on this climate change problem is perhaps not so much surprising as difficult to accept: have fewer children.

Every **American child born today will add roughly 9,441 metric tons of carbon dioxide** to the atmosphere under current conditions. For comparison, a Chinese child would add roughly one fifth that amount **while a boy born in Bangladesh will add 1/160th. **

**Translation:**  If you're an American then you're doing future generations and the world a favor by not having children.  Also, simply Google "reasons to not have kids".  There are a ton of them, and you might not have considered how much happier and better off you could be if you were to make an informed decision, regardless of what you ultimately choose.
 Good call! It's pretty crazy that you can see the damage so drastically from satellite view. I wonder if you could see it from space.  My guess is yes Satellites are in space. http://imgur.com/a/FYll2 for those who like albums instead. Thats kind of sickening. Its, IIRC, the world's largest rainforest, and its being completely desecrated. The citizens of the world didn't even have a choice in the matter. I'd like to point out that you live in an area that was probably once a forest of trees and vegetation...

I don't really want to be that guy, but you got yours so... that's ok?

All those roads you drive, supermarkets you go to, places you visit.. all probably densely covered by trees and vegetation at one time. I live in essentially a port city, so very unlikely it was quite the forest that the Amazon was, but I see your point. It seems like the classic two wrongs don't make a right though. Which is why developing countries that are showing out more carbon are looking to developed countries to for the bill for what needs to be done, in addition to cutting out footprint. As a Brazilian, I've seen that, but not all of us has an idea about the extent of the destruction. The forest is being substituted with grasslands for cattle, whose meat is exported throughout the world, improving the country's trade balance. The government doesn't seem to care much about this, since a lot of politicians are heavly lobbied by the agribusiness.


 Oof.

So not only are we stripping the rainforest and it's carbon absorbing ability, we're replacing that rainforest with methane producers.

:( And you know better than me, exports don't necessarily help the domestic economy. It's a shame that the government openly allows the world to exploit its own country's precious natural resources. I'd say it's on the same level as DaBeers in Africa.  Here's a screenshot. I guess you're talking about all that dark vs light green.

http://imgur.com/A3oZNhX Here is the map of deforestation. It is disgusting. 

https://earthengine.google.org/#intro/Amazon Wow. When you zoom out and watch the majority of the country, it really puts things into perspective. Wow, zoomed in on some areas, and zoomed out on all amazon, the effect is astounding :| The problem is that laymen and politicians still reserve their right to stubbornly refuse to believe the literature. Just because it's published and proved rigorously is irrelevant to the staunchly ignorant. Those who would know already know. 

EDIT - Their vs. They're grammar error. [Yes, and don't forget the cattle ranchers.](http://mongabay-images.s3.amazonaws.com/14/causes-of-amazon-deforestation-300.jpg)

Clearing for Cattle Pasture

Causes of deforestation in the Amazon

&gt;Cattle ranches 		65-70%

&gt;Small-scale, subsistence agriculture 		20-25%

&gt;Large-scale, commercial agriculture 		5-10%

&gt;Logging, legal and illegal 		2-3%

&gt;Fires, mining, urbanization, road construction, dams 		1-2%

&gt;Selective logging and fires that burn under the forest canopy commonly result in forest degradation, not deforestation. Therefore these factor less in overall deforestation figures.

Cattle ranching is the leading cause of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon. This has been the case since at least the 1970s: government figures attributed 38 percent of deforestation from 1966-1975 to large-scale cattle ranching. Today the figure is closer to 60 percent, according to research by Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE) and its Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa). Most of the beef is destined for urban markets, whereas leather and other cattle products are primarily for export markets.

Brazil is today the world's largest exporter and producer of beef. Much of its expansion has taken place in the Amazon, which currently has more than 90 million head of cattle, up from 26.6 million in 1990 and equivalent to more than 90 percent of the total U.S. herd. The Brazilian Amazon has more than 214,000 square miles of pasture, an open space larger than France.

Several factors have spurred recent Brazil's growth as a producer of beef: Read more here http://www.mongabay.com/brazil.html

Vote with your dollars. The drought in California is another symptom of this problem which we are experiencing more locally. In your opinion, would the simplest way to vote with my dollars be to just not buy beef? Or, if I do, make sure it's some small local producer? I'm not OP, but yes. Eating less meat overall will help a lot and buying it local when you do will result in the least impact. 

Looking at it a little bit more, I see that they use the other parts of the cow for export markets, so I guess not buying Brazilian meat is less important for the rain forests than not buying cow-based products. That's what I was just thinking, and I think it's not buy beef.  Local producers still require intensive amounts of water to reproduce, raise and slaughter cows.

[On almost every level, the beef boycott seems imperative.](http://cdn.onegreenplanet.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/10//2014/10/Takeaway1.jpg) They believe it, but that doesn't mean they are going to do anything. What do you propose? We tell countries with forest that they can't cut any of it down?  Q: How much oxygen does the rainforest produce?

A: However, the term "oxygen production" is quite misleading, as the decomposition of organic plant and animal matter in rainforests actually consumes about the same amount of oxygen as the forests produce. For this reason, the term "oxygen turnover" is preferred by many scientists.

The largest source of the world's oxygen is tiny microorganisms located in the oceans, which are estimated to contribute as much as 80 percent of the total oxygen produced each year. It's not a matter of producing oxygen. It's a matter of storing carbon. Yeah, phytoplankton create most of our oxygen through photosynthesis, but trees **store** it. When trees die are or are burnt, this releases the carbon they have been storing. 

Edit: stop upvoting me I'm wrong.  The phytoplankton also "store" the carbon in a sense. Even when they die, the carbon will still remained trapped in the ocean. 

[Iducing blooms of these phytoplankton has actually been suggested as a method](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/32342/title/Lowering-Carbon-with-Algae/) to decrease the amount of carbon in the atmosphere, however further studies are needed to predict how this may change the ecosystem.
 uh actually phytoplankton are responsible for a very large portion of natural carbon sequestration. dead phytoplankton sink to the bottom of the ocean, basically locking away the carbon until a subduction zone takes the dead phytoplankton to a volcano or something. ancient dead phytoplankton is where most of the co2 from volcano's come from.  I know this may be a stupid question but who is cutting down all these trees and why? It doesn't appear that the article (and presumably the study) has much to do with cutting down trees.

The article at least restrains itself to more "natural" issues.  Trees grow and die.  That's all.  What's being investigated is the interplay between CO2 increases in the atmosphere and this birth/growth/death of the trees.  What the study seems to be showing is that we CANNOT assume trees will just merrily gobble up all the excess CO2 in the sense that more CO2 makes more happy trees growing more and making more trees, etc.  Instead it appears they grow faster and die faster and the OVERALL effect is a forest that eventually reaches a limit to how much CO2 it can absorb. Cattle ranching, logging, soy production, clearing for roads, clearing for hydroelectric dams etc. Majority for cattle ranching though.  Brazilians. For cattle ranging. [deleted] Old trees have a slower or zero growth rate than a younger growing tree. An old rainforest like the Amzon has probably reduced its carbon uptake even if it wasn't subjected to the degree of deforestation it has right now. Even then, the thick canopy would soak up must of the sunlight slowing or impeding the growth of new trees. 
We have an old bamboo plantation were I work and the amount of carbon it takes is just staggering. By our last measurment it stores around 25-30 tons of carbon per hactare (2.47 acres). The upside is that you can harvest bamboo canes every year for construction or decoration. This leaves the carbon trapped in the cane instead of being realeased if left to rot. On the other hand new shoots would grow, allowing for more carbon to be sequestered. On an ideal harvesting plan a hectare could store up to 60 tons of carbon. Just something to consider. There's about 5 billion hectares of arable land on the Earth, so about 1/30th of that could absorb all the CO2 produced per year if used the way you're suggesting. Storage might be a problem, although if used for building, then it would store itself. I agree, storage might be a problem. There are some iniciatives locally to incentivise small farmers and land owners to plant small plots of their land with bamboo. They would have a renewable source of construction material, for certain rugged structures they might need (sheds, fencing, etc...), that would require minimal upkeep if at all and the benefit that it would offsetting some of their carbon footprint. The researchers initially saw an increase in the trees growth rates due to the higher levels of CO2 in the atmosphere. The trade off is that they don't live as long. They grow quickly and die younger.

Also, the Amazon now only sequesters half of the amount of carbon as it did in the 1990s. The thing that sucks about these type of issues  is no one cares. I know there's people that care, but no one is going to do anything to stop it. People don't care about things like the rainforest, ocean, or atmosphere because they know it won't directly harm them, or even their children. No one is going to try to do something major to try and fix these issues until it's too late.  It's a long term problem and the citizens that care don't have enough power to do anything. The politicians don't have anything to gain to fight this either. This. If you tell people that 80% of rainforest deforestation is caused by the livestock industry most people just ignore it. Tell them to go vegan to avoid it and they'll flip out on you. You dont need to go vegan, that freaks ppl out. Just decrease your meat consumption. These extremes will get us no where. We have to be able to compromise.  So the plot of interstellar is going to be true? At least the part about the planet dying.  Wouldn't it be awesome if Amazon the company started investing millions (billions???!) into restoration and preservation of the Amazon rainforest? It would be a genius marketing idea and wouldn't hurt the planet either. That sounds problematic... What would happen if we lost the Amazon? Well, it's been described as 'the lungs of the world' I remember reading on reddit somewhere how that was actually pretty inaccurate elementary teacher stuff we were told, I think algae are way more important for cycling air.

I think the rainforests more important contribution is the storing of so much carbon in its biomass. Considering the increasing rate of acidification of the oceans, I'm going to go out on a limb and say the oceans are going to end up in pretty bad shape too. Yes, algae are more important because when they die they tend to be eaten by something else or sink into the ocean.  When trees die they rot, releasing carbon back into the atmosphere.

That said, trees are still important. [deleted] Trees affect planetary albedo in addition to carbon cycling. And that's an important aspect that nobody is mentioning. And wrongly so. While rainforests are far from negligible, most of the oxygen is actually produced in oceans. Which are dealing with their own massive loss of biomass. [deleted] No more Prime. And I suspect that the findings of the article will make absolutely zero-impact on any governing body in the world. It's frustrating when such important issues can be totally ignored. 
 I keep thinking we'll kill ourselves off by lobbing nukes at each other, but I need to get out of the eighties and realize we might well have a more convoluted but equally effective path to self extinction. [deleted] [deleted] I was told by a teacher that while the rainforest is important, that the oceans are more important as far as oxygen generation goes. How valid was this? Fairly valid, though with the rising acidity in the world's oceans the kelp forests are themselves at risk, and there is no "Save the Kelp Forest" movement... until they make a movie about the kelp forests with Sean Connery or the merpeople make a stink in the media, it'll just be one of those not-as-sexy problems that doesn't warrant the same consideration. [deleted] [deleted] Only good part about this that I'll be dead way before something catastrophic happens to the earth, hopefully. Yeah, just like you were dead before that last big storm that hit the East Coast. Or the droughts in the Midwest. Or West. I'm assuming you live in the USA at least. The irony is that we get the least of the direct initial effects of climate change, but we produce the worst emissions. (OK, fine we've outsourced some of our emissions to China, so we can buy cheap shit and give them our pollution.) Some islands in the Pacific are already evacuating their populations, we don't really have to worry about that (other risks are much higher imo).       
      
Science really isn't set up to predict "tipping points", which would be your something catastrophic. The smaller effects are already happening.  Oh that's just the liberal agenda speaking!!.. said probably half of the comments if this article were on Yahoo. Every time you mow your lawn, you are decreasing the Earth's capacity to absorb carbon from the atmosphere.

Thanks a lot. Maybe the money they spent on this study should've been spent on developing renewable energy sources instead.  so? Algae gives us most of our "carbon." And the warmer it gets, the more algae is produced. Perfect mechanism.  humanity is living life like a rock star, soon our ship will burn.... ps im atheist. Obviously, this isn't good.  What can the average Joe do? What are some simple lifestyle changes we can make to minimize our carbon footprint?

(Vegetarianism comes to mind, but not everyone's ready for that...)  Don't look for simple personal solutions, this isn't solved by personal choices. We need to pressure our politicians to create market incentives for sustainable industry, publicly fund projects and regulate industry emissions. This has be a group effort.  I agree that we should pressure our politicians... But to say that we shouldn't personally do something is absurd. The UN says the livestock industry is 18% of global ghg emissions. (For comparison, transportation is 13%.) Almost all deforested land used in Brazil is for cattle ranching, and 1 in 4 cattle are exported. The land that isn't used for cattle is used for soy... to feed the cattle. They are a huge emitter of methane. The manure is left untreated and there's too much of it for fertilizing uses, so it gets wasted. The uneccessary crops to feed livestock means tons of additional water use and pesticides which runoff into the ocean. OP's suggestion of vegetarianism here is probably the best personal choice that could be made, and should be. You can't ask politicians to do something if you won't do it yourself. And if you asked them to do something about climate change or deforestation, this is the answer you'd get. We need to stop this attitude of projecting our problems onto others, and actually do something. This is the only correct answer.  While I agree with your sentiment, this absolves individuals of responsibility. Yes, we need to pressure our politicians, but we also need to change our lifestyles. Legislation won't work if everday we are wasteful and inconsiderate. This type of thinking could make people feel that they have no power, but we do. We have power in every small choice we make.  Even easier... goto https://www.congress.gov find out who your reps are and see their voting patterns on this. Tell them that in November you are voting against them because of this. Not sure what that will do... do we have some politicians who are trying to stop this with military intervention of some sort?  

We Americans seem to think we can solve every problem by voting on it, last I checked South America was not under the thumb of congress. Well, it's the limit of the average person's power. Another thing is that I don't think they are talking specifically about South America, rather just the global eco system problem we've caused.  Not voting for someone because they do not share your position on 1000 other interconnected things is just silly.

This is not a singular issue as you have pointed out so there is no possible way for someone to *"find out who your reps are and see their voting patterns on this"*

That was my point. 

People looks at things like "the bucket challenge" you're either helping or you're not.  It's not that simple.  Everyone who dumped ice water on their heads had a choice to either donate or drop the water, the majority chose drop the water and assumed they were actually helping.

You're not doing something unless your actually doing something.



 If someone is so apathetic and disconnected that they don't even know who their reps are, I doubt they're the type of person who would bother making calls or writing letters of political activism. Or the type of person that would be reading this thread in the first place, for that matter. &gt;but not everyone's ready for that..

You make it sound as if it's a natural progression or the "right" thing.
I will never be "ready" for that.

Reducing your carbon footprint is pretty simple, but reddit's not the place to find out.  Googles a good start. I'm not implying it's a natural progression or that it's "right." (I'm not here to argue for or against the ethical value of vegetarianism and I will NEVER be vegetarian myself). 

However, I mention it because it is a fairly "simple" and effective way to reduce your carbon footprint (if all other aspects of your lifestyle are held constant).  A change in diet may be easier for some compared to making your own laundry detergent or giving up plastic water bottles.  Not necessary vegetarianism, it would be better, but just decreasing your beef meat intake would help a lot, cattle is the devil here Well reducing red meat intake is also really good for your health, I hear.  So, win-win I guess. Yes for those susceptible to heart disease. Not everyone.

It's a fallacy that "red meat" just up and out kills people, life is about moderation. Anecdotal yes, but my entire family eats red meat, no one has any heart disease, I literally have no family history of cancer or heart disease and this isn't unique to us.

Eating just vegetables all my life is not a "win-win" for me. I was referring more to the link between high consumption of red meat and colon cancer.  What I heard was that you don't need to cut out red meat, just reduce to one or two servings a week.  

I'm a software engineer, I know nothing about nutrition, this is just what I've heard and read.   Nothing you've written refutes that vegetables are healthier than red meat. Will red meat contribute to your death and shorten your lifespan? Quite possibly, but not necessarily. Is your lifespan statistically more likely to be longer if you eat vegetables instead of red meat? I think even you would admit that's true without any reasonable doubt whatsoever.

So yes, it is a "win-win" for you, assuming we're only counting the planet and your health as the two variables. If we count your culinary tastes, then sure, it's a win-win-loss. If you value a few minutes of eating pleasure more than the planet and your long-term health, so be it, but that decision seems quite selfish and irrational. Unless you have low iron. My wife was literally prescribed steak. [deleted] I was saying in general to redditors around the world, Brazilian beef meat is exported to big countries like Russia and China. 

Not eating beef would also help with less gas emission, cows methane emissions are a big problem. We can eat meat, but buy it locally. venison is kinda like beef but doesnt require huge pastures Beef is to good to lose. I better just a let the Amazon die then... Vegetarianism/veganism is an incredibly effective way to reduce your carbon footprint. I would strongly urge everyone to really, honestly ask themselves if it's something they can do. I became vegan a few months ago and it was surprisingly easy and enjoyable. Giving up the flavor of animal products is so worth it for the environmental, ethical, and health benefits.  Environmental scientist here. Just do little things everyday. Use your own cloth bags at the store. Turn water off in the shower as you soap up. Try to have 5 veggie meals a week, you don't need to drastically change your diet. If you can afford it, shop at local food co-ops/ farms. Organic is less important than soil ecology/workers rights. Make your own toothpaste and laundry detergent (super easy, pm me for recipe). Try to recycle anything you possibly can. Don't buy disposable water bottles. Ride bikes, public transport. If you start to do these things, it adds up, especially if you can get a friend to do it! This is what I was looking for; I wanted to pose this question in case anyone else was wondering the same thing.  Pressuring politicians is definitely something that needs to be done, but, in the meantime, there are small thing we can do as individuals.  

I've changed my diet such that half my meals are vegetarian. I purchase local products whenever possible (though it's not easy living in Singapore...where over 90% of food is imported).  I only use public transport (can't afford a car) and use maybe one plastic water bottle a month.  Recycling is encouraged here, though I try to re-purpose the harder-to-recycle plastic containers (since there are emissions associated with transportation and processing). 

Air conditioning is my major vice here.   It sounds like you're already doing a great job!  Buy your food locally and research which companies that are behind this and boycott them. It's not that hard.  Kill as many people and prevent more humans from reproducing.  That's really the bottom line; there's too many goddamned humans on the planet. Buy wooden products. A newly built house preferably. &gt; O2 emitted was originally in the air, one of the arguments for ethanol. Grant it that assumes you only use organic fuel in the cultivation, conversion, and combustion process.
&gt; Anyway, converting forests to high yield farmland may not be so bad, converting it to residential or industrial is.
&gt; Also there is the water consideration. We consume a ton sequestering carbon. Would really like to see far more efficient sequestering technology, something of a scrubbing system that would be required as a tax for any residential or industrial conversion of farm or forest land. Good luck getting it passed, but that's where the bene

Except more deforestation will occur to grow those plants... We deforest to grow plants to fee cattle and we deforest to create space to cattle grow, you can stop at least one of this two... Not just that, but in terms of land efficiency, a fully plant based diet is about 10 times as efficient as a meat based one. We would end up using far less land if we didn't eat meat, definitely not more. Except humans don't eat the same food as ruminants, and the amount of plant matter is much higher than meat/fat to fuel a human. I'm not entirely sure where you got the idea that I was saying we have the same diet as ruminants? 

Also, the meat/fat required to feed a human has to come from somewhere. Cows, chicken and pigs are fed food which requires copious amounts of land to cultivate. 

The fact of the matter is, feeding yourself veggies is more efficient than feeding an animal veggies and then eating an animal. It's actually very straightforward. &gt; el nino

well, assuming the base calorie limit of around 2500 calories, that sounds about average, how much farm space would be required to farm 2500 calories of food, and how much cattle farm space would be required for a single cow? (since a single cow probably has over 300,000 calories, just divide) You're missing the point. 1 cow only takes up a few square meters of space, sure, but you need to feed that cow or it will just die. The inefficiency comes from the fact that you need to cultivate food to feed the cow in the first place. no, i see the point, im just arguing that both are inefficient and arguing as if one of them (in this case vegetarianism and veganism) are SOOOO much better for the environment is just fluff and not factually correct, even if everyone decided to stop eating meat right now, and ate solely vegetables and other such foods (no eggs, no fish), we would probably use just as much space, the real thing we need to think about is how to make it more efficient, i believe i heard discussions about vertical farming, that seems like a much better option, and much more viable than everyone on the planet dropping meat altogether  "We would probably use just as much space"

That part is definitely wrong. I don't have the numbers on me because I'm on a mobile but I can tell you with absolute certainty that plant based diets require *much* less land to produce a balanced diet. With the broken English I'm not sure what you said.  Really. Everyone keeps pointing out that thE Amazon and forests are not the biggest carbon reducers we have. And that its been heavy carbon output from us that's making the situation as bad as it being cut down, BUT THAT'S THE POINT . If we lose the Amazon that's a projected general 9c temperature increase, that much less carbon getting absorbed, AND el nino like weather patterns on the west coast. so say projected climate simulations. i understand that we need to focus on a ton of things but this regardless of how much less carbon it absorbs than the ocean is still just as important  I don't think most folk appreciate what "losing the Amazon" means.

One of the eventual predicted impacts/results of Climate Change is the entire Amazon basin will revert to savanna.  It's not just we'll lose the carbon sink.  All the forest will burn and release a staggering amount of additional carbon.
 That's horrifing! What the hell can we do? Aren't people cutting down some two football fields of forest per.. day or second? There are multiple things going on.  What can we do depends on what you're focused on.

There's the short-term issue of deforestation due to clearing the trees to make way for farms and cattle.  That's why there are lots of comments here regarding cutting down on meat consumption.  Presumably, less demand would result in less deforestation.  I'm not so sure about this one.  If you have control of the land and you're willing to fell trees to make lots of money with cattle, I bet you'd still cut down the trees to make a bit less money with crops.

The issue of the Amazon burning and reverting to savanna is a long-term thing.  It's a projection based on a couple of factors.  First if we look back in time, we can make a pretty strong case that when temps and CO2 concentrations were higher, the more normal state of the Amazon basin is savanna.  Second, the long-term persistent droughts projected for the area would seem eventually to result in large-scale forest fires.  So the thought is that EVENTUALLY (not short-term) it'll burn and the forest won't return... not for a long, long time.

What can we do about that?  It's all lumped into whatever we can do as a global civilization to reduce CO2 emissions.

 Well Biofuels are easy to make, cheap. I gotta trade in my car for a diesel. that's the best first move i can think of Stopping or reducing your meat consumption would make a larger difference. It would also be cheaper. In fact, it'd save you money. If you're in the USA, the best we can do is exert political pressure. Beef you buy is going to be USA-local, it won't be from the Amazon.     
     
There might be some sort of other relation, considering that criminal gangs are involved.  I work for Joe. He's a great guy. My research focuses on other endeavors but I assure you like all research, Carbon3D stands on shoulders of giants as with most areas of interest. No one is trying to say we invented 3d printing. It's a step forward. Which I find exciting.  "No one is trying to say we invented 3d printing. It's a step forward. Which I find exciting."
This is what I like to hear. Cyberdyne is making progress.

 [deleted] [deleted] Hey, uhhh, isn't that the name of the shadow corporation in Perfect Dark? I'm pretty sure Perfect Dark had Datadyne, which sounds similar. Aww man, I'm a reference scrub. :( How is this different from laser sintering tanks? 
As a VW design engineer we would send models for prototyping to the sintering dept, and they would take about 4hrs to make an item roughly the same size as a football.

The one time I got a view, I saw a rectangular tank about 1.5m x 1.5m x 2m, full of brown/green jelly and they were firing lasers into it to solidify the jelly.
The parts produced were smooth (no visible layers, and quite brittle. They could be sprayed by the paint dept, or we could request that the part be hardened with fine superglue spray. This would have been 2001-2007.

I can understand that since then, processes have allowed for smaller machines for home users. But when I read how this amazing new technology is out, it doesn't look all that compared to decent industrial systems.

Just my view. I'm definitely no expert on the subject. What these guys are adding is speed. They have a table on their website (carbon3d.com) where they claim that they can produce a part that previously took 11.5 hours in 6.5 minutes. Yep, pretty good.

My point really was that "traditional" methods of producing these items were fast, but too expensive for the average user.
The household printers may be cheap and portable, but are compromised in terms of the final product quality and the time taken.

These guys have found a faster way to print, but all they've achieved is to reduce the time compromise of the product. If the machine or process is expensive, they've really not gained very much over existing technology. Modern SLA machines are already much cheaper than industrial machines you were referring to by the older players.
 
A form1 costs $3,200 and gets you down to 20 micron layer thickness and 300 micron feature size. 

My assumption is that a commercial product based on the technology in this post would be priced at the Form1 level.
 Well according to [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/2zavwh/new_terminatorinspired_3d_printing_technique/cphd45z) the difference is in the much smoother surface. SLS seems to be very weak in that regard.
 This seems to be based off Stereolithography which cures photopolymers with a UV laser.  Sintering melts metal powder with a laser.  

This improves on SLA by reducing the cure time of the resin.  I guess?  Maybe?   Yes,and a part of this comes from the nature of "extruding" from the liquid itself. Each layer is self dithering due to surface adhesion. It would appear that is what the oxygen barrier layer is for, although I can't get to the paper itself right now (paywall) so I'm not sure on that part.

for each layer, the successive layer would have the film of the liquid "pulled" to it, greatly reducing surface roughness. [deleted] [deleted] Of course. But this looks like a ballscrew for the Z axis and a laser? Not all resins cure faster with oxygen in fact most cure slower or much more poorly when exposed to oxygen, which this tech appears to exploit. The speed is fairly impressive though but the gains appear to be based on other tech. What I am interested in though is the fact that the build envelope is likely limited by the DLP or other tech used to expose the resin. In other words, can it do speed AND resolution AND physical volume of print area or are these all tradeoffs and physical volume is ultimately somewhat limited? Like I stated, this is not my area of research in the lab. However, I encourage you to reach out to Carbon3D directly at carbon3d.com with your questions! I'm sure they would be happy to answer. I apologize that I can't answer your question directly.  How nice is it when a Redditor remains within their bounds of expertise?! How would I know? I'm no expert on redditors. As an expert on everything and a mother, you're wrong. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I definitely have some questions, thanks for the info though. [Here's their contact page for anyone interested](http://carbon3d.com/contact/) &gt; However, as speed increases, dead zone thickness decreases and will eventually become too thin for the process to remain stable. For CLIP, the empirically determined minimum dead zone thickness is ~20 to 30 m. Part production with a dead zone thickness below this minimum is possible but can lead to window adhesionrelated defects. Once the minimum dead zone thickness is reached, the print speed can only be increased by relaxing the resolution (i.e., using a resin with higher hA). So they are limited to 20 - 30 micron layers in Z as the "thinnest" they can produce in terms of resolution?

Interesting. Polyjet is certainly slower but can readily achieve 15 microns in Z in "high quality" modes. It actually prints a bit more but then planes it off with a razor blade. Plus, it can achieve much, much larger build volumes.

Also because it prints "underpolymer", it mutes the layer effect by kind of smearing together with other layers so to appear more continious? But it still limits the resolution? this is very early in this printing technology. 20-30microns is still quite impressive for what it is. I believe they are using the oxygen to inhibit the curing and the laser to increase the cure speeds. Correct. That's exactly what the article stated. I'm pretty sure it's not DLP tech being used, you can see the lasers in the second video. It would be interesting to see DLP tech being used as this would allow 7u control of granularity and with a 3 chip system would allow exposure control from various angles. I suppose you can use DLP *and* lasers though. They are not mutually exclusive. DLP tech and lasers are used in cinema today, I didn't mean that since it was laser it couldn't be DLP. I was more noting the pulsed beam area was quite wide and not very granular but who knows unless they share specs. I could see how my previous comment sounded like I was saying DLP or laser, I blame it on my poor choice of words and lack of sleep. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Can't read the article without signing in. What is the difference here compared to stereolithography (SLA) printing? Stereolithography appears to print by a layering approach, this approach uses light and oxygen to direct the hardening of the resin in three dimensions at once.  SLA build layer by layer, after each "pass" there's a recoater blade, we called it slicing.  If you have an overhang(let's say if you are building a T shape object, the horizontal bar needs to be supported or else it will drift away in the resin.  The support is a mesh like structure that design to be easily break away, it's fine if you are building part without surface detail but if you are building a doll for disney with tons of surface detail(such as texture of clothing, character skin, geometric pattern) all the surface touching the support will need to be redo by hand.

The devil is in the detail, SLA is still the king of RP for polymer as it can produce fine detail down to 50 or so micron, that's thinner than a human hair.  The EnvisionTec HD SLA printer I believe is the current leader of high resolution SLA.
For your information all the toy, character and game figures are done in SLA 90% of the time.  

But again, those yellow resin they use is not very strong, it cannot be used for engineering/mechanical study.  Normal SLA such as Somos can be heat resistance(ceramic), clear, FDA safe(Bio plastic), etc.

The current consumer grade 3d printer are cheap because the material itself is cheap and the patent of FDM is expired.  SLA will be avaible on the market as the patent is about to go bye bye, but do prepare a bottle of resin is couple grand compare to couple hundred for commerical grade FDM.  

SLA resin also require a chemical bath to clean the part, after cleaning it also need to be "bath" in UV light for it to totally cure.  In comparison FDM printing is super low in definition but it's relatively "clean" and painless to use.

Another supportless additive manufacturing technique is called SLS, it's a tank of power(polyer or metal) being zipped by laser.  The zapped part will be harden and form a part without any need for rigid support as the surrounding "sand" like building material will naturally support it.  it build plastic and metal part but the surface quality is quite poor, what the model maker usually do is pour superglue on the part before they even bother to sand it down.

&lt;---Works in the R&amp;D industry about 8+ year Thanks for the in depth read. I'm pretty familiar with SLA and sintering (SLS), I just wasn't sure about this new style OP posted about. Couldn't read much beyond a brief summary of the article. I just revisited the article and it seems to have loaded better and with videos, will watch those soon. Great write up, didn't know about the patents. Thanks &gt; but do prepare a bottle of resin is couple grand compare to couple hundred for commerical grade FDM.

Are there cheaper alternatives, or possibility for economies of scale, should it take off post-patent, or is it an inherently expensive material?  Not currently, the current patent and application of the SLA technology is still pretty much in the commercial sector.  A 3D systems SLA printer for commercial is about 250k, so most of the companies that are actually buying those machines are rapid prototype firm.  I can be wrong but the economy of scale ain't there yet, but again so was FDM 7 years ago, but once the patent went bye bye everyone and their mother started to build one.  

I hope it does come down in price when it trickle down to the consumer end but be prepare the SLA technique itself is less forgiving than FDM and require  alot of post print process. The SLA liquid itself is not safe for the environment as well as human/pet, thats why they even charge you to collect the used bottle.  Just to add a little bit, I am sure there will be a demand for the current FDM user to upgrade to SLA if the process and material itself is more reasonable(cost and process).  Some of the most expensive SLA liquid are for medical or extreme use(Dental work, blood works, engine headers, rocket part, etc).  I am sure they will make a human safe, "normal" plastic version of it in lower specification for consumer market if there's a large enough demand for it.  Some of cost of the material included independent testing with lab and getting FDA certification, which is more painful than getting tax audit from my personal experience :) It would seem that this new system would need just as much support as SLA. The support would just be coming from the top instead of the bottom. 

&gt;The devil is in the detail, SLA is still the king of RP for polymer as it can produce fine detail down to 50 or so 

FYI, you can get prettty cheap 25 micron delivered to your door in less than 24 hours these days Unless you are building toy model, the difference doesnt worth the extra build time 99% of the time.  
FYI, most of the prototype firm will not even fire up the highest setting, unless there's an absolute must(making you pay extra for it, your native STL is good enough and there's no need to prep for paint).

If 50 micron is good enough for the "Big Mouse" company, it's good enough for me :)  I realise you're talking about higher end stuff, but there are "home-sumer" grade versions of both of these.

FDM is about $30 per Kg for filament, either PLA or ABS. There's other polymers as well that are more expensive. The machines vary between $300 and $2k

SLA runs about 70-100 per Litre of resin. The machines are really taking off now at around $2k to $5k being a sweet spot, although some cool ideas are running as low as $100 or $200 (Peachy Printer).

Obviously these aren't as good as a six fgure machine, but both FDM and SLA are getting VERY cheap, VERY fast. SLS is getting there too, with similar prices to SLA starting to come up. I really wish they would show a graphic of how this works. Even a simple one. I have ideas, but would love to know if correct or not.  There is a schematic of the device in [this article](http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/a14586/carbon3d-3d-printer-resin/). Instead of printing one layer at a time it uses oxygen to inhibit the hardening of the polymer resin so that you can continuously build the model. Carbon3D's Super Fast 3D Printer Printing:

[Red Bucky Ball](http://youtu.be/74BjdHDJeE0)


 [Blue Eiffel Tower](http://youtu.be/VTJq9Z5g4Jk)

[Material Types Demonstration](https://youtu.be/ON8xcki4Kks)
 [deleted] [deleted] The second video is better, it gives a measurable timestamp, less than 7 minutes to print the Eiffel tower, color me impressed. Wait, if 7 minutes is fast, how slow are current printers? [deleted] Wow this is the first 3D printed thing that I have see  that looks good.  You haven't seen much then. Resin printing can reach crazy DPIs.

http://i.imgur.com/wpmzhdv.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/lxls9xN.jpg

SLS prints can also look really good. Wow. That second one is impressive. That's because you're seeing it properly cleaned up and painted. Do that to your run of the mill 3D printed objects and you'll start seeing how awesome things are now, and will get better. You don't have to clean much up, if anything, unless you use supports.  If you have a decent machine.  3d printing quality has exploded in the past two years.  I can print layers that are less than a fifth of the width of a human hair strand.  You'd go cross-eyed trying to see the layers. Since i've been out of the loop for quite a while (not quite two years but close), what constitutes these days "a decent machine"? More importantly, are those decent machines only the really expensive commercial ones?  I'll be at NPE next week, I'll post some pictures of the 3D printers and what they print 

The high end printers do amazing work  What printer are you using to make such big models? I run a printrbot LCv2 and I'm restricted to 5 inch cubes at the biggest. My Makerfarm can do 12" by 12" by 12".  Looks amazing, can you share a higher resolution pic? Somewhere in the 4-5 hour range for that same object would be on the fast side. 10 or more hours for a slower, precise printer probably I printed a half sized human skull on an Objet 30 and it took 20 hours. &amp; minutes for that is pretty impressive. [deleted] I designed and printed a raspberry pi case which, while eventually will be cut with a laser, takes about 5ish hours to print on a 3d printer. http://imgur.com/CGC3gps http://imgur.com/HOWi1rj Why would you 3d print something like this? You could have done this in like 20 minutes with some plywood and a laser cutter. I mean, I can understand that you are prototyping, but even prototyping with plywood would have been much faster.  Because I have access to a 3D printer that I can let run all day and it lets me check fitment, alignment, practicality, looks, etc. so waiting the afternoon for a print doesn't bother me at all. I don't have open access to a laser cutter, so when I want to use it I have to schedule and pay for it. This way if I decide I don't like the way the panel lines up with the ethernet/USB ports I can just fix and re run that single panel. I'll run a batch on laser once I'm satisfied. Well the first video is at 7x the speed. The platform thing hits the liquid a little bit after the 2 second mark and leaves the liquid about the same amount of time after the 52 second mark so I'm just gonna round to 50 seconds of video time for a rough estimate. 7*50 = 350 seconds which leaves us with a rough time of 5:50. So essentially we're looking at 6ish minutes. However there's no size given? It could be a rather small model, there needs to be some scale given. the title of the first video has "7X speed" in it How am I supposed to know how long it actually takes, if it takes one minute at 7x speed? I'm not a mathematics.  [deleted] This is so fascinating.

Will this same process work with other materials? As long as it is a UV photopolymer chemistry, yes. Which means acrylates, epoxies, etc. You can do neat things like get rubbery materials or ceramic nanofilled materials to modify the properties of the base material but it's fundamentally limited to "plastic like" materials with this tech, at least with commercially available materials that I am aware of. There are a few nano aluminum materials available that are considered fairly high strength though. But not with steel or other similar metals/materials used in most types of structures. Resin is great but people need to start figuring out 3d printing with important materials. This new 3d printer seems like a really smart way of applying this particular resin. [HP is developing a enterprise-grade 3D printer to be released in 2016/2017](http://h10124.www1.hp.com/campaigns/ga/3dprinting/4AA5-5472ENW.pdf) that can print high resolution objects with multiple materials (with metal under investigation) in multiple colors at 10 times the build speed of SLS and fused deposition modeling. http://gpiprototype.com/services/metal-3d-printing.html

Metal 3d Printing is already a Thing.  Is there an image of the finished product? Specifically the Eiffel Tower? How detailed/correct is it?

I know there are some 3d printing systems that use metal, but has there been any advancement into mass producing 3d printed metal parts? I imagine engines becoming much more efficient/cost effective if they can make an aluminum 3D printed engine that doesn't rely on casting and machining. I don't know that you'd be able to replace forging for its stength-weight property, but you could certain shave weight in all sorts of other places being able to print engine parts to precise designs. This is so cool. Straight out of a science fiction movie cool. :) Science paper: http://www.sciencemag.org/content/early/2015/03/16/science.aaa2397 [This is known as Stereolithography and has been around since the 1980s]( http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stereolithography).  They may have drastically improved upon it but it is in no way new.  It is similar - but major difference is that this is continuous printing due to the liquid interface at the window. When the light polymerizes the resin, the zone just above the window remains a liquid thanks to the oxygen inhibition in that region.
Continuous printing is going to avoid the layers introduced from delaminating and realigning in form1. This will have improved mechanical properties, wider range of applicable materials, and much much faster print times  Wasn't the issue that the patents cause issues with companies trying to use these techniques, but those patents are due to expire? Stereolithography is a rather general term and there are several new innovations here Yep, it looks like the Form1. 

I'm not really sure what the difference is. "Looks like", but does not "work like".  
If you've watched a Form 1 peel, then you'll understand why this is worthy of praise. Apart from speed and ease of use the main advantage is a product produced in 1 piece without having to cure it. There are no layers of material, it's all just 1 bit. As a consumer facing 3D printing company that focuses on speed and low cost for our clients, this ls is the most exciting equipment I've seen in years.

Almost 50 times faster than our current SLA process and still high res.  Don't even think about comparing this to a Form1.

That part print in 7 minutes a desktop, low res printer takes almost 4 hours to do.

 People are saying the fluid used may be very expensive. Perhaps it would even out? Time=Money after all. Being able to print eight pieces an hour instead of one every four should drastically increase the production rate.(If that is important to this particular company.) Also, the price would probably go down a lot if it was produced in large quantities. If this can use fluids which are strong enough for production use, imagine if a place like IKEA had a large printer to form parts from a vast catalog in each store without any need for long range distribution. Typically printing resins cost between $160 to $800 per litre, got any more details on what **very expensive** might mean? In a couple of years, people won't even get the joke in cartoons of pulling huge objects out of seemingly small hat. They'll just wonder why they used hats as printers. O_o Would you be able to print objects like chains with this type of printer? It seems like everything has to be connected together or it won't work.  You can do it with a small amount of the support material (that they claim they don't need, which isn't actually true). Once it is printed, you break them apart. It is a technique that is already used with many things that are printed in place within an assembly.  every method has its drawbacks.  as long as every discrete part of the thing you're trying to print is self-supporting along every point on the axis of print.  "Geordi, we need a new warp core STAT!"

"Just a second we need 6 more minutes for the printer to finish printing!"

"Geordi you've got 3."

"Got it, Data?"

"I'm on it, Sir."
 Watching science and technology progress by leaps and bounds over this past decade has left me with an overwhelming feeling that the future is almost here. That is, the future that has existed only in sci-fi novels and movies for the past century.

Can't wait to see how technologies like this one will shape the industries of tomorrow. Does it require a pool of resin to be heated? What happens if the resin collects then drips into the path of the beam? It's pretty weird, but the object is hardened / formed at the bottom of the pool of resin! The bottom. And the UV is projected upwards at the bottom. A diagram in this article illustrates it:

http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/a14586/carbon3d-3d-printer-resin/

As far as I can tell, they haven't revealed the exact composition or temperature of the resin.  &gt; The ramp test patterns in Fig. 1C were printed with trimethylolpropane triacrylate (TMPTA) using the photoinitiator, diphenyl(2,4,6-trimethyl-benzoyl)phosphine oxide. Other objects were printed with a combination of monomers from Sartomer (CN2920 &amp; CN981), TMPTA, and reactive diluents such as n-vinylpyrrolidone, isobornyl acrylate, and cyclohexane dimethanol di-vinyl ether. We also utilized the photoinitiators, phenylbis(2,4,6-trimethyl-benzoyl)phosphine oxide, 1-hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone, and 2-benzyl-2-(dimethylamino)-4'-morpholinobutyrophenone along with an assortment of dyes from Wikoff and Mayzo.

Anyways, it doesn't matter what temperature it is or the composition so long as your resin meets certain properties delineated in the paper. As long as the mechanism of polymerization is radical polymerization, your resin should work given that the resin falls within certain parameters. The resin used is [$50 for 100 grams](http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/aldrich/246808?lang=en&amp;region=US)

The photoinitiator used is [$40 for 10 grams](http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/product/aldrich/415952?lang=en&amp;region=US) Buying even slightly in bulk makes it way cheaper. It's 50 for 100, but 114 for 500. Ohh, so it's like "laser etching" with heat on the bottom of the pool? That's... really smart and elegant Here's an overview of what's actually happening here, I only hope this gets some attention since i showed up to the thread so late...

In a normal SLA printer, you have a vat of resin that turns into plastic when exposed to UV light. The bottom of the vat is clear, and there's a platform inside the cat which you can move up and down. To print, you put that platform very close to the bottom, shine a laser on the bottom of the vat to cure some resin into plastic, then somehow peel that layer off the bottom so it's stuck to the platform. Then you lift the platform a bit, laser again, and stick a layer to that first layer. Peel off the bottom again and repeat hundreds of times.

In DLP printing, you do the same thing but use a DLP projector instead of alaser, so you can do the whole layer at once, and it's quicker. This isn't what's new here.

In both kinds, you spend most of your time peeling the layers off the bottom. That's a delicate trick you have to get just right to print well.

In this new tech, CLIP, the bottom of the vat is made to let a little bit of oxygen in, and the resin is made with special chemicals such that light can't harden it if there's oxygen in it.

The result is that the resin at the bottom of the vat can't harden, so the light goes through and the resin above that oxygenated resin does harden. But since there's that oxygen layer, the hardened resin isn't stuck to the bottom of the vat, it's only stuck to the platform.

Since you don't have to peel layers anymore, you can do them really fast. In fact, there's no reason not to make them insanely thin because without the peeling part, it's actually faster to have super thin layers.

I think this new tech is very cool, and it should blow normal SLA/DLP out of the water, but it still shares their other weaknesses, so I don't think this spells the end for FDM or SLS by any means. You should ask the mods why they removed this comment and see in they'll put it back. Thanks for the explanation.  Thanks for the tip off, I've sent them a message. I suspect the look of disapproval I had at the beginning broke their rule on memes. [deleted] &gt;Is anyone studying the effects of extended exposure to curing resin?

You! Congrats 
 Photosensitive methacrylate resins for 3D printing are quite stable. When curing, they polymerize. It's only a slightly exothermic reaction. What makes you think curing lets off toxic gases? This is a solvable problem: consumer versions should be enclosed (good idea for safety and quality control anyway) and ventilated with positive pressure into an exhaust pipe that can be run out of a window.

For now, you can solve it for yourself with a sheet of plexiglass, a couple of computer case fans, a few feet of flexible tubing, and some hot glue. Second hand experience here but I haven't heard of any similar issues of fumes in the Form 1 resins. Is it possible the commercial 3d printing resins are slightly different or more stable? Here is a link to the actual science article:

http://www.sciencemag.org/content/early/2015/03/16/science.aaa2397 [deleted] Man, this was super exciting -- I was researching how to build one, until I tried finding sources for the Telfon AF 2400 that they're using as the oxygen-permeable membrane. The stuff is $1800 / 25 grams! Definitely not hobbyist level materials... :-/ Sorry for the ignorance here but I'm not very experienced in this subject. I get that it's cool and all, but why is 3D printing such a big deal?  Asking a question is not ignorant at all. 3D printing has an unlimited number of uses. Such as printing prosthetic arms and legs for a cheaper price, to printing and assembling a working gun. Whether you want to create and design your own model toys, or your very own guitar, a 3D printer can help you with that.  And it can print using a useful material? From the little I've seen of those, they printed with what looked like a paper substance. Would that not render those examples useless? Or is this exciting because it can lead to that? 3D printers can use a variety of materials, depending on the printer. Examples: Plastic, nylon, epoxy resins, steel, wax, polycarbonate, and some others that don't come to mind. Thank you! It is also useful for printing objects which in turn may be used to make a mold; so, you design your product, embed it into something like plaster or sand or whatever, and then pour in molten metal. The plastic simply vaporizes, and (if done correctly) the metal replaces it. You're welcome!  Steel?!

Edit: [Holy Shit!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i6Px6RSL9Ac) FYI, the process in that video is called "Indirect 3D Printing", where you print a porous part and infiltrate with a softer metal such as bronze or copper.

Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS) produces solid metal parts directly, by heating a bed of powder with a laser. The finished products are up to 100% as strong as milled, and this system supports almost any metal-- steel, stainless steel, aluminum, titanium, and engineering superalloys such as Inconel. [Here's a video showing the actual process on an EOS M270.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VImKhUD-8hk) That was pretty cool. Why does the laser start each layer by dancing around to make a rough outline? Why not just start scanning across the part right from the get go? In my experience working with these machines, scanning the outline first leads to better dimensional accuracy and a better surface finish on the vertical surfaces. &gt; better dimensional accuracy and a better surface finish on the vertical surfaces.

Perfectly stated. The scanning patterns on these machines are proprietary, but I know that EOS always scans the outline first.

 It may depend on the material.  Inconel 718 in the EOS process appears to have the outermost contour exposed just before recoating. Thank you!
 Someone built a solar powered one that uses a lens to focus sunlight to melt sand for 3D printing.  Have you not seen the 3D printers that can use ABS plastics?  I have seen ones printing metal.

While 3D printing is relatively new to the consumer market, I've seen stuff that came from an industrial 3D printer in 2002...which looks blocky compared to today's low end models. So does this mean when the printers become widespread a 1-2 thousand dollar item will only cost the base cost of materials? Or do you think they will control access to preserve our conceived notion of values?  Not really. The printers will be something you own. The plans for printing items are largely free or widely available. Limiting access would be pretty difficult - similar to how ineffective DRM is at protecting music.  There are a rainbow of materials to print with! All sorts of exotic resins that allow great visual or mechanical properties to take place in your printed part, or simple and strong materials like Nylon, ABS plastic, polycarbonate, etc. 

It's not a paper substance - it's a huge range of materials. There are companies doing direct-to-print prosthesis in addition to mechanical and visual verification models for new products, and even some companies that are making 3D printing as part of their product manufacturing process.  3D printing normally uses plastics; I've used some and they're pretty strong. There are lots of kinds though, including flexible ones and whatnot.

Talking about uses, I was recently doing a computing project where we needed some small shapes to test on; the lab I was in had a 3D printer and we got a large batch to test with in just a couple of days. It was pretty cool. So do you think the printers are reliable enough to eventually have the field of medicine rely on them? (Ie prosthetics, syringes, etc).  That's way outside my field of knowledge, although I think some teeth might already be 3D printed. Thanks, I appreciate your input. Despite my lack of knowledge on the subject it greatly interests me.  I remember someone made a prosthetic arm for like 1k that worked better than his 10k commercial bought one  Syringes probably don't make sense to 3D-print. 3D printing is mostly interesting for making small batches - prototypes, unique designs, things that can't be mass-produced economically because you won't sell enough units to recoup the upfront investment. A 3D printer is analogous to a printer, whereas an assembly line is analogous to a printing press: you use a printer for your school paper, but when you're printing a million copies of a book, you use a printing press.

Now, prosthetics are a great potential use case. 3D printing combined with 3D scanning can allow a prosthetic to be fitted exactly to a patient. But I'd still expect that a combined approach would be the most effective and economical method in most cases: mass-produce the body of the prosthetic, and then print the components that interface with the patient's body.

To answer your question, it will be reliable enough. The technology is getting better and cheaper every day, and there's no reason that shouldn't continue. Well I don't need a prosthetic or plastic toys so I guess I'll skip it for now. This reminds me of auto CAD machines from tech class in HS &gt;but why is 3D printing such a big deal?

its a fundamental change in how things are made, with what materials, where, by whom/what, and when.

a gun receiver that used to be regulated and would require substantial manufacturing resources and expertise can be 3d printed by anyone anywhere.

sculptures, brackets, anything and everything can be 3d printed by just about anyone.

what used to take a skilled craftsman years to learn to carve out of a figure in clay is made in days by a person and 3d software and a printer....

and what used to take thousands upon thousands of dollars in tooling to create 1 specific part, piece, or mold is now reduced to just a few hours of print time and material cost.

and don't even get started on complex geometries that would be impossible to make by all previous manufacturing techniques.

hollow metal structures/lattices, hollow plastic structures, you can design every single aspect of your part and it won't cost a whole lot more to make, and generally speaking hollowing it out saves time and material which is a huge plus.

then you get into custom fit/applications. You have a specific part that you need that you can't buy in store? 3d print it. Instead of going to a mold maker, sculptor, or some kind of craftsman, you now have the tools to make it on your own. (the expertise is still an issue though)

soon we will be 3d printing custom fit and designed shoes, for the same price if not less than a traditionally made pair of shoes. 

You could go to a store and say "hey i want more foam here, here and here for more cushioning" and "this part of the shoe generally wears too fast for me, lets make it thicker in those places, and use a stronger material"

And keep in mind it would be custom fitted to your foot already in ever way.

The barrier to custom items is drastically lowered, in terms of cost and time.

applications are basically endless.

Basically, before cheap consumer 3d printing, people said "i don't have the resources to make that". But now you do.

 I'm not trying to be a party pooper, because most of what you're saying is correct. It's important to keep in mind, though, that additive manufacturing is not a magic bullet.

In this comment and the one below, you talk about gun production. First off, we still don't have the capability to print an entire firearm-- there's no way to create a rifled and machined barrel surface. Mostly though, the type of printing needed for full-strength metal parts is called DMLS (direct metal laser sintering), and it still requires highly skilled technicians for operation. Builds need to be set up, parameters varied based on part geometries, and post-processing is still highly intensive. In fact, most engineered DMLS parts will be machined after printing "the old fashioned way", on a CNC mill or lathe.

These types of machines are still hundreds of thousands of dollars, and require an industrial level of peripheral machines and skilled individuals to actually produce a good finished part. The production company I work with for my research actually hires artists to do some of the post-processing by hand. As long as I can eventuality download a car...  When designing mechanical parts you can make prototypes in minutes, test it, refine it, and make the next version. This means you can engineer a product in a fraction of the time. Prior to 3D printing, plastic prototypes had to be made using injection moulding; basically building casts and pouring/injecting plastic into the casts. That process takes days or weeks and is very expensive. So each iteration costs thousands of dollars and takes weeks. With 3D printing that process can be repeated dozens of times in a week and cost next to nothing.   How is this a major win over SLS? Part resolution is far far greater, the polymer itself is stronger.  The same reason SLA is 5-10 times the cost of FDM for the same part.  

But again, if you are building a part for mechanical testing/proof of concept you DONT need that but if you are digital sculptor working for Marvel, it's a must to have the best resolution to showcase the 250 man hour you spent building a character. The polymer is stronger? I don't have an account to read the article in Science, did they say that there? I didn't see anything about strength in the articles I read. SLA builds in a single block instead a bunch of filament melted together.

When we do proof of concept model(aka smash it in the lab model) we build it in SLA or we CNC out from a block of PC.

 This is absolutely amazing, but I'd say in all likelihood printers using this technique will be extremely expensive (say $10k+) for the foreseeable future, whether for technological reasons or because the inventors hold patents and making the printers expensive would be a business decision.  Someone please give me some hope to the contrary. A guy in another comment said the oxygen permeable membrane costs $1800 for 25 grams, so it's probably going to be pretty expensive.  /u/aspiringvoiceactor said:
&gt; The resin used is $50 for 100 grams[1]
&gt; The photoinitiator used is $40 for 10 grams

But /u/mrbaggins said:
&gt;Buying even slightly in bulk makes it way cheaper. It's 50 for &gt;100, but 114 for 500.

So after the high start up cost it seems it might be a good replacement.

I am unsure if the membrane needs to be replaced after a while, or even how large a 25g piece is. If you were to use this to build large objects I could see this getting really expensive. isn't this basicly the first way it was done?  This is very scalable, Just WOW I think its actually far less scalable than the bottom-up method.  That's like its only drawback. How is that different from what the form1 does using, if i recall correctly, stereo lithography? Wasn't this also a fabrication technique shown in that movie with the toys with military microchips giving them A.I. and mobility?  [deleted] What's the difference between this printer and this one 

http://www.3dartistonline.com/news/2013/09/the-first-3d-printer-and-scanner-for-less-than-100/ So could the same principle be applied to other liquids that can be solidified? For example - could this be done with a molten steel drawn up and selectively quenched in three dimensions? presumably, could you make a fiberglass (or carbon fiber/nanotubes/whatever) skeleton and then use the 3d printing to bind the resin to the skeletal structure and make incredibly strong structures such as, i don't know, really, really good prosthetic limbs or Star-wars style bionic ones? This is not a new technique, Its a new machine implementing it in a slightly different way.  I remember seeing DIYer' scavenging DLP systems from projector screen tv's to do this exact same technique about 3-4 years ago.  Beyond that some  3D printers used a pair of UV lasers to fix voxels in a UV sensitive polymer/resin bath about 20 years ago.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] why did they choose that geometric shape to print? Because for normal SLA to build that part(a hollow sphere with detail inside), it bottom half of the sphere will need to be supported as well as all the interior space.  This "new" reverse SLA technique(actually not that new, it's a few years old in the making in the commercial end, I believe was being pushed by 3D system?) doesn't need support because the part is not "fighting" the gravity. It's a buckyball. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buckminsterfullerene &gt;"We think that popular 3D printing is actually misnamed  it's really just 2D printing over and over again," said Joseph DeSimone, a professor of...

Yeah. I think that's what we like to call 3D. He was making the point that the "3D" objects printed are really just successive layers of 2D slices, in order to illustrate the process. If you have any questions I'd be glad to explain further. This is a really cool concept. I believe the peachy printer works in a similar way. http://www.peachyprinter.com/ Can this tech create objects with moving (detached) parts?

AFAIK those need to be suspended unmoving in the material, if not by the structure. This looks very neat, looking forward to seeing what other materials can be printed like this I'm not sure I understand completely.  I mean, the way I'm reading it is the light projects an image onto the glass/membrane/whatever that can also allow oxygen molecules to pass through it.  Anywhere the light touches is hardened and anywhere the oxygen touches remains liquid?  So if I wanted to make a giant O I would project a ring of light onto the resin and all the "negative space" would be exposed to oxygen?  If that's right then how does one prevent the oxygen from also touching the parts that are exposed to light?  Also is the membrane like a cellular one in that oxygen molecules are small enough to pass through but whatever these resin molecules are, they are too big to pass through? Oxygen keeps it a liquid, and "wins" against the light.  However, the Oxygen doesn't penetrate very far into the liquid.

This means that the light will harden the liquid a little bit in from the bottom, but the very bottom will stay a liquid because of the oxygen there.  This means that it doesn't stick to the bottom, and can be pulled up from it.

If we turn it on its side, so it's `top -- bottom`:

    &lt;old stuff&gt; &lt;hardened by light&gt; &lt;liquid because oxygen&gt; &lt;membrane&gt; In all seriousness, can someone simplify how it works for my simpleton mind? We have a bath of raw material.  The bottom of the bath is a transparent semi-permeable membranne: light and oxygen can go through it.

A special resin is used for the raw material.  Exposure to oxygen keeps it a liquid, and "wins" against the light. However, the Oxygen doesn't penetrate very far into the liquid.  The light penetrates further.

Thus, we apply both light and oxygen from the bottom, causing the resin to harden a little bit up from the bottom.  However, the very bottom part says liquid because of the oxygen, which means it doesn't stick.

If we turn it on its side, so it's top -- bottom:

&lt;old stuff&gt; &lt;hardened by light&gt; &lt;liquid because oxygen&gt; &lt;membrane&gt;

 This is amazing. I wonder what is the strength of the objects created. Other 3d printers don't seem to be able to make very strong objects.  Depends on the material, but it is likely pretty strong, but brittle if other sla printers are any indication.  To be fair, if you want something to be durable when using 3D printing, you print a resin blank with the 3D printer, then take it over to the casting station, make a cast of the blank, and then use the cast to re-do it in something like metal. I think humans make past fictions, a reality. Can someone explain how this works? Please explain it to me like I am 5 because I have no idea what is going on but damn does it look awesome. Now the question is, how much does it cost to get something printed with this machine as current commercial high resolution prints are rather expensive. Another example of science fiction becoming a reality. It amazes me how sci-fi writers can predict what can actually be done even if it's only tweaked My question is, how does it handle colour?

I find one of the most amazing cases of 3D printing to be those that print in colour ( like that [used for Laika's productions](http://www.popularmechanics.com/culture/movies/a8026/paranorman-powered-by-3d-printing-11744926/) )... being able to print an item in full colour is pretty incredible.

Isn't this technique a step backwards there, being that it has to be just the colour of the goo it's rising from? when will it be cheap enough for the masses? will action figure prices drop after this is on everyone's home? and what other business opportunities do you think will rises up (sorry for the pun) from it? Do want!
My question is how does the strength (as in durability) of the output compared to other 3d printing technology? Since you are basically just getting some water in, it should help if you are lightly dehydrated as least. That's about it really. And the placebo effect. The placebo effect makes homeopathy at least as effective as prayer. I didn't say there weren't cheaper and morally justifiable alternatives.  I'm confused, is prayer more or less morally justifiable? Well, paying nothing for nothing is better than paying money for nothing. So I guess prayer is more morally justifiable than homeopathy. That is only partly true: the placebo effect is influenced by money and more pricey placebo treatments have larger placebo effects. 

[Source ](http://www.neurology.org/content/early/2015/01/28/WNL.0000000000001294.short/reply#neurology_el_63436) It's really interesting. Red sugar tablets are more effective placebos than blue ones. Injections are more effective than pills. Kind of fascinating. There have actually been some (limited) tests with placebo surgeries. IIRC, (source below) patients with knee pain were put under anesthesia and actually cut open on the operating table, but the surgeons didn't actually do anything. Patients receiving the placebo surgery actually did *better than* patients who received the real knee surgery.

[source](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa013259) I wonder how you go about proposing this to an ethics board. Reminds me of a study that compared acupuncture to western drug treatment for back pain. Not only did the acupuncture patients feel best, but those who got "fake" acupuncture (needles in random places and not to the full depth) only did slightly worse, and still substantially better than with drugs. That says a lot about our system of drugs AND acupuncture.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Edit:

Here is some information from the LDS.org website that helps portray the Mormon mentality on how paying tithing allows God to cause miracles.

[Home Lesson Manual, pay tithing before rent](https://www.lds.org/ensign/2011/12/tithing-a-key-to-peace-in-a-troubled-world?lang=eng) "There is not enough money to pay all of the bills and still pay a full tithing. What should he do? Point out that you pay tithing first, and then you pay a portion of what you owe on each other bill"

[If you pay tithing to the LDS church, then God will give you economic success](https://www.lds.org/ensign/2011/12/tithing-a-key-to-peace-in-a-troubled-world?lang=eng) "Shawn lost his job. It was tempting to use our tithing for bills or groceries, but we trusted in the Lord and submitted the tithing to our bishop instead. Shawn eventually secured a new job."

[God won't let good things or miracles happen for you if you don't pay tithing](https://www.lds.org/general-conference/1994/04/tithing?lang=eng) "If I did not pay my tithing, I should expect the Lord to withhold His blessings from me. I pay my tithing, not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing it."

-----

Mormonism uses something calling "priesthood blessings for the healing of the sick."

You are blessed to be healed based on your faith and adherence to church rules. After performing an anointing with a vial of olive oil that all Mormon men have in their pocket (go ahead and ask one today) the prayer verbiage would be, "Sister Young, by the authority of the Melchizedek Priesthood which we hold, we lay our hands upon your head and give you a blessing of healing. We bless you that, by your faith and obedience to the Gospel, you might be healed." This shifts the blame of failure to heal on the individual.

The man performing the blessing MUST file an annual report to a church official that he pays 10% of his income to be able to perform the blessing.

The person receiving the blessing MUST also file an annual report that he/she pays 10% of his/her income to be able to be worthy for the blessing to work.

Mormonism requires 10% of your money for healing. You must be obedient to church rules for God to want to come and heal you. Faith before the miracle, and all that jazz.

Source: 35 years as a Mormon, was a missionary, been to the temple countless times, married in the temple, served in church positions. I once witnessed an Orthodox priest blessing a car.  It was a similar service to what you describe, something that cost a fixed amount of money for the blessing.  I asked my friend how the blessing worked: if the door of the car were removed, would the replacement door need to be blessed again, or would the blessing of the car transfer to the new door?  If the door were placed on another car, would the other car be blessed?  My friend told me to stop asking questions.   I think third edition rules specify that the construct exists as an entity, adding things will still be covered by the spells, and removing things will remove it from the spell effects. You could swap out every piece one by one, and it would still be under the original spell. I think that's a moot point though, because I'm pretty sure bless counts as a compulsion spell, and constructs are immune to compulsion spells. I bet your friend told you to stop asking questions because it's bad form to call out the DM on something so minor. That's a very [Ship of Theseus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ship_of_Theseus) approach of you. I once got a Catholic priest to bless a plastic toy dinosaur that belonged to the 3 year old I was watching during her sister's baptism.  Please tell me you are ex-Mormon now I mod /r/exmormon now If you don't mind me asking, are you still a closet atheist or have things changed in the three years since you made your account? I can't imagine what it must be like coming from a community like that, with a wife, etc. Hope everything has worked out for the best either way. [deleted] I hesitate to reply since discussions about religious aesthetics and orthopraxy on /r/science seems way outside the moderation boundaries of /r/science (why do you bring it up?), but I wanted to provide another viewpoint from a practicing Mormon's perspective.

First off, you bring up great points and I agree somewhat. Some (*some*) leaders read *way* too much into the practice of tithing; treating it like a panacea against the problem of evil. The fact is that bad things happen to good people and good things happen to bad people. No amount of orthodoxy or orthopraxy will erase that. I too cringe when I hear *some* LDS leaders speak in absolutes like this. But it's important to note that not all leaders are this extreme and take into account scriptural narratives like Job that provide a strong counter example to the orthodoxy/orthopraxy = no evil fallacy (though you're right in pointing out that current published manuals take the more extreme position -- hopefully that will be moderated in future revisions).

Back more on topic, I'm critical of homeopathy of treating critical psychological, or non-psychological ***causes***. However, and this is important, homeopathy (and I include [prayer/meditation in this](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&amp;q=prayer+symptom+treatment&amp;btnG=&amp;as_sdt=1%2C48&amp;as_sdtp=)) has a strong correlation to treating some ***symptoms*** and to the degree that it reduces stress and creates a positive mental state we can expect it to objectively help with ***symptoms***. My big beef with the homeopathy industries is promoters confuse symptomatic treatment to causal treatment.

As a theist I do believe miracles are possible (causes inexplicably cured), but I must be honest that I see no objective, deterministic evidence of the regularity in that. So, as a result, I'm happy to pray/meditate (esp. since those are self-regulated) with the  objective expectation that they can promote symptomatic healing. But I don't insist on objective healing of causes. I'm happy to have faith that it's possible, but I don't attribute it to my own orthopraxy or orthodoxy. I look to competent medical doctors for any objective, empirical expectation of causal (or even symptomatic) healing.

This is somewhat a more modern or "progressive" perspective in Mormonism, but it's not outside the scope of Mormonism.

Quick note, your point:

&gt; You are blessed to be healed based on your faith and adherence to church rules. 

Simply isn't true. Recipients of healing are only asked to exercise faith in God and Christ within the context of a healing blessing. I've personally given blessings to a drug addict who was (and still is) miles away from what anyone would say as "adhereing to church rules" and they still express to me how much that gesture helped them. I've also given blessings to people who weren't, aren't, and don't plan on being Mormon and they've expressed similar gratitude and reported effects one would expect from practices like personal meditation or prayer.

Anyways, I hope this helps provide an additional perspective. Note, I'm not going to engage in further debates on finer points of doctrine since this is /r/science.

EDIT: BTW, your story about you and your wife both being "inches apart, but separated by miles" due to your individual situations is (honestly) touching. I'm glad you two have found an increased intimacy and openness even if it involved departing from the faith I use to derive a similar intimacy and openness in my relationship. &gt; The placebo effect makes homeopathy at least as effective as prayer.

If you sub to news, worldnews, psychology etc. you've seen study after study documenting the benefits of meditation.  Break it down a bit and you realize meditation is just the practice of focusing the mind, usually on the breath.  Give it some open-minded thought and you realize prayer is similar, the only difference being the subject of the mind's focus (God vs. breath).

So where are the studies documenting the benefits of prayer?  They're out there, but you won't read about them unless you look for them.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/richard-schiffman/why-people-who-pray-are-heathier_b_1197313.html

Note that I'm not claiming prayer works "because God", but rather that it works because it's a form of meditation.  Belief is irrelevant.  The placebo effect is real, this is documented.  How a person accesses it is up to them. You're right in that meditative prayer will make oneself healthier. However, when people talk about the efficacy of prayer, they're usually referring to the benefits of praying for someone else; in that case, as long as the recipient knows about it, it should be about the same as placebo.  Oddly enough I remember reading that they actually did studies on this, and the people who got major surgery, *and* who were targeted by prayer groups and aware of it, died at a much higher rate on the table. I could try to look for it.

Edit: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16569567

Here it is. Almost 50/50 for people who didn't know they were being prayed for and a 7% jump in negative consequences for people who were aware. &gt;Patients at 6 US hospitals were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups: 604 received intercessory prayer after being informed that they may or may not receive prayer; 597 did not receive intercessory prayer also after being informed that they may or may not receive prayer; and 601 received intercessory prayer after being informed they would receive prayer. Intercessory prayer was provided for 14 days, starting the night before CABG. The primary outcome was presence of any complication within 30 days of CABG. Secondary outcomes were any major event and mortality.

I feel like there's a huge difference between what this sounds like and receiving intercessory prayer from people you'd expect it from - friends, family, community. When my aunt for example says she's praying for me, I know it's just another way of her showing that she cares, which would help comfort me and set me at ease. If she got her church to, I imagine it'd put me a little less at ease, but still ultimately glad she and her community were loving. However, if I were sitting in the hospital and a bunch of random people claimed they'd started praying for me, I'd kinda be shitting myself going "oh god... is it really this bad?" and worrying up a storm. The placebo effect is pretty misunderstood though. It doesn't necessarily mean that there is any real effect at all, it's just a way to test for errors in the research methodology. It can include any number of factors that the researchers forgot to account for, only one of which is the possibly positive effect of simply having some sort of healing ritual done that you are told is effective. The only case where a verifiably effective placebo is well documented to occur (as far as I am aware) is when it comes to pain treatment where the brain is very involved in modulating how intense a particular pain stimuli will be experienced. Also it's likely effective in other cases where the outcome measure is highly subjective.

Placebo is almost never directly compared to no treatment in a study so it's very hard to tell if (and to what extent) a placebo effect in a particular study actually implies what people think of as a *real* placebo effect. (I.e. a therapeutically significant effect of the placebo treatment).

[Good article on the subject, with good sources](http://www.csicop.org/si/show/the_poor_misunderstood_placebo).

[A good study.](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJM200105243442106)

^That ^I ^got ^from ^u/foolishsnails Why isn't placebo compared to no treatment very often? I would find those results really interesting, just from a general knowledge point of view.  

Do you happen to know of any studies off the top of your head where the comparison was made? I'd like to read up on it. No treatment trials arent blinded, you dont know if you are getting a real drug or a placebo drug, but you will know that you are not in the treatment trial since you are not taking any drug at all. You cant therefore directly compare the effect of taking a drug/placebo to having no treatment. Thats why placebos exist in the first place.


There are many effects which can result in differences between placebos and people not getting any treatment that are very hard to seperate out. For example someone taking a placebo might report a benefit because they think thats what the researchers want to here. Or they might be taking better care of themselves because they are in a medical study. They may be getting regular check-ups with doctors as part of the trial.  I'm taking this from an interview with a researcher specializing on placebo (if a recall correct she was involved in some of the first research that showed a positive therapeutic effect of placebo on pain treatment) 
that I listened to a while back, so keep in mind that I'm no expert on the subject. As far as I remember there are a few reasons. First of all most studies are not about the placebo effect so there's no real reason to go the extra mile and attempt to see if the placebo effect is a real therapeutically significant effect in and of itself. Second it's kind of hard to know if you're comparing the same thing since people who get no treatment can't really be subjected to the same conditions that your study is testing for. There were probably other reasons as well but those are the ones I remember. I'll try to find her research of I can.

Edit: ~~[Here is a pretty good article on the subject with good sources.](http://www.csicop.org/si/show/the_poor_misunderstood_placebo)~~

See above The other reason is that you can't do a proper double-blinded study when one group knows its not getting any treatment.

A double-blind study means that *two* sets of people don't know who is getting real medicine or placebo: the study participants (patients), and the study researchers (clinicians). This second part helps eliminate researcher bias.

Obviously, you can't do that if one group isn't getting any little red pills.
 &gt; The placebo effect is pretty misunderstood though. It doesn't necessarily mean that there is any real effect at all, it's just a way to test for errors in the research methodology.

True. 

A lot of people actually think that the placebo effect is some kind of "mind over matter" thing that can actually help *fix* things in their body. They don't understand that placebos *only* make them *feel* better.

Let me illustrate. 

A [2011 study on asthma treatments](http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/spin-city-placebos-and-asthma/#more-14434) divided asthma sufferers into 4 groups, treating them with either an albuterol inhaler (actual medicine), a placebo inhaler, sham acupuncture (placebo), or control (no treatment).

After treatment, they asked them how *they felt* about their breathing. *All 3* treatment groups (albuterol, placebo inhaler, acupuncture) said they *felt* much better. The "sit in the waiting room" control group did not.

But then they gave them a spirometry test, which is an objective measure of lung capacity. *Only the group that got the actual medicine* (albuterol) showed any actual improvement in lung capacity. The two placebo groups had identical measured results with the control.

So there is only a certain category of patient-reported symptoms (usually called *nonspecific symptoms*) that placebo helps. This includes things like pain, nausea, fatigue, etc.

Now obviously if something can help someone relieve or lessen persistent pain or nausea, then that's great. 

But too many people misunderstand "placebo effect" as some magic "mind over matter" think where the "brain heals the body" or something, which is not really what is going on .
 One area that I know the placebo effect is very real is in Parkinson's treatment. If I remember correctly there is a difference with both drug and surgical placebo trials with the surgical trials at least being significant. I'll see if I can find some of those papers again. [deleted] Not if you use the homeopathic pills. Mmm, refreshing homeopathy! One of my friends is a big believer in this. No amount of rational argument could convince her otherwise. After years of living with a digestive ailment, her daughter finally found relief after adulthood &amp; seeking mainstream medical care. Things had gotten pretty bad by then, she needed surgery &amp; will require medical supervision for the rest of her life. She loves her parents but she is VERY pissed off about this. She could have died. And no surprise to me, her mission at college is to become a medical researcher.   [deleted] A homeopathic "doctor" (with only nutritional credentials) moved into my old hometown. She is very charismatic and persuasive. The amount of people she has shammed amazes me- i have over 20 friends and acquaintances who will visit her before a doctor (and bring their kids, mostly un-vaccinated kids). She does a combination of nutritional analysis, prayer, and [muscle testing](http://www.goodhealthinfo.net/herbalists/muscle_testing.htm), which is the biggest load of BS i've ever seen.

She has a good cross-section of this town convinced that they are allergic to gluten, corn, legumes, and/or meat. They treat illnesses and mental issues with essential oils, removal of grains from the diet, etc. Because removing grain from a diet can help some people, she has a good 'success rate' and people just flock to her! 

 It's all women, interestingly, who fall for her stuff. Many of the kids in my old church would persist with a sinus infection, etc until their moms just gave in and took them to the real doctor, sheepishly. [deleted] Of course if you have a terrible diet things will get better if you remove gluten and meat. You basically have to stop eating fast food and junk food. There's probably all kinds of symptom relief. 

 Since I could not find what I came for, here's a [link to the NHMRC page about the study](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/guidelines-publications/cam02) which includes links to [the information paper](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/_files_nhmrc/publications/attachments/cam02a_information_paper.pdf) (pdf) and the ["Statement on Homeopathy"](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/_files_nhmrc/publications/attachments/cam02_nhmrc_statement_homeopathy.pdf) (pdf) along with other links, such as a [FAQ](https://www.nhmrc.gov.au/_files_nhmrc/publications/attachments/cam02c_frequently_asked_questions.pdf) (pdf). Unfortunately, people that would be swayed by evidence or studies most likely already find homeopathy a bunch of rubbish. Maybe, but I can tell you that I personally thought homeopathy was a real thing for the longest time, simply because that's what my parents thought/told me. I was pretty shocked when I first heard it was a bunch of crap, but I accepted it. In pretty sure there are many ~~purple~~ people like me.  I'm right there with you.  Actually, I thought homeopathy was something different entirely till this article. I thought it was just a more natural medical process like taking herbal treatments or acupuncture instead of pharmaceuticals etc.  I never realized it was this kind of BS.  This is one of the first points I mention when I discuss homeopathy with people. They don't realize homeopathics are a very specific kind of "preparation". Most people seem to think "homeopathy" is synonymous with "herbal" or "natural" or "holistic", none of which are necessarily ineffective. I think this is the issue. A lot of people are under the belief that homeopathy is just a branch of natural remedies. 

Natural remedies can work. If you have a burn put some Aloe Vera on it.

Homeopathy on the other hand is a system developed by some guy based on his guesses and anecdotal evidence and it has pretty much no basis in fact or science of any kind. I remember being amused to discover that at the time homeopathy was conceived, it gained traction only because treatment with placebo was actually less harmful than some standard medical practices in the early 19th century. Me too. I think I've been confusing it with holistic medicine. You're confusing holistic medicine with naturopathy.  There isn't anything inherently wrong with holistic medicine Holistic medicine is not even at odds with modern medical practice. I'm glad you realized it though. So many people confuse actual natural remedies that do work with homeopathy which is complete BS. There are plenty of natural herbal remedies that do work - no placebo effect needed! [deleted] [deleted] Maybe - but I've certainly had conversations with people who bought homeopathic remedies without going farther than "It was in the drug store, so it must be medicine." Some brief resistance: "But if it's really like that, they couldn't sell it!  Aren't there laws?" My mum: "but it was on TV! It can't be on TV if it's wrong, right? There are laws!" This was in reference to dr Oz. 

I then told her about his legal troubles, but she still clings to her Oz.  He's in the entertainment business.  Which is kind of sad when you really think about it. I find his BS incredibly entertaining, but that's the problem.  my mom is finally coming around to the reality, but my aunt still swears by him. I just smile and nod at this point. I work at a drugstore and it irritates the hell out of me any time I see homeopathic products. They're everywhere, as an alternative for just about every actual medicine on our shelves. If I see a customer reach for one, I just tell them it has "very little active ingredient" compared to the more expensive but actual medication next to it.

I've also told my manager about it, I don't know if she'll do anything about it - I don't think she has any sort of power there, unfortunately :/ I was pissed when I bought Coldeze because when I read the label at home to find out about how zinc has been shown to help shorten colds, it had homeopathic on it and I was pissed. I accidentally bought some homeopathic stuff for my mother.

It genuinely should be illegal in my opinion. They aren't selling anything. What makes me mad is all the meds in the Childrens section at the pharmacy. they look like medicine from colds to growing pains to colic... They look legit until you read the back and out BS homeopathic crap. People pass up real gas stops for BS ones. They think its going to help. Meanwhile these babies are still colicky and sick and that's cruel.  "Baby Orajel Naturals" is the most infuriating one to me. It has a picture of goddamn Elmo on the front and big banners that say "Natural!" and "#1 Teething Brand" and "Natural!". And then in tiny print... "Homeopathic". And it sells because the real line of Orajel, with the benzocaine, is so effective, and the same stuff by all-natural _must_ be better, right? And a baby can't tell you "Mom, Dad, that gel didn't do shit." I saw the same thing recently in a well-known national chain of drug stores. What pissed me off even more is, this is also a chain that's actually done some things on the smoking front which might cause it to take a hit in the wallet, but are in the public interest.

Dimwits. CVS then? My mother uses some homeopathic products (not much, mostly minor wound ointments and such). When I told her what homeopathic products were, she *could not* believe it. As in, to this day she thinks I'm wrong and that homeopathic means something else, because clearly it can't just be water. She actually doesn't believe it? As in... she disbelieves the dictionary and everything on the internet, and in libraries, and basically any source of knowledge? Or is she just refusing to look at that stuff?

I find it so crazy that people can refuse knowledge about stuff like that. You can convince the undecided or those that haven't seen it before though! More time, money and research being spent to disprove the miraculous healing abilities of water and human spirit. It really bothers me that pseudoscience commands so much attention.  Because if the government agencies are going to issue any rulings about the legality of sales of these items, label requirements, outright banning, etc, they *need* to support it with solid evidence, regardless of how silly it might seem. That's not how the burden of proof works. They should have to prove that their product does what it claims **before** they are allowed to sell it. They technically don't claim their product does **anything**. "This statement has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease." That is only what we have to say because &lt;big pharma conspiracy&gt;; but it ***totally*** cures cancer! Nice loophole. I did not know this. How do people know what type of homeopatic remedy to get for their condition if all the bottles say is that? Why they go to their friendly homeopathic Doctor^^^^notarealdoctor of course. They also sell guides that tell you which ones to try based on your symptoms. This disclaimer is not even found on homeopathic remedies.  On the contrary, it's vitamin/mineral supplements and herbal products that carry this disclaimer in the U.S. as they are classified as "dietary supplements" under a 1994 law.

Homeopathic remedies make very clear claims on their labels that they will treat or cure actual ailments.  They are regulated under laws that have probably been in place since before penicillin and DNA were discovered.

But this illustrates why the whole world of alternative medicine is so problematic.  Most people don't even know the difference between homeopathy and taking herbs.  Herbs can actually include pharmacologically active compounds that really do things to you.  They can be helpful or even harmful.  But they aren't allowed to put what they do on the label.  Homeopathic remedies are just expensive sugar pills that don't have any pharmacological effect at all, so they're harmless, but they are allowed to claim that they will treat a condition despite all evidence to the contrary. I agree. But that's how a multi-billion dollar industry works when he tries to fend off government regulation. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The article states that a similar report in the UK caused a decline in the use of homeopathic remedies and their hope is that this report would cause the same effect in Australia.  So at least some people listen it seems. A significant portion of homoeopathy patients don't actually know what homoeopathy is, or that is is not clinically effective. They assume it to be some kind of herbal remedy (and it's often marketed as such) - when they discover it doesn't actually contain any active ingredient, they often stop using it, although they don't necessarily  replace it with conventional medicine.

People who argue about things like this on the internet tend to be self-selecting to be the polar ends of the debate; either passionate sceptics and science advocates or true believers in alternative medicine and medical/corporate conspiracy theorists. When we spend time reading about these issues online, it's easy to forget that there are plenty of normal, moderate people who aren't that invested in a particular method - they just want to be healthy. &gt; although they don't necessarily replace it with conventional medicine.

Still a good thing. Some herbal remedies do actually have an effect, even if it's not as strong as the medical version. Homeopathy does not. So it's moving it in the right direction.  The problem is that the majority of the gullible won't believe the scientific reality and will continue to waste time, money, and possibly their health, on this type of quackery. I don't see dr. Oz filing for bankruptcy any time soon. In Australia we hope this report redirects government subsidies away from quackery. People can use insanely diluted 'poisons ' if they wish but it shouldn't take money away from healthcare. Wow, didn't realize the Aussie government subsidized this nonsense. I hope the report opens some eyes. The NHS does too. On one NHS webpage it says that the NHS view is that it's no more effective than the placebo effect, but then goes on to say how you can get homeopathic treatment on the NHS! Yea wtf does ny private health care include mandatory homeopathy in the base package but not ambulance cover. What a joke. I should get my moneys worth of acupuncture. Walking up stairs hurts my shakras. Science does not advance by accepting hypotheses as true or false, but by rigorously proving them one way or another. [deleted] Sometimes it seems like that is the only purpose to science in general.  It's those 1 in a 100 times when we're genuinely surprised that advances human knowledge. Disproving something is just as important as proving something. Just to tell my quick tale. About 9 years ago my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. After seeing multiple doctors she was told the preferable medical treatment was full mesectomy with radiation and chemo. Yeah.. she got a partial lump ectomy of both her breasts instead with no radiation or chemo. She putz'ed around 5-6 months before the procedure due to her feeling confident the current homeopathic regime she was on surely was keeping it from spreading.... My brother and I were both in our 30's and pleaded with her to move the doctor prescribed treatments along and do exactly what they prescribed. But her then boyfriend had her convinced their was no rush. Anyway, finally she gets it done and still refuses radiation or chemo after, once again due to her feeling her homeopathic treatment would cure and keep it in remission. Fast forward 3-4 years. She finds another lump, cancer is back in her breasts and now in her lymph nodes. Once again doctors recommend full lump mesectomy with chemo and radiation. She continues to putz around. She is certain that new type of homeopathic medicine she is trying will help. After like a year with no improvement and the cancer getting worse she finally gives in and gets a full mesectomy. Then do outside influences (aka the boyfriend and crazy friends) she still puts of the full chemo and radiation only doing a reduced regime, once again the whole time my brother and I begging her to listen to her real doctors.... Yeah shockingly my mom ended dying a horrible death from her cancer about 4 years ago.... on New Years funny enough. Until you witness someone die of cancer you have no idea how painful and bad death can be. At the very start of the whole diagnose she was given a 90-95% full recovery chance had she listened to the multiple real doctors she saw.  So, that's my story. When someone mentions homeopath anything instead of a real treatment I pretty much lose my shit.

TLDR: Choosing homeopathy for serious problems instead of using real medicine will almost assured kill you, like my mom. Sorry to hear, that is awful. 

If you ever come across the dickhead that sold her that rubbish you would be forgiven for knocking them the F out. Did you get legal advise? Depending on where you are they may be laws against homeopaths handling cases like your mothers. I know that may not help you but it may stop them doing this to someone else
.
 I'm so sorry mate. My uncle got liver cancer and went out and bought a real high quality $400 juicer and some really red beets and other veggies. He was dead within 3 weeks. Yeah my dad and mom both work in oncology and they both get really mad when their patients decide to pursue "natural medicine" instead of real treatment for cancer. They know it is a death sentence for 99% of them. Welp....it's safe to assume the then boyfriend had a tragic boating accident? I'm so sorry to hear that. I wouldn't have been able to control myself at that point, and that boyfriend would've gotten his shit kicked in. [deleted] [deleted] There is a video put out by the sciencebabe where she looks at a sedative homeopathic remedy for pets. It turns out it was full of alcohol... So it may have worked. Though I think some kinds of alcohol kills cats so it would have only worked for a short bit.  It would have worked forever!  Hmm. Apparently I have been using the word "homeopathy" wrong this whole time. What is it called if you try to use food, herbs, and essential oils for things like headaches, upset stomach, common cold, etc., instead of otc medicine all the time? 

Edit: Thanks for the responses. You learn something new everyday I guess! Coincidentally I am writing this as I'm up with a sick toddler. Guess I'll pull out some natural remedies for throwing up now.  I think "natural remedies" is more what you are looking for. And there are plenty of natural remedies that are not complete BS, in fact many of these are providing the same chemicals found in regular medicine.

Of course modern science has isolated the active ingredient in those herbal remedies and produced a pill that contains only that.

EDIT: I've read that the ancient Egyptians would create a poultice made from spoiled bread and some other things to put on wounds - this was basically penicillin. They didn't know *why* it was effective, but it worked. &gt; Apparently I have been using the word "homeopathy" wrong this whole time.

Many people do. I'm from Germany, where many people believe in homeopathy (and where homeopathy is from, incidentally). From anecdotal experience I suppose most of them don't even know what homeopathy is.

As I've heard someone (Dawkins?) say, putting homeopathic remedies on the same shelf as snake oil pills is unfair, because the snake oil pills at least probably contain measurable quantities of snake oil.

EDIT: Also, many medications are in fact derived from previously "natural" medications. Barks of certain trees contain salicylic acid - of which aspirin is a modified form with less side effects. Poppy latex (opium) contains morphine and codeine, etc. The advantage of extracting and/or synthesizing these compounds is that you know the quantity and purity of the active ingredient. &gt; As I've heard someone (Dawkins?) say, putting homeopathic remedies on the same shelf as snake oil pills is unfair, because the snake oil pills at least probably contain measurable quantities of snake oil.

probably the amazing randy, he talks quite often on the subject of homeopathy, even has a thing where he swallows and entire bottle of homeopathic sleeping pills to show they have no effect. I think it's naturopathy. Possibly phytotherapy, not sure. But definitely NOT homeopathy. You're not alone, many people who buy homeopathic "remedies" don't know what homeopathy is. 

It's good that you want to use natural remedies first, but please drop homeopathy, it's nothing but placebo.  Perhaps because stores like CVS and Walgreens have dozens of products prominently displayed right alongside legitimate medicines, with names like "natur-cure" and "ocean tingle", and then in tiny, pastel colored letters it says "homeopathic remedy". 

edit to add: I have young kids and I am frequently in the baby aisle at CVS. I see young mothers comparing tylenol with a product right next to it labeled "BabyCalm". I see them debating with themselves whether they should give their precious baby the poisonous tylenol, or the beautiful product labeled Safe, Natural, Tender, Calming and Soothing. Many chose the latter and end up giving their kid with a high fever sugar water.  It's called "alternative medicine" as long as no effect can be detected. When an medical effect is shown, it's simply called "medicine". To be fair, homeopathy originates from a time when bloodletting was mainstream medicine. It was probably inspired by the poorly understood discovery of vaccination (that is, protecting the body by introducing a weakened pathogen) The inventor of homeopathy, Samuel Hahnemann, thought it would work because Cinchona tree bark is kind of effective against malaria, and it also happened to cause some malaria-like symptoms on himself. He generalized that observation to all illnesses, all remedies and all people, and voil! Homeopathy. [Yes, it's that dumb.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samuel_Hahnemann#Creation_of_homeopathy) But even Hahnemann wouldn't approve of modern-day homeopathy.  
The remedies had to be made on the spot, by hand, you see.   
He believed that they couldn't be conserved. But of course, Boiron ignores that part of the dogma, since they can't profit that way. Some alternative medicine is effective, it's just less convenient than modern medicine. E.g. willow bark is good for a headache, but you have to sit around chewing on bits of bark instead of popping a pill.  Knowledge of that stuff is probably useful if you live out in the boonies, or you lose your insurance, or the apocalypse happens... Mm, willow bark is so effective that it's now used in mainstream medicine. You may have heard of it, it's called aspirin.

I swear this entire thread is just a re-hash of Tim Minchin's *Storm* That was his point! We extracted the chemical, modified it a bit to be more efficient and made it easily accessible, produced and administrated through a pill.... asprin.

You could chew the willow bark, or you could take an asprin.

Your calling him out *about exactly what he's trying to say*.... The active ingredient is the same, it's just made better available for the body, and what you buy over the shelf isn't extracted, it's synthesized. It's just the *cheapest* way, bark grows on trees and trees grow slowly. That doesn't apply to all remedies, especially those where the plant works by providing a whole barrage of ingredients that, each one isolated, do nothing or something different. Interactions we often don't even begin to understand, we can only observe their effectiveness in trials.

And if on top of being a compound combinations the plant in question happens to be a common culinary plants, all bets are off at it ever being synthesized. Salvia, savory, elderberry. Anise. Thyme. Hops (generally, to increase valerian's effectiveness). The list goes on and on. More accurately, "alternative medicine" means any medicine whose effects aren't proven by science.

Willow bark isn't alternative medicine. It's known to contain ~~ASA~~ SA, which is similar to the active ingredient in aspirin.

edit: aspirin contains ASA, which is a synthetic version of SA Are you confusing it with the word holistic?  Holistics is misused a lot too.  Holistics actually makes a lot of sense, it should be *more* present in medicine, and, well, everything in my opinion.  Holistic just means to focus on the whole, rather than specifics.

Rather than focusing on treating a specific ailment or issue, you take the whole picture into account and look for overall improvement.  Health issues are often the result of compounding problems, so rather than treating back pain look at the whole person and see what could be improved to mitigate said pain.  Don't give them opiates when they should realistically be losing weight or improving their posture etc.  or do a little of both. Essentially treat the problem, not the symptom. I had the same misunderstanding.  I thought holistic and homeopathic meant the same thing, and mentioned to a pharmacist friend that I thought it was possible that some homeopathic medicines had actual effect (thinking herbs and such).  She flipped out on me and ended up showing me what homeopathic medicine actually is. That's because homeopathic remedies are **WATER**. 

I feel like this is the kind of shit that wastes taxpayer dollars; NOT because the information is useless, but because *it shouldn't be necessary to tell people this shit.* Has anyone heard of Rescue Drops or is it only in my country? They basically Homeopathic drops that are supposed to reduce your anxiety, calm you down or help you sleep. They do work BUT if you look at the ingredient list you will see that the reason it does this is because it's made with 95% brandy and only 5% of the other Homeopathic ingredients that are supposed to work. 
You're literally just paying for a small bottle of brandy that's more expensive than a full nip.  You're paying for the marketing that makes it acceptable to drink at work True! And you can give it to babies or kids without being viewed as a bad parent! The bottle even says "Safe for the whole family including babies and children"  Now I can just see a bunch of teenagers rolling up to the till with a basket full each. If the 'homoeopathic' ingredients make up 5% then it's not homoeopathy.  Homoeopathy contains no active ingredient, it is just something (usually water or alcohol) which has at some point been in contact with some kind of substance that causes the same symptoms as whatever you're trying to treat then diluted down to the point that none of the substance is left (or, more precisely, that there's virtually zero chance of there being anything in it).  It's based on the principle that water has a memory of things it's been in contact with.

Unless they mean 5% of this magic water, in which case it is homoeopathy.  Or more precisely, water and brandy. "Water has memory! And even though it's memory of a long lost drop of onion juice seems infinite it seems to forget all the poo it's had in it."

- Tim Minchin in his beat poem "Storm" I went to a homeopathic healer once to get on the better side of a girlfriend-at-the-time. I was "prescribed" something that I can't remember the name of but I researched it and the only thing it was listed as other than a poison was an aphrodisiac. I was pretty confused on how the healer felt about me at that point.
 I think, according to the traditional theory, the "active" ingredients are supposed to do the opposite of what they normally do. But it doesn't actually matter what's in it because the concentration is so negligibly low.

A gf bought me some homeopathic medicine once, and the only ingredients that *might* have had trace amounts survive the dilution process were some flower and honey bee (like, 0.001% of an actual bee). Not joking, you need about 20 more zeros between the decimal point and the 1. For example a 12C dilution involves making a 1% solution, then making a 1% solution of that and so on 12 times. There's a slim chance of finding a single molecule in any single dose. "A 30C dilution is the equivalent of having one molecule present in a sphere of water with a diameter just short of the distance between the Earth and the Sun" -[rationalwiki.org](http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Homeopathy#No_active_ingredient) 30C - "Dilution advocated by Hahnemann for most purposes; patient would need to consume 1041 pills (a billion times the mass of the Earth), or 1034 gallons of liquid remedy (100 billion times the volume of the Earth) to consume a single molecule of the original substance"

My sides I hope you mean 10^41 and 10^34 or those would have to be pretty massive pills. But the water... it remembers stuff. Probably. Not. Even if the memory thing were true, that would mean that all water on earth is a homeopathic remedy for everything. it would also mean that all the water on earth is a homeopathic dose of the shit I took last night Drop a birth control pill in the ocean and all the whales get pregnant. The funny thing about homeopathic medicine is, if you truly believed in the method, you should buy 1 vial of the stuff, dilute it into a bigger vessel with 100x the amount of water, and you'd have a more potent medicine that will last you a life time.  Our current water supply is poisoned with homeopathy of everything. I need to get in on this business.  You're literally selling people water at an enormous markup.  It's a better gig even than Poland Springs. It gets better. You can just put a drop of water on a pill. Of better again you can do a process called 'grafting', where you put a drop of water on one pill, put it in a big container with thousands of other pills, and the effect spreads to all pills. I'm not kidding here, thats what they do. 

In all likelihood a lot of homeopathic producers probably just order a shipment of sugar pills and the put them in the bottles. Since there is no active ingredient, it would be impossible for anyone to prove that the sugar pills arent homeopathic. Why does homeopathy still exist? Why devote any time to this at all? [This](http://imgur.com/GfniwS9) was posted by one of my facebook friends a few days ago. Homeopathy and the notion that "English Medicine" is evil is very common in India. My whole family thinks I'm a narrow minded asshole for saying that Homeopathy is bogus. Even the teachers in my school believe in this shit and the ["Good Vibrations"](http://www.mindbodygreen.com/0-7823/10-practical-ways-to-raise-your-positive-vibrations.html) crap. You've no idea how many times Ayurveda and homeopathy related shit from Indians end up in /r/badscience. On a related note, my own father practices "Naturopathy"- basically selling vitamins. He bought some pseudoscience-crap-o-meter called the "Quantum Magnetic Resonance Analyzer" that shows you everything about a person's physical condition by holding a dildo-thing in their palm for 60 seconds. You won't believe how many appointments he gets every single day.(He quit his 12+ year job as an auditor to do this. He even has a Mechanical engineering degree and has traveled almost all over the world.) My whole family would have shunned me already for speaking out against this if not for my grades. 

EDIT: I should also mention that my father has told me of a few cases of Cardiovascular diseases requiring surgery that he has "cured" along with asthma, arthritis and even Bell's palsy   [deleted] FML man. If I told them I'm atheist too, I'll probably have to live in the sewers. And even there, the hobos would kill me if I admitted that to them. Eh, ashwagandha and rodiola are legit. As is turmeric. Ayurveda has some definite effective bits to it and the idea of food as medicine is something I think we should all entertain a lot more.  The principles and observations of Ayurveda are all there and many of those may actually be effective. The difference is actually demonstrating it in some way and providing evidence of it. The premise is quite flawed in the context of today's knowledge of the human body -- that three elements (doshas -- Vatta, Pitta, and Kapha) are in balance, and that their imbalance causes disease. It's overly simplistic and these doshas are purely theoretical. Of course, thousands of years ago that's the amount of information  available. But obviously we have learned a lot of things about the human body, cellular biology, etc since then, and now we know disease is a lot more complex. That's why it bugs me that some people stick to Ayurveda because it's "been around so long." Same thing with astrology -- my parents are huge believers in both (along with homeopathy). The problem is that they fundamentally do not accept evidence as a means towards understanding our physical world.  Ayurveda is outright scary compared to homeopathy as it uses "purified" heavy metals in many cures, not bound, like thiomersal is, no they just heat it with animal dung and claim that makes it safe. While ofcourse provable, it still kills. It even has an expiration date.  In your local CVS or Walgreens pharmacy, this is right next to all the other cold medicines:

http://images.iherb.com/l/BOI-99851-1.jpg

If you don't read the box super carefully, doesn't it look just like real medicine? Doesn't the name sound just as medical as "diphenhydramine"? 

Homeopathic medicine is bought by the billions. It's even in the baby care aisle at my CVS -- helpless babies with actual illnesses are getting fed placebo pills instead of actually being treated. That's why convincing education is still important. Walgreens even has *store brand* homeopathic medicine. "Well, Jim, you know, i'm looking at these manufacturing costs, and I don't know if we have the budget for whatever ingredients are in this..."

"Haha, that's where this is great..." &gt; 200C	 Dilution of popular homeopathic flu remedy Oscillococcinum; would need to consume a mass well over 10^^302 times that of the known universe to get a single molecule of the original substance.

http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Homeopathy#No_active_ingredient In France, it's freely advertised in most pharmacies, and what's worse is that it's reimbursed by the health care system (with a doctor's prescription, which doctors liberally give). In Germany a ton of insurance providers cover it, too.

They won't stop advertising their coverage of homeopathy and other "alternative treatment options", but God forbid I want them to pay for a massage. I could give you a homeopathic massage over the Internet for a very reasonable rate. Because "alternative medicine" is a multi-billion dollar industry that spends millions promoting this shit, which is useless at best and endangers people's lives at worst.  I forgot who, but someone once said: "What do you call an alternative medicine that actually works? Medicine!" Tim Minchin said it in his poem "Storm"  :)  [deleted] [deleted] In the UK, the real problem that needs addressing around homeopathy is [Prince Charles.](http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/hes-at-it-again-prince-charles-accused-of-lobbying-health-secretary-over-homeopathy-8723145.html) The NHS actually funds homeopathy in some circumstances and that is largely down to lobbying from him.   what about hypochondria? wouldn't homeopathy treat hypocondria symptoms just fine? [deleted] Check out Oscillococcim.  It's so diluted that you'd need to consume a mass of over 10^320 times that of the known universe to get a single molecule of the listed active ingredient. Must not be testing a small enough dose.

Ironically the health benefits of simply drinking enough water often go unnoticed. And the placebo effect is surprisingly powerful.  [deleted] everybody knew homeopathy is bonkers but nobody had actually taken the time to thoroughly demonstrate that it is, now we not just know that it's all water, we can **scientifically** know that it's all water [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It can cure excessive wealth syndrome [deleted] My water keeps remembering poo and pee, no matter how much I dilute it it just exponentially enhances its poo and pee character. Why did they need to repeat the review in Australia, if it had already been comprehensively done in the UK?  Did they need to account for some mysterious antipodean molecular influence?   It's horrible that dumb people are dying because of a scam. They should be removed from sale to lessen the damage they do. You can get a placebo effect from anything. Here's why it does not work:
&gt;Any homeopathic dilution greater than 12C (twelve serial 100-fold dilutions) is incredibly unlikely to contain even a single molecule of starting compound. That unlikeliness reaches truly astonishing levels as we reach the common homeopathic dilution of 30C, which is the equivalent of a 10^60  fold dilution. Given that that little thing known as Avogadros number, which describes how many molecules of a compound are in a mole, is only approximately 6 x 10^23  a 30C dilution is on the order of 10^36  to 10^37  fold higher than Avogadros number. Even assuming that a homeopath started with a mole of remedy before diluting (unlikely, given the high molecular weight of most of the organic compounds that can serve as homeopathic remedies), the odds that a single molecule could remain behind after the serial dilution and succussion process is infinitesimal. Appropriately enough, the law in homeopathy that states that diluting a remedy will make it stronger is the law of infinitesimals.
   
 - For more info http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/homeopathy-as-nanoparticles/ Breaking news! Vaccines don't cause autism! Oil pulling won't fix cavities! And the only thing homeopathic meds have in common with pharmaceutical conglomerates are that they want your money! How many more times are we going to study this magic water?  It seems utterly redundant to conduct studies like this when you consider that the kind of people who trust in homeopathy are typically the same kind of people who don't want to be bothered by science. People often say something negative like this about this kind of study, but they forget about the people on the fence. A lot of people are not true believers, but don't have enough knowledge to make an informed decision about it. A study like this will help a lot with that kind of person.
 This is a good point. It's easy to make knee-jerk and slightly aggravated comments on topics like this.  It's probably good for treating dehydration. Are ear wax candles considered homeopathy? Because they work incredibly, but don't sound like they should.

Edit: Was actually an easy bit of digging to find out they don't. Plenty of debunking vids on them. I feel stupid and used... If homeopathy worked, wouldn't it just be called medicine?  You know what they call alternative medicine that's been proved to work? Medicine. -Tim Minchin [deleted] From the article:

&gt; While some studies reported homeopathy was effective, the quality of those studies was poor and suffered serious flaws in their design, and did not have enough participants to support the idea that homeopathy worked any better than a sugar pill, the report found. So sugar pills the new miracle cure for every ailment? They do, but as a similar effect could be achieved via a small piece of twig, calling these medicines is a travesty. Wasn't there a study on the front page of everythingscience a couple days ago finding that placebos' effectiveness increased with their price (for one specific neurological disorder)? So really, homeopathy ought to be on to something, really, assuming the findings from that study turn out to be more general than the one disease they were experimenting on. Yes. Fancy packaging and the colour and shape of the pills also have a noticeable effect. Don't forget dose and methods of application being larger/more uncomfortable improves placebo.

1 pill &lt; 2 pills &lt; 3 pills &lt; suppository &lt; injection
(EDIT: I HEARD this but this isn't true, see bottom of post)

I haven't seen the study, only discussed it, so I can't say this is absolute, I'll look for a link.

Edit: actually, from the studies I can find I have this wrong.

" In our present study, we did not find any differences between the sham acupuncture treatment and placebo pills in the measurement of pain threshold, tolerance, and pain ratings."

http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0067485 I wonder what's the most effective a placebo could possibly be. If you sold somebody a Faberge Egg to stick up their butt, what could you supposedly cure? A stomachache? Back pain.

They will no longer be sitting upon a thick wallet. And their posture would be exquisite. I now picture Christopher Walken describing how he had to shove a Faberge egg up his ass multiple times a day because it was Bruce Willis's birth right. A little off topic but that would imply that genuine acupuncture is effective. Is that the case? [Deleted] Their effectiveness as a treatment only works when they're treating self reported symptoms such as pain. Malaria really doesn't care how much the pills cost.   The [BBC Discovery Podcast](http://www.bbc.co.uk/podcasts/series/discovery) of Mars 2. this year has a lot of interesting points on this subject.

And there I learnt that the nocebo effect is also a thing, in which patients giving placebos experience the negative and the side effects of the real drug. It's not the placebos working, it's the body working by decreasing stress hormones and increasing pleasure chemicals. But if you didn't call them medications, then they wouldn't work. They work by triggering a psychological response which cal alleviate symptoms until the problem resolves. There may be other biofeedback mechanisms involved, but it's been a while since I've read up on placebos. &gt; exact same effect ... or even a small piece of twig

Actually placebos work to different degrees depending on their form.  Different colours of pills are more effective against specific conditions, for example, and a placebo operation will show more improvement than a placebo pill.  So a twig wouldn't have the exact same effect True, I had forgotten that. Editing. &gt; via a sugar pill

So, homeopathy? Yes, but then of course dissolved in water and  diluted by a factor of 10^30 as to make sure not a single molecule of sugar will remain in the "medicine". A homeopathic pill against obesity! At least, the piece of twig can contain medicinal ingredients. Homeopathy would also dissolve the twig into water until what's left contains statistically less than 1 molecule of the original substance.  (And you're lucky if the original substance had any medicinal qualities to begin with).

Also they then somehow use that water to make powder and press that into pills... In medicine, "doesn't work" usually means "no better than a placebo". Yeah, I figured that out after writing my comment. Thanks for the clarification, though - it's an important point to make. There was even a study that found that (at least for pain management), placebo even worked when patients were specifically told they were receiving placebo.  But some people think the placebo effect is something real/magic. It's still SOMETHING you are doing, even if that 'something' is just talking with doctors and scientists about your problem (that you're taking a placebo for to study).

I'd imagine if you studied people who were sick/injured, and measured how they felt in the immediate aftermath of calling the doctor to make an appointment to be seen, there would be measurable results.
 Yes, for example stress amplifies perception of pain, and taking any kind of action creates a reward sensation, dopamine release, and reduces stress. Plus, the brain produces endogenous morphines. Reading about the impact of expectation on brain functioning is fascinating.  I went to the doctor with hypochondria and was prescribed a placebo Thankfully, hypochondria is the one disease I don't have.

 God, I hope don't catch hypochondria. I hear it's going around. Maybe I've already got it. :( Steven Wright? It's not so much a burn as a supporting point for the use of homeopathy. There are a variety (but by no means a majority) of conditions out there that don't require any real medical treatment. If we can treat them with a placebo, then why not? Even well-studied medications sometimes are found to have rare side-effects, but a placebo shouldn't have any. Because we can achieve more as a species by not promoting something that is made to cash in from people being uninformed. Might as well use a placebo that doesn't relate to this dangerous lifestyle then. Care to suggest one? The effectiveness of a placebo depends on how much faith people have in it. That's not really true. Placebos work even if the patient knows they're placebos. However, imagined negative effects can be a problem. 

Anyways, I'd just go with something medicine-sounding. Name it after the the pill binder. Povidone sounds like it's gonna cure me. &gt; Placebos work even if the patient knows they're placebos.

Can I see a study on this? In particular, I'd be shocked to see that the magnitude of effects is the same even if the patient knows it's a placebo.

&gt; However, imagined negative effects can be a problem. 

True, but imagined negative effects can only be so bad. Actual medical effects can be more deadly (kidney/liver failure, heart attack, stroke, cancer, etc). This article explains and links a study: http://www.scientificamerican.com/podcast/episode/placebos-work-even-when-you-know-10-12-23/

I don't think it's that surprising. People aren't rational, they rationalize. With logic you can deduce that the pill shouldn't work, but deep down you "know" that it's real medicine. 

&gt; True, but imagined negative effects can only be so bad. Actual medical effects can be more deadly (kidney/liver failure, heart attack, stroke, cancer, etc).

Oh yeah, I meant that two placebos could have different negative effects. When a person has an aversion towards doctors, the medicine-sounding pill might have more negative effects than the nature-sounding pill. &gt; This article explains and links a study: http://www.scientificamerican.com/podcast/episode/placebos-work-even-when-you-know-10-12-23/

I wish they had a third group of placebos with deception to see if it plays a role. Still interesting (and counter intuitive). That would open up the doors for literally any quack that offers treatment, since any treatment can offer the placebo effect. We need to examine if the claims a treatment makes are true before we accept that treatment to be used. Does homeopathy claim to treat illness better than placebo? If not, then we have no problems. [deleted] Yeah your so much better than them... Don't break your arm jerking yourself off here buddy He's right in everything he said. [deleted] If it makes you feel any better it was a meta-study, basically a literature review without doing any groundwork science. Also encouraging is that Australia only spends about 30 cents per person per annum on homeopathy, which suggests it's an almost dead business. So that's, what, 6 million Australian dollars (3 million or ~ 4.5 million USD) overall?

That's probably as small as you can reasonably hope to make it. You'll never fully wipe out that stuff. It's for the people in the middle, the ones who are not into the big pharma conspiracy but also not entirely scientifically literate  "Do no harm" means more than just not actively hurting people. Letting the populace harm themselves through false belief can be extremely detrimental to public health.   It's not a given that people know what their drugs are made of. Do you know what Aspirin is made of/how it works? I know I don't. The same can be true for homeopathic substances. Anybody knows that giving a sugar pill instead of real medicine shouldn't do anything at all. 

Except it does, it is called the placebo effect and has been proven to exist. That's why there are still studies of homeopathy, just in case. You are right that placebo has been shown to have a remarkable effect on patient symptoms and certainly can be effective as a patient gets better by themselves (which, statistically speaking would happen without the placebo). In more serious diseases where patients are unlikely to recover, placebo hasn't been shown to have a positive effect and it would be ethically bankrupt to assign a placebo group in a study of a serious preventable disease.

Through marketing, omission and relying on an uninformed public homeopathy has been allowed to be seen as a genuine alternative to medicine and has been given to infants and terminally ill patients where, by our understanding of the effect, placebo couldnt work.

For homeopathy to be promoted as a genuine alternative to accepted medicine does genuine harm. For people to profit from this is, in my opinion, evil.  
 My colleague is one of those idiots.  Haven't you seen the studies on water memory though? Of course it's strange that it doesn't seem to remember all the feces that it's been in contact with. This was a large study conducted by the Australian government funded medical body. This kind of work could lead to tightening of regulation of homeopathy and raise awareness. I think we need more studies, what i hate that it is always Australia that seems to be making theses studies i hope we get more from the US, Switzerland, England, Germany etc.. the more the better case we have against them. I live in Chile and the pro homepathy movement seems to get bigger and bigger it sucks, their "pharmacies" seems to be poping up everywhere! the problem is the good medicine, or science web sites are mostly in english so there aren't much resources for people to get valid research info. they have no idea its glorified water, they just want something "Natural"  vs Chemicals from big pharma. Because its an easy way to make a research paper, and making research papers is important to getting better status as an academic scientist. This study was conducted by a government funded scientific body, not individual academics. So you're saying we shouldn't research anymore ways to prevent/cure diseases or illnesses because 99% of the time the research won't come up with anything that'll "work".

I guess we might as well shut down all of our pharmaceutical companies.

Fuck them for wasting money trying to look into EVERYTHING POSSIBLE THAT MAY OR MAY NOT HELP TREAT/CURE SOMETHING.

Might as well not do anymore studies on anything since herp derp science is bad and we shouldn't be reseqarching anything since 99% of the studies give us information we guessed but had no proof/studies to back them. because herp durp, some retard is against funding anything related to researching something.  What I'm saying is that homeopathy has been concluded not to work through multiple studies and dilution calculations with moles show that it's impossible to have a trace lleft after 15-20 dilutions but they do it all the way to 30. I have come to terms with the idea that some people are simply not subject to rational facts. They would rather delude themselves than try to understand why something like homeopathy wouldn't work. I'll keep my intake at 3000 IU... Keeps the winter blues away while living in Canada. The lack of daylight can play with your head. I'm pretty sure inmates get more time outside than us office workers.  How do you measure your Vit D intake, do you take supplements?  I'm also in Canada and vitamin D has never been something I kept an eye on.  Mind you my seasonal blues are only a problem for a short period of time.  Yes. Feeling depressed from low vitamin d is a sign of extreme deficiency. There are many other potential effects that you probably don't notice at other times of the year.  Yup. I had/have severe Vitamin D deficiency with 5 ng/ml (The "healthy" amount exceeds 20 up to 100). I was literally sleeping over 16 hours every day because I was unable to keep my eyes open for longer than 10 minutes, otherwise I'd just straight up pass out on the spot. It was pretty bad. 


I've been taking 20.000 IU bi-weekly for 2 months now and I'm feeling DEFINITELY better, but still not "normal".  Yeah, I had a level of 7 a few years ago. Was falling asleep at the wheel and could barely function. I found a supplement that's 50,000 IU of Vitamin D3. I take once a week or at any sign of an illness, and it works wonders. h o l y  s h i t
5?!

my doctor freaked out when he saw my levels were at 20. but damn that's the lowest i've ever heard of someone having it at.
 Soo... a while ago, during a long break that I had (~3-5months with no work/school), I decided to invert my sleeping schedule (I feel better waking up at night/ going to bed in the morning). As I would almost never go outside when it was light, when I had a blood test my result came back as '&lt;1' (lower than detectable - I was very pale, but didn't really notice as I would only go out during the night) - the doctor said it was the lowest he saw in his lifetime, and immediately made me take triple the dose of vitamin D pills.

And this was in Australia during the summer. There has been a rebound of the "Slip, Slop, Slap" that we grew up with. Because of the fear of skin cancer, we now have an epidemic of low Vit D.  My Dr attributes my stomach cancer to low Vit D levels. I was swallowing the tablets by the handful and it made no difference to my levels.  I now have Vit D injections made by a compounding pharmacy and have levels over 50 for the first time they started recording them Be careful about units though. In the UK at least, vitamin D levels are delivered in units of nmol/l and the figure above is in ng/ml whereas yours might of been the former, in which case divide by 2.5.

See e.g.; https://www.vitamindcouncil.org/further-topics/i-tested-my-vitamin-d-level-what-do-my-results-mean/#

Mine was 14 nmol/l which in ng/ml is indeed an atrocious 5.6 ng/ml like the person above. My doctor didn't seem overly concerned but I read it was on the rickets scale! I've been taking 2000 UI daily since and it bumped it up to 28ng/ml after a while. I've started on 4000 as a result of the website above, but like others here I really don't know who to believe now and whether 28 was actually an acceptable level. 

Increasing my vitamin D by the way didn't have any noticeable effect on my health or mood. This is a shame as I have quite severe ME/CFS and was hoping (against hope) that I might see some improvement. I live in the states near BC, and if you're near Costco you can get 2000IU capsules for really cheap.  [Liquid Vitamin D brah!](http://www.healthpalace.ca/aor-vitamin-d3-liquid-adult-50-ml/?gclid=CjwKEAjwrbSoBRDok47Sv6Ci80wSJABFUszTOxO7_GpsxaeTW9V8Sabk9FZDvuLklwfQJRn07_FlSBoCljLw_wcB) Tastes like olive oil and the bottle comes with like a medicine dropper. The dropper measures in 1000IU incriments. I'm taking 5000 Safeway and Walmart sell them for pretty cheap. They're just 1000IU pills. The company is Webber Naturals. Just in with the rest of the Vitamins. http://www.webbernaturals.com/product-categories/vitamin-d/3017/ Costco is also a good place for relatively cheap vitamins. Hmmmm.... also Canadian, I've been taking 1000 IU for a few years now, maybe I will up my dose then. Any downsides? Low vitamin D levels are bad, but so are high levels. Go see you doctor and get a level, otherwise there is no way for you to know if you're helping or harming yourself. I take 10,000. Coincidentally 10x the suggested intake.  Canadian here too. I find supplementing 3000-4000 IU to be ideal for my mood. TIL taking vitamin D is more popular than I thought.  I'm also Canadian. And sometimes get self conscious with supplements I always wanted to just be fine on my own. Nice to know it ain't just me :) Peer reviewed, source, academic paper http://www.mdpi.com/2072-6643/7/3/1688/htm




&gt;Both these studies suggest that the IOM underestimated the requirement substantially, said Garland. The error has broad implications for public health regarding disease prevention and achieving the stated goal of ensuring that the whole population has enough vitamin D to maintain bone health.
 Yes this was posted last week in another sub. The main concerns are that two of the authors are from a pro-vitamin D group called [GrassrootsHealth](http://www.grassrootshealth.net) and that 

&gt;The data presented here are derived from the GrassrootsHealth (GRH) database

So this isn't really a non-biased source, although I think further study is definitely warranted. How would a pro-D doctor benefit from pushing this info?  As a serious answer: They could be part-owner of a company that makes a particular type of supplement, then put out research showing that not only do people need more Vit-D, but that *their* supplement provides the best bio-availability, etc.
 Is it possible to get the same levels of naturally occurring Vitamin D without supplementation?  I know about sunlight..  apparently mushrooms have it as well.  I'd rather get my dose from food than supplements.    

Edit:  thanks for all the tips, everyone.  Thankfully I'll get lots of sunshine for the summer but I'll be supplementing starting Fall.   Sunlight is best by far, for a lot of reasons. There is some vitamin D in foods, but very little. To put it in perspective, a common dose for a capsule is 1000 IU and even the most vitamin D rich foods typically contain well under 100 IU. And you'll also generate something like 10,000UI in less than 15 min in full sun. Not sure if it's actually 10,000 so take that with a grain of salt, but you generate it *really* quickly is my point. This also assumed full sun, obviously in shade or when it's less intense (middle of winter) it will take longer, it also takes longer the darker your complexion. Just go outside tho is my point, if you don't go outside enough to get enough vitamin d you may well have other health issues too such as sitting at your desk too long or something. *And* it_goes_without_saying (gasp) your skin must be exposed - clothes and many skin care products block sun exposure ... So: go outside *and* expose your skin. It's sometimes easier said than done Also, Vitamin D isn't immediately absorbed through the skin  and can be washed off in the bath/shower.

&gt;Vitamin D (D3 specifically) is an oil soluble steroid hormone that is formed when your skin is exposed to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation. However, the Vitamin D that is formed is on the surface of your skin does not immediately penetrate into your bloodstream. This is called Pre-Vitamin D.

&gt;Pre-vitamin D is synthesized in your skin and makes a home in the oil glands. From there, it goes into your bloodstream. If you shower before the pre-vitamin D has been absorbed and converted to vitamin D, it will wash off and your vitamin D levels will not rise.

 What is the dwell time for effect desired? This is important. No sunscreen/block, minimal clothing (think bathing suit), strong direct sunlight--those conditions aren't easy to meet for everyone. Strong direct sunlight is not something to advise to fair skinned people. They should go out in the early morning or evening when the sun is at about 45 degrees, not 90 degrees. Tell me about it!

Going to Hawaii soon.  Fair skin.  I have to wear long sleeve, Coolibar-type shirts, even in the water.  No laying out at the beach for me.  

I had 30 minutes in the water a few decades ago there, necessitating a trip to the ER with a burn from shoulder to shoulder (standing in the water about shoulder deep).  They said the blisters were the worst they had seen for a sunburn.  No pain.  Lost *layers* of skin, but all good now.  Dermotologist checked things last year.  No problems but "don't ever do that again." I feel like that is irrelevant in Florida. I was walking outside for a bit on my campus and my skin started to steam. No clouds either. Just pure heat and sun.  [deleted] Careful now, this is primarly a western audience, you don't want to incite a riot! Japan's currently going through what some people are calling a '[shut-in epidemic](http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/15/magazine/15japanese.html?pagewanted=all&amp;_r=0)' Well, eastern is even more anti-sun.  Though instead of fear of skin cancer, it's more fear of skin aging, and just a strong preference for light skin tone.
 Run around naked.  Got it. My father and his brother both died of melanoma; I put on sunscreen like crazy when I'm out. Does that block the absorption of Vitamin D? Not the absorption, but it prevents vitamin D from forming in your skin And it's just not possible everywhere. The sun shone 8h in total last December here in Helsinki, Finland. Northern Finland didn't even get that much. Sun is not an option here during the winter, even if it shines it shines only few hours around the noon when we're at work. It'd pitch black when I commute both ways. I would add that going outside to get some sun isn't entirely possible for everyone. I live in the Northern parts of Norway, there is literally nearly two months with 0 sun in the middle of winter. And obviously the time before and after that has only marginal amounts of sun. Vitamin D is the only supplement I take and only during the peak of winter. If I could get more sun I would, but I can't cause it doesn't reach us. &gt;  obviously in shade or when it's less intense (middle of winter) it will take longer

If you're far enough north (New England for example), I do not believe you get much, if any, in the winter due to too much UVB getting filtered out in the Earth's atmosphere due to the angle the light hits it. if you live in US north or Canada, pretty much by October we dont make ANY vitamin D until April. Even if you laid naked on your roof for the afternoon on a sunny January afternoon, you make zero vitamin D because the sun is too low on the horizon and the UV's dont make it to the ground.  And even in the summer time we live and work indoors, hiding from the sun, slathering ourselves in sunscreen at even the slightest exposure to it. Its a modern health disaster. It would be difficult to get to 7000 UI through food alone. The highest concentration I know of in food without fortification is oily fish like sardines and salmon, and those still only approach 500 IU per serving. 

I believe that sun exposure might be the only way to reliably get that much vitamin D per day without supplements.

 I currently take 6000 UI daily in supplements in addition to whatever I eat. A few years ago I was tested at single digits. It's supposed to be somewhere around 30 if I recall correctly. Since taking the supplements, the depression I was suffering for around 10 years is gone, not as much joint pain, and not half as much fatigue. I have Multiple Sclerosis and my symptoms have been greatly reduced as well. 

I do HAVE to use supplements, there is no way I could eat enough food high in Vit D to sustain as I have found out in the past. Getting outside in the spring if fine, but summer months I can't handle the heat. I do sit out to BBQ, but it's in the shade. Even 15 minutes in July and August sun, is just too much for my body to handle.  As someone who has also just been diagnosed with low levels, this is interesting. My level was 9 when it is supposed to be at 30. I'm taking 1,000 units daily and a 50,000 UI pill twice a week for 8 weeks. My doctor wants to retest my levels in three months. I have no idea how long this has been going on. I don't feel like anything is wrong. My amateur online research  doesn't help me understand what's going on with my body. I do have an irrational fear of rickets now though. [deleted] Sardines are really good for you, so why not? I prefer the skinless/boneless variety packed in olive oil. I like the ones too small to be skinned and deboned packed in nondescript oil. I like the stronger flavor, and they remind me of when I used to share them with my grandpa. Brisling sardines! They are the best. There are a bunch of fish that can legally be sold as sardines. Some of them are awful. King Oscar is my preferred brand. Enjoy eating 600+ grams of mushrooms a day, or toxic amounts of cod liver oil. I thought the mushrooms had to have been exposed to sunlight in order to produce vitamin D, and most grocery store mushrooms are grown in darkness? I have hippie friends that sit their produce outside in a sunny place once they've got it home to recharge it with the D. Whether or not it does anything I cannot say. http://www.fungi.com/blog/items/place-mushrooms-in-sunlight-to-get-your-vitamin-d.html

Studies at Penn State and the University Medical Center in Frieburg, Germany say yes. If one were to seriously consider this I would look into it more, but at a glance it seems like a healthy alternative. You don't even need to have a financial conflict-of-interest - once you've strongly adopted an opinion, just gaining approval for that opinion is very self-gratifying.  The leading researchers in Vitamin D clinical nutrition studies are Bruce Hollis of the Medical University of South Carolina, Robert Heaney at Creighton, and Walter Willett at Harvard, and they all recommend much, much higher levels of supplementation than the IOM report recommended.  They, too, have been treated by the institutional panel as outsiders.

It appears that the contributions from these experts were (1) simply discarded by the IOM and (2) became largely irrelevant when the IOM declared bone health to be the only Vitamin D related health issue that was relevant to their report, allowing them to discard a lot of established research that would contradict the IOM's claims.

There were Vitamin D "experts" on the IOM's panel who work for pharmaceutical companies attempting to create patentable synthetic alternatives to natural Vitamin D for therapeutic and prophylatic uses.  So there were conflicts of interest on the panel that involved pharmaceutical research products worth billions since the research by these clinical nutritionists indicate Vitamin D deficiency related disease is so widespread. Wow, pharmaceutical companies preventing access to nutrition and naturally occurring substances, so that they can synthesize, patent, and profit. What a mind blowing shocker.  Yes, and note all the shills on this thread implying that these leading researchers in the field are actually outsiders with conflict of interest because, speculatively, they could own supplement stores and sell more Vitamin D pills (which go for about 0.03 cents each). [deleted] Bias doesn't have to be financial. Of course, even direct financial conflict isn't sufficient in itself to reject research, it's just a bit of a red flag. maybe the scientist thinks that vitamin D is not getting the shake it deserves. Of course they will GrassrootsHealth to continue being able to research further amongst others who hypothesize that Vitamin D recommended levels are too low.

(i have no way of knowing this is true. just playing devil's advocate) Doesn't the process of peer review help negate that? I always thought that meant the findings have been verified by someone not attached to the original study.  I don't think that a researchers agenda disqualifies their results at all.  In fact, I think that people, including very good experts, tend to pick out sources that are clearly biased and discredit them while glossing over the more subtle biases in the field. Each of us has to take a personal survey of publication and funding biases in the field of nutrition - and that should inform our how much credence we give to a finding. We can do this by reading review articles and paying attention to the statements about the state of the field from experts we trust.

I think this is not doable for most people who are not formally trained or actively reading the literature - developing the right intuitions about the biases of a profession is a long, long process and I think it's what distinguishes experienced scientists from brilliant post-docs and new university faculty. 

A smart layperson can understand any individual topic with some effort, but they dont have much of a chance of seeing the larger picture unless they are obsessive.  Laypeople can often see the nuts and bolts of a theory or study as well as an expert, but it usually takes a professional to contextualize it.

One shortcut to context is to read a review article on a topic, read an article with one position, then read an article that is written in response to that article, then read blogs and discussion boards that comment on the debate between the two aforementioned articles.  The discussion boards in particular are loaded with clues about the larger context.

Edit: typos

Edit: More typos It implies that our sun exposure recommendations are completely off. This will put a crimp in the sunscreen industry and we'll have to examine our "office all day" and 'children indoors at all times' norms too.  It's almost as if human beings weren't meant to be cooped up inside 24/7. Which kinda lends more credibility to this research. Because it makes sense that being outside in the sun is a good thing for humans. Can someone explain the error and how it's specifically a statistical one? The IOM apparently decided that the RDA should be the dose of vitamin D that produced a serum level of 50 nmol/L. To find out this dose, they reviewed many studies in which people were supplemented with vitamin D at a specific dose and their serum levels were measured. (The studies were all conducted in the winter and in the North to remove the sun as a factor.)

The IOM created dose/serum level data points (one for each study that tested a given dose) based on the average serum level that a given study observed. On these 32 data points, they used a regression analysis to find a dose-response relationship. They also calculated a 95% confidence interval using the standard deviation of these 32 data points. At a dose of 600 IU/day, the 95% confidence interval's lower limit was 56 nmol/L, which they rounded down to 50 nmol/L out of caution. So the IOM concluded that a dose of 600 IU/day would produce a serum level of 50 nmol/L in 97.5% of individuals.

The problem is, this isn't correct. A 600 IU/day dose would produce a *study average* serum level of 50 nmol/L 97.5% of the time. That doesn't mean it will produce that level in 97.5% of individuals, because there might be a large spread around the average. This turns out to be the case when you look at the data, so the 600 IU dose is not sufficient to produce a 50 nmol/L serum level in 97.5% of individuals.

You can read the details in [this paper](http://www.mdpi.com/2072-6643/6/10/4472/htm), which is referenced in the one here. I see. So they confused the confidence interval (for the coefficient) with the prediction interval (for datapoints).

I did that once; it was embarrassing because confidence intervals are so much narrower than prediction intervals that the mistake should have been obvious. Their conclusion is ultimately stupid, at least how it is being presented in the media. Most of the studies they looked at used less than 1500 IU/day, and only one had about 2200 IU/day. So there is no way you can extrapolate to make a suggestion that people need to be using 6000 IU/day. The media is making it sound like they accidentally dropped a zero, but that is definitely not the case. 

The fact of the matter is, we need more studies that test the effects of higher doses of Vitamin D. I think we may need to now recommend a dose based on blood results, not intake. As you say, there is a spread of response to a given dose. I think the real question is whether Vit D deficiency is a direct problem, or the symptom of a problem. 

There has been quite a bit of research showing that effectively producing/processing Vitamin D requires a healthy microbiome. Simply supplementing with more Vit D does not necessarily result in usable uptake or fix the issue that created the deficit in the first place.  Also has to do with chemistry.  You can take in all the Vit D you want but if you don't have enough other minerals in your body to react it, it's worthless.  For example: magnesium is a co-factor in most chemical reactions in your body.   Vitamin K2 is also commonly overlooked. It is heavily involved in transporting calcium to the right places and can for example prevent arterial calcification in the event of vitamin d overdose.  Nice to see K2 and mineralization mentioned here! It was my PhD topic :)

Note that K1 is converted to K2 in the body so either supplement is fine. &gt;Note that K1 is converted to K2 in the body so either supplement is fine.

It is converted, but not with a high efficiency and K1 supplementation has not been shown to have the same beneficial effects as K2. [This article](http://chriskresser.com/vitamin-k2-the-missing-nutrient) (with some very brief googling) cites some scientific studies regarding this matter.  That's good to know, thanks! 
 [deleted] Also Canadian here. The milk they sell here has Vit D added right? So is it fine to just drink a bunch of milk every day? Milk in both Canada and the US is commonly fortified with Vitamin D but it's not a very practical deliver vehicle for meeting high Vitamin D intake needs simply because of the bulk and caloric value. 

Cow milk naturally has around 2UI of Vitamin D. Canadian milk is normally fortified with 35-40 UI per 100ml and in the US it is fortified at 100 UI per cup (non equivalent measurements I realize, but I left them that way so that readers from each country could easily visualize the vitamin content of their milk). 

This means to get 2000 UI, which is a pretty modest wintertime does for someone living in dark northern climates like the northern US and Canada, you'd need to consume around 2400 calories worth of milk per day. (It would also require drinking 1.25 gallons of milk which would be... and I say this as someone that loves milk... unpleasant at best.) I thought I was fine having no sunlight because I drank a lot of milk.  It turns out, milk has D*2*, which the body does not absorb as well as D3.

Vitamin D deficiency can ruin your life.  Don't risk it! The amount in milk is also extremely tiny because it is based on this super low RDA off 400IU.  Yes it's a requirement by the Canadian government but AFAIK it's not that much Please explain the microbiome interaction with Vitamin D? Vitamin K relies on the microbiome, most to all of our Vitamin D is naturally produced from a skin-kidney-liver system.  I support this line of inquiry- but because most individuals outside the equator receive their D as an inactive form supplemented in diet, the microbiome might have some effect. Good point. I choose to take the supplement of lack of a downside. 

I'm a young male who found out he has osteopenia on a goof.

A radiology department was training staff on how to use a bone density machine. I choose to be the guinea pig (they usually want young males to test-they don't want to find anything, I've also been the GP on a 4 Tesla MRI). The instructor found this, and now my doctor has me on a regimen of Vitamin D 2000 IU after a blood test said it was very low. Also taking Ca and Mg.    

The lesson? The RDA seems to assume you get most of your Vitamin D from the sun. I work indoors with no windows and F-ing hate nature. Take a supplement. 

[edit grammar, spelling] Did you get a testosterone test? Excellent question! Three of them. The one that wasn't normal was after a night of horrible sleep. Normal T levels. I've been a gym rat for seven years so the brittle bones isn't from a lack of weight bearing activity. The next follow up question after someone says he was a "gym rat" is: "Have you taken anabolic steroids". No. To those that ask "why?". Long and above therapeutic levels of T can cause bone loss.   High T causes an *increase* in bone mass because of increased aromatization leading to high E2, and E2 is responsible for maintaining BMD.

Low E2 from artificial suppression via aromatase inhibitors causes bone loss, which often accompanies cycling. I have ulcerative colitis and was just told by my doctor to start taking vitamin D, since it's quite low. Will this help if the problem is absorption in the first place? Absolutely. Even though you have malabsorption, an increase in consumed amount should increase intake. There is a [clinical trial](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01846026) going on right now to quantify whether Vit D supplementation positively impacts UC. 

 I take 6000 to 7000 IU/day.  My test score is in the low 50's which is good.  As you get older its harder to get Vit D from sunlight as the body does not absorb it like when you are younger.  I am 69.  Both my endocrinologist and gp recommend Vit d and test for it. And yet a week ago another survey says that Vitamin D contributes to shorter lifespans. I'm not sure why people think that when it comes to science, one single study is a measure of our understanding of a subject. 

Use Examine.com. That site covers hundreds of different supplements (vitamins, fats, proteins, amino acids, etc.), and each article provides often hundreds of sources. 

In the case of vitamin D...

http://examine.com/supplements/Vitamin+D/


.... it breaks down all the research on everything from its chemical structure, pharmacology, interaction with other nutrients, effect on the body, effects of difficiency, effects of overdosing, studies related to neurological / skeletal / respiratory systems, cancer relation, and and on and on. 

It provides about 350 sources, ranging from the 1940s to 2014. 

This is what is called comprehensive research - spanning multiple fields and diverse populations around the world. One single study is not sufficient to come to any kind of grand conclusion about anything. And doing this is exactly why there is much "well I thought last week they said this could kill me, now they say it make me healthier". You cease having these kinds of week to week contradictions when you look the entire body of evidence. It's why things like vaccine nonsense stemmed from one study - whereas nobody should have come any kind of conclusion until they looked at more comprehensive research, or...gasp...waited for more research to be completed. 

And when it comes to vitamin D, there's plenty of research to look at, that all has a fairly consistent conclusion. If there is outlier evidence that contradicts the concensus, then, like all other research, it will eventually be vetted for integrity, or motivate further research do further validate the conclusion. This is how science works - it is not a bible, where one research paper, or one newspaper article is the word of God and cannot be wrong or biased or insufficient, etc.  amen? You didn't get the full story, I assume? Too-low levels and too-high levels were both found to be detrimental. 

Edit: I wish people don't downvote you, it's a legitimate observation. With all these studies and discussions about vit D in the last 5 years, a lot of people got lost. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's nearly impossible to get sufficient D through sunlight in some parts of the country.  Especially depending on skin tone. If you're dark-skinned and living much above the Tropic of Cancer, you're screwed.  Went to school in upstate New York. EVERYONE was vitamin D deficient.  Is there a specific amount of time in the sun that would provide you with a sufficient amount of vitamin d? [deleted] I can't keep up with anything anymore. There is so much info, and so much *changing* info, that I feel like I've let go of the rope. I'm just bobbing around out here hoping I'm not missing out anything overly critical. Like, if Broccoli causes cancer, or something like that. The problem is when you try and take medical or nutritional advice from the media. The media is extremely quick to jump on every single paper or study published regarding health and supplements. Unfortunately, they never get the facts right, and are saying things which not even the scientists themselves say.

In most cases, in particular nutritional and epidemiologic studies, the studies performed are observational in where we look at thousands of people and try and correlate what they eat and take with what diseases they get. Unfortunately, these studies are only really useful for showing associations between things, for instance, between vitamin D intake and cardiovascular disease risk. They have much more difficulty in showing causation (only in very rare cases like smoking and lung cancer does this happen).

The bottom line is, the info actually isn't really changing that much, except in the public sphere. Most things take a long long time and a lot of money before we can definitely prove (through randomized trials of people, which sometimes isn't even ethical to do) that X causes Y.

The trick is to become a critical, rational thinker. If the media says something about some study, **read the study**. There's a good chance you yourself will be able to see the shortcomings of the study, and realize that the conclusions often do not suggest us to change our lifestyle until more research is conducted.

EDIT: Do everything in moderation. It is your safest bet. &gt;  If the media says something about some study, read the study.

But in almost all cases the study is behind a paywall... this is a huge problem science has right now and needs a serious revision. I remember when 5-8 years ago everything both caused and prevented cancer simultaneously. And of course the news headlines would always say "TENFOLD increase risk of cancer!", failing to mention that the baseline chance of getting said cancer is something close to 0 to begin with.

If you're suffering from this type of science fatigue you're not the only one. I remember that feeling. I used to be so fed up with this. You read an article saying "such and such food may help protect against a certain cancer." Then you google that food and find another article that says that this food, in fact, may actually cause a certain cancer." And then you're distracted reading while going down the stairs, trip, fall, break your neck, and your cancer worries are over. That's because, like so many things involving life and biology, nothing is so black and white.

Biological creatures are the most complicated things in the known universe. How absurd would it be to discover that ingesting other biological creatures has nothing but a very specific positive or negative effect? Yeah, like I read an article on how weed is neurotoxic, so i start freaking out and thinking that my entire view on "safer-than-alcohol" is wrong and that all drugs are bad - Only to find out that the toxicity is so negligible and small that it doesn't matter and can be battled by intake of vitamin E. Like come on, at least state that in the conclusion or something. That's because you're only reading the titles.  As someone with a physics and mild engineering background, reporting on anything that touches those spheres is almost always blown immensely out of proportion. A clever new way of synthesizing some molecules becomes 3d printing molecules, clever mixing of the data from two different experiments becomes proof that string theory is/isn't The One True Theory, an experiment looking for Gravity waves becomes proof of gravitons. 

I don't see a reason to expect that reporters are any better at biology, history, medicine or any other field. I've found the best way to approach journalism on any particular subject is to first decide if there's any chance I will ever discuss this subject with someone or make any other decision based off it. If that answer is no, then I do my best to forget the headline. Otherwise, I skim the article looking for either the name of the journal, the name of someone on the paper or the name of the paper. Failing that, I'll look for a way to get a step closer to that. Worst case, I'll take the question to /r/askscience or a more specific subreddit of that applies. 

I'm fairly sure I've come across as suggesting that science journalists are awful and misleading, and that's not fair to them. Between needing headlines that get people to read articles, articles that need to be written such that people keep reading past the fold, needing to produce content on very short deadlines and not having a substantial background in all the subjects they report on they're in a very tough spot. The reporting we get is exactly what we should expect from ad view driven profit models ( ie: the text exists only to get people to see more ads ) You're generally safe eating moderate meals of a variety of foods. Don't drink soda, but mild alcohol consumption (preferably beer or wine) is fine. Focus on staples - red meat, chicken, pork, fish, vegetables, fruits, etc. Eat a salad with dinner. 

Exercise regularly - walking, swimming, rowing, biking, and basic weight lifting. 

Do that and you're probably doing better than most folks.  There was an article that Examine.com (I think) shared a few days back, that was a basic analysis of the phytophenols in aged whiskey. Turns out that drinking things of that nature can be beneficial as well.

Give me a couple and I'll see if I can find the article...

Edit: found it! http://honey-guide.com/2015/03/17/whisky-polyphenols-and-their-potential-health-effects/

Interesting read if that's the sort of thing you're into. Why is that a legitimate observation?  I'm curious, not argumentative.  The post was clearly what you said, "too-low and too-high levels were detrimental"

For a top level comment to say "...Vitamin D contributes to shorter lifespans."  in reference to a post on /r/science last week seems misleading and if you hadn't made a reply it could have remained that way How much was too high again? This article says that for people under 70, we can take 10,000 IU. I usually take 1000-1400 IU before bed to help me wake up in the morning. It seems to work. "Maximum Daily Doses

To avoid the possibility of vitamin D toxicity, adults should not take more than 4,000 IU of vitamin D each day, according to the National Institutes of Health. While the maximum recommended dose for vitamin D is 4,000 IU per day, **most people won't overdose on vitamin D even at dosage levels 5,000 IU or even 10,000 IU daily**, according to a report published in the "American Journal of Clinical Nutrition". **You likely need to take 50,000 IU daily to develop symptoms of an overdose**, notes the Linus Pauling Institute. If you're diagnosed with a vitamin D deficiency, ask your doctor which vitamin D supplement can best restore your vitamin D levels. Don't try to treat the deficiency yourself with supplements."



http://livewell.jillianmichaels.com/vitamin-d-maximum-dosage-5289.html You need to read the papers more closely. 

In another study it was found that reduction in caloric intake increases lifespan. This sounds like it's saying fat people don't live as long as skinny people. However, this applied to severe caloric intake reduction, even to only 1000 calories a day. How much people ate in a single sitting also changed their lifespan, even if they were limiting their caloric intake. Do you happen to have the link to this study handy?  Not OP, but this sounds interesting. Lots of studies link dietary restriction to increased longevity, across many different species of model organisms.

www.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calorie_restriction

Check the bottom of the wikipedia page for primary literature.
 I am not sure this has been done in humans as the other person is suggesting, most of the time for humans it's based on survey of a person's recollection of their diet, every study has been done on the usual suspects, fruit flies, rodents, monkeys  - http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.0020231 TL;DR : dont eat, live forever? [deleted] [deleted] I live in Portland, Oregon and take 5,000 iu a day. My last blood test came back and stated that I have too little vit d in my system. Sigh.  The most important thing here is that I get to eat 10 more vitamin D gummies every day. Wow, that's a seriously grievous level of statistical error. Ohhhhh whoops we were holding it upside down.  NOW it makes more sense. I've been taking 10,000 IUs of D3 for years. Every time I get my levels checked they're right in the middle. Nobody told me to take vitamin D, but this is how I feel the best. Call it bad science, but I think we're way too skeptical of vitamin usage.  In a pill form? You ought to try vitamin D *drops* for increased bioavailability. That amount should have you more than in the middle (you want to be on the upper end of the range around 75).  Holy crap, 75? I had my levels tested a while back and I was at around 13 if I remember correctly. I was put on 50,000 IUs of The D taken once a week. Now I take 2,000 IUs once a day. I thought the original amount was high, but I guess I really needed it!

It did end up fixing one of the health problems I was having, but now I kind of want to get my levels checked again just to be sure I'm getting enough. I was at a 7. I took the prescription strength 50,000 IU D2 for nine months, and was only at 15. Now I take 50,000 IU D3. Haven't been in to check yet but I think it's helped. Unless you're exposing yourself to sunlight regularly, it might not be enough. Sometimes the science is right under our nose, but our blind obedience to convention prevents us from being able to learn from it. 

What were the benefits observed from 10,000 IU D3? I started taking 10,000IU D3 daily as a new years resolution.  I noticed a much better mood, easier time waking up, easier time falling asleep, and less groggy feeling.  It's definitely something I'd recommend to everyone.  

I also started taking probiotics which I also heavily recommend for better bowel health.  10,000 IU D3 is very safe to take assuming you get little sunlight.  If you do go out for a long time I skip taking the supplement.  

Would recommend.   I recently attended a "Nutrition for Dummy Parents" kind of thing, and the speaker told us that out of all the children she sees at a Children's Hospital, most are Vitamin D deficient. And we live in sunny Southern California - land of outdoor living. I was surprised. The end.  Does this mean I have to start taking 10 vitamin D pills at once? All I can say is that if these 2 studies prove to be correct, the recommended daily intake - currently at 600 IU * for 18-70 y/o adults *- should be raised to 6000 IU. I wouldn't change anything in my diet yet, let's see first if the scientific community can reach an agreement on this. 40 IU = 1 g

6000 IU = 150 g I don't know,  The article identifies 10,000 IU as the safe upper limit, so it shouldn't be deleterious to your health even if the results regarding the benefits of the larger amount are wrong.  People with significant deficiencies are usually prescribed 50,000 IU once/week which is very close to the total of the new recommendation.

Also, it's strange, if it's 600 IU for most people, why do supplement labels always list 400 IU as 100%? Question is if it's beneficial on the long run, aka decreases mortality/morbidity. It's been known for a while that doses up 10,000 UI/day are (apparently) safe.

&gt;Also, it's strange, if it's 600 IU for most people, why do supplement labels always list 400 IU as 100%?

I'd assume it's because they didn't update their information. IOM (after much debate...) published the new Daily References Intake recommandations in 2010 

http://www.iom.edu/Reports/2010/Dietary-Reference-Intakes-for-Calcium-and-Vitamin-D/DRI-Values.aspx The best thing is to get your vitamin D from the sun anyway. You don't need many minutes per day. Not very easy when you're doing your 8-to-5 thing... but yes, in a perfect world we should all sunbathe for ~10 min, every day. The time of the day is also important right? Is it the morning sun or the afternoon sun that is good for us? I hope another well informed redditor will answer this. Ideally, with sources. Because it's nuanced, can get a bit complicated in a group discussion, and I'll be AFK soon.

Edit: even better, you guys should start a thread in /r/askscience. It just needs to be direct sunlight with UV-B. Glass filters UV-B so getting sunlight through a window won't work. Sunscreen also absorbs UV, and will decrease Vitamin D biosynthesis.

Also, something to be considered is that UV radiation(UV-B in particular) can cause damage to DNA in the skin. The whole point of sunscreen is to minimize exposure to UV light, and to reduce the chance of developing skin cancer. People with darker skin have pigments that absorb UV radiation before it can be used in vitamin D synthesis, and would require more time in the sun. 

There are a lot of studies that echo this, but here's an interesting one if you can get access:

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16603232 You also have to consider where you live. The farther from the equator you are, the more sun exposure you need. Not to mention exposed skin surface area, etc. Apparently vit D deficiency is common here in WY. Also take into account your skin pigmentation. If you're a super pale, you'll get your dosage relatively quickly. If you're darker skinned and living in a high latitude then you'll have to be a lot more concious of your levels.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6119494 You get the most UVB light when the sun is highest. UVB is what generates vitamin D. The sun has to be &gt; 50 degrees altitude for UVB levels to be high enough to generate vitamin D. Consult a chart like the one here to figure out the best time to go out:

http://aa.usno.navy.mil/data/docs/AltAz.php
 &gt; Not very easy when you're doing your 8-to-5 thing... but yes, in a perfect world we should all sunbathe for ~10 min, every day.

The 10 minutes are when completly naked, in the summer, during midday, yes?

IIRC depending on the latitude the sunlight in winter is not even strong enough to get through the topmost skin layer. Making it completly impossible to produce any Vitamin D during winter. Legitimate, non-sarcastic question: Then why is it I'm deficient? I spend about an hour to an hour and a half in the sun every day (between taking the dog out, and a walk while I'm at work) but recent blood work showed me to be extremely deficient (17.something UI in my blood). How? Why? First question that comes to mind - what's your skin color?  I used to work in DC, in an office with a nice rooftop deck. I got 15 to 30 minutes of wonderful sunshine everyday at lunch and I felt great.

I now live in Seattle. No idea what to do :/ I live in Canada. I literally *cannot* get "enough sun" for nearly 6 months of the year, even if I were to sit in the sun for the entire time it is visible. [deleted] Still trying after all these years You should ask your doctor about stuff like this, not reddit.  He or she can do a little bloodwork to determine your levels and recommend whether or not you need to supplement.  If you're worried about it, discuss this article with them during your visit. [deleted] Get bloodwork done and consult your doctor.  Last year my doctor told me I was their only patient who was not Vitamin D deficient. 




 Last year my Doctor told me I was deficient in Vit D and that almost everyone in Michigan is too! I think the OP has linked to a secondary article, not the original one that found the statistical error, which is here:

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4210929/

IMHO their calculation seems like it could be legit [deleted] Does anyone know how VDR (Taq, etc) mutations play into this? My laymens understanding is that for certain VDR mutations, much much higher levels of D are not only tolerable but necessary due to inefficient binding at Vitamin D receptors. [deleted] I suffer from seasonal affective disorder, and I find if I take Vitamin D supplements in the winter I feel a lot better.. not sure if this is correlated at all

edit:
affective not effective (SAD not SED) My Vit D was low. I took 1000 mg a day. Six months later it had barely budged. Upped it to 5000 a day. Now I'm normal.  Basically they're telling me I need to go outside. Forget that. I'm in the middle of playing League of Legends There was a paper published in germany a few years back that states that the USDA minimum recommended daily allowance is essentially just that. The bare minimum just to stay alive. They concluded that if you want to "thrive" you need 2500 times the USDA minimums.

Another issue that is happening here is that isn't just vitamin D. Nobody who isn't a farmer will understand how much agriculture has changed since the late 1800's. It used to be that people burned wood and put the ashes on their fields. This had the effect of returning minerals (periodic table elements that cannot be created outside of nuclear fusion) back to the soil to be absorbed by plants and ultimately go into your body and help you out.

But since we use electricity for everything now nobody is putting ashes on the fields. This means that the mineral levels in those fields have been depleting year in and year out for over a century. Not only that but when farmers fertilize they use exactly three elements only. Nitrogen, Potassium and Phosphorus. These are the only nutrients a plant really cares that much about the only ones that really effect it's growth and luster at the market place. 

So basically you don't get the same elements from your fruit and vegetables that your great-great grandsire got. Your body needs trace amounts of shit like vanadium and chromium and what not to complete certain reactions in your body. Stuff like cystic fibrosis and MD aren't genetic diseases in and of themselves. They are culminated generations of minerally deficient chemistry interacting with our genome via epigenetic expression influence. I had colon cancer at 21 - they did a blood test for every vitamin in my body - all were normal except vitamin D, way way below, which directly correlates to any kind of cancer  thanks for this.  I'm a shut in and can't go out in the sun so stuff like this is important to me. ELI5 plz... what does this actually mean? Get off Reddit and go outside more. Whoa whoa whoa. Your phone works outside. Just to add my $.02. I recently was told that I have a pretty serious deficiency of Vitamin D (14 on 12/24/2014) and my WBC 17.6, RBC 5.69, HGB 17.7, HCT 51.9. Resulting recommendation: 50,000 IU of D2 twice a week for 6 weeks.

The outcome of the above recommendation with a blood draw done of 02/5/2015:

Vitamin D 18, WBC 14.9, HGB 17.6, HCT 51.6, why my RBC wasn't measured, I don't know. But, there was a new item Neutrophils # 10.6. Results of this was I was put on 50,000 IU Vitamin D once a week and get another blood test done in April.

Why am I putting all of this on here? Maybe my minimal improvements in my blood work are due to the high doses of Vitamin D2 I was put on, and that taking more is going to improve it even further. The weird thing is that I am a native of Oregon, spent the last 4 years in El Paso, TX, and come back to Oregon and within a month I'm being told my Vitamin D is low. I'm not saying that moving back caused it, because I would think that less than a month would not cause it to go so low (not that I had had my level checked before). But does sun do much? I am part Israeli and do have darker skin coloring, and have read that those with darker skin color are more prone to Vitamin D deficiency.

In the end, I guess my question to this would be two-fold: 1) Is the RDA for Vitamin D as far off, if not more, as proposed by this article, and 2) Would/should skin pigmentation be considered a factor and that maybe the RDA for those of us that are not "white" should be higher? You're being told now because the information is so new to the doctors. I had the same diagnosis a few months ago, and am also vastly increasing my vitamin D including a regimen of 50k IUs weekly for 3 months. Doc said my deficiency could not possibly have developed within simply the past year since my previous blood tests, but rather no one was paying any real attention to vitamin D a couple years ago. I take Vitamin D-3 supplements, are these effective? I thought this was clear for a long time. In the fitness scene most people know that 600I/U is not enough. I personally take 2500-5000 The RDA for iodine is also extremely low. My apologies if asking this here is inappropriate, but, can someone explain how deficiency works. If I work outdoors and 8 months of the year get plenty of sunlight, is that enough to carry me through the 4 months of winter where I don't get enough sunlight?  Those damn decimals always screwing things up. The researchers are right. The current RDA is 400 - 800 IU per day. Not wanting to over-supplement, I was taking 400 IU for about a year, with minimal sun exposure, and ended up with a blood level of D25OH below 30 ng/mL.

I needed supplementation for **four months** at 7,000 IU per day to raise my D25OH level from 30 to 70 ng/mL. I'm now continuing to supplement at 5,000 IU per day to sustain this level. (My sun exposure remains minimal.)

A recent [Danish study](http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/03/150310105222.htm) suggests 70 ng/mL is optimal; they found harmful effects below 50, as well as over 100 ng/mL. This is pretty much what Dr. Gominak has [been saying](http://drgominak.com/vitamin-d-3/). I took 400 IU per day for some months now. That's 5 drops. To achieve 7000 IU I'd have to take close to 100 drops per day. I think I need to change supplement. Which one are you taking to achieve 5,000 IU per day? GNC. They have 5,000 IU per pill, as well as 2,000 IU per pill, and smaller.

When taking these amounts by oral route, it's probably a good idea to get a blood test of D25OH done every 2-3 months. Taking something like 10,000 IU for several months is likely to eventually reach and exceed 90-100 ng/mL, which leads to similar side effects as having a level less than 50-60. This study  just says that some need 6000iu a day to reach that level and some don't... if you don't get tested you don't know if you need that much I'm definitely going to get tested before switching supplement. So would spending a few minutes in a UVB tanning booth once or twice a week be a way to get the suggested amount of Vitamin D?  Generally in that type of environment most of your skin is exposed. This answers a lot of questions for me.  I have access to a medical lab and check my vit-d frequently (as often as monthly) and the only way I have found to keep my vit-d above 50 is to take at least 5,000 to 10,000 IU's per day.  I have been doing this for the past few years and if I drop down to the recommended amount my levels begin to fall quickly. Ive been taking vitamin D3 10,000 iu daily. Living in the SF bay area where its foggy most of the time. I feel like i need it.  Oh Mr. Sun. Sun. Mr. golden sun. Please shine down on me. In this world full of depressed people, I'm betting that many of them simply suffer from a lack of vitamin d, specifically d3. I take it for chronic back pain, but I have noticed a slight improvement in my already typically happy mood as well.  I swear D3 is basically magic in pill form! I have been doing a lot of research on Vitamin D lately. Been dealing with dishydrosis for the past several years, and vitamin D was the first thing out of many things I have tried that significantly improved my hands.

Good to see new vitamin D info getting out there! Soooo, the medical answer is that Vitamin D should be taken in moderation...?

Not too much, not too little.

Just like literally everything ever? This is about what level to call moderation. I can agree with that.

I see a lot of "This is too much!" and "This is too little!" but not enough of, "You should do somewhere between x and y"

There's too much focus on what isn't good for you, and too much neglect for what is. Wow.  What a screw up. 

I knew the recommendations did not make sense.   How could  it be that we generate 10K iu to 15K iu of Vit D from 30 min of sunlight and yet we only require 600IU daily in our diet?  

Now we know.  Someone dropped a zero. This is very good news for me. Because I've always taken a ton of vitamin D. The supplements I take say they've got 2500 UI in them and I take two a day.  
  
I'm sure I'm just peeing some of that out, but, that's why there's so much there to begin with. That is, I'm assuming. I'm not saying you're taking too much, but be aware that you cant pee out excess vitamin D.  Vitamins like vitamin C you can't easily overdose on because they are water soluble, but vitamin D is fat soluble, so you can't just "pee it out."  Have a feeling his supplements are not 2500% rda, but 250% rda (1,000 ui) as that is what my supplements are and what is standard at most stores. If that is the case, he is not taking too much, but if he is actually taking two 2500% rda supplements at a time, yes, he is taking too much. Hmmm, well, I've been taking 5,000 UI (I just double checked to be sure) a day. According to this that's half of what I should be taking. They say I should be taking 10,000 UI.  
  
So, should I just stick to my current 5,000 our double it? Does any know if you body uses cholesterol when making vitamin D?   Yes, when you synthesise vitamin D under your skin from the sun, your body uses cholesterol and makes cholecalciferol. So if people are not getting enough sun, they are not getting enough vitamin d, and they have high cholesterol because it it. No. That's stated too simple.
That's like saying you get high cholesterol from eggs because they contain so much. (Which is what people believed for the longest time and only now are starting to reconsider.)

Cholesterol is in constant flux in your body and is the basic building block for hormones. You expell it through bile into your poo. Yes, it does. So if people are not getting enough sun, they are not getting enough vitamin d, and they have high cholesterol because it it. Serum cholesterol is dependent on many factors, but yes, all else being equal, you'll have less of it if you spend some time in the sun. It's hard to find any reliable reference on how much less, though. 

There's a negative feedback loop once vitamin D levels reach a certain amount, which naturally limits the amount of cholesterol converted to vitamin D. Yep, I'm curious why this has not been investigated more, seems like a good masters or PhD idea. I think there needs to be more genetically based research. One reason medical and nutritional research often appears wrong is that it's spread out over a wide range of different people. But when they dig deeper it turns out that only people with such and such genes are sensitive to something. Like in my family, we're all messed up with cholesterol, but other families have no problem at all with it. One of my friends is obese and he's got clearer arteries than I do, and I'm thin.

So it's not so much that the science is wrong, it's that it needs to have a finer granularity. Because cholesterol gets used for many (all) other hormones besides vit D. And the "high cholesterol = bad" is too simple a statement too. I never take any of that. Should I? (Not so sunny Germany.) Thank god because I accidentally mistook some liquid vitamin D for fish oil and took like an order of magnitude too much.  Peer-reviewed [paper](http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/13/38) published in BMC Medicine. Do you know how they get the 2/3 of deaths caused by smoking figure? I couldn't find it in the methods or results; just a mention in the discussion in relation to the RRs. Is that just a transformation you can do from any RR? Are they eliminating people with a family history of it? I understand smoking has been shown to increase the risk of cancer and cardiovascilar disease, but are they just attributing everyone who died of either to it being from the cigarettes specifically? There's people who don't smoke who die of cancer or heart disease, and there's people who do smoke who live till they're 90 and die of something unrelated.

Not that smoking is any *healthier*, jut that I'm increasingly skeptical of just about any statistic I come across on the internet.

Like how the CIA reports civilian casualties but considered pretty much any male between the age of 15-65 to be a "potential hostile" and not a civilian. https://www.saxinstitute.org.au/our-work/45-up-study/questionnaires/

The questionnaires cover familial history of cancer. Also note:

&gt;To minimise the potential impact of changes in smoking behaviour and higher mortality in those with baseline illness (also known as reverse causality or the sick quitter effect), participants with a self-reported history of doctor-diagnosed cancer other than melanoma and/or non-melanoma skin cancer (n=30,393, 11%) and those with a history of cardiovascular disease at baseline, defined as self-reported doctor-diagnosed heart disease, stroke, or blood clot on the baseline questionnaire (n=30,548, 11%) were excluded from this study. Or how people unemployed for a certain amount of time aren't counted in statistics as unemployed.  Interestingly the paper points out that:
&gt;Among past smokers, mortality diminished gradually with increasing time since cessation and did not differ significantly from never-smokers in those quitting prior to age 45.

So as long as you quit before age 45 your body can recover from the damage. I vaguely remember some earlier studies claiming age 30. It will gradually go down mostly for cardiovascular disease though your risk of cancer will remain somewhat high.  But keep in mind that since the risk is only gradually falling if you quit at 45 you're still way more likely to die of a smoking related problem at 50.  It's only way down the line that you're similar to any other 65 year old and the thing is that most 65 year olds start having a lot of health problems anyway so smoking takes away what should be your healthy years.
Seriously quit as soon as you can, don't wait until 45.  I've seen way too many patients quit too late in life and pay the price for it.  Especially with cancer risk and lung diseases the more pack years you have the worse off you'll be.  Even if it doesn't kill you much quicker your life won't be nearly as pleasant if you have breathing difficulties.  Leonard Nimoy ended up living to a pretty good age but he was suffering from breathing issues for a long time before his death so while you may not lose that many years you also need to account for the quality of your years. &gt; Leonard Nimoy ended up living to a pretty good age but he was suffering from breathing issues for a long time before his death so while you may not lose that many years you also need to account for the quality of your years.

Nimoy might have lost 20 years for all we know. He seemed like the long-lived kind, physically and mentally very fit, except for this. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I get my wisdom teeth out in a week and I'm hoping it will be what I need to quit. I won't be able to smoke for a week or so and I'm going to try and just keep going after that.  I believe in you Same here, they're my silver bullet to quitting. Last time I took my bottom two out I quit for six months. Next time I'm in it for the long haul! Good luck!  If you can do the full week you can totally quit for good! Good luck. I thought the same thing when I got mine out, and then also whenever I had a bad cold. Never did quit tho. From my experience you have to mentally 100% WANT to quit instead of just having a convenient situation happen where you think you can quit. After 10 failed attempts at quitting, I asked my doctor about medications to help me. 2 weeks of welbutrin and cigarettes became a putrid mouth-ruining thing. Been 5 years and I have no desire to go back! I'd reccomend a medication to help you, and quit cold turkey when you quit. The stat I've always heard quoted is the "cessation for 10 years has no difference at all from a non smoker," stat. Wasn't aware there was a time limit, but it's interesting. I'd like to see long term studies on the cannabis users. It drops to basically the same risk as a nonsmoker for CARDIOVASCULAR health-like strokes and heart attacks, but your cancer risk will remain elevated versus a nonsmoker and the amount of elevation is pretty well correlated to how many pack years you have (that is the # of packs per day times the # of years you smoked).  So if you smoked 2 packs a day for 30 years from the time you're 15 to 45 that gives you 60 pack years.  Even if you quit and you waited 10 years your risk of developing cancer will still be sky high-you basically fumigated your lungs with carcinogens for 30 years and that lung tissue isn't going to have the same DNA integrity as a nonsmokers no matter how long you've quit for.   Exactly.  Never saw either grandparent of mine smoke a cigarette, so they quit at about 50 each.  Grandfather died of esophageal cancer when he was 62 (so, over a decade after quitting) and my grandmother died at 72 of combined COPD and lung cancer, almost 2 decades after quitting.  Yes, I know it's an anecdote from my personal life, but it goes to show that quitting does not eliminate your risk for developing a smoking-related cancer.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] mortality =/= morbidity. yeah you may not die but you'll still probably have shortness of breath etc  Which seems to me to be a vast improvement over dying...? Of course. The point is that just because you don't die doesn't mean you're as well off as someone who has never smoked. guy said that if you quit before 45 your body "can recover from the damage." to the extent where you wouldn't have cancer/the cancer or COPD wouldn't kill you yeah but you'd still have a worse quality of life. I thought lungs recovered after years of not smoking? It seems to be to do with out bodies being much better at fighting damage in our bodies when we're young rather than when we're older.

Have lots of cells mutating when you're young? No prob! We'll knock it all off!

Have lots of cells mutating when you're old? ahh, too much to deal with! Here's the [other study](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC437139/) I was thinking about.
&gt; Among the men born around 1920, prolonged cigarette smoking from early adult life tripled age specific mortality rates, but cessation at age 50 halved the hazard, and cessation at age 30 avoided almost all of it. [deleted] I can vouch for last sentence in your comment. I read the same study, and quit when I was 29. For those that want to take a stab at quitting check out /r/stopsmoking . It helped me a lot, has been over two years now since I quit.  [deleted] I'm at day 3 (and day 2 off trees), wish me luck!

edit: thanks for the gold and all the encouraging messages, we got this guys!  Nice, it's been a month and a half off trees for me. Gets easier, you find better things to do.  One day at a time. Don't smoke TODAY. Worry about tomorrow, tomorrow! Great job so far! My badge at /r/stopsmoking says 448 days for me. It'll get easier for you, the first week is the worst. You got this. :) You got this. You and me both brother! Good luck :) Just passed 48 hours being smoke-free and I already feel so much healthier :) Hardest thing I've ever done in my life. You have made it through the hardest part.  It gets easier, although the next 24-48 hours will still be very difficult.  Just be prepared, and know EVERY SINGLE CRAVING will eventually go away.  And when it passes, you feel so much better that it passed because you didn't smoke, as opposed to feeling like ass (physically and mentally) because you satisfied that craving by smoking.  

You have made it this far, it makes no sense to have to start over and go through the last 48 hours all over again.  Keep it up! Oooh yes, read EasyWay! Once you understand it you can laugh into the face of craving! 2 years here after a 2pack a day habit for some 10 years or so. It doesn't get easier. I still have dreams where i smoke. I get jealous of people that smoke. I miss it terribly. I dont smoke anymore though. Not one drag. Its better that way. Read Allen Carr's Easyway.  Trust me. Second. Over two years in, thanks to that book.  Day 3 was the worst for me. Keep going!
 Stay strong mate. Be disciplined and keep building on that. Once you climb to 15-20 days you get some major perspective. The view is amazing.  Well done, keep it up. Tomorrow when you wake up, look yourself in the mirror and confidently say out loud "I am not going to smoke a cigarette TODAY!" One day at a time.  Good job! Keep going you will be so happy with yourself!! I managed 14 days, but relapsed. When I feel ready to take a stab at it next time, I'll be sure to avoid even one drag of other people's cigarettes. That's basically what ruined it for me. One drag became two; became a cig; became a pack. If you're as self-delusional as I, you'd do well not to fall for the temptation even once!

You can do it! Just past five minutes. Can't wait for my lungs to itch for another and for my brain to tell me cigarettes have benefits even though I just get the feeling of relieving the cravings from the last cigarette. Good job.  Keep it up. I quit 15 years ago, after smoking for 25 years. It gets easier. 9 months for me as of next week. Still get cravings, but the frequency really went down. Day 5 and counting, the grip is starting to loosen up :D Congratulations! Day 36 here. Best decision I've ever made. I quit smoking 10 days ago. Never going back. very interesting. I am very surprised that this is still a legal substance to use. For instance, if there was any other substance that killed 2 out of its 3 users, would governments allow that substance to be legally consumed or are they allowing cigarettes purely based on how much money it injects into their economy? Are governments not looking at how much money they essentially lose by losing their citizens to cigarettes? I am baffled. [deleted] I think this would depend on whether the country had socialised medicine or not. For example Australia heavily taxes cigarettes but does so for two reasons, 1 to deter people from smoking (especially young people who can't afford $20 a packet) and 2. as a direct tax to subsidize the cost in health care, lost productivity in the workforce and lost tax revenue. I'm not sure of the exact figure but I know smokers cost the Australian government billions of dollars a year. 

Here's some stats on one state alone:

Tobacco smoking costs Victoria about $5.05 billion each year. Of those costs, 31.6 per cent are tangible costs (e.g. absenteeism, health care, fires) and 68.4 per cent are intangible costs (e.g. loss of life).
Hospital costs arising from passive smoking totaled $11.4 million. 94 per cent of these costs are attributable to patients in the 0-14 age group who suffer conditions attributable to passive smoking such as low birthweight, sudden infant death syndrome, asthma and lower respiratory illness.
Victoria bears 24 per cent of the total Australian social costs of smoking. Smoking in Victoria costs residents about $4.3 billion each year. Businesses bear about 
$494 million and governments bear about $207 million in costs each year. 
Expenditure on tobacco (up to $50 a week for each pack-a-day smoker) impoverishes low-income households, reducing funds available for many other purposes.
Source: http://www.health.vic.gov.au/tobaccoreforms/new.htm [deleted] [deleted] Contrary to popular belief, the legality of drugs has nothing to do with how safe they are to the user and everything to do with how much lobbying power a company has. Look at Marijuana or LSD, both of which can be consumed at ridiculously high rates without causing death. Both are Schedule 1 drugs in the US. Neither have corporate power behind them like tobacco and alcohol, which are far more debilitating, not to mention prescription drugs. 
&gt; not to mention prescription drugs.

Prescription drugs without a prescription *are* illegal. That's why you can't just buy them at the store.  But prescription drugs are not Schedule 1, which is what SirJohn was saying. Which is based on medical value, not solely danger.

Edit: not implying or inferring anything, just saying that's how the legislation reads

Edit 2: some people are pointing out that the list was created by politicians, and the only real reply is, well, duh. Does any legislation get passed without legislators? It would also be naive to assume that there was no input from medical professionals. That's not to say that the medical opinion was always put at the forefront or particularly well informed.

Edit 3: to be more obtuse than edit 1 (most people who are going to remind me about pot won't have made it this far anyways) I'm not saying that the list is entirely reflective of the medical/risk balance. Just saying that the overall intention, the intended reason for scheduling is to restrict use based on that metric. Whether it acuratly reflects its mandate is another argument. Even though it really isn't. The scheduling of drugs is not backed by any logic what-so-ever Without *any* would be a stretch. Elements of scheduling were definetly driven by ulterior motives (political, sociological, moral, etc) which were clearly not objective. part of the problem is that it's very difficult to prove the medical value of an illegal substance. Getting permission - let alone funding - must be a nightmare. I'd be willing to bet that if asparin had been classified as schedule 1 before the 60's, it would still be that way today. I believe the poster above you was referring to the corporate power behind prescription drugs, not their legality. That said, opiate addiction has skyrocketed from all the prescription opiates available, and they aren't that hard to get. It isn't your daddy's heroin any more.  My favorite laws are the ones where the difference between "felony" and "perfectly legal" is one piece of paper.  Meanwhile opium is schedule II. STORY TIME!

I used to be a pharmacy technician in a drug store. A customer walks in and brought me a prescription for opium. The customer had severe issues with their colon, and opium apparently helps with it. It was probably my favorite thing I sold while working there My friend's brother has an opium prescription. Pretty sure it's related to Crohns disease, which jives with your colon problem memory. Yup, a common side effects of opiates is constipation so it makes sense that in something like Crohns this could be used. I just looked it up and apparently it comes as a tincture.  So basically you were selling doctor prescribed laudenum. Did you feel like an old timey patent medicine salesman? I've received a pharmacy bottle of opium tincture before.  Pretty strong stuff. Opium has obvious medical benefits, its completely fair for it to be schedule II. Cannabis and many psychedelics have medical benefits, this has been known for a long time, yet it's still schedule I Because medicine doesn't do anything without testing and studies. 

So if you want doctors to use pot, you have to prove to them, using proper studies, that it is better and safer than other means to treat the same conditions, and they will use it. 

But doctors will not use it without these studies, no matter how many anecdotal stories are brought to them. 

The problem is that nobody wants to pay for these studies because there is no profit in making a medicine from a plant that anyone may grow. 

There is no conspiracy, you just need to find people who will raise the millions and millions of dollars  needed to fund these studies. Start a kickstarter, do something, but until these studies get done, medical marijuana will be an alternative medicine like acupuncture or homeopathy, and that's a shame, cause it has tremendous potential in treating psychological disorders as well as pain management.  The issue is that if it is Schedule I, it is much harder to get the legal permission to do research on it, so consequently it is difficult to get it taken off the schedule.

&gt; Schedule I drugs, substances, or chemicals are defined as drugs with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse. Schedule I drugs are the most dangerous drugs of all the drug schedules with potentially severe psychological or physical dependence. Some examples of Schedule I drugs are And you also cannot get any federal funding for studying the positive effects of a schedule 1 drug. Federal funding is what funds almost all medical trials and research projects.  This is correct.  In order to work with Schedule 1 drugs researchers need to apply for a special DEA number that only applies for schedule one drugs (this is separate from the prescribing/dispensing DEA numbers that physicians, PA,s pharmacists, etc use) There is a lot of research being done, both inside and outside of the US. [Center for medicinal cannabis research](http://www.cmcr.ucsd.edu/) at UCLA is one of many many examples. you can find tons of papers on various effects (both positive and negative) on [google scholar](https://scholar.google.cz/scholar?hl=en&amp;q=medical+cannabis&amp;btnG=&amp;as_sdt=1%2C5&amp;as_sdtp=) 

&gt;The problem is that nobody wants to pay for these studies because there is no profit in making a medicine from a plant that anyone may grow.

A lot of meds sold are based on plants that anyone can grow. You research the plant, extract the compounds you need for their effects and make a pill (or whatever) out of them, then slap some patents on it and you're good to go...  Since you apparently have far more experience with the process of researching, developing and testing of new drugs, along with the associated costs than I do, then I will defer to your expertise in the matter.  Indeed, it's more about the ability of the government to control the supply and tax it and any legitimate business competition exists in the market that will lobby to maintain their hold on consumers versus an illegal competitor. It's rarely about safety. &gt;Are governments not looking at how much money they essentially lose by losing their citizens to cigarettes? I am baffled.

Did you read this part? Because people age 65+ generally are a tax burden rather than producer, it isn't too unreasonable to think smoking decreases the deficit. Lose what? People smoke until late middle age while going to work and paying taxes and then die without utilizing their entitlements, sounds like a great deal for a state!

Somewhat depends on the country though, over here with universal healthcare, we got a quote from a minister stating that the excise on harmful substances goes directly to paying for what you'd otherwise cost the country to treat you which I think is reasonable. Actually, it has more to do with other factors too. Lobbiests are a cataylist that comes out of these. But it does all come down to money. Two main reasons are as follows. 

1. Tobacco is and always has been one of the major cash crop in the U.S. It pretty much propped up the entire economy of Virginia and North Carolina. Our country has had a vested interest in keeping it popular. Do you think is any coincidence that this finding came right around the time China's production started in  surpassing ours? 

&gt;Chinas increase in tobacco production was the single biggest factor in the increase in world production. Chinas share of the world market increased from 17% in 1971 to 47% in 1997. 

When did we really become an anti smoking country again? 

2. Secondly cigarettes do not impair or effect work ethic. Before medicare in 66 we did not care if it killed you faster. Before cigarette smoking indoors became an issue, cigarette smoking if anything appeared to help people's work ethic. It was seen as both a stress reliever and something that helps focus. Something that went hand in hand with hard work. Marijuana for example does not help with work ethic generally. In my case,  and probably most people, you get lazier, more apathetic and complacent. Cigarette ill effects are long term. You do not necessarily associate the effects with smoking unless you are a doctor. Acid or marijuana, even alcohol, which was also prohibited have an instant and noticeable effect on you. [deleted] Governments lose nonproductive years from cig smokers. They also cost less in terms of public expenditure on health care due to their shorter life spans.

http://phys.org/news158395954.html What good would making it illegal do? Are you going to start putting people in prison for trafficking them? As if prohibition of alcohol or marijuana were good ideas? NY cops killed a guy for selling loose cigarettes, so I guess we're on the way there. I suspect the consequences to society overall are not as strong as you might think.  Smokers die an average of 10 years before non-smokers, which is certainly tragic for them and their loved ones. But mostly it kills people who have already retired or are in the twilight of their careers, who have already largely finished raising their families.  And before serious health consequences set in in the end, smokers are generally able to work and lead productive lives. (Contrast that with drugs like crack, heroin, and meth, which ruin lives and turn people into non-productive junkies).

In that context, since banning tobacco would be associated with all sorts of social ills, the cost would not be worth the benefits to society.

 If you're going to do a population-level calculation of economic cost, in general, end of life care is end of life care - those last couple of years are going to be expensive for any death by almost any chronic disease. So it's not like you can just look at an 85 year old's medical expenses and postulate that someone that died 10 years younger would have had the same expenses as this 85 year old did in their first 75 years.

You'd also have to take into account lost productivity in otherwise relatively healthy years. We know that smokers are more prone to respiratory infection and several other outcomes that result in sick days. So you'd have to account for lost employee time in both sick days and smoking breaks over the entire working life for smokers, too.

So if you're trying to calculate a lifetime economic cost due to smoking, it's certainly not going to be as simple as "Well they die sooner, so they cost less." It might be the case that, in the long run, there's not a huge societal economic cost, but it's definitely not a trivial calculation either, and there's a lot of factors that weigh against the decreased life expectancy. Statistics of smokers killed are a bit different, a heroin/cocaine/meth overdose likely kills someone 20-40 years old. A smoking death is an 85 y/o man with COPD who dies in his sleep. Leonard Nimoys death will likely be classified as a smoking related death.  I had to go this far down the thread to find someone who realized why these stats are pretty BS. Eventually SOMETHING is going to get everyone. When they classify pretty much any health related death by a person of any age who has smoked at some point in their life as a "Smoking Death", you're going to get some pretty skewed results.  I agree and find that conclusion pretty obvious in the linked article. I mean, people in my family live a long time, smokers and non-smokers, but in their 80s, they generally die, whether it's smoking-related or body-wearing-out-related. 

Granted, smoking-related death are generally unpleasant (I'm a former smoker) but people aren't dropping like flies at age 42 because of the habit. If COPD doesn't get me, something else will get me, no matter how much kale I eat. I quit smoking and I eat a lot of kale. Still dying, hopefully when I'm over 80. It's unfortunate that prohibition is just not the way to go with cigarettes. All we can do is educate people and hope that they get the message. It still baffles me that young people continue to pick up the habit with all the information we now know about it. I feel like young people starting is decreasing some though for two reasons - one is that ecig/vaping is becoming popular and two is the availability of places to smoke. When I was in high school, restaurants had smoking sections. Now there is nowhere to smoke in doors in NC If it's something they enjoy, then they're exchanging quantity of life for quality. Except it's not the type of decision that humans are good at. We're notoriously bad at weighing present pleasure against future pain, e.g. smoking, procrastination, retirement savings, diet and exercise, excessive alcohol consumption, etc. Education is the solution, not prohibition. That doesn't mean I want the government to decide what I should and shouldn't do with my present pleasure base on future pain. Otherwise we'd be eating soylent green, we'd be mandated to sleep 8 hours a night, have 50% of our checks go to savings, and 2 hours of mandatory exercise to go along with it. If people want to enjoy smoking now and deal with the cancer later, let them do it. It's no body's business but their own. Quality? Not at the end. 

And it doesn't take you suddenly. There's no quality in not being able to take deep breaths.  And there's no quality in having bum knees yet athletes still ruin them so that they can succeed during youth. I don't see any difference between sports and leisure. Actually a fair point. It's funny how reddit is against the war on drugs, but in this thread everyone thinks cigarettes should be made illegal. I don't think many people are saying it should be illegal. Most I see is that people pointing out the discrepancy between the nature of things that are legal and illegal. Can we all agree that as long as you are well informed about all the risks and consequences of any drug you take, you can do whatever you want to your body as long as you don't hurt anyone else?  And that instead of prohibition, extensive information and rehabilitation programs should be made available to anyone. Reddit isn't a single entity with a single agenda, there are many here on both sides of any argument. 

In addition I don't think I have ever seen anyone calling for cigarettes to be made illegal - perhaps you could point out threads where this was said...

This particular post excluded of course... Except there's this voting system where the most popular opinions are shown at the top.  [deleted] [deleted] It normally takes decades for it to kill you though, and by then you're already past your prime. Other drugs will kill you much more quickly. Or you find out you have lung cancer when you can't take the coughing anymore, and you're dead within a month.  That also happens frequently, and to the great pleasure of the insurance companies and/or Medicare. The US is a free country, which means those choices are up to individuals. I wonder what happens to intermittent smokers? I am lucky not to be prone to addiction, so I usually only smoke one or two cigarettes on special occasions... maybe once every few months.  The amount you smoke is probably equivalent to breathing in bus exhaust every once in awhile. Enjoy your moderation. This is correct, just don't increase quantity! Oh I have no interest. As crazy as it sounds, I don't really enjoy the act of smoking beyond the first few puffs of a cigarette (the smoke gets hot and burns my mouth/throat). I just find that it goes well when paired with a glass of bourbon. There isn't any research on numbers that low because much of the medical community assumes you are lying if you say you smoke less than a pack a day. 


The lowest usage rate on even cigar smoking studies is two a day. It is safe to say that research into smoking cigarettes less than that is not well documented.  I should stop smoking. It's hard, go easy on yourself. It took me about 15 attempts. And I am still tempted when I drink, so I tend to avoid that. Lets remember that a "smoker' in this study is at least a pack a day.  That is a heavy habit.  What about people that smoke half a pack?  5 cigs a day?  Weekend smoker? 


There need't be a study that says smoking over a pack a day will kill you, that should go without saying.  However,  moderate smoking is only moderately bad for you.  I love running the mile and half or doing the 20 pullups and then lighting up a smoke.  People's heads explode because they just can't comprehend someone who is fit and healthy with a cig in their mouth.   Pack-a-day smoking is so significantly different from having one or two a day, or a few on a Saturday night. 

The problem with so many clinical studies is that they do not **chart out** a curve of smoking signatures. There is no such thing as a "smoker." 

One cigarette a month, one cigarette a week, one cigarette every half hourcompletely separate categories.

&gt; Finally, current smokers were more likely to report consuming over 15 alcoholic drinks a week and were more likely to have a higher body mass index.

Things like this, left in the details... &gt; (These factors were accounted for when the mortality statistics were examined.)

This is the sentence after that. It is pretty easy to control for that statistically. It's even in the abstract that they controlled for Alcohol and BMI: "adjusting for age, education, income, region of residence, alcohol, and body mass index." I smoke and I still can't imagine smoking a pack a day.  Like im pretty addicted but I would have to go out of my way to smoke that much.  That's a shitton of cigarettes. I smoke more when I'm out and about in public. When I just sit at home all day I can get by with 5 or 6 smokes but if I'm out in public all day I'll smoke nearly a whole pack. It just gives me something to do while I'm out and it's much more stressful out in society. True. It gets worse when nearly all your friends are smokers too. Never understood this either. I used to smoke a bit but I never exceeded 5 cigs in one day. It's just absolutely exhausting.  I couldn't agree more! I smoke a cigarette every two to three days - I've never felt the need for more, or a real need at all, I just like smoking them sometimes. Where is our special test group? I could never, ever imagine smoking a pack a day but I have worked with people who do, and damn, I don't envy them. 

On a side note, I will admit that number increases significantly when I am drinking heavily. Something about being buzzed and smoking just goes hand-in-hand. There has to have been a study about that already...why DOES smoking feel so good when you're buzzed/drunk? People don't realize how much of a difference that makes. I used to smoke a pack a day and now I'm down to 4-5 (7-10 on the weekends).

When I smoked a pack a day, I was wheezing and having trouble walking up and down flights of stairs. I started doing some light cardio and heavily cut back on my smoking, now I'm in pretty good shape and don't have any issue with moderately physical tasks.

It's the difference between a 1.5L bottle of red wine a day and a glass a day. Such a huge difference. Finally someone points this out! As someone who smokes maybe 3-5 cigs a week I'm so tired of getting shit for "killing myself". Besides that one vice I'm an incredibly healthy person, and the thought that people want to make them illegal is just ridiculous. Might as well make fast food illegal, pretty sure heart problems are still the number &gt; The investigators also examined the mortality rate in relation to the number of cigarettes smoked per day. They found that there was a two-fold increase in mortality for participants who smoked 1-14 cigarettes per day and a four-fold increase in mortality for those who smoked more than 25 cigarettes per day (compared to never smokers).

Even the article talks about that.
This is a pretty big range, but maybe there is more information in the study itself.
As far as I know, every cigarette is bad for you. It just accumulates by smoking more. Which is different from other drugs like alcohol, where very small amounts may even be good for you. 
So, of course a pack a day is worse than 3 cigarettes a day, but it still kills you. Just slower. Yep, the lowest category they have for smoking habits is 14 or less cigarettes per day.  I smoke on average 7 cigarettes per week yet I'd be lumped in with those who smoke almost 100 cigarettes per week.

This study does not indicate the health risks for those who smoke in (relative) moderation. Yeah I'm very curious about this point. I guess I'm technically a "smoker" but for me that means maybe one butt a day and couple more on the weekend, and I'll often just stop for a few weeks or months. I know this still isn't great, but I imagine the difference between what I do and smoking a pack a day is huge. [deleted] [deleted] I quit over ten years ago I had tried quitting on and off for 10 years prior to that, I have serious health problems I believe are related to the years that I smoked 20 years a pack a day. I am extremely sensitive to stimulants now I cannot drink anything with caffeine, My heart has beat is irregular from time to time afib, I have to take blood thinners, and hi blood pressure medication. I had a stroke right before I quit caused by the afib which I believe is directly related to the smoking. I have an enlarged right side of my heart, which I believe is the result of the smoking.

smoking is definitely bad Quit while you still can. Said it before and will say it again--electronic cigarettes are the biggest public health breakthrough in decades. I would dull be smoking a pack a day if not for them and probably would for the rest of my (shortened) life. &gt;Among past smokers, mortality diminished gradually with increasing time since cessation and did not differ significantly from never-smokers in those quitting prior to age 45. 

So they should ban smoking for over 45's, not under 18's. That's not how you should interpret it though, the risk will go down eventually but they're still at much higher risk for many years, so a lot of people will die during those years.  If a 100 smokers quit at 45, dozens of them will still die in the next 20 years from their higher risk from years of smoking and only the survivors of the die off will have a close to average risk.  It's not like you quit and you're magically like a nonsmoker right away.  Keep in mind that your baseline risk for a non smoker is already pretty high once you're at age 45 anyways-people who don't smoke already have heart attacks and strokes all the time, so you're adding a lot to an already kind of high risk.
 Well...... 

then the effect would probably go away. 

Right now the people who quit are not a random sample. They are exceptional folks who probably make shit loads of diet , work out, and doctor visit related enhancements to their life in order to return to this "average" life expectancy after quitting smoking. 

If you mandate it - then yes there would certainly be health benefits - but there is no way the "return to average" would hold true for the entire population instead of just this special highly self motivated subset. 

 can you imagine the embarrassment that would cause for some people?


some early 30's lady goes to buy a pack of cigarettes at her local gas station like she does every thursday except this time the little 17 year old boy behind the counter asks for her ID. She doesn't have it and argues that she's there every week and that he should recognize her. He tells her that there is no way to verify that she is under 45 and that the law is the law. Real shame.  I dont think you understand the rights most countries give adults. It conflicts with banning whatever you feel is bad.

Also everybody working in government used to smoke a pack a day. Or they still do how do I stop my mom from smoking I tried everything, vape pens, cancer research papers... You really can't.  Sadly, you can't stop her (or anybody).  A nicotine user has to WANT to quit, and even then it's a very hard addiction to break.   Smokers know about the health effects, and even vaping still leaves the user addicted to nicotine (about as harmful as caffeine).  Personally - I'd rather be a nicotine addict who vapes, than a 'quitter' who craves cigarettes the rest of my life! Get her to take LSD. I'm being serious.

Psychedelics like LSD and psilocybin mushrooms (shrooms) have helped many users get past their addictions, usually smoking. Just Google it and lots of stuff will come up! Proper use of psychedelics can be extremely therapeutic. The power to quit smoking can only come from within and a psychedelic trip can help the user to "wake up" and address the issues that perpetuate their addiction.

I know it sounds crazy to take drugs to help quit drugs but I seriously recommend you consider psychedelics as an option. I haven't suffered with any addictions myself but if you have any questions feel free to PM me!

[Here's an article.](http://time.com/3399433/quit-smoking-psychedelic-drugs-acid-test/) [deleted] Therapy, Hypnotism, Patches. 

If she wants to quit and can't kick it - go to a doctor. There are many more perscription only options available.  Buy her a copy of Allen Carr's "Stop Smoking Now" book. Unfortunately, it comes down to her needing to want to stop as much as you want  her to. Both my parents smoke. I think my dad would quit in a heart beat if my mom did, but she never will. It is incredibly frustrating.  The article points out that those who die from smoking are younger than those they say don't die from smoking.  How young?  I hate articles like this that give an overall summary but never quite get down to statistics. [deleted] Isn't the important thing that you die way earlier, not what causes the death? "two out of three smokers will eventually die from conditions associated with their smoking". As far as I know, the conditions that are more prominent in smokers are also quite normal for non-smokers, like cardiovascular issues, which kills 30% of everybody. So if the number isn't far off for non-smokers, then you can already say 1 out of 3 non-smokers die from conditions associated with smoking. And including all cancers and respiratory issues, I guess the number rises quite a bit. Many smokers I see in my practice end up with COPD and heart failure. It is a terrible way to go. You basically blow up like a balloon from edema and your heart pushes out 20% of what it used to. Until you one day go into shock and die at the ripe old age of 57.

If you get COPD you just cough uncontrollably and waste away as your body prefers breathing over eating. You look like a skeleton and die with somebody wiping your ass in the ICU.

DONT SMOKE, KIDS. These studies don't work that way.  Instead, they look at the number of excess deaths in the smoking population.  Say you have 100,000 smokers and 100,000 nonsmokers.  Suppose that over a certain period of time, 10,000 nonsmokers die, but 30,000 smokers die.  Those 20,000 excess deaths in the smoking population are from conditions associated with their smoking in that whatever caused them to die was associated with smoking across the population. If that's how they were doing the math, the number would be a lot higher than 2/3.  Like aguafiestas said, it's about the increase in deaths when you compare smokers to non-smokers. I wonder how (or if) they've counterbalanced the possibility that certain personality types are attracted to smoking in the first place. For example people who value enjoying life more than living long, or people not being very happy anyway and using smoking for the consolation, or people who like to experiment with new things and are more apt to take risks, to name a few.
It seems to me that both smoking adoption rates and mortality rates would be higher among these personality types anyway. 

Also socioeconomic standing would be very important.

Edit: 'adjusting for age, education, income, region of residence, alcohol, and body mass index.'

So yes for socioeconomics, no for personality.

"The smoking epidemic in Australia is characterised ..." 
Calling it an epidemic seems quite biased, it's not a disease so how can it be epidemic? The fact that smoking can cause death in a large percentage of population isn't really debatable, but I'm skeptical about these numbers. 

There is likely an incentive for the researchers to design a methodology with maximizes the amount of deaths as it is an addiction to strongly discourage, and overestimating the number of deaths is a good method of scaring people.

There might also be a pressure to report a similar or higher percentage than previous studies because there is a large risk of public and academic criticism for reporting lower numbers. It is easy to imagine that if they came up with a figure of 33% that the researchers would either not publish the results for fear of making it seem less risky, or if they did publish, that there would be a lot of talk about them being in bed with the tobacco industry.

The effect these incentives create is likely good if decreases the amount of smoking, but I assume the numbers are a decent bit lower than what is being reported. They may be scientists, but they are also people. Here is another comment I think helps your point "The problem with so many clinical studies is that they do not chart out a curve of smoking signatures. There is no such thing as a "smoker."
One cigarette a month, one cigarette a week, one cigarette every half hourcompletely separate categories.
Finally, current smokers were more likely to report consuming over 15 alcoholic drinks a week and were more likely to have a higher body mass index.
Things like this, left in the details..."  [deleted] [deleted] This is my problem, they're grouping together people who smoke 1-14 cigarettes in a day. That's fucking ridiculous. 1 cigarette a day is going to have a drastically different effect on someone than almost a whole goddamn pack (they typically come in packs of 20) a day does.

I'm not saying smoking doesn't kill, it certainly does, I'm just asking that people understand and represent their data correctly. [deleted] Its worth noting that while cigs might kill 2/3 of its users, most of them die fairly late in life. Sure maybe you'll live 5-10(70) years less if you're smoking than you would otherwise(80) but at least most of you(us) won't die before 50. 

Don't get me wrong, as a smoker its probably the worst decision I've taken in all my life. Well I wouldn't call it a decision, as it just kind of happened... That's what makes it so dangerous, you don't realize it before you are already addicted. Mortality isn't the only factor to look at. Morbidity and quality of life are equally important. Sure you may only live 10 years less, but those final years can be spent in and out of the hospital for COPD flares, significant weight drop (from work of breathing with emphysema), and carrying around an oxygen tank.  Of the people that survive it's consequences and continue to smoke, what did they do differently?    Genetics play a role, though I don't know how well we fully understand how that works. [deleted] I smoked for 12 years and I switched over to a no nicotine vape. I eventually don't want to smoke anything. But I am really glad I quit smoking cigarettes. So the other 3rd are now immortal? I like the odds.  Disclaimer:  I quit back in May and have no intention of ever picking them back up.
But here's Bill Hicks:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLtjE9zqp6w New study shows death kills 3 out of 3 people I don't understand the push against smokers and the push for marijuana that is happening simultaneously. I understand I shouldn't smoke. I understand drinking alcohol is bad for me. I shouldn't eat too much sugar. I get so many dirty looks when I have a smoke. It is frustrating. I am for the legalization of pot, (most) vice laws make criminals out of good people.
 [deleted] How does the study define "user"? Surely my smoking 10 cigarettes a year doesn't put me at the same risk as someone who smokes 10 a day. According to reddit it does. Nope, the study looked at people who smoke about a pack a day on average. (or more.) 
 Why put yourself at any risk at all. If you only smoke 10 in a year, why not smoke 0 in a year.  because it's preferable over cutting. 10 cigarettes is basically nothing. It's the same as breathing in polluted air on occasion.  Wow, judging from some of the responses to this article,*absolutely nothing* will dissuade some people from smoking.  It's like posting an article that says that two-thirds of people putting a gun to their head get their heads blown off and people commenting, "Well, yeah, but there's nothing like the rush of putting that revolver against your temple."  Damn. I want to quit. I've tried and failed.  You faltered; you still have to rest of your life to attempt quitting and succeed! its never considered a fail untill you stop trying Every time you quit you'll get better at it! Don't stop trying! I think it takes many attempts to quit successfully.  But succeeding is worth it!  I wish you the best luck, seriously. Thanks. :) My grandfather likes to tell me his story of quitting smoking. His doctor told him that if he didn't stop that he was going to die in the next 5 years. he gave himself 3 more days to smoke and after the third day he wasn't going to smoke another cigarette ever again. And apparently he didn't and he has been smoke free for about 30 years now.  You can try again. But yeah, I know from smokers in my family, it's not just the smoking, it's all the social crap that goes with it. I'll definitely try again. Apart from anything else, it's atrociously expensive.  I know! That's why I never started. You're paying for something to kill you. Now, I'm addicted to comics, but at least those won't kill me...unless someone breaks into my house to steal some of my old Morbius issues, but I doubt that will be a problem. That's the reality. Nicotine addiction has one of the strongest strangleholds out of any addictive substance. When a smoker craves a cigarette that's it, it's all we can think about, and it's agony if we can't get our fix. I've been addicted to nicotine for 7 years and recently have replaced cigs entirely with vaping. I hate how bad cigarettes are but I absolutely love cigarettes at the same time despite that. Good thing I quit smoking on Sunday :) Good luck! /r/stopsmoking I'm an oncologist and the fact that people do better who are in better shape is something that we've known for a long time. Basically, for curative things if we aren't limited by how hard we can hit you, you are better off.
 So does this mean that people in better shape and with stronger immune systems get hit with higher dosages of chemo and radiation because they have higher tolerances to the side effects? Yes. That's exactly what it means. So proton therapy is a way around that? In a manner of speaking. Protons deposit energy when they pass through a substance differently than photons. A beam of photons will consistently deposit energy as they pass through an object. Massive particles like protons tend to deposit the vast majority of their energy at the end of their path below the surface of the object.

The idea is that proton therapies involve lower normal tissue toxicities because you can better control the depth where they deposit than you can with photons. It ends up being a lot more complicated than that though, and many people in the field argue that proton therapy is a waste of resources and money for not a lot of patient benefit.  Are there any important quantum mechanical effects that justify calling it a "beam of photons" rather than "a beam of light (which is a classical electromagnetic wave)"?  After all, we would not call a beam of protons a beam of quarks - reductionism is not always applicable.   Not that I'm aware of. You'll hear it referred to as an x-ray beam (photons produced by electron interactions with a target) to differentiate from gamma rays (photons produced by a change in the energy state of a nucleus), but that's about it. 

The word "light" tends to have connotations of photons in the visible spectrum, so that might be why it's not often used I'm describing radiation therapy. I wish I was a radiation oncologist. And not just because of the incredibly competitive residency programs &amp; absurdly high salaries. 

THEY KILL CANCER WITH INVISIBLE LASERS And robots!  Look up Cyber Knife. Quarks are never found unbound in nature as far as we know, so it wouldn't make sense to call it a "quark beam".  Proton (and carbon) therapy is meant to displace x-ray therapy. x-rays lose most of their energy when they enter the body, meaning that a lot of energy is lost in the skin and the subcutaneous tissue, protons deposit more of their energy as they slow down, giving rise to a higher probability of depositing energy to the tumor rather than to healthy tissue. As far as I know, radiation therapy is less hard on the body than chemotherapy. That's exactly what it means. Oncologists are looking to give the highest dose the patient can possibly tolerate. Then more dose you can tolerate, the better the treatment outcome (generally) because you're more likely to kill more cancer cells  So if we had cancer treatment that didn't "hit a patient hard" their outcomes would be similar? Under no conditions is being unhealthy good for your health That's the goal of targeted therapies and personalized medicine: a therapy for your particular kind of cancer that selectively targets and kills tumor cells while causing minimal (ideally zero) normal tissue toxicity.  Yup, I was advised against/denied chemo treatment after my third relapse a year and a half ago. Basically, they had no idea what was going on and why I had a relapse 13 years after my first two bouts. The only way they could give me chemo is if they had done a shotgun approach which would have killed me after all the chemo I've already been through. If they knew what to target I would have been able to get chemo and have a better treatment. 

edit: Thank you so much for your concerns/interest. 

I am still "fighting" but just figuratively. The relapse came on my lungs and they simply cut out the tumor and surrounding tissues. Luckily, it wasn't an aggressive cancer and after we removed the tumors nothing has happened since. I had a ct scan every month until like 2 weeks ago. Basically, the plan was, remove tumors, wait and see if the had left out any cancer cells, if that was the case and it spreads, I will get chemo. My oncology team (which is the same one since I was a child. I was 5 in my original diagnosis. I am 21 now. The relapse was in December 2013. During finals week mind you -_-) was never able to find out why it relapse or what it was. So, right now we are just waiting it out if anything at all happens again. After the tumors were removed, I couldn't handle all the pain killers so my parents got me this weird thing called CBD hemp oil. Its like a waxy material that is all cbd and has very little (legal amount) of thc. It helped me a lot during that time. 

tl;dr: Tumor removed, hasn't come back yet, got high for 2 months. Am good for now. 

feel free to ask me anything  What's up with you now? Just wrote an edit!  So what ultimately worked/is working? Just wrote an edit  Still fighting? sooooooooooo.....how are you doing now?  My brother in law took on colon cancer like a heavy weight boxing champ,  he lived for almost a decade after initial dx.  In his particular case he had benign  polyps removed two years earlier, the following year his son died of colon cancer at the young age of 26.  The next year his cancer was missed during a colonoscopy and we discovered the next year his was in the small intestine above the illeal junction.  I guess we will never know if it was really missed or if it grew that quickly... we can safely say that because his son died and our entire family became hyper-vigilant about cancer screening that my brother in law caught his early enough to live a full life for another ten years.  How often do you get screened? The recommendation for a hereditary history like that would probably be a colonoscopy every 1-2 years starting at age 16 (10 years before youngest case in the family).

Since this is not his genetic family (brother-in-law), he personally would be given the normal recommendation of a colonoscopy once every 10 years, starting at age 50. My mom passed away from colon and liver cancer at 67. I got screened at 40 and they found some stuff. I've only done one so far but I am supposed to get a colonoscopy every three years now. For life. The same is the case for my niece. She's 12 Fuck dude that's scary, I'm 18 and have had benign polyps removed and have to have a yearly colonoscopies and endoscopies. I had a genetic test done and found out I have a mutation that causes colon cancer, but luckily it's only one of two copies (or something like that?). Apparently if I had both copies my chances would be much worse.  That's called a tumor suppressor hit. We have tons of genes in our genome that code for proteins that help prevent cancers by eliminating cells that develop dangerous mutations. They're called tumor suppressors. Think of them like smart bombs designed to cause cells to self destruct before they can develop into a full blown cancer.

A mutation in the gene for s tumor suppressor can lead to the loss of the ability to produce the protein that gene codes for, and eventually that cell can turn into cancer. Fortunately, we all have two sets of chromosomes (one from each parent) so even if you have one mutation to a tumor suppressor gene, you have a second complete copy of that gene on the chromosome from your other parent.

Now if you have a genetic defect in the gene for a tumor suppressor, you're automatically more likely to develop cancer because you only need one "hit" on the other chromosome for a cell to totally lose the ability to produce the tumor suppressor protein rather than the two independent mutations it would take in an ordinary genome. 

If you've had a screen that shows you have a defect in a tumor suppressor, definitely follow through on the recommended regular screening programs. If there's one thing that's proven universally true about cancer, it's that early detection is the besy possible thing you can do to beat it
 Maybe you can answer this; I had an idea for a cancer treatment that involves inducing alkalosis in the patient. Would it kill cancer if we induced coma in a patient, put them on a respirator, and increased their blood P.H. to the highest levels possible? I've heard many cancers don't tolerate changes in blood P.H. and require a much more narrow range to survive than host cells. In the I.C.U. we would be able to monitor the patient for signs of organ failure, so we could titrate the P.H. to the highest levels possible relatively safely. Surely this method would have a dramatic effect on blood borne cancers at the very least? What do you think?  Serious question. Define fit. My vegetarian uncle who skis and frequently walks his dog, or me, who lifts, runs marathons, but drinks and pays little attention to diet? Who would be considered more fit for surviving cancer?  
  
EDIT: I misspoke. I eat cheap, somewhat healthy, but still follow my macros and have a low bodyfat. My uncle has a higher body fat but eats a much more varied diet consisting of a large variety of veggies, fruit, grains, and cheese. Low body fat, endurance, and a good diet are the best indicators of being "healthy". You can always get a work-up to determine blood pressure, cholesterol, and any vitamin deficiencies.  It's entirely possible to be in good shape physically, and yet be very unhealthy. That being said you're obviously better off than someone who eats like shit and doesn't exercise.  Honest question,
What If someone is completely fit, exercise regularly and eat healthy.But on the weekends drinks alcohol insanely, parties hard and does fucktonshits of drugs.?  Ok, so I'm really interested in talking to you here, because this was my life for a long time. If I can help someone else understand and avoid some of the pitfalls I went through, I would like to do that. 

First you need to understand that if you drink every single day, that's obviously bad for you. BUT, there is some evidence that binging (heavy 8+ drinks) once or twice a week can be just as damaging. Alcohol in those quantities is very hard on your liver. If you're young, doing it for a few years probably won't do any long term damage. But the risk is that this behavior becomes a habit. 10 plus years of binging on weekends and you could be looking at long term and/or life threatening problems. 

The bigger concern here are drugs. If you don't mind elaborating, what drugs are you taking?  Everyone is lecturing you about eating right, but that's not what this study measured. Here's part of the abstract where they define fitness:

&gt;All men completed a comprehensive medical examination, a cardiovascular risk factor assessment, and incremental treadmill exercise test to evaluate CRF. We used age- and sex-specific distribution of treadmill duration from the overall Cooper Center Longitudinal Study population to define fitness groups as those with low (lowest 20%), moderate (middle 40%), and high (upper 40%) CRF groups. The adjusted multivariable model included age, examination year, body mass index, smoking, total cholesterol level, systolic blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, and fasting glucose level.

I'm not postive I'm reading it correctly, but it sounds like they measured running endurance, blood pressure, glucose and cholesterol levels as well as diabetes status to define fit. Medical physicist grad student here. There's always been a correlation between the amount of dose that's able to be given and the median survival with radiation therapy. The more dose you can give without causing normal tissue toxicity, the more likely you are to eradicate any tumor cells ( particularly cancer stem cells if you subscribe to CSC theory) that can cause local/distant recurrence. If you're healthier it stands to reason that you can probably tolerate a higher radiation dose (though this isnt always true, it depends a lot on the location of your tumor, the tissue type, and dozens of other factors). Apologies for any typos, I'm on my mobile on the shuttle!   How do you know how hard you can "hit" a person when trying to cure them?  No sarcasm from me, I'm genuinely curious (fit+healthy 41 year old here). I'm fit and was diagnosed with colorectal cancer at 42, stage III. After chemo/radiation, surgery, more chemo, more surgery, I am still alive and cancer-free. Even with the beating I took I am still more physically capable than many my age. I'm the diet/fitness asshole at work and I had no risk factors.  My physicians told me that my level of health and fitness contributed greatly to my recovery and survival.  Even at one of the best cancer hospitals on the planet, the explanation for my getting sick was basically bad luck.

EDIT:  Removed a non-serious comment that was spurring more non-serious comments.  Sorry!

YET ANOTHER EDIT:  Many thanks for the congrats and encouragement.  I'm getting some faq's stacking up in my inbox, so here goes:  I exhibited bleeding during BM's.  Since most of the time this is hemorrhoids, doctors were reluctant to examine me further due to my health. I persisted until I got a colonoscopy.  As for what we call "fit,"  I had a montly PT test at work and am an amateur competitive fencer.  I had just competed in the U.S. Nationals and finished a 14+ mile hike in the mountains.  My diet is generally low-carb, organic meat and greens, before and after diagnosis.  I was treated with 5FU/rad, resection, ileostomy,  8 rounds FOLFOX, reversal.  I'm 8 months out of treatment.  I'm about 70% capable of what I was before.  I still have neuropathy and low white/red cell count.  I have somewhere around a 70% chance of "cure," or no more cancer for 5 years. Sorry for silly question, but how were you diagnosed? Was it scheduled check or you just felt bad and went to doc? I noticed bleeding.  I was sent home with hemorrhoid cream without examination.  I persisted until I was finally diagnosed.  Docs were blowing me off because of my age and health.  I did have a low white count at an employment physical a few months before, but that was blown off.  I felt fine. How much bleeding? Like in the stool or on toilet paper?  Small amount, and both.  If you're seeing ANY blood in that department, get checked now.  Even if it's hemorrhoids, getting it taken care of early is better.  A friend waited a long time to get his roids cut out and he was more miserable than I was after five procedures. Sometimes I go take a dump several times a day and by butthole gets raw and I see blood on the toilet paper. That's............ normal right? Sometimes if I wipe a lot. Like one last wipe after there's nothing left, I'll get some blood. That's normal too, right?  ....right? &gt; Small amount, and both. If you're seeing ANY blood in that department, get checked now. 

Goddamn it.  Alright, fine.  I'll go.  You've convinced me. [deleted] [deleted] I was taught never to blow off painless bright red blood per rectum as internal hemorrhoids without a rectal/sigmoidoscopy. Where was your cancer located
 I've never heard of anybody having "roids cut out" wtf.... Hemorrhoidectomy (excision of the hemorrhoids) is done in some cases of high grade hemorrhoids that's not helped by medical management, not a usual thing but it's a pretty quick procedure with low risks Did you notice red in the toilet? No, I exhibited what they call "streaking."  It's where the blood pin-stripes your dukes on the way out. Before anyone WebMD's themselves into shock, this can also be roids. I noticed the same thing and got checked out. Changed my diet some, drank more water, added more fiber, adjusted breathing while lifting, some OTC meds, it all went away eventually. Edit: Also, don't sit so damn much.

That said, get checked by a doctor to make sure. I did right away because I wasn't taking any chances. She recommended the changes I made above.

Edit: Internal roids, btw. &gt;Before anyone WebMD's themselves into shock, this can also be roids
  
You are completely right.  Not only can it be hemorrhoids but in 99% of the time in a person under age 50, it is hemorrhoids.  You have to keep in mind that OP is posting his story and it is getting so much attention because he is in the incredibly unlucky 1%.
  
I had the same thing at age 39, I persisted with my GP who sent me to a gastroenterologist.  He did a colonoscopy and I was diagnosed with internal hemorrhoids.  Took a few months and the problem went away.
  
Moral of the story:  see something different about your body?  Go to a doctor, listen to what they say.  If the doctor doesn't take it seriously and it is still bothering you, do your own research and insist on whatever test you feel is appropriate.  But do not panic. Exactly, I noticed streaks of blood in my stool, as well as mucous and blood on toilet paper when I was 16, and ignored it for a few months (I guess I was in denial that something could be wrong). Turns out I had benign polyps, and a genetic mutation causing me to be far more likely to get colorectal cancer. I now avoid red meat and get yearly colonoscopies and endoscopies. Even though it was kind of scary, and I don't exactly enjoy being prodded with cameras annualy, I can't imagine what would have happened if I never found out. Go to the doctor if you notice anything out of the ordinary.  Well yes. Your lifestyle severely reduces your likelihood of getting cancer. It doesn't nullify it. Cancer isn't always caused by obvious factors or self-destructive behavior!  Had /u/FartingtonFartsworth not been fit, it's more likely that he would have gotten cancer at an earlier age, and that cancer possibly would have been the end of the Fartsworth clan as we know it today. That's entirely possible.  I was screened for genetic causes (Lynch Syndrome, etc) and none were found.  No family history or risk factors. For a non-cancer anecdote, my grandfather who has been lifting / playing basketball well into his 80s had a heart attack / triple bypass at around 70 years old and recovered quite quickly, compared to a family friend of the same age who never really recovered from the same situation. Keep on working out people!  Same deal with my currently 98 year old grandfather. Had a quadruple bypass at 91, was in better shape than people half his age in there. He still tries to play 9 holes a day in the golf season although he is down to 6 for the most part thanks to a bad knee. Still impressive though. You'd be surprised at how well surgeries go now days.

I work on a cardiovascualr surgical ICU. Our main thing is doing bypass surgeries.

We turn off the anesthesia about 3 or 4 hours after they come up from the OR. We then reverse them and wake them up. We get them out of bed and walking the next day.

These fuckers just had their chest split open, and they are walking the next day. Still amazes me from time to time He was impressed. He has been to the hospital twice in his life, once for the bypass, once in the 30s. He was amazed at the progress. Look at Eric Berry.  If a 26 year old NFL cornerback who is in better shape than 99.99% of the population can get cancer, than anyone can get it.   One of my martial arts instructors got cancer, probably one of the most fit people I have ever known. Extremely rare type of cancer (dont recall the name of it) that only several other people had been diagnosed with (at the time). Unlike the several other people who had been diagnosed with that type of cancer, he survived. Dr's not only didnt think he would live through but also that he would never walk again and originally thought they were going to need to amputate his legs. But hes alive years later, and can walk (though his mobility has been seriously reduced). So yeah, anyone can get cancer no matter how fit, but not everyone can recover from it.  Lance Armstrong is a pretty good example...or used to be This article is more about Minimizing the damage. It would help to be athletic. they say for every 10 lung cancer patients, 8.5 of them are highly likely to be smokers. So it would help if you're not a smoker, even though 1.5 would still get the disease.  &gt; "shit happens."

I'm pretty that's the technical reason for quite a few cancers. [deleted] It's true. Studies have found that often getting cancer is just bad luck. Like getting into a car accident, the longer the trip,  the more likely it will happen.  Yes, the older you are, the more likely errors in cell reproduction are too occur. Currently, it is pretty much a given that you are guaranteed to get cancer, if you live long enough. It is highly likely that this will not be the case in the not so distant future. Not that that helps anyone who gets cancer today. Congrats on being cancer-free. How long has it been? 

My father jogged every day and was very active.  He was diagnosed with Stage 3 or 4  colon cancer (can't remember which) at age 55, and they gave him two years or less.  He kept on kicking for eight more years, and everyone attributed his remarkable perseverance to his good health.  About 8 months since treatment ended.  Entire course of treatment lasted about a year.
 That's great - a really good reason for staying fit long-term.  You can't eliminate the risk, but you can increase odds you'll make it through. My dad has always been extremely fit and active (manual job, main hobbies are going to the gym several times a week and hiking) but was diagnosed with colon cancer in his early 60s. He is now well and cancer-free. I'm sure that being fit helped him in his recovery - although he wasn't able to take much exercise while getting chemo, it didn't take him long after he recovered to get back to living an active lifestyle. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;  I am still alive and cancer-free.

You may owe that in part to your fitness level before getting a diagnosis. Cancer treatment takes a huge toll on people. The healthier the person is the more likely they are going to live through it. &gt; After chemo/radiation, surgery, more chemo, more surgery, I am still 

Dangerous line break ahead!

&gt; alive and cancer-free

Whew, that was close. I hate browsers. I hope you'll keep the good luck. I just read the article. I was curious if they controlled for BMI as we know about the relationship between obesity and cancer risk. They did. They also found in the paper  unsurprisingly that high cardiorespiratory fitness is associated with a 68% reduction in CVD death compared with low cardiorespiratory fitness among men who develop cancer It's amazing that the rate of obesity is so high, despite the obvious risks for so many other ailments.  As if it's news that being fit and healthy is good for you.

This is why I can't stand this social justice "Healthy at every size" crap.  Sure, you might not be suffering any symptoms... today.  Spending a little extra effort into good fitness with proper diet and physical activity pays out with extra decades of life, and a higher quality of life.  It's a sound investment. Health at every size is basically the obesity equivalent of "functional alcoholic." Could you make some bumper stickers that say that and hand them out at your place or practice? It's not so much the extra decades as it is the quality of life. The average human heart beats 3 billion times in a lifetime, and physical fitness can lower the resting heart rate enough to make a difference but this won't always lead to extra decades. Years maybe, but not decades. But the bigger impact is quality of life. Decreasing stroke risk factors, healthy kidneys, healthy blood vessels, healthy lungs, healthy nerves all lead to better quality of life and are all aided by healthy diet, regular exercise, and not smoking. I constantly see people in their 50s and 60s who can't even wipe their own ass or stand up for more than 5 minutes without becoming short of breath and it's always the same story. Horrid diet, sedentary lifestyle, pack per day smoker. &gt; The average human heart beats 3 billion times in a lifetime, and physical fitness can lower the resting heart rate enough to make a difference but this won't always lead to extra decades.

Resting heart rate of 40BPM checking in. Can't wait to live to 142.

 Distance runner? Mine is between 50 and 60 and I run frequently. If I'm mindful and relaxed during testing it's usually around 45. Swam in junior high / high school, rock climbing and swimming in college, triathlons and distance running since college. 25 years old. 

I've seen my resting heart rate as low as 32 (verified by girlfriend who is a nurse who didn't believe me at first). It is generally in the low 40's at my desk at work. Just checked it at 44.
 You either need a pacemaker or are in unbelievable shape. Cheers to a long and healthy life! ~45BPM resting here.  Last time I went in for a medical procedure, they had to turn off the "the patient is dying" alarm on the heart monitor while I was laying there waiting for anesthesia.  

I think I'll be okay with my 126 years. [deleted] There's no "pretty much" about it. Guy Fiari's *job* is to eat cheeseburgers while people watch him. Coca-Cola is an American icon. Screaming "MORE BACON!" gets you Married With Children-style hoots, hollers and high-fives. As a culture we celebrate gluttony, with a smile and a sense of satisfaction. To counter that, most things are completely fine in moderation, that includes fast food. If you eat McDonald's a couple times a month it's not going to directly harm you, especially if you are active. Obviously eating fast food everyday is horrible, moderation is the key.  unfortunately self-destruction requires little effort.   How much do you think this has to do with your respiratory system specifically? Because I am in pretty good shape. I'm 25 and decently athletic, play basketball, sprint, lift weights regularly. But I have moderate asthma so long-distance running is pretty difficult for me.  [deleted] Exercising will lead you to being fit, which will in turn lead you to looking better. It's all connected. I would also add injury prevention, if you train properly of course. Especially true if you lift with weights. In my opinion it is extremely difficult to avoid developing imbalances without training, because whatever we do, we tend to do a lot of it (sitting a certain way, running a certain way, etc). When lifting weights, you introduce a variety of movements that can strengthen multiple weak muscles that never see any action otherwise. [deleted] People forget the many ways the body uses and abuses its surroundings to gather data or to decide on what to do or maintain healthy living.

We can't get nearly enough vitamin D from food, so we make it by using sunlight. Because we were outside a LOT in ancient times.

Our biological clocks are based off of detected light levels, even in blind people, because there were few-to-none unnatural lights that would ruin that.

Our bodies also happen to assume that we'll do a lot of walking and running, as that's what we used to do a crap-ton of as hunters. We've found an impressive amount of things that rely on simply moving around at least a certain amount, and when we don't our muscles and bones aren't as dense or continuous (in sedentary individuals, a large volume of "muscle" is actually fat, [popular comparison pic here](http://i.imgur.com/hgzRiqA.jpg)), we don't produce enough serotonin and get depressed (which makes sense in the ancient world; if you were confined to, say, a small cave for months or years, the body would likely want to put you in a depressed state to keep you from expending too much energy until you could start moving again). We know that exercise is tied to increased signalling for brain cell repair. We know that exercise is tied with decreased appetite and better weight regulation. We know that it reduces the risk of diabetes. We know that it reduces the risk of cardiovascular problems. We know that the more energy you expend in exercising, the more energy people report having, and people report feeling less bogged down or stressed by life. We know that there's lower risk of stroke, high blood pressure, high bad cholesterol, metabolic syndrome, colon cancer, breast cancer...

It is impossible to ignore the many health benefits of regular movement. You will live a longer and healthier and more happy life if you keep active. So please do, folks. that triathlete was LEAN yeah, that guy wouldnt make a very good steak. there isnt even any marbling. i prefer my triathlete's with very little marbling! Add this to the enormous list of benefits and evidence suggesting exercise is good for your health. what is the definition of very fit vs fit?  The article says taking more than 12 minutes to run/walk a mile on a treadmill was the cutoff for low fitness. I'm assuming faster than that would be high fitness, though it doesn't explicitly say so. Perhaps there was another cutoff and some middle fitness people were not included in either group. It's a bit unclear. Yep, there was a middle group (40%)

&gt;We used age- and sex-specific distribution of treadmill duration from the overall Cooper Center Longitudinal Study population to define fitness groups as those with low (lowest 20%), moderate (middle 40%), and high (upper 40%) CRF groups. The adjusted multivariable model included age, examination year, body mass index, smoking, total cholesterol level, systolic blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, and fasting glucose level. [deleted] I believe it's more fit vs unfit which seems to be:

fit &lt; 12 min/mile &lt; unfit

Also, is cardio the only impact or does weight training help as well?  If someone is at least at an intermediate level when it comes to resistance training, their aerobic capacity and endurance levels should be high enough to complete a mile in under 12 minutes, assuming no injuries or other inhibitors.  [deleted] For the metric people:

12 min/mile = 7.5 min/km (8 km/hr) Thanks! That's 10K in 1 hour 15 minutes, that's not very fast. It is worth noting that running a 10k in 1 hour and 15 minutes is a whole lot harder than running 1 mile in 12 minutes. Very interesting. Unfortunately now I just gave a presentation to a bunch of people on my workstation with an internet tab on the taskbar that says "Very fit men in their late 40s..." [deleted] So what you're saying is healthy people are healthier than unhealthy people.  I thought the same thing. Next study: People who drink more water less likely to die of dehydration than those who drink less. (Note: studies like this are still important to confirm what we instinctively think and believe) Who ever discovered this phenomenon deserves a noble prize  Horrifying how avoiding cancer is just dumb luck. I'm 48 have been just unbelievably fortunate in my life - no significant diseases, accidents, injuries or anything. I'm in decent shape - 6'0", 162 - and just got the "it's time to get your heart rate up every day" talk from my doctor a few months ago and have been hitting the elliptical (hard) for 20 minutes every morning, eating less, etc... doing the right things. But it's still just dumb luck. A martial arts instructor of mine, in phenomenal shape, who lived clean and healthy and did all the right things too, his whole life, was suddenly diagnosed with buckshot cancer throughout his whole body at 41, and died at 42. Bam. Why? Because fuck you, that's cancer.

So stay fit because it improves your odds to live longer... and that's important. But I'm also aware, every day, that I'm on borrowed time, and my number could come up at any point. Being (even just somewhat) fit not only improves the odds (somewhat) of recovering better from bad-luck diseases, but it also improves the quality of the days/years you DO have left, even if you never get seriously ill. It's nice to be able to jump up 2-3 flights of stairs when you're late for a meeting and not be wrecked when you get to the top. And keep in mind that while people are more scared of cancer, heart disease is the number one killer, and it can often be just as terminal. But for some reason aren't as scared of it.  Because people watch their family die slowly over months with cancer. With a heart attack usually they're doing ok and then they drop dead one day. Well see that's the thing, I mostly don't see patients who just come in dead from a massive myocardial infarction, but rather progressive, slow deterioration of the patients heart function as they lose the ability to do the things they want to, struggling to even breath until they just die a painful death. Congestive heart failure is a very common way to die from a crappy heart, but most people just think massive catastrophic heart attacks. You can even have silent heart attacks you don't really feel or are just vague pain because your poor metabolism has fried your nerves that let you feel the heart attack. Accumulating these heart attacks over time leads to bad news, and often can be just as terminal why would you be eating less at 6', 162?  He could be a skinny dude, but have that bear guy belly. He's also in his late 40's and as you get past 35 your daily caloric needs start to decline, that's why you see a lot of people after 40 start to turn into doughboys like Travolta and Kilmer. 
 Skinny fat at 6' 162 would suck.  I was mid-180s about 6 months ago. Low 160s is where I want to stay, so now it's maintaining the current weight.

It wasn't too dramatic... there were 2 basic changes I made:

1. Eat until "the hunger feeling goes quiet", not "I feel full"
2. Drink more water, and have a handful of nuts or other SMALL snack between meals, to be less hungry at mealtime. what I heard elsewhere is that as much as 30minutes of daily activity is already having significant impact on long term health. Dave Berry had it right, stay fit and healthy until you're dead. My father, in his seventies, got the extra fixin's when he got cancer (by which I mean surgery and drugs) because he'd kept active and so was a good 'candidate'. And so far I estimate he's gotten an extra decade of enjoyable life because of his commitment to keeping active and fit in the years previous. Even today he keeps as active as his age allows.

Of course we live in a socialist paradise when it comes to healthcare as in there is actual public health care here in New Zealand. Imagine that. [deleted] [deleted] But muh cundishuns!!! I can't eat healthy because of a disease I have!!! This post is offensive to me and my entire very large healthy family!!! So the healthier someone is, the healthier they are? Weird man, did not see that one coming.  I know it seems "logical" that it should be the case, but medical treatments rely on an evidence based model. It allows clinicians to stand up in court and say "this has been proven to work by X et al" instead of "uh it seemed like a good idea at the time" in the event that something goes wrong. It just allows them to be more confident in the risks they have to take Fit people also eat better, more whole food, fruits, nuts, and veggies.  Eating better plays a huge role in this as well

edit:  because I was on the food rant in the first part it carried over into the 2nd and now I want cinnamon buns the same as /u/cream-of-cow :) &gt; Eating better plays a huge roll in this as well

"Role." I too dream of cinnamon buns.  I make mine from scratch.  Same base recipe I use for hamburger and hotdog buns. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] My father was diagnosed with stage four non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2008. Some of the doctors thought he wouldn't live long but the cancer went into remission and hes still going strong to this day. He's the kind a guy that worked out three or four times a week, played sports, in general just kept active and ate pretty well. We often wondered if his healthy lifestyle contributed a lot to his body being able to fight back for all that time. We were still pissed that the family doctor basically didn't notice he had cancer even though he went in for regular check ups until he got so sick but he couldn't get out of the bed. My dad, who has always been in great shape (in his 60s and healthier than a lot of people half his age), never touched a cigarette and is always active got diagnosed with lung cancer a few years back.

They found it in the very early stages (he fell, broke a rib that punctured a lung and the tumor showed up on those scans). He had surgery and went through a few rounds of chemo. 2 years later he's cancer free and still as active as ever.

The doctors told him that much of his success was in how active he is. If he hadn't been in as good of shape the outcome could've been much different. Seeing that has kicked my butt into gear to start exercising more and improve my diet. I tend to go through periods of being in shape and eating right punctuated with periods of getting lazy and eating worse.  Reports like this are good motivation for getting fit and staying fit.  I'm 36 now and am in a fitness phase- I'm really going to do my best to stick with it for good this time. I'm not getting any younger and it gets harder every time to start from scratch.  My first session this time around I nearly vomited the first day after my trainer made me jump rope for 3 minutes. It's still a crapshoot, anyone can get it and there's little you can do if it's in your cards, like something that's already in motion you cannot intercept.  I got nut cancer (surgery, then chemo) and I was easily in the top 2% fitness level.  Exercise is going to lower your chances, but not save you, thus less likely.  It's also going to make the process easier as you have your strength, physical and mental (nobody gets in top form without a strong mind) to rely on, I am so thankful I went into the process being in top form. I'm not trying to be a jerk, but isn't it common knowledge that healthier people do better when ill...? You'd be surprised. There are people who believe that being obese helps fight diseases.  We have a tendency to compartmentalize the function of the body when it is in reality a very complicated and interconnected web of systems that all impact each other. This is compounded by the fact that you can hit some of the aesthetic markers for health while actually being a trainwreck on the inside, like a body builder that eats a ton of junk food will look big and strong and then BAM, heart attack, and people just think "oh, it doesn't really matter how health conscious you are" [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This is all related to the global trade routes at the time. Not surprising, but it's cool to see how the world was more connected than we would initially believe it was. Question for you, out of ignorance - how can historians differentiate between plunder and trade goods?  As in, how do we know that this ring was not actually taken from the dead fingers of a raid victim?

Edit:  Thank you everybody for the responses and discussion!  I am sincerely enjoying reading all these threads below =) End of the article states that it was almost new when interred. Thus they are inferring that it arrived via trade because that would typically mean fewer wearers than if it came from a raid. It's not a certainty, obviously, it could have arrived via raid. But that is what they are saying is most likely. Plus if it came from a raid that too would hold significance as the ones they raided had at least made some contact with the Islamic traders, or at least the item made its way through trading to there.  [deleted] the amount of raiding has been somewhat exaggerated, the vikings engaged in their fair share of trading too [deleted] [deleted] This misconception can be explained by the fact that historical documentation has a natural bias towards violent events. 
 "Vikings" in particular were raiders, but the word is often used as a *pars pro toto* for the Norse (to whom what you said applies). It is more correct to say that vikings were adventurers. The name comes from the expresion "at fare i viking", which means to go on an expedition. Vikings were both raiders and traders, and it is the most accurate term, as "Norsemen" also includes those who stayed at home and were neither. Viking means someone who goes on a viking and is not directly related to pillaging. Highly asymmetric exchange + evidence of conflict = **probably** raiding.

Roughly symmetric exchange + little evidence of conflict = **probably** trading

Asymmetric exchange + little evidence of conflict OR symmetric exchange + evidence of conflict = less clear..

I don't think this was the reasoning used for this specific piece, but **in general** two groups in contact are either in conflict or trading peacefully at any given time, not **usually** both.

**Edit: Clarity, since people insist on assuming I'm flatly stating generalities even though that would be completely unscientiffic and we're in a subreddit specifically dedicated to science &lt;/rant&gt;** For a given place yes, but when you talk about larger areas it doesn't have to be the case. There is plenty of evidence that the Vikings both traded with and raided the British Isles at the same time Beyond the other circumstantial evidence, given the place where it was found, the first assumption should be that it was trade.

Because a lot of what we think we know about "Vikings" is a bunch of fantasy and stereotyping.

The Nordic/Scandanavian people certainly had different outlooks on life from the rest of Europe, but their primary occupations were still farming and trading. The whole raiding/piracy thing was only a minority of their culture. However, people love to latch onto that and think of them as "raiding cultures". 

It's just wrong.

Nordic people were some of the most successful traders the world had seen to that point. They did love their boats, and they traveled all sorts of places, but the most common activity for them to do when they got there was to trade with other cultures. 

Yet... we still have people who see signs of other cultures in Scandanavia and their first thought is: "They probably ripped that off the body of someone they just killed." Except for the fact that they managed to depopulate the north of France and large swaths of eastern Europe.  The French also managed to depopulate portions of other countries... and France. And the Byzantines did their fair share of killing. As did the Muslims and loads of other people at the time. Viking raiding parties were feared, yes... and in no small part due to the fact that they were really big guys who were encouraged to be fearless by their religion.

However, the idea of the Norse as a culture which was based around raiding and violence is a false stereotype. It's like the stereotypes that the Mayan culture was based around human sacrifice or that Egyptian culture was based around the creation of huge monuments. Its a short-sighted outlook focusing only on one, highly visible trait. 

You'd get laughed at for claiming that French culture is based on the eating of cheese or that Irish culture is based on various ways to boil potatoes, but because of some fictional tales (admittedly, some of them by Norse/Scandanavians themselves) and charicatures by mass media, most people in the world believe that the Norse were mostly raiders.

It's false. Their primary industry was farming. Their primary source of materials outside their region was trading. Most of the places they raided, they also colonized ... and set up farming villages. This is why Iceland exists. This is why Normandy is different from the rest of France. There are Norse colonies all over in Scotland and Ireland. Those colonies weren't set up to raid the countryside. They were set up to farm and trade with the locals. &gt; guys who were encouraged to be fearless by their religion.

&gt;Most of the places they raided, they also colonized

&gt; Their primary source of materials outside their region was trading.

Sounds like every race of people in history.   It's very interesting to see how the world was so connected, and puts in perspective the child-like attitudes we have (at least, I definitely had them once upon a time!) of ancient cultures being primitive and 'dumb'.

Also, I'm totally not surprised by this discovery: is it even a discovery because have they not even seen 13th Warrior, which is renowned for its historical accuracy in depicting the relationship between the Islamic world and Viking culture: http://www.vikingrune.com/2009/09/the-13th-warrior/

That said, I did love that movie. You should see it if you haven't already. I remember when I finally made the realization that people in the past weren't dumb. I saw an old colonial mill. ((I think on the George Washington estate? Some history lesson trip.))  Anyway I was looking into the immensely complicated machine, watching it operate. My father made some comment along the lines of. "It's incredible how complicated this is. Nowadays our technology is so much better this process is much simpler." 

And I made the connection. This machine was immensely complicated work of brilliance. The people in the past weren't dumb, they just had less knowledge. Which isn't the same thing. Whoever designed this thing was a genius, plain and simple.  Think about how Every modern convenience is just hundreds of tiny innovations that have occurred over the last 1,000 years.   [deleted] This is kind of the original meaning of the word meme. Like good genes get selected for over time, creating evolution in the species hosting the gene, ideas advance over time and good ones get selected and built upon, creating technological (or cultural, in other cases) advancement.  People make fun of tech companies for "revolutionary" be ideas being a simple evolution or copy and slightly upgrade a competitor. The reality is they're just seeing exactly what you described in real time instead of in a history book, which may just say "and a few hundred years later, an improvement was made". I really understood this when looking at the evolution of the 1911. When looking at the 1911 compared to a single action army you're like, "HOLY CRAP! What an innovation. How did he even figure this out?" And then, you see all the other guns created between the 1870's and 1907 and see "oh, he didn't just figure this all out at once. He took a hundred innovations and combined and refined them." Even longer than that. 

Fire, in one form or an other is still a large part of most manufacturing processes. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_of_fire_by_early_humans

Materials purification alone for the metals etc. innovation wise goes back a very very long time.  &gt;over the last 1,000 years.

You mean over the last 2.6 million years ago.  The earliest stone age tool is thought to be that old.  Literally everything was built up from that, even our evolution. When you try to do things by hand, and nobody is there to tell you how to do it, there is an immense amount of ingenuity required.

Since for most of human history, there were no printing presses, the necessity of mentorship and bards was crucial (many cultures committed important information to songs as a mnemonic to remember them).

As a kid, I spent a few years living in a cabin in the woods and we did everything by hand. It's amazing what you have to come up with to haul water, or improve the process of building when everything is moved by hand, and you have no technology to assist you. There is as much to test your IQ with "the old ways" as there are with the "new ways" -- you just have a different skill set.

I used to get really annoyed by the various "In Search of" or "Ancient Mysteries" series because any time the Aztecs or Egyptians had something a person of today couldn't figure out to do by hand it was total unresolved mystery. Nearly all the precise calculations for architectural measurements can be done be poles and strings without understanding Pi, and it's amazing how you can get rocks to join if you rub a bit and use the impression in the sand of the rock on top. Those impossible designs in the desert of Peru that can only be etched by spaceships flying over them? Pencil out a design, figure out proportions and angles with a pin, compass and string, than multiply that by some consistent value (1000 for instance) and put out poles and use a compass. You now have that design over miles instead of inches.

I can figure this out? Why can't the "ancient mysteries" people? 

Using a tripod of bamboo, we move 2 ton rocks with a Japanese technique. You can carefully position huge boulders with two men. It would take more ingenuity for 20 tons, but, a lot of people had nothing better to do than figure this out.

For everything we excel at today, we've given up a skill we used to have. I can guarantee you, that if most of us suddenly found ourselves on an Amish farm, we'd look like bumpkins. They have to know a lot of things to work by hand, and we don't have those skills. One history professor of mine once said: "It's important to remember that the humans of ancient times had the same brains that we have now" and it really hit home. Reading ancient literature, you see how brilliant the ancient mind could be. We are all working with the same hardware It is a product of living in a modern city, presumably USA. Im not ragging on the states here, but where your european peers grew up, there most likely was an old roman settlement, you would have aqueducts next to medieval castles mixed with renaissance monasteries alongside baroque estates. It puts things in perspective. We didnt surpass the roman empire untill industrialisation, which is like what 18th century? After its fall, humanity took several steps back and its a healthy reminder that progress is not linear nor is it guaranteed to be uninterrupted. The fall of Rome wasn't the first time the idea of running water was lost, either. It wasn't even lost with the fall of Rome. It persisted of course in the Eastern Roman Empire.  

It was used for public baths far into the High Middle Ages in Western Europe, until a combination of being marked as breeding/spreading ground for diseases and being hated/condemned by the Church as spreading adultery and illicit sex (both not exactly incorrect) killed them off.  

And of course in the Eastern and African provinces that fell under Islam public baths persisted until the 18th/19th century. &gt; in the Eastern and African provinces that fell under Islam public baths persisted until the 18th/19th century.

And into the present, in some of those places. Yep, went to istanbul and got a massage from a big mustage yielding turk in a bath house.  The Indus Valley Civilisation of ancient South Asia was the first (that we have evidence of) to construct functional urban sewage and sanitation systems, and to have a public water supply. It was also the first known civilisation to build public bath houses. These disappeared in South Asia with the fall of the civilisation in approximately 1300 BC. Such systems would not be seen again in the subcontinent for centuries. The ancient Egyptians also built a massive system of canals and irrigation ditches, to carry the water of the Nile to the fields. The first appearance of water supply and sanitation technology in Europe was in the Minoan Civilisation of Crete - complete with underground pipes, sewage canals, stormwater systems and even flush toilets in the homes of the wealthy, and the later Mycenaean Greeks also pioneered pressurised piping. The Romans pioneered indoor plumbing and the aqueduct system, and were the first to use metal pipes. The early Chinese dynasties also had their own systems in place, pioneered independently of those in Europe and South Asia. In the Americas, the ancient Mayans came up with aqueducts, water filters, flush toilets and pressurised piping independently as well. Later, the Persians came up with a system of underground canals and surface reservoirs for irrigation, which spread across the Middle East.

There are two things that amaze me... first, the fact that we chanced upon the very same ideas independently so many times in history, and in so many different parts of the world. Second, that so many cultures around the world forgot/abandoned so much of it, and would only chance upon the same ideas sometimes centuries or millennia later (or not at all, until their reintroduction from other civilisations). I remember reading in a Peter Moss history text a long time ago that the Indus Valley were the first to develop flush toilets. For the longest time I thought this was just the fanciful/delusional rememberings of a young kid. You make me doubt that belief. I must know more about their toilets. Help?
 That's quite true actually... in urban areas like Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, almost every single house was equipped with a flush toilet, and these were connected to a city-wide sewage system. IVC cities were unique in that they were the first in history to be built in a grid pattern, and the sewage network was dug underneath the city streets. It really is incredible how advanced these people were for their time - arguably more so in certain specific ways than the Early Vedic Civilisation that came immediately after. But their civilisation just disappeared, along with its language, culture and technological innovations. I once read a commentary by a historian who characterised the sanitation and hydraulic systems of the ancient IVC cities as superior to what you would find in many parts of South Asia today - in terms of functionality, efficiency and accessibility. Being Indian, and seeing the state that our city sanitation services are in, I'd have to agree... Damn. It sounds so awesome. And for one of the oldest civilizations ever too.

Your comment about them just disappearing is interesting though. I thought they got wiped out by the Assyrians?  Well, "disappearing" was a bit of an exaggeration - in India, many people seem to cling to the rather dramatic notion that the civilisation collapsed almost overnight in some sort of apocalyptic invasion. The truth is that the collapse happened over the course of about a century - starting in about 1800 BC and ending by about 1700 BC. In just about a century, the IVC went from being a centre of trade, agriculture and technology, to becoming a dead empire of abandoned and derelict cities. Compared to other ancient civilisations like Egypt and Mesopotamia, this was a very rapid collapse, and it did lead to many aspects of the IVC language and culture, and pretty much all knowledge of their history, being lost very quickly. Consider the fact that we still cannot decipher the IVC script - it disappeared so quickly and entirely that there was never any "Rosetta stone" of any sort (perhaps Sanskrit-IVC) to give us any leads at all. That being said, the people of the IVC didn't disappear, and there are actually demonstrable links between the IVC religion (what we can deduce about it) and early Hinduism, indicating a significant contribution to later Vedic religion. In fact, a very small number of IVC settlements, such as Pirak, continued to be inhabited as late as the invasion of Alexander the Great - although most were abandoned, as I said before. A few less advanced cultures that arose at the time also seem to show some IVC influence. So the people did get around a bit.

But it is still all somewhat mysterious in the sense that we don't know exactly why it happened... pretty much every theory about it is controversial. It was believed initially that the IVC people were driven out of their cities during a series of wars with invading Indo-European tribes from Central Asia (not Assyrians), who subsequently started the Vedic Civilisation and the Hindu culture. However, this theory has been weakened by the finding that most of the "injuries" that historians claimed to have found on skeletal remains were just the result of erosion. In addition, there is almost no damage to the cities and no archaeological evidence of a major war or battle at the time. It is more likely that the IVC underwent something more like an economic collapse, as a result of declining trade with Egypt and Mesopotamia, as well as increasing desertification in the North-Western regions of the subcontinent (the Thar Desert of today was once fertile land). Around that time, it is known that the Monsoon rains became much less frequent and bountiful, and it is also known that some major river systems in the heart of the civilisation dried up or were diverted. Mass deforestation also likely aided this situation. Severe drought likely forced the people to move East and South. At the same time, the Indo-European people started their migration into India (probably not an invasion), and it is likely that the IVC "refugee" populations ended up being incorporated into the Indo-Aryan and Dravidian cultures, contributing something to both, but ceasing to exist as a separate and unique culture on its own. In time, the IVC was forgotten completely, and its cities lay buried and lost until the mid 19th century. It's a controversial issue in India, as both Aryan (North Indian) and Dravidian (South Indian) nationalists claim the IVC people as their forefathers, and this has become an issue of ethnic identity. In Southern India, people cling to the belief that the IVC was destroyed by Indo-Europeans and that the refugees fled south to form the southern Dravidian civilisations. In Northern India, it is claimed that the "Aryan Invasion Theory" was a myth perpetuated by the British to divide the nation. As I've briefly outlined above, the truth is probably somewhere in between, as well as further afield. And yet today a large number of the current population of India do not have   residential toilets...  IVC cities were small by modern standards, with stable populations, and planned immaculately from the ground-up. Modern South Asian cities have to deal with the problem of very rapidly expanding populations - more due to massive levels of rural immigration than natural population growth. This results in a demand for housing that cannot be met, and the growth of slums and satellite towns. Most of these are built by very poor migrants, who cannot afford to install their own sanitation facilities. Since these slums and shanty towns are unplanned and unincorporated, they do not have access to the established sewage systems either, and residential toilets are thus rather pointless in these areas. The authorities are unwilling to step in and improve sanitation services in the slums, as this would lend them an air of legitimacy and make it difficult to remove them later. I don't think this problem is going to be solved until the Government finds a way to provide tons of affordable urban housing, and expand city services to rural migrants - the way China is doing. It isn't like they cannot afford it - consider the fact that the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai is believed to be the wealthiest municipal corporation in all of Asia (and that's including cities like Hong Kong, Tokyo and Singapore). But even with the money, it's a mammoth task, and the level of corruption and lack of political will in most municipalities will make it difficult to achieve in the near future.

In addition, residential toilets just aren't a thing in much of the countryside (where most of the population live), and a poor farmer is going to be unwilling to waste money on a toilet that he has never seen a need for previously - It might sound weird, but the "toilet culture" literally needs to be developed from the ground up in some areas. &gt; We didnt surpass the roman empire untill industrialisation, which is like what 18th century?

What do you mean by "surpassed"? There were numerous aspect in which High Medieval Europe had already well surpassed the Western Roman Empire, e.g. architecture, (siege) engineering, metallurgy, shipbuilding, and arguably mathematics. I would say standard of living. The average roman citizen at the higher of the empire, who was middle class compared to the numerous slaves, lived better (easier access to food, water, cultural events, less pillaging, etc.) than the equivalent medieval "middle class," free peasants and merchants, until the 1500's at least.  I wouldn't say that it took in till the industrial revolution to surpass Rome. A lot of important stuff happened in between those two events. You are also forgetting about the native American settlements and cities in the American continents. They have given plenty of context to the American peoples on how advanced ancient civilizations were. It wasn't just Europe that had a rich history of innovation. Many historians would say western Europe had re-achieved a roman level of complexity and living standard by the early 1500's or so.  It's amazing to think about how enormous the populations of places like Cahokia or Moundsville were and how it took 700 years for any city in the United States to approach those levels again.

Or even the Adena and Hopewell earthworks in Ohio and the midwest -- The sheer engineering skill required to pull them off is just mind boggling. I agree a hundred percent. To say that American's aren't exposed to past ancient civilizations is just foolish. Those massive earthen mounds and other native American structures are really impressive when you see them in person. One of the sites I worked at in Florida (in Letchworth state park), had a ceremonial mound that would dwarf most suburban buildings. One of the cool things is that a lot of this stuff is still actively being researched and discovered. It's a pretty exciting time for North America archaeology and anthropology. I wish more people around the world knew about the size and importance of places like Cahokia. It's breathtaking. How many Europeans realistically are surrounded by Roman aqueducts and medieval castles?


EDIT: Apparently all of them, and they all communicated to come to this post to make sure I know.
 In college I used to eat my lunch outside a castle. In primary school we regularly visited the parish church with some parts of it dating back to the Norman era or even further. These things are everywhere, particularly castles and churches.  As an American that makes me so jealous. And being from the Western half of the states our oldest things are new even to Easterners. Though I think maybe it evens out with all of our wide open spaces which (to me anyway) are just as beautiful. I would like to think our National parks are our nations cathedrals.  The areas that were part of the Empire tend to have Roman ruins sprinkled all over it. I considered myself unlucky for living *50* kilometres away from the nearest amphitheatre still in use. 

And castles are all over the place  most of them are just surprisingly small by modern standards and easily overlooked if they're not situated on vantage points (e.g. the Rhine's river banks are covered in castles, which are mainly visible in the hilly areas  otherwise they're likely to be invisible behind modern high-rise buildings). You'd be surprised. I'm living in Paris for a semester, and in one of the towns I visited there is a thousand year old castle right in the middle. Residents of the town cut through it because it is faster to walk through the gates at each end than to go around. In another town, there is a castle/residence that used to be where the Pope lived. Every single little town has an old cathedral, and many of the buildings and houses are over 100 years old, just renovated many times. [deleted] [deleted] Everybody from the black sea to London. The romans of course never conquered germania, so scandinavians and others to the north-east dont have a roman heritage. Fun fact, Hitler saw this as a great feat of the germanic peoples, through his racial theory he argued that they had preserved their racial purity in soverignty and showed early signs of being the master-race. He sort of conveniently forgot that Caesar actually went across the Rhine but never actually bothered with settlements or conquest. 