Still think the 'how long would it take to notice if the entire world stopped sneezing' was quality I'm sure that would be a winner for this contest if it hadn't already been posted "How long would it take to notice if the entire world stopped farting?" My wife would notice by breakfast.  Don't be modest Mr Muggins. Jeremy, where's your daily breakfast fart? Oh yeah! I feel like I have been waiting my whole life for this opportunity!
/r/nocontext My favorite was the one about how society would be different if we pooped once a year instead of everyday. [deleted] That was from my post in the thread. I love you. You made my day. My favorite was "what tragedy led you to inherit the piece of crap known as the PT Cruiser?" And the top comment was one dude talkinh about how he inherited it from his father who died prematurely? Quality post My favorite is

"Women of Reddit, what do you REALLY think about the 1998 Argentinian economic crisis?" There was an askwomen question once that was clearly meant to be in askmath instead. The confusion was fun My all-time favorite is still "What if everything was spiders?" reminded me of that skittles ad Link? He's also spiders. that was an askreddit? i swear i was in /r/showerthoughts for that one. doesn't seem like there's much to discuss, it was more of a "whoa i never thought of that o.o"  (maybe /r/whoadude)  Definitely Askreddit.

AskReddit has (or used to have) a lot of "showerthoughts" type material. Or, "hey, here's this cool story that happened to me. Oh, uh, what are some other cool stories like this?" type stuff. Honestly, there was some crap about it when it happened, but forcing OPs to put their story in the comments may be the single best move the mods have made for this subreddit. Up there with [Serious] posts, at least. Both of those ideas were /u/karmanaut's. And those 2 changes were both the two best things for this subreddit in its entire history. I still remember everybody fucking despising him like he was the devil. Well, the reason for that is he has had just as many if not more bad ideas or dickhole ideas than good ones. He'll post them to an ideas sub and be like "what do you guys think?" Then, if the feedback is all negative, he forcefully implements it anyhow, ignoring the criticism, and finding flimsy excuses to ban people who don't agree. He's also created several rules specifically to create grey area to ban people from his subs who didn't actually break a real rule.

Don't get me wrong, he's had good ideas too, and was very helpful in the early days of reddit, but the MANY people that have spoken out against his neckbeardism when it comes around haven't exactly been inventing something from nothing.

He's also been the center of more than one reddit scandal, although lets be real, there's probably better things than reddit to get upset about. I'm impressed how closely you follow the politics of this subreddit. I look forward to looking at your post history to see your other passions.

Edit: I scanned your history a bit and formed a judgment of you. Ironically, in doing so,  i did exactly what you said people do in the information age: barely scratch the surface and let confirmation bias take over.

Here, have an upvote. I think the best thing for the subreddit was when they got rid of fap posts for a short time. And people totally freaked out but it's been a vast improvement. "I'll start!" &gt;To clarify: this is just a thread to announce and talk about it.

Has it begun or are you wanting our input on whether a contest should begin? This thread is actually being considered part of the competition. Apparently, the mods think it has a good chance to win. But they didn't even ask a question! Truly thinking outside the box! Uh, quick, ask about what canceled TV show should be revived! Firefly And we have a winner. [This](http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/injusticegodsamongus/images/5/56/IT_HAS_BEGUN%21%21%21.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20140602005515). Reported for post of just an image.  That's the most loosely-enforced rule on this sub.  Didn't even know it was a rule.  You didn't know because we enforce it so effectively. Ask yourself, when was the last time you saw a comment that was an image link only? (Post reply comments don't count, only replies to other comments) [Just now, actually.](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2z2lu1/announcing_a_small_contest_to_promote_originality/cpf4hap) ;) You can keep clicking this link over, over, over, over, over, over and over. It is like........ummm...what is that word i am looking for??????? damn it  Recursively? no, no it is a movie that has the guy that never wins any Emmy in it. Exactly &gt;There are literally thousands of subreddits for posting images, use one of them instead. The contest has started at the time of this post. People are free to ask some questions and just discuss the contest in this thread.  &gt;announcing a contest

You people will confuse yourselves over anything I imagine a lot of questions asking gay doctors who've been to Japan what their favorite western is. We already remove questions like that  Censorship! Oppression! Come see the violence inherent in the system!  Shut up! Shut up! *throttles peasant* 'elp, 'elp, I'm being repressed! Da mods r working for the CIA &amp; and big oil! It's so obvious! Open your eyes sheeple!!! Ur* eyes Thank you so much. Seeing a P3nguin0fD00M question on the front page with 4000 upvotes like, "*Redditors of reddit, how much do you banana??? Edit: Whoops meant to say masturbate hurr durr look at meee and my quirky misspelling.*" We remove blatant typos as well. It's baiting, and quite frankly obvious as shit.  Wasn't there a thread a while ago about eating out [with] your parents?  I'm guessing they don't remove threads that have gained too many upvotes to avoid backlash and witchhunts.  I see these questions upvoted *all the time* on /r/AskWomen. Literally 3 out of the 5 top posts are silly typo-bait questions:

&gt;Ladies what would you think/do if you find out your boyfriend has a flashlight?

&gt;Would you date a man with a small deck? 

&gt;Do you prefer sex with a condor?

And people wonder why /r/AskMen is better. Sex with condors? Welp i'm off to /r/askwomen It's raptorous. Thank you for this. Well I'm not a gay doctor who has been to Japan, but my the brother of a neighbor of my cousin's freind is and he says its Mary Kate and Ashely's How the West was Fun. I don't get it.

edit: now I get it. Too specific of a demographic always results in troll responses. 
&gt;NSFW threads do not qualify. We want originality, not something you can jerk off to.

There's a challenge for you right there. Non NSFW we can still jerk off to! 
 One man's SFW is another man's cum up *I'm gonna post some threads*  
*Only got 20 karma on my comments* I am reposting,

Huntin for some karma,

This is /r/askreddit
 I steal your granddad's post

And I get reddit gold

I am a karma ho'

In the subreddit down the road




 Sounds familiar... All right, you've convinced me. My submission to the contest is going to be "What SFW question could you still jerk off to?" i would comment on that so hard I have such a raging clue right now I'd say this contest is already working /r/paradoxplaza would just ask about casualty statistics of the various wars of history. Please just post you **hottest** Albania world conquest. Or optimum highway ramp placement. [SERIOUS]  What's your favorite non-pornographic magazine to masturbate to?  Good housekeeping!  Better Homes and Gardens obviously Reddit, what should the government do next year and why is it legalize marijuana? Don't forget legalizing gay marriage nation-wide too.  legalize war on gay abortion marijuana  **LEGALIZE GAY WEED** Reposted comments too. Yes!

In fact, I kind of think this is a bigger issue than the whole lack of creative questions thing. Sure, seeing the same question over and over can make this subreddit somewhat tedious for those users that are more active, but at least those posts allow for the possibility of new and creative *answers* (there's tens of thousands of new subscribers each week). Seeing the same answers to those questions, though? It's just going through the motions. That's when things become stagnant. At least for me, that is. 

Of course, I'm all for anything that brings on new and exciting questions, so this contest or whatever the hell it is seems like it will benefit the subreddit. What the fuck? Did Vargas just post something that wasn't complete nonsense? I was just thinking earlier that I hadn't seen vargas in a while, and I could use a crazy story. Then this happened. I'm not sure how I feel.  He makes a good point too. The one thing I would argue about the circular nature of AskReddit is that it's by far the fastest way to get a crash course in the overall site culture and history. Obviously there are more dedicated subs, but not default ones.  It really depends on the type of question though.

If it's a question asking something that can be factually verified and backed up, having a reposted answer at the top isn't much of an issue to me, since doing a bit of searching on the topic would probably have led you to it anyway.

But for more open ended and story questions, like the creepy threads that pop up every once and a while, seeing the same Smiling Man or Goatman story push out brand new stories and responses from the top of the comments is definitely an issue.

 I was waiting for the weird twist, but then it never came, and I was just left whole heartedly agreeing with you. What happened? Relax and remember, they are silently judging you. This is a good idea. I can't stand when the top questions are just all variations of the same kind of question. We could use a little question diversity. [deleted] Yea same meta jokes people make over and over again trying to be edgy just fall flat. Like reposting questions that talk about reposts, or duplicating threads over and over again on a post.  What are you testing? Bots and subs and stuff. Originally this account was used to spam one of my test subs to test Automoderator settings. I keep having issues with captchas in scripts now so Im gonna post some with this account to gain karma so that the filters wont bother it as much. I made my first bot last night. Well, I started last night and finished today. Someone asked on /r/requestabot for a bot to update their sidebar with a countdown timer and thats what I made. Every 24 hours it decrements a counter on the sidebar. I had been meaning to learn about the reddit api and stuff so i just decided yesterday was a good of a time as any. When I saw that post I went through all the help on the sidebar and learned how to use PRAW and brushed up on my python skills. I was running  it on my main account and it worked but then I switched to this and I kept getting stuck. 

IDK, im just dicking around I guess. I should probably just read through the captcha stuff on praw. But I read somewhere that the api will hassle any account below a certain karma anyways. But i still have a lot of reading to do.  Good luck. I thought maybe I got an automated response based on my comment and was curious. Plot twist: that WAS a bot response! Where do you run your bots from? I made one that took the top songs from /r/listentothis and combined them into a youtube playlist, but I don't have a server to run it from. Any suggestions?

Also, on a random shot in the dark, if you've ever used the YT api, did you think it's really shit? Did it break recently for you? DigitalOcean is pretty great if you need a long running server, $5/mo will give you a dedicated VM with decent specs, more than enough to run a personal web server and plenty of bots. I was looking right now at the front page.

"Teachers of reddit, what's the weirdest thing you've seen happen behind the door of the teachers lounge?"

Didn't we *just* have this question twice in the last few weeks? It's like people visit reddit in cycles. Week 1 of the month is for group A, then week 2 is for group B... I don't know about you guys but I visit reddit pretty much every day of the month. And yesterday we had the question: "What free online resource should we all take advantage of?" which is a variation of one the top posts of all time on /r/askreddit Even worse was some of the top comments in that new thread were just quoted reposts of the top comments in the old thread But the answers are different, and they're the interesting part. If anything, I get pissed off by people who post giant pre-prepared responses, not the recurring threads themselves.  It's the worst on the "what's a website I should check out" thread when you get people posting dozens of links to "obscure" websites like ninite or duolinguo.  I'm looking for a cool website to check out, not to trudge through your copypasta.   I think the copy pasta is to prevent 400 comments repeating the same info. Like, "here is the shit that is about to be posted 400 times so let me sum it up and let's move on already." "Not a teacher, but..." I know we like to complain about this kind of comment, but honestly I have no issue with it. Sure first-hand accounts are better, but if the question is about a specific demographic you're limiting your reply scope. How many teachers browse reddit, let alone /r/AskReddit? A fair amount, but not a lot. How many of them have a relevant response to your specific question? Even fewer.

So I guess I just enjoy the greater volume of interesting responses, even if some of them are second-hand. "Not even a human, but..." Exactly. I don't get why everyone gets so upset about repeat questions. I mean, more new questions in addition would also be nice I guess. Or literally word-for-word the same question.

i.e. "What's the worst date you've been on?" Props to the mods for really trying to turn the sub into something better, good threads are way too rare Can you retroactively grant reddit gold to "what if everything was spiders?" No.  "Yes" You can  [That wasn't original in the slightest.](http://www.scp-wiki.net/bees) &gt;If you do not wish to wrack your brain thinking of something new, feel free to ask what cancelled TV show you'd revive (it's always Firefly).

LOL

This is a great idea. I hope it works out well. Firefly isn't coming back. Just let it go. Who do you think I am? Elsa? Has anyone noticed how many posts ask: What's the most illegal thing you've ever done? or; Redditors who've killed someone and gotten away with it; what's your story? etc... etc...?

(1) We should find out which law enforcement agency is collecting this data.

(2) We should identify these naive redditors who are admitting to crimes and imperiling their futures.

(3) We should make a web-based reality TV show where we mess with parties (1) and (2) as a grand educational project on privacy, entrapment, and the dangers of a pervasive false sense of anonymity on the internet.

 The show should be called to catch a redditor "Hi there, my name is Unidan, why don't you have a seat right there"... I live in Portland...some call the people who frequent our subreddit 'predditors' Predditors is also the name of a Stealth Bomber group I'm a part of in Eve Online. /r/dreddit /r/eve  (4) We should then make all participants into D-list celebrities. (5) Profit  The most popular questions seem to be ones that allow people to talk about themselves.   The one asking "those who have posted revenge porn" I was just thinking "I feel like we should report this" to those who said yes.  How will this recognition be given?

Also, even if you will only give gold to one post, I would personally greatly appreciate some Honorary Mentions.

Thanks for doing this! Hopefully it makes a change for the better. After the two weeks is up we'll do another thread announcing the winner Honorary Mentions? Pretty please? It would be good if you had missed a good thread, so you can catch up on it this way. It would also show more appreciation towards those who make good threads. Honorary mentions sound good to me, especially if we have a hard time to decide who the winner of a few threads is gonna be.  I'll put up the gold for some honorary mentions if you'd like. As well as an extra for the winner so they're still special. Awesome. Thanks. What is the most SFW picture that you can still jack off to? Who needs a picture?  I'm already jacking off to this thread. Who needs this thread?

I'm already jacking off to videos of myself jacking off. Are you taking recording yourself doing that for later use?  &gt;NSFW threads do not qualify. We want originality, **not something you can jerk off to.**

You have too much faith in the internet. [deleted] We said originality will win. *Believe* me when I say I use AskReddit more than almost anybody. We'll be sure to bring in an original question (or the closest thing we can find) to win. :P The reposted questions often welcome more participation, that's probably why you see the same questions on the front page from time to time. Everyone can answer them. It's a shame that happens. Hopefully this contest will boost originality. &gt;The reason it is going to be like the is because we are hoping it will promote more original questions

&gt;it is going to be like the is because

&gt;**going to be like the is**

##[8] You thought it would be like the is, but that don't. Has Anyone Really Been Far Even as Decided to Use Even Go Want to do Going to Be like the Is? I think I just had a seizure Knowing /u/UnholyDemigod, he's probably a [10] at the time of the post.  You guys should temporarily ban "Unpopular Opinions" threads and sex ones too. They are annoying and never have any real discussions.  Unpopular Opinions is just a cesspool for 2edgy4me people to be bigots BLACK PEOPLE AMIRITE DAE think hitler was right about eugenics?  I fuckin' hate Eugene. DAE think Eugene shouldn't reproduce? Top voted comment:

I think all black people are ugly

BUT IT'S NOT RACIST I used to hate those threads, but ever since I found the "ignore" feature in RES I see them as a valuable resource to help filter my reddit experience and auto-contest mode is also pretty good, since now you aren't immediately greeted with the same response about how "eugenics is really a good idea" with 5000 upvotes and has been gilded 20 times.

at least now you get to see some actual discussion mixed in with the same edgy jokes and real bigots using it as a venting session. I wonder how much money stormfront users are spending on reddit? We throw those into contest mode automatically so that way *actual* controversial opinions still get a chance to be seen at the top. 

The amount of people complaining about them in modmail though is pretty funny. They get angry that their racist comment isn't at the top of the page.  It's not even that, it's just everyone agreeing with each other. "Unpopular Opinions" are just ways of asking "what does Reddit think people don't like but Reddit likes". Top comments are usually along the lines of "pro eugenics" "black people are racist too" "being in the military doesn't make you a good person" "pro parenting test" and "people who believe in religion are fools" and so on.  seconded. how many of these have we had? and how much unpopular an opinion can be if it gets upvoted to the top? (inb4 downvoting is not disagreement, you know no one actually follows that rule) Personally, I always enjoyed the times you guys banned NSFW questions entirely for a time period. I feel like that promoted originality and allowed more unique questions and discussions to shine. Perhaps you should maintain a sticky with the threads in contention so we could follow along? Otherwise it's more of just a silent thing we won't hear of again until the winner is announced in 2 weeks. Without some type of interaction and reminder this is going on I fear it'll fall flat. Well NSFW doesn't always mean "GIMME PORN." It usually does. But think that's kind of black and white.  Yeah, but "what's the weirdest place you've had sex?" or "when did you become sexually active?" and their derivatives just get so boring and repetitive.   'Sexers of reddit, what's the sexest sex you've ever sexed?'

 [insert virginity joke here]  "I'd like to tell you but I'm a virgin."

+4,279 lol so funny, this needs to be higher haha *gets gold* EDIT: omg WOW! ive never been given gold before! I dont even know what it does!

EDIT 2: great, my highest rated comment is about poop.

EDIT 3: Ok, everyone is asking me to write a follow-up so here it is: reddit.com/blahblah when I saw this in my inbox, I tought I got gold. now I feel sad and unloved. why u do dis to me T.T           
edit: lol thanks for the gold, stranger. XD  I can't fucking believe someone gilded you for this 'i swer im not a virgin....i jus wana kno wut othur pepl thik abut it' 'pls..' something something my hand But so do a lot of other questions that aren't NSFW.  Banning all NSFW stuff because there are some repetitive questions doesn't make any more sense than banning all of AskReddit because there are repetitive questions. [Just so you know, from the rules:](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/wiki/index#wiki_-rule_3-)

&gt;Also prohibited are posts seeking to compile NSFW-links (as top-level comments). Such posts are not conducive to active discussion, and there are other subreddits where they would be more appreciated.

So we do remove those. Report any if we miss them, please. We check reports very frequently on this subreddit. Those types of questions are already banned  True. But as far banning ALL nsfw posts I think that is a little much. There could be a very thought provoking discussion on our best bowel movements or something. Not porn but still nsfw.  I'm on the same page, there. I personally think that limiting an entire category is a bit too much. If people don't like them, they have the downvote button at their disposal. "DAE tell me about sex plz?

EDIT: omg front page no way  
EDIT 2: rip my inbox" EDIT 7: IM STILL TRYING TO REPLY TO ALL YOUR ANSWERS I WONT LET YOU DOWN GUYS I NEED TO GO TO SLEEP THOUGH ILL BE BACK IN THE MORNING

...

Who the heck made you curator of the thread, but more importantly, you're a nobody. We don't care what you do. We're managing just fine on our own.  &gt; you're a nobody.

Just because it's true, doesn't mean you and that fat fuck of a bus driver have to keep telling me so. Well they did start the thread. You don't host a house party then leave and let the guests do what they want. You take part in it. Depends whose house I'm using to host the  party. yep, we went on a magical adventure to learn if MM arms were made out of chocolate or people arms.

Good times [deleted] It honestly seems like 1/4 of all threads on askreddit could be reworded to "What things annoy you".  Just absolutely nonstop;  'what would be a bad thing to come out of a pinata'/'what would you make illegal as president'/what would you make your worst enemy do for eternity'/etc.  All the same answers, over and over all day.

The main threads I really enjoy on here are story threads, except no one ever uses the dang story tag! Starting a new sub would be bad because the sheer number of posts on this sub is what brings out good stories.  Is there any way we could encourage the use of that tag more, or have mods tag them accordingly? Just FYI - this plan is totally working. Askreddit quality has gone up dramatically lately. Kudos. Was I wealthier and i'd gift gold to every non sexual question that hits the frontpage, too much thinly veiled fap material around here these days. Reddit, give me a story to masturbate to.

Wait, it needs to be a question! Hmm...

Reddit, what's the sexiest thing a girl did to you? "she doesnt exist lulz"
 I just want to say this contest is great. I know it's only been two days but the questions finally haven't been repeating every week. The threads have been a joy to go through again.  Isn't this essentially how reddit works, excepts it's the users who buy gold who act as the judges? I mean, I'm all for promoting originality, and I'm sure it will work to some extent, but I just find it funny. If I see any variation of "WHAT IS SOMETHING ABOUT YOUR PROFESSION THAT NOBODY KNOWS" again I'm going to spill orange juice on my harddrive. I understand why NSFW submissions will not qualify....

   
  
But damn it would be nice to finally have something *original* to jerk off to. I've noticed a huge increase in originality of the questions. I think your contest is really working!x Firefly!  Huh? So who won this contest that was made over 2 weeks ago? Hey now, the competition lasted a fortnight.

We've just barely past the point we get to start agitating. This is the most unoriginal site in existence.

Something something vaccines

Something something neutrality

Made up stores

Bullshit meninism

Rhetorical not funny at all puns/replies

It's just the same talking points over and over again, and it's designed for you to not have a good experience with the site if you don't support the majority opinion. Just awful

 &gt;funny

 Did I hear funny! Here's something funny for you: What's brown and sticky? A stick! I didn't know people made up stores TIL people masturbate to AskReddit threads. Are you surprised by that?  Do peacocks count as original? Completely. You just wanted to use the term 'singularity event' didn't you?   Dear mods, 
Since this contest started all of the questions have been extraordinarily different and interesting.
10/10 would contest again.
Sincerely
-Everyone. Woah, you can easily see the outcomes of this contest. My only complaint was not thinking of these ides first. Hey mods, this is a great idea.  Your execution is lousy.

&gt;  people see the contest, they want to win it, so they wrack their brains for the best question.

Great idea.

&gt; When we browse, we will see a question we like and add it to our list.

Terrible idea.

These two things don't work together.  If you want to encourage people to post original content via this contest, you can't have the contest exist only in the shadows of mod-land.

Throw up a side-bar for the "Top 5 leading original posts!".  Not set in stone, you guys go ahead and change it as often as you like.  But you need to publicize it if that entire "snowball effect" plan is going to be worth a damn. The peacock thread was one of the funniest I have read in a while. Really insightful as well. Never knew they were such nasty little shits.  Well, it's been a fortnight... Guess what: The most original and discussion inspiring *already* receive gold. That's the point of it. I want to see ask reddit threads pop that don't have only one comment gain all the traction because it was one of the first comments made after the post was created.  It would be nice if there was more direction toward relevance over upvote count.  For this reason I find askreddit useless on most occasions. Just as I was about to unsubscribe from one of my favorites, you post this. Not only the repeat questions, but the quality has gone down hill. I'll stick around for a bit longer to see if things change.  So far, so good... 
https://imgur.com/xcWfpz0 It would be quite nice if this was an open vote.

Maybe you peeps pick out the top 5 then we vote on our favourite. but then everyone would deliberately vote for the TV show one. Is it possible in the future to do something to discourage shitty meme answers? More often than enough I've had to scroll near the middle of the thread because the top five answers were obnoxious puns or memes that have just become immensely stale.

I also think it would promote more well-thought and written out answers. Not sure if it technically "counts", but Damon Wayans was allegedly fired from Saturday Night Live DURING the show (between the open and the goodnights) because, sick of playing underwritten side characters,  he came out for a sketch and played his bit part as an extremely effeminate man without any prior indication that he would.  There's been a lot of people blacklisted and/or fired from SNL for adlibbing.  In the fourth season of _House, M.D._, where House started with 30 trainee doctors and fired a few people every day in the show, even the actors didn't know who was going to be around on the next week's episode. The writers were making up decisions about which character would get fired in-show at the last minute, so the actors didn't know if they'd remain on the show or not until the end of a week of filming. The ultimate tryout So the writers basically did the most badass audition ever?

Edit: yay, highest comment! Tommy Chong left "That 70's Show" because he went to jail for 9 months for selling bongs. In jail he was cell mates with Jordan Belfort (as portrayed by Leo DiCaprio in "Wolf of Wall Street"), and Chong was one of the major influences convincing Jordan to write his book.

Tommy Chong would later reprise his role as Leo on "That 70's Show" after getting out of jail. Arresting Tommy Chong for selling bongs seems like going for the easy target. The original owner of the store on Sesame Street was a wonderful, kind old man named Mr Hooper. The actor who played him died, and rather than quietly write him out, Sesame Street had a whole show explaining he died. I cried. Saddest TV moment of my young life.  I remember this from my early, early childhood, too. In retrospect, I'm so impressed with how they handled this. Instead of just letting it fade from memory, or coming up with some dumb reason to explain his absence, they addressed it head-on and used it as a learning opportunity. I miss Sesame Street. Here is the clip, 

["Where is he, I want to give this to him?"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxlj4Tk83xQ)

Edit: Bwaaaaaa!!!! The dude barely holding it together at 4:00 :'( Remember when Maude Flanders died via a volley from a t-shirt cannon brigade? Maggie Roswell, the voice actress for Maude, got into a payment dispute with the show -- she lived out of state and had to pay for her own flight to LA and wanted a raise to compensate those expenses. The show found it cheaper to just kill her off. That ruined the flanders dynamic for me too If you cant handle me at my didliest then you dont deserve me at my doodliest!

EDIT:: Doodidily doh double gold for my new top comment!! Awesome In the UK show misfits the character Kelly was written off because the actor in real life had to do community service.  That is almost too ironic to be real. For racially aggravated assault, apparently.  Just in case it wasn't inc-character enough already. I always wondered what happened there. Her's was the only one of the original characters who didn't get a proper send off (Nathan got that nine-minute Vegas episode which didn't even come close to doing the character justice, but still managed to give him a decent good bye). Is it cause she fooked a moonkeehhh? Ah fookin loov yah! Here's a sad one. In the 1970s Sesame Street added their first new "human" character (as in not a puppet). Northern Calloway played the character David. David was supposed to be the hip older brother type. At a time when a lot of inner city kids were turning to drugs here was Sesame Street providing a more positive role model. He worked at Mr. Hooper's Store and was going to college to get a law degree. Later he took over Mr. Hooper's Store.  Popular character who got less and less air time until he just disappeared one day. Why?

Well, he was secretly bipolar. He took lithium for it, which helped, but also took cocaine which did not. His mental health continued to deteriorate until one day he went on a rampage in Nashville wearing only a Superman t-shirt.  He beat a woman with an iron rod and smashed windows. When he was arrested he screamed he was David from Sesame Street and they were trying to kill him.

He bounced in and out of institutions for the rest of his life. He actually died in a mental hospital in 1990 after a prolonged psychotic episode.

EDIT: As someone pointed out he was called "David" not "Dave." They tried to keep him on the show even after his illness got bad but he wouldn't stay on his meds and they had to let him go. Elmo's stuffed toy is named after him. http://muppet.wikia.com/wiki/Baby_David Here's one that I'm a bit weirded out that I know. Kyra from the show Reba (Scarlett Pomers) left the show, with the full support of the cast, mid-season in 2005 to get treatment for anorexia. She was 5'2" and weighs only 73 pounds.  

After completing treatment and getting her weight back up and life back together she returned to the show. She walks into the house and someone asks, "Hey, where have you been?" To which she replied, "I went to get something to eat!"

Edit: I'm not weirded out because of the fact itself, just because I, a 32 year old guy who's never seen an episode of Reba in its entirety know about this.  Why do I know it?  I dated a girl who knew and showed me.

Edit 2: Finally some of my random knowledge is good for something!  Top comment/post of all time for me! Good for her. I always wondered if that was why her legs seemed to bend the wrong way. Michael O'Hare, who played Jeffrey Sinclair in Babylon 5, left the show due to suffering from psychological issues (paranoia, hallucinations, etc). They wanted to put the show on hiatus while he sought treatment, but he insisted be written out so the show could go on without him while he got help. The shows creator agreed to keep his condition a secret till after O'Hare's death (at his request). &gt; Straczynski promised again that he would keep his condition secret to his grave. O'Hare told him to "keep the secret to my grave", pointing out that fans deserved to eventually learn the real reason for his departure and that his experience could raise awareness and understanding for people suffering from mental illness. ([Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_O%27Hare))

That's a really awesome and thoughtful way to address the issue. Sometimes it really does help to know that famous people face mental illness issues too.
 I can't even imagine what kind of nightmare that must have been. There you are on a set made to look like a spaceship, with a bunch of people dressed up as monsters/aliens, all the while having to pretend to be another person, then having to deal with hallucinations? 

Fuck that. There was a hole in his mind. Gary Dourdan (Warrick Brown) CSI got killed off after getting busted with cocaine; Rory Cochrane left CSI: Miami because he got tired of memorizing all the scientific and medical terms in the script.  Oh man I loved Warrick. I never knew why they took him off. Man, CSI wasn't the same after that. I loved Warrick Brown, and when he died, I only held out until Grissom left. After that, I jumped ship. When Family Matters first aired, it was a spin-off of the show Perfect Strangers, following Harriett Winslow and her husband Carl- a typical middle-class black family, having the kinds of difficulties that normal middle-class black families face. Then, a few episodes in, they introduce the nerdy, obnoxious neighbor Steve Urkel.

Before long Urkel was such a hit that the show eventually became all about Steve and his wacky adventures. Gone was the down-to-earth show about a typical black family doing typical black family things, and in its place was a show about a man-boy genius creating wacky inventions and traveling through time, cloning himself, and having other crazy adventures. In the end, the woman that played Harriett (the entire reason the show existed, remember) quit because she couldn't stand what the show had become. You mean the next door neighbor creating a bruce lee clone of himself didn't portray typical family life in Chicago? Relevant Key and Peele: 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=A5Zdp1RfoyI Also the aunt and little sister went "upstairs" and never came down again. That was fucking weird. the youngest daughter in family matters, apparently her parents were trying to get more money from the contract and when they refused to pay they just left the show. Didn't she go upstairs and never came back down? IIRC, she also did porn. Yet another victim of the second floor. Fun fact: She eventually moved into the porn film industry. The claim is supported by her [Wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaimee_Foxworth) and is further proven in this [NSFW video of her getting slammed in the ass.](http://www.tube8.com/ebony/jaimee-foxworth-anal-scene/22917/) I feel like the first link is rendered irrelevant by the second. It's always useful to have supporting documentation Great clip of a man forcing his soft penis into a bored woman's asshole. If i remember right the running back from the first season of Blue Mountain State got arrested for drugs so they swapped him out  Sam Jones III. He was also written out of Smallville after the second or third season. Didn't the actor that played Thad Castle (god I love Thad) also come out in smallvillle? This has irony because he was portrayed as the sole straight-lace football player.  Was that the one with the crazy "no sex" girlfriend? The first Darren on Bewitched had to go because of chronic back pain.  Dick York was replaced by Dick Sargent.   Dick York. Dick Sargent. Sargent York. Woah. On Seinfeld... Elaine's gruff father only appeared once because he made Jerry nervous in real life.  "We'll tell him we're frightened and we have to go home" is the most underrated Seinfeld line for me.  I love that episode. I also liked:

Elaine: Where's my father?

George: (doing impression) He's in da bathroom! We had a guy like you in Korea. They blew his brains out all over the pacific. "What are you crazy? He'd clonk our heads together like Moe." There's actually a video of the actors discussing that.  [I think this is the video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9T7En0N2bg)

Relevant part starts at 2:10 but the beginning is good context. Stole a knife and fake stabbed Seinfeld, that's a good reason not to come back.  The executioner in Game of Thrones has be quietly written out of the show because the actor has terminal cancer and opted to record more music and tour with his rock band. Just as an update, the actor Wilko Johnson is now cancer free. Hoping he will return to the show.  Cuddy was written out of the last season of house because her salary couldn't be agreed upon. The Office: He wasn't killed off, but when Ryan went to "Thailand" he actually was taking time off to film 'Inglourious Basterds'. 

Edit: Ft. Lauderdale On the same note, when Andy Bernard went sailing for a while he was filming The Hangover 3.  Pissed me off so much that he just blatantly peaced out on his girlfriend. All that character development wasted.. He takes a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to film a multimillion dollar movie, gets nervous, and his excuse for absence is that he's finding himself on a boat? Typical Andy. Another interesting thing about The Office is that some actors were in the annex because they were actually also producers in the show and couldn't be in every scene in the background, so they put them in a place where most of the time they couldn't be seen. I wonder why Toby went to Costa Rica :) He touched Pam's leg. Biggest cringe in the history of television, holy shit that show is the best. On Cheers, Carla's husband Eddy was written off because of some rude comments that the actor made.  He had a national radio show at the time and made some jokes about Rhea Perlman's looks and getting "combat pay" for kissing her.  Perlman wanted him off the show, the show runners agreed and had him killed off by a zamboni.

 I love how he's often said he didn't know why he was written off.  I always wanted to know the story about Richie Cunningham's brother that went upstairs to his room and was never seen again. There's a whole phenomenon named after him...

http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/ChuckCunninghamSyndrome A great example is Minkus from Boy Meets World. [This clip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tl8ZH9QSwkI) even makes a meta joke. Eric's intelligence was completely written out of Boy Meets World early in the series, too. That's one thing that always bugged me.  They did the same thing with Mark on Roseanne.  Neither guy was ever going to be a scientist or anything, but they were reasonably intelligent in their own ways.  And then they just became complete morons who are almost too stupid to function. I've always wondered why the character Mr. Turner left Boy Meets World so abruptly after becoming a main character and father figure to Shawn. The only answer I can find after a quick search is that the producers thought he 'didn't fit'. Especially since the last scene with him has him in a coma after a bike accident. You'd think that would get some kind of follow up. Henry Winkler actually talks about it on his nerdist podcast interview. The Fonz essentially becomes Richie's "big brother" so the actual brother character became redundant, so they just pretended he never existed. Dominic Monaghan asked to be written out of Lost because he was seeing Evangeline Lily, but she dumped him and broke his tiny Hobbit heart and he couldn't stand to work with her anymore. At least they wrote him off in one of losts best episodes,  and one of the most quoted moments from the shows history.  I still get a little misty eyed when I see Dominic, no matter the context. I think if he held up his palm I'd be inconsolable for days. One of the best deaths in a show that was pretty much a 6 season killing spree. :( It was for the best. That season with him and Desmond is great. The episode when he died was done well.  But what about second breakup? Wait, the she-elf from the Hobbit movies dated the Hobbit from the first movies?

That must have ruined the sequels/prequels for one of them. The entire show Young Justice was canceled because they couldn't sell toys from it  Maybe if they'd actually done some marketing... Also the toys they did have were not great quality at all. I'll be bitter forever about Young Justice. Fuck, Young Justice is a great show. I hope to see another DC animated series written as well as that one was. 

Teen Titans was great, too.  Fuck that noise. Seriously. Such a good show.  Mandy Patinkin left the cast of Criminal Minds because the content in the show was getting too dark and morbid for him, so they simply retired his character (since he was old anyway.) &gt; Mandy Patinkin left the cast of Criminal Minds because the content in the show was getting too dark and morbid for him

That lighthearted romp *Homeland*, on the other hand... Criminal Minds has a "murder porn" aspect that he probably wasn't comfortable with. &gt;"The biggest public mistake I ever made was that I chose to do Criminal Minds in the first place," Patinkin said. "I thought it was something very different. I never thought they were going to kill and rape all these women every night, every day, week after week, year after year. It was very destructive to my soul and my personality." I like that. His episode of Wonder Pets is my favorite. He plays a homeless groundhog. Trying to find out what happened to Mark Brandanowitz  Paul Schneider said something like he felt as if his character didn't have enough depth for him to be interested in the show's storyline anymore, and so he left... don't know if it's hiding an even deeper explanation on why he left or not though. So even the actor that played him thought Mark was boring? Ha he was trying too hard to be a JIM from the office. It was so obvious when he was on the show. I'm glad he left and brought in rob lowe and adam scott Most of the show was trying hard to be the office in that first season

The characters changed dramatically in following seasons Janet Hubert - The original Aunt Viv in the Fresh Prince of Bel-Air was fired from the show after violating her contract by getting pregnant. She wasn't written off but she was replaced by Daphene Maxwell Reed in the last 3 seasons. Didn't she also not get along with Will in real life? Yeah.  Will Smith would make a lot of jokes on the color of her skin. Like. "No one's going to believe you're the mother to these kids, you're too dark" Also because she hated Will Smith (actor) and they would frequently disagree with each other. How come she don't want me, man? William Hartnell left Doctor Who because he had arteriosclerosis and his health was declining to the point where he couldn't keep up with a TV acting schedule. The producers came up with the idea that the Doctor could regenerate into a new body, because the show was doing well and they wanted to keep it going. Hartnell was apparently the one who suggested Patrick Troughton should take over the role. So ultimately Hartnell's illness inspired the premise gimmick that would make the show (and its hero) effectively immortal. They did an absolutely brilliant tv special on Hartnell "An Adventure In Space And Time" to celebrate the 50th anniversary last year. Mark Gatiss' writing at its finest!
Imo, I preferred it to the actual 50th Anniversary special. In Angel, Glenn Quinn (Doyle) was awkwardly removed with a season one midseason death due to issues with substance abuse. He died three years later. Fight the good fight, whichever way you can. One of the many reasons that Punky Brewster was cancelled is because the star of the show, Soleil Moon Frye suffered from a condition called gigantomastia, literally giant breasts, and had a breast reduction surgery prior to her 16th birthday to reduce her 38DD to a more manageable size.  The actress developed so quickly and so large that the producers felt there was no way they could reasonably portray her character age-appropriately. I remember when she was a guest star on The Wonder Years. it was...quite noticeable. They had a different actress in mind to play Cpt Janeway in ST: Voyager. [They even shot some scenes for the pilot with her] (http://youtu.be/NANUpPaiGG8).  Everyone is good and professional about the reasons why it didn't work out but watch a couple of the scenes with her and it's PAINFULLY obvious she wasn't natural in that role: she's dull as dishwater and she stumbles over the techno-babble.  Columbus Short who played Harrison Wright in Scandal was killed off.

What happened is that he was fired after being charged with battery for attacking his wife and threatening to kill her and himself. Lisa Bonet was written off of the Cosby Show for 'creative differences', but in reality it was because she was in *Angel Heart* and had done a topless spread in a magazine. It didn't fit with Cosby's vision so she was fired.  Dean Forester (Jared Padalecki) from Gilmore Girls, left to be Dean's brother, Sam Winchester for Supernatural. Making it the most confusing transition to talk about to fans of both shows I spent the first two seasons referring to them as "Dean... wait no the other Dean. The Dean from the other show not pretty boy Dean. Wait shit that doesn't help." And here is a meta-reference. http://youtu.be/FAFQQwSY6EQ This is like the best reason to leave a show  He also left to get ripped as hell.  http://i.imgur.com/Rf195cD.jpg Orange is the New Black: I don't know if Miss Claudette was supposed to be in S2 because she got sent to max and it was pointed out if you go there you never come back. The actress actually got in an awful car accident was (maybe still is) in a coma. She was put into a medically induced coma, but that was in January of last year.  She is back to acting again. If she had gone toe-to-toe with V, that would've been epic. I wish she could've stayed on.  Rob Lowe left The West Wing because he was supposed to be first-among-equals in a cast focusing on the White House staffers.  The President was supposed to be an occasional presence, not the lead. The woman who played Mrs langingham in the west wing left because she was to be given her own show ... it never went ahead but her character was already written off The original Lori from That 70s Show was written out due to the actresses rampant drug problem. And the second Lori fucking sucked. Too dumb, not enough bitch. And it eventually killed her  The saddest for me was John Ritter being written out of 8 Simple Rules when he died :(  Scrubs too. I thought it was sweet that they addressed it even though it would have been just as easy to just not have JD's dad visit again. I just looked him up on Wikipedia and found [this picture](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Ritter#mediaviewer/File:John_Ritter_1977.jpg) of him. I'm shocked by how much he looked like Zach Braff, John Ritter was the perfect actor to play his dad.
 I got to work on 8 Simple Rules as an extra before and after John Ritters passing. I grew up on Three Company and loved LOVED *Stay Tuned*. Seeing him on set, knowing of him through film and television, I can say this of him, the guy was magic. 

There was such a calming peace about him.
 It's the best way I could describe him.  The original voice actor for Chuckie on Rugrats and Dexter on Dexter's Lab quit so that she could take care of her children I believe. 

I'm pretty sure she died somewhat recently as well, unfortunately.  Haha, the first thing that came to my mind was the rumour that they killed off the dog in Downton Abbey because it was called Isis. They claimed that was never the reason but the timing was unfortunate to say the least. I also heard that they were going to keep Mathew the whole show, but the actor left and insisted they kill his character  In case you were wondering why Shirley will *not* be in the sixth season of Community, Yvette Nicole asked to be written off so she could be with her ill father :(


**edit**: To answer everyone's questions:


I read [this article](http://www.tvguide.com/news/yvette-nicole-brown-1087724/) which explains that she left *Community* to aid her father, however, she is also starring in *The Odd Couple* because it has a much more flexible schedule, as she is a recurring character.

also,

[Here is a link](https://screen.yahoo.com/community-season-six-trailer-premiere-175500821.html) to the Community Season 6 Trailer! (sorry, couldn't find a youtube link, someone else probably will though) One by one they all just fade away Damn, and her son just left the show last season, as well.  Give it 5 minutes and Pierce will say something more racist "She's not?"

"29 seconds."

Edit: [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPfWkzJsBHw) for the uninitiated. Pierce, when did you learn how to use a computer? Anyone remember the first lieutenant from Miami Vice (the one who was only in four episodes)? He asked to be taken out of the show because he didn't like living in Miami. DEADWOOD SPOILER

[Seth Bullock's kid was killed off because David Milch, the creator of the show, couldn't stand the actor's annoying mother while she was on the set. It did result in one of the best and most emotional episodes of the show.](#spoiler) Trapper John, Wayne Rodgers, from MASH left the show because he felt like Hawkeye, Alan Alda, had taken over the show.  Paz De La Huerta was fired from Boardwalk Empire because during a nude scene her tampon string was showing. She was told to hide it or get rid of it, she pulled it out in front of the crew and threw it on the floor, then told a PA to pick it up, which was the end of her. She is actually a notorious alcoholic. Which is the underlying reason. That was the straw that broke the camel's back, she hasn't worked much since then. She can't get her shit together.  SPOILER ALERT! IF YOU HAVEN'T WATCHED SEASON 2 OF THE WALKING DEAD AND WANT TO, STOP READING NOW!


The character Dale from the show "The Walking Dead" was killed off the show because the actor who played him (Jeffrey DeMunn) was very good friends with the show creator (Frank Darabont). After Frank was forced off the show by the producers (AMC) during season 2, he demanded to leave in solidarity with his friend. The character Dale in the original graphic novel actually is a much longer lived character.

Edit: words, spoiler alert, length of arc on show vs comic. First of all...Screw AMC, [this video explains the whole frank situation](http://youtu.be/DDbi7P93Np8?t=11m55s)  John Francis Daley played the character Sweets on the TV show Bones. They killed him off because he got hired to direct the new National Lampoon Vacation movie. Huh, TIL they killed off Sweets. Haven't watched Bones in years It was a pretty sad episode...  Damn shame. I liked Sweets Bradley Cooper struggled with addiction and mental health issues during his time on Alias...http://www.tvguide.com/news/bradley-cooper-wanted-to-kill-myself-alias-1074810/ Poochie had to leave his planet needed him. 
Note: Poochie died on his way back to his home planet The actor who played Preston Burke on Grey's Anatomy was written out of the show after he said some homophobic slurs towards a gay actor on set. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Preston_Burke#Reception Topher Grace and Aston Kutcher left that 70's show because they were bored of the long running show and wanted to move on to other projects. thats why eric went to college and kelso got a job in chicago. Topher got a role in spider man 3 
edit: it's come to my attention that eric forman went to africa Well, Spider-Man 3 was obviously worth it. I just feel bad for the actress who played eric's sister. The actor who played Peter Gregory, Christopher Evan Welch, in Silicon Valley died of lung cancer only 5 episodes into the show.  Billy the Blue Ranger (David Yost) wasn't fired from The Power Rangers, but he randomly walked off the set during his lunch break one day and never came back. 

Turns out, the crew had been harassing him for years about his sexual orientation and he'd been contemplating suicide. After he left the show, he put himself in conversion therapy for two years, then finally accepted his sexual orientation after a psychological breakdown. I heard him give a great talk during a Planet Comicon panel last year. Apparently the working conditions were horrendous for everyone and that was without the sexual harassment to consider. He had very negative things to say about the company and their treatment of the entire cast.  &gt;I heard him give a great talk during a Planet Comicon panel last year. Apparently the working conditions were horrendous for everyone and that was without the sexual harassment to consider. He had very negative things to say about the company and their treatment of the entire cast. 

I went to a panel at DragonCon that had the original black ranger (Walter Jones), the second yellow ranger (Karen Ashley), and the guy who voiced Zedd (Robert Axelrod). They confirmed this. They were putting out a crap ton of hours and lots of episodes in a week and it was just horrible working conditions.

Funny story: Robert Axelrod called Saban cunts during the panel. It was hilarious. Everyone gasped then laughed because it was unexpected. I love him mostly cause he voiced Wizardmon. That's terrible. I had known he was out as gay but didn't realize he was having a hard time during Power Rangers.  Gives you a different perspective about the show, being that it was a children's show that focused on the importance of possessing strong character and moral fiber.  Meep from American Horror Story Freakshow was killed off because he had to get back to his teaching job.  [well shit, he died
](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/02/24/ben-woolf-of-american-horror-story-is-dead-at-34/)

*learns about a human being, immediately finds they've just died* On 'Sliders', John Rhys-Davies (The Professor) was killed off due to insulting a newer Fox Executive at a party years before, or around the time the show first started. That same Fox Executive later was given control of a segment of Fox's programming that 'Sliders' was under. He saw that John was acting in the show, and was able to convince Fox and Universal to fire him. He was fired most unceremoniously in front of the cast and crew. To kill off his character, they drained him of brain matter, shot him in the heart, and left his body on an exploding planet. 

Edit: [Source](http://www.dimensionofcontinuity.com/bts.htm#john) That show was so good but took a nose dive after the 2nd or third season. It still bugs me to this day whether or not Rhys-Davies character was the original from their home Earth or not.  Stewart Townsend (Charlize Theron's bf at the time) was cast as Aragorn in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.   But Peter Jackson thought Stewart was too young and they had already started filming.  Viggo Mortensen was a last minute replacement.  Viggo wasn't sure if he wanted to take the gig on short notice, but his son was reading the books at the time and convinced him to take the part. 

There is nothing in the world like the deep love I have for Viggo Mortensen.   Bryan Singer and James Marsden's X-Men story isn't very well known. A studio executive at Fox was disappointed with the X-Men license deal and he wanted the property gone. This executive purposefully created a contentious relationship with Bryan Singer in an attempt to derail the project so that Fox could drop the license agreement once the first movie failed. Apparently this person did not want to be strong armed into making comic book movies during his tenure. 

So the film comes out and is a huge success by all accounts. He got the release date moved up by 6 months and cut the budget after filming had already started on schedule/budget. This same douche nozzle tries again to derail the franchise on X2.

Bryan handled his shit professionally but it caused a massive rift among the cast, as the studio was irrationally fucking with Bryan and their careers over office politics. X2 lands and is repeat success. 

Bryan had words with everyone on the cast before walking off X3, seeing that the waters were still hostile towards him after delivering twice. Everyone privately supported Bryan, but James took it further and stood at his side through this whole ordeal. Cyclops was subsequently written off in X3 due to James' vocal objections to how Bryan was treated. 

Singer snatched him up right away and wrote him a major support role in Superman Returns as the real "superman" who took care of Lois when Clark abandons her. Then he raises Superman's son and saves Superman's life in the climax. He also gets the chick in the end. There's a reason that movie was so weird.

Edit - /u/LordMoody came up the guy's name in a comment below and I did a quick search to locate this AICN article about the villainous [Tom Rothman](http://www.aintitcool.com/node/20443).  So it's FOX's fault that Superman Returns suck?

First Firefly and then Superman... These people are monsters! Michelle Rodriguez (Ana Lucia) and Cynthia Watros (Libby) were written out of Lost--killed off--because of DUI arrests. The title of their last episode was "Two For the Road."

How appropriate. And the guy who played Mr Eko asked to be written off because he was dealing with the death of his parents. Man, i always wanted to see/learn more of his character. Seemed so fitting with the island. Apparently he was going to have a much bigger role in the end, it was going to be Locke vs Eko mirroring Jacob and the MIB Kal Penn was written out of House to go work for the White House.

From one house to another... Kutner was my favorite. Thanks Obama.  Peggy Bundy was pregnant in a later season of Married With Children and/because Katey Sagal was too. When the actress suffered a miscarriage they kindly wrote into the show that the pregnancy had all been a dream. It would have been too painful for her to have to come to work every day and hold a baby after losing her own. :( Virginia Hey, who played Zaahn in Farscape had to leave because the huge amount of blue makeup she had to wear was [damaging her kidneys](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pa%27u_Zotoh_Zhaan#Zhaan).  Wasn't Prue killed off Charmed cause she was like a bitch in real life or something? Yup. Her and Milano had a bitch war and Doherty lost. They told us Steve left to go to college. He really left because the actor was going bald. (He also had some musical interests he wanted to explore, but the actor said, "Mostly because I refused to lose my hair on a kid's TV show, and it was happening fast.") I missed Steve so much. Blue's Clues wasn't the same after that. He's an excellent story teller.  http://youtu.be/CwmtkFPYXsg Definitely one of the Moth stories I could listen to again and again. I remember when I watched that episode when he left as a little kid, I knew how long it took to get a bachelors degree and thought to myself that he'd come back to the show in 4 years. He never did :( But by the time the 4 years was up (yes I actually kept track), I already found that he did move on an start a music career and lost the hair and stuff from a thing about him on the Nickelodeon website That must have been super disappointing. Yeah, but at the very least I knew Blue's Clues wasn't real so while sad and wished he could do it again, I was ok with him moving on. Still love the guy tho. I had heard that Steve got kicked off for being a drug addict- I am so glad that it was not true. I loves me some Steve. Holy Christ, there were so many bullshit rumours floating around like that when he left. Murdered, sent to jail, car accident, suicide, drugs, pedo, etc. My mom told me he looked like he was getting sick and he probably had cancer. I was 8 years old. [Source](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/05/29/steve-blues-clues_n_5401429.html)

I'm glad, too. I'd believed the drugs thing for awhile. Chris Langham, who played Hugh Abbot in the British series *The Thick of It*. He was written out of the last bit of Series 2 due to him being arrested for downloading child pornography.

They way they covered up his absence was by having him in Australia and checking in via phone with Ollie and Glen throughout the two-part finale to Series 2. Since he was never on screen they could just have the characters reacting to his non-existent voice over their cell phones.

 Coach from New Girl left to take another role on Happy Endings. Once Happy Endings was canceled, his character was re-introduced on New Girl I'm pretty sure Chef was killed off on South Park because the voice actor, a Scientologist, had a problem with the fact that Parker and Stone lampooned Scientology in one episode. I'll always miss his cheery "Hello there, children!" :(

Edit: Regarding all the comments about Isaac Hayes's musical work, you're all absolutely right -- I just didn't put it here since it was out of context. He definitely was a fantastic musician.  I thought he was originally okay with it, then Scientology's reps whispered in his ear and it was over, at least I recall that from interviews I may be wrong Phil Hartman's character was written off News Radio after he was murdered by his wife. 

That first episode without him is sad as fuck.  Dale from The Walking Dead, played by Jeffrey DeMunn

Jeffrey DeMunn was loyal to Frank Darabont in TWD fiasco in Season 2.

So when Frank Darabont got fired, he didnt want to act on TWD anymore.

So they killed his character.

Its pretty apparent too, since his death is completely ridiculous. He's walking in an open field. And he comes across a cow thats been torn open by a walker. He turns around and theres a walker RIGHT THERE!! How did the walker get there so fast? They dont run, they only shuffle around. There werent any bushes, trees or tall grass for the walker to hide behind. He just sort of apparates behind dale. Its one of the stupider deaths on the show. George, from greys anatomy, was written off. I heard it was because of the fact that his character was getting less and less screen time each season and the actor was upset about it. The character was supposed to go off to serve as a doctor in the military but he got **hit by a fucking bus** instead. [deleted] TV Series "Avatar The Last Airbender" the character  Uncle Iroh took a brief hiatus from the story plot until the very last episode of the series due to voice actor Mako Iwamatsu passing away from complications with esophageal cancer. You can hear a difference in the voice from all of the previous episodes against the very last episode of the TV series when they brought in a ringer to finish that characters dialogue off.  And Mako from Korra is named for him  I didn't know that! That's awesome. They have Iroh in a few episodes of Korra too and I could barely tell that there was a voice difference... Oh man, please spoiler that I haven't watched past the second season... :/  He was in the second season!  Not where I've gotten then yet. I stopped at the flashback scenes and am now going back through the whole series  He has a whole story honored to him in Book 2, Tales of Ba Sing Se.  Leaves from the vine, falling so slow.
Like fragile, tiny shells,
Drifting in the foam.
Little soldier boy, come marching home.
Brave soldier boy, comes marching home.

 I shouldn't be crying on a nice, lazy Sunday morning.

You monster. ...you evil evil person, holding all those onions. :'( You evil bastard, I hate you for making me feel these feels Wasn't just a ringer that replaced him, they got a guy who worked closely with Mako (the original voice actor) for a number of years and was the best imitation of his voice they could get. Wasn't exactly right, but was damned good considering. Leaves from the vine

Falling so slow

Like fragile, tiny shells

Drifting in the foam

Brave soldier boy, comes marching home

Brave little soldier boy, come marching home

*In memory of Mako* That's not actually correct, Iroh talks in other episodes following the death of Mako.  That's why it's a "brief hiatus" and not "written off".

They got another VA to voice Iroh. More specific, they got Makos student to continue doing the role as Iroh after his passing. Very Asian His death also meant Jack would never beat Aku. Mako was a fantastic VO.  that is an old trick. The voice of the lone ranger in the old radio serials died in a car crash and they broadcast live 3 days a week then. no rerun or backups. The guy had been playing the role for 8 years so his voice was well-known and just replacing him wasn't going to work. So they had his character unable to speak for a few weeks due to an illness. When he 'recovered' the new guy could take over even though his voice was a little deeper than the old one. His last role was the voice of Splinter in TMNT, there's a dedication to him at the end.  
It's a pretty good film. I'm a little late, and sorry if this was already mentioned, but Robert Downey Jr. was written off of Ally McBeal after he was arrested twice for drugs.  I watched this show like crazy when I was in high school,  and the whole part where he left got so confusing (snowman in the deep freezer?!).  


"This is gonna be good. Why else would I be crying?" After which he cleaned up his act and became one of the most awesome people and actors known to man. And I'm so glad! He's one of my favorites.  Damn he was on that show, I barely remember since it was on in my elementary days Yep! It was on when I was younger, too, but I binge watched it on Netflix a couple of years ago! Lisa Nicole Carson who played Renee was fired from Ally McBeal, as well as  from playing Dr Benton's babymama in ER due to drug abuse and her bipolar disorder spiralling out of control. Olivia Black was kick from Pawn Stars for being a porn star. Surely the pawn stars audience aren't the kind of people that would be bothered by this...  At all.   I'm sorry, I only watch reality shows about antiques that don't feature LOOSE WOMEN

How am I supposed to learn about the market value of Gerald Ford's bath robe when you have that **SCARLET WOMAN SLUTTING AROUND** back there?!

Source: I'm fucking crazy. Gerald Ford's bathrobe would be fantastic on that show.  Something tells me the antiques with sexy women market is wide open. Pawn Stars is popular with the older set.  My parents love it to death.  That sort of thing doesn't go over well with their demographic.

All in all though, she chose... poorly.  Few porn stars make it rich, but even Chumlee has a net worth of 5 million.   &gt; Chumlee has a net worth of 5 million. 

Well, that's depressing.  DAFUQ are we all doing with our lives? To be fair, he's actually working it with merch and a bunch of other angles. The guy is smart enough to play dumb and lovable on TV.  If Ms. Black had stuck around she'd be pulling in a good six figures annually for not too much work and if she was smart about marketing herself like Chum, then even more. Can confirm. Am pawnstar audience, ~~turned on by~~ not bothered by this. The god damned title of the show is a pun based on "porn stars." http://imgur.com/a/i8m3k
How could you be bothered by this ?  [She was fired by the production company, not the Pawn Stars guys.](http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2013/10/08/pawn-stars-rick-harrison-talks-olivia-black-firing-lawsuits-and-new-episodes/)

History is a relatively conservative channel, and the producers of the show are chickenshit so its easier to fire someone relatively unimportant for the show instead of risking any bad publicity. I can imagine she also had to sign a contract before starting on the show, asking if there was anything like that in her past that might surface, or she might have been asked to refuse to do similar nudes in the future. Ie, the producers wouldn't risk having her on for four more seasons, then have her appear on the cover of Playboy with History Channel as a selling point. 

She was only fired from the reality show Pawn Stars, she was not fired from the actual Pawn Shop. It still sucks, but that's the way it is. And to think, had they not fired her I wouldnt have found out about those pictures. Now I shall think of those pictures every single time I hear "History Channel". Streisand effect and all. Keep in mind even though Rick says he does not deal in Nazi items, there is a youtube video of him before the show where he has a collection of Nazi items he displays and sells in the shop. I think the History Channel has more to do with these decisions than the actual people making it.  i agree, there had to be another reason But it just fits so well... a porn star, on a show whose name is Pawn Stars. In Boston, it's pronounced the same. Where isn't it pronounced the same? Any accent that pronounce /r/ at the end of syllables - so most of North America, Scotland, Ireland, and the West Country. Ya just wicked smaht! In a good chunk of England and the Commonwealth, too.  Am Australian. Forgot pawn would be "parn" in most of the US, had to do some serious accent imitation to figure it out. I still can't figure out how they're saying it, "parn" doesn't sound right to me. Western Americans use the same vowel sound in 'palm', 'bomb', and 'pawn'.  We have what are called the cot-caught and the father-bother mergers.  The closest Australian vowel would probably be 'ar' but our vowel is a bit shorter and the tongue is generally a bit further back in the mouth. Ahh okay, that definitely helps. Thanks heaps! While that's a good spelling relative to your accent, American accents say 'pawn' and 'parn' different from each other. and the UK.  There's a different way to say it? They're different in accents that don't drop /r/ from the end of syllables, which is technically the majority because it includes most accents outside the Southern Hemisphere, England, and Wales. As it turns out, I'm from England, specifically the South East. I guess if you pronounce it very 'properly', there's a difference, but if you're talking normally here, it doesn't sound much different. Pawn sta Also in Australia and the UK. For an American show it's funny that its name only works when said in foreign accents. Then you're not very familiar with the Boston accent. 

Pawhn Stah vs Pown Stah.  In Australia, it's pronounced the same. And Australia! Isn't it pronounced the same everywhere? Not in most of North America, Scotland, and Ireland. In Australia too In Australia, too. What are you, retahded? Is it not pronounced the same everywhere? thatsthejoke.jpg I'm sure she just misheard the title when she auditioned. The whole thing is just a misunderstanding of accents She should try Hardcore Pawn.  Funny, that's what her new work partner said too.
 Did she do porn? All I ever saw was a Suicide Girls shoot.  And a game show called Pawnography Wow. NSFW: http://imgur.com/a/i8m3k Let me call down a buddy who's an expert on these kind of things.  Rick, those breasts are definitely the real deal. The first thing I notice when I look at this is the size and shape of the breasts. Fakes from around this period were often much larger, but the small perky shape makes me almost certain that these are genuine. If you look closely around the nipples, you'll see that the areolae on this particular model are quite small for a woman, but you'll notice that they fade in naturally, as opposed to the sharp, well-defined edges on many fakes. Rick, I'm confident that this is as real as you can get.

How much do you reckon it's worth?

Well it's hard to say with this kind of thing since you can't normally buy one of these outright, but some people out there pay upwards of a thousand dollars for just an hour with a model like this one. But by and large, I'd say this model is worth about a hundred and twenty nine thousand dollars. Perhaps even more for this one in particular, since you're getting a lot more than just human life.

Alright, thanks! I'll keep all that in mind. So after hearing that, how much were you looking for?

Ah, I'd say around a hundred grand.

... Best I can do's a thousand dollars.

I'm not sure I can go that low. Eighty thousand?

Nah... I can't go above one thousand.

...

I mean, I gotta make this worth it, and I don't know how much *I'm* gonna get for it... So we got a deal?

.......... Yeaaahhh, we got a deal.

I was hoping for something a little higher, but y'know, I got more than I walked in with, so I'm happy. Ask him what "it" tattooed on her pussy means. It's an Adams Family reference.

Makes more sense when she doesn't shave. Bet she didn't think about that one too well. "Fuck it". Well, that's "it". Maybe it's related to the 'Love' on her middle finger lol  I would eat *it* [Picture of said buddy.]( https://edc2.healthtap.com/ht-staging/user_answer/avatars/441454/large/open-uri20121013-21185-dcleyx.jpeg) How much did you want for her?

Well, the expert says she's worth $50,000, so I want $50,000.

I'll give you $10, there's not a huge market for porn stars, she could be sitting on the shelf for years. It's called a penis For once, I can be the expert  (*unzips*) You rang? Hello. My little buddy just called up  Is it your penis? It's your penis, isn't it? *i'd offer her 250.00 for anal and not a penny more!* That's some hardcore stuff right there
Edit: I guess the sarcasm wasn't obvious I dunno about that. If anything it's fairly tasteful photography. Yeah, I was gonna say. This is nude modeling. Not "pornstar."

It sucks that so many people can't differentiate between porn and photography. Protip, it's porn if you hold the picture up to your ear and can hear the ocean. That's just nude modelling, hardly porn tbh. RES users go to image 15 to avoid all the buildup It's like she bought the entire shitty tattoo package. Shes got her full name tattooed on her. I've heard of conceited but god damn...  Maybe she's just forgets sometimes. "So I was thinking along the lines of *'Love will be the death of me*' right here, with a little bit of a heron next to it, yeah?"  Really. Oh my goodness.  Is the only qualification of becoming a Suicide Girl to have tattoos or what? Like...what's their gimmick supposed to be? I believe its "alternative". Meaning pretty much any body-modification. Tats, piercings and brightly coloured hair. Pick at least two. I don't even remember seeing her on the show. 

She had her own name tattooed on her arm. Why? Who the fuck tattoos their own name on their arm? Forgetful people? I miss Joshua Tree.  That link is the first result when you search "olivia black pawn stars" on Google. Everyone will know. Well damn.  I'd hit "it." I wonder if Chum Lee ever hit It. hm. Pretty tasteful nudes tbh. I can see why they fired he  though.

Why do people think things like this won't catch up with them later on? Now *THOSE* nipples look like milk duds.  Damn. Nice...always want to see pics of the hot ladies on TV. But they don't need to be fired. Wow she's sexy.  Her own name tattooed on her arm *rolls eyes* TIL Suicide Girls is still around Oh I thought it was going to be penetration. This is barely porn by today's standards. A middle schooler would see this and say " Hmm, tasteful" To be honest I'm just confused about the tattoo right above her vagina. Is it a reference that I'm missing or something? Is it a joke? "it." just doesn't make sense to me. where did her leg go in 34? I respect that in the desert her nips are like doorstops. Where are the rest of her areolas?  Lol, Suicide Girls are "porn stars' now? I wonder which of the guys found her SG profile. As research of course.  Those are some serious grandpa hands.  Does she not have a clitoris? I'm disturbed. Cmon everybody knows Suicide Girls doesn't count.  Why people get idiotic tattoos like that is beyond me, just ruins your body She's blowing a "rape whistle".  Kudos to her for being comfortable with her own skin Huey huey Fuck It, get it 1. Wow, that ass!

2. Slide 36, what's up with her nipple? It looks like it was cut off and put back on? Looks like she suffers from resting bitch face. It seems she's a model, not a pornstar. What's up with the "it" tattoo?  Her nipples look so angry. Eew. Too much ink. Just makes her look grubby and dirty.  Oh cmon, Suicide Girls are more like nude models, not porn stars. In fairness, that's a gorgeous photo shoot.  The lighting is fantastic. Damn, saving for later All I could think about while looking at that photo set is that she has her own name tattooed on her arm.  Wow is right. Boner city over here. Wtf is Pawn Stars?  I'll give you an up vote for that, but no more.  She's really fucking gorgeous.  Huh. Her and I have a very similar tattoo. Go figure.  She did an AMA after it happened. She still worked for the shop during the AMA, they just stopped showing her on TV when her photo shoots with suicide girls were found by producers, or something like that. Atleast she can pursue a career in Game of Thrones, just needs the accent I thought it was just suicidegirls? That's just pin up modelling  Closeups of her ass and nipples probably pushed it over the line. 
 IIRC she still works in the shop she just isn't on the show. She did an AMA and lied through it all, saying that Pawn Stars was 100% unscripted &gt;Olivia Black was kick

no where were you She's not a porn star. She posed naked for suicide girls once. Dammit Chumlee, I told you not to use the computer at work to look up smut your coworkers have put up on that damn internet! I wouldn't call her a porn star...more like nude model. Since when is being a Suicide Girl the same as being a porn star?
 When you become a producer Nude photo shoot = porn star?

I don't think so.  I got a buddy who is a expert on porn starts. Let me give him a call.  There's a level of hypocrisy there. She follows me on Twitter for some reason.  When did they get any woman on the show?  When I watched that show it was nothing but old fat men or young fat men.  If you blinked you missed her between the fat men.  Suicide girls isn't being a porn star i heard it was just because the producers found out she was once a suicide girl. chicks that have tattoos and take naked photos. Not all Suicide Girls have tattoos but yeah, they're more on the "soft" side and more pin-up girls than porn stars.  Who? Shows how much I watched that show, I didn't even know there was a woman on it at one point. This is funny for me having an Asian mother who has a hard time pronouncing "porn" and "pawn" apart. I wouldn't consider Suicide Girls to be porn, but there you go. i thought this was a joke, im glad this wasnt a joke Not bad at all.. &gt;  a porn star.

They were photos taken before she was ever hired. And it was the show that fired her, apparently not the shop itself.  Does Chum know about this?? He may be interested to know. But she's a SG, that's only like...sort of a porn star. Yeah that makes sense cause we all know that pawn stars are the pillar of morality in sin city Well yeah! People surely are more interested in ancient aliens and the two gay pickers who also have a pretty similar person working for them who probably, has done the same sort of photo shoot. Is she an actual porn star or did she just pose nude? Interesting Should've just moved to Jersey.. 
Then she'd still be a Pawn Stah.. No wonder chumlee always wanted to work the night shift.  Pretty tame shots, really. I realize suicide girls is basically softcore porn but it's too bad that pawn stars producers found that so offensive, especially considering the name of the show itself is a play on the term "porn star." Hot, yes. Porn star, no. She posed naked. She is also attractive clothed and naked. If you have video of her sucking  cock  or fucking,  or taking it up the ass, let me know. I wanna watch it. Posing nude? Please, My dick is on the Internet accidentally more  than most nude models. So basically they were like, "Let's make a reality show about pawn shops that has a pun that refers to porn (which seems to be a huge trend for some reason) but then shy away from having a softcore porn actress on our show." As far as I know, she doesn't do porn, she's a "Suicide Girl", and she was fired from the TV show because of those photos. I think she still works there, at least she did continue working there, but it's been a while, not sure now.  Like videos? All i see are pictures :( I wish it was the book expert instead...  How many times has Chumlee fapped to those pics?  Lol. You *could* say that she went from *pawn star* to... *adult film actress*.


-

What can I get for this?

Whatcha got?


*brownchickenbrowncow* I wouldn't call solo nudity shots, porn. She did Suicide Girl Modeling. I'll be researching that later. She still works there! Just not on screen anymore, IIRC There are few things in life quite as satisfying as seeing somebody on tv and wanting to see them naked... and then later actually seeing them naked. She continued to work at the shop off camera, but did leave after a short time. Rick actually didn't care, it was the producers that took her off the show. She apparently still works there, just off camera She wasn't a porn star... she took nude modeling photos for suicide girls. 

Porn is way different. Does suicide girls = being a star now? When that happened she was still allowed to work in the actual pawn shop. She just couldn't appear on camera. A little while after that she left the pawn shop all together.  Oh geez She did an [AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/15lglv/i_am_olivia_black_from_pawn_stars/) a couple of years back Wouldn't that promote the show more? When was she actually in Pawn Stars? What was her role? Do you think Chum Lee got to hit that at least once though? Forever unclean. Some photos of her were posted here not too long ago. I'd search and link them but I'm on mobile. (But they were pretty nice) thats... ironic. No it isnt. -Brenda from Beverly Hills: 90210 was written off the show because Shannen Doherty was being a demanding self-entitled bitch and got fired.

-Prue Halliwell was killed in Charmed because Shannen Doherty was fired for being a demanding self-entitled bitch and kept getting into arguments and having hissy fits about Alyssa Milano, aka the main selling point of the show.

...You'd think the woman would have learned her lesson at some point. And now she's got a plethora of failed reality shows. Yay team. TL;DR Shannen Doherty plays Shannen Doherty on TV And then got fired. For being a demanding self-entitled bitch. Just wondering if you all noticed one of her eyes is lower than the other. Yes, that and the fact that the gap in her teeth seemed to magically grow, then shrink, then grow... Anyone ever notice [Shannen Doherty's eyes](http://i.imgur.com/aANY6Iz.jpg)?
 seriously though once you notice it you CAN NOT UNSEE IT. every time you see her face you will only be able to look at her eyes and go "..........why..........WHY........." I was about to get in an elevator after a fashion show in NYC and was refused access by some big man in there with a woman...Shannon Doherty. She refused to share elevators with commoners. Wow. Can just anybody hire a big bodyguard and have the world to themselves?  Brodie was probably just proving he still had his libido. Too bad. I thought she was the hottest. But her replacement was hot too.  Fuck yeah, Rose McGowan was so hot. My girlfriend just finished marathoning Charmed and I was on board the moment I realised how hot the sisters are Until she turned her face into a limpet. She got into a car accident and had to have surgery on her face I believe.  This. though it looks like she went a bit further than that and got her lips done too.  Does that also require lip implants?  What do you mean? I'm not up-to-date on her face. I prefer to live in the past, in that respect. Nice tits though...credit where credits due source? Here you go my good man

http://dontlinkthis.net/movies/sdpb/sd2.jpg
http://dontlinkthis.net/movies/sdpb/sd2.jpg

 Damn that nipple is like perfect Well, looks like you are the good man, my good man. Holy...nice,  but that bitch had the hands of Sauron even back then. Christ. That is like the hand the Disney animators drew for the old worth who gave Snow White the apple. Not anymore, they got someone else to play her on her reality show, she was being a self entitled demanding bitch. Last time I saw her in anything it was a bad commercial for one if those tv "colleges." method acting Aaron Spelling ultimately banished her from doing any more work for him. Might not seem like much but for a while he was producing every other show on air. At least, that's what it felt like. &gt; -Brenda from Beverly Hills: 90210 was written off the show because Shannen Doherty was being a demanding self-entitled bitch and got fired.

Shannon Doherty in the 1990s was the first time I heard someone say "there's no such thing as bad publicity." First one I thought of. How are her and Holly Marie Combs new show doing? Haha it's failed and over with already. [Here's an interview they gave about it.](http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2015/01/19/shannen-doherty-and-holly-marie-combs-want-to-talk-off-map-not-alyssa-milano) I kind of get the feeling that they both have some major attitude problems...HMC is probably just able to hold it back better professionally.

EDIT: I will give points to Shannen for her reaction to the interviewer asking her how she "avoided the pitfalls" of being raised in the spotlight Wow. That's strange to hear, I always heard she was a demanding self-entitled bitch  Sometimes, people are said to be demanding self-entitled bitches and they end up actually being demanding self-entitled bitches. It's heartwarming. It's such a shame she's like that in real life. I absolutely loved Prue in Charmed. I thought one of her eyes just kept looking in the wrong direction, so she just walked off never to be seen again.  to be honest Milano and holy marie combs were just as big of self-entitled bitches, they became the show producers and made it their private circlejerking, and the quality went pretty much below sea level at that point  And now...http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=_bXxqm0c-pE &gt; Alyssa Milano, aka the main selling point of the show.
&gt; 

Sure, maybe she was, but damn it, Prue's replacement (Paige, played by Rose McGowan) is the main selling point for *me.* Isn't she one of the Charlie's angels? Well I liked her in Mallrats .  Oh I'm not saying she's a bad actress...she's actually a very good actress.

Still, you can't go around treating everyone you come into contact with worse than shit and expect people to recognize you for your talent. A very good actress.

Have you ever watched Beverly Hills 90210?! Hahah I didn't find it interesting. I did see Charmed, though, and she was good in that. I haven't seen Charmed but I loved to hate her on 90210. She's still hot She didn't last as the spokesperson for Education Connection either. Just saying. I have no story to share. Yeah she's a real piece of shit. You ever see those embarrassing commercials she does. Hard to watch  &gt; Alyssa Milano, aka the main selling point of the show

I like to think that the main selling point of Charmed was the fact that it was a damn good show
 And it was with the same production company, Spelling Television.  Actually it's very interesting, I recently saw an article that claims that the other leads now claim that it was (Phoebe?) who was the bitch.

I'm still looking for it but Shannen Doherty and Holly Marie Combs are [working](http://nypost.com/2014/12/30/ex-charmed-stars-doherty-combs-reunite-for-great-american-road-trip/) together again. 

Closest I can [find](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/07/10/alyssa-milano-shannen-doherty-feud-charmed_n_3577245.html) Shannen and Holly have been friends for like 20 years, so they're always going to side with each other. And that road trip show of theirs completely flopped, haha. I just have a tendency to believe Shannen was the problem, because these were not isolated incidents for her-various people have commented on her behavior. The only bad things I've ever heard about Alyssa come from these two. Who was is that she tried to pay someone to beat the shit out of? I remember the news story included that the victim was to be "raped on his own front lawn"

I would have sworn it was Rick Salomon, but wikipedia says they were married in the 2000s, and I thought this happened in the 1990s. I don't get it. I've met her. She's super fucking nice. My mom and I both talked about this because having heard all these things prior to meeting her we were very reluctant, but she was super sweet and talked to us for a good 15 mins.  Was this within the last few years? I have heard she's been getting a little better.

She was notorious in the 90s and early 2000s for being completely impossible to work with. I'm thinking she's finally starting to regret that...the one problem I see now is how she tries to downplay people's recollection of how things went while working with her. For example, when Jason Priestley wrote his book, Shannen started saying that his memory was probably fried after that car accident like ten years ago. That was a cheap shot.

I don't know. I guess when your career goes from popular TV star to failed reality train wreck, you have to redeem yourself somehow. It was probably 5 or 6 years ago now? I don't know, she was just so ridiculously nice and she wasn't just faking it like some people do. I had heard she was a mega bitch but she was soooooo sweet. It blows my mind. Yeah lol her career isn't what it used to be but Eh.  [Relevant.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HspGbllnkVU)

In Mall Rats (1995) Doherty (playing a character named Rene) is called "Brenda" (her 90210 character name) and reacts according to her reputation.  Shannan was so hot in charmed
Too bad she's a bitch To be fair with Charmed that show was just 3 egos locking horns until someone won. &gt; plethora 

Jefe, what is a plethora? God I love Shando. She has Jackie O eyes, one eye is higher on her face than the other.  Good Times:  There was a lot of cast conflicts with the show, mainly with John Amos and Esther Rolle who played the mother and father.  Both of the actors wanted the show to have a more comedy drama feel towards it, with shows that explored social issues in regards to living in the projects at the time.  However, with the popularity of the JJ character (their oldest son on the show, played by comedian Jimmie Walker), the show started to focus more on him.  Esther Rolle was rather vocal about it, and in an interview, called out the JJ character as being a poor role model for black youths as he was basically written in the show as a jobless, uneducated, buffoon.  Eventually, John Amos, after getting into several arguments with Norman Lear, the producer of the show, did not have his contract renewed, and he was killed off on the show.  Esther Rolle, eventually getting tired of the show, left and was written off of the show by marrying a man she had been dating in season 4, and then moving with him to Arizona.   Damn, damn, DAMN! *breaks plate The Don &amp; Mike show used to play this clip all the time and it never failed to crack me up.  It's such an unnatural reaction to the death of a loved one.  I get why it had to be done that way, but it's silly nonetheless. Im glad someone posted this. I love Good Times. The show sucked too without the mom and James. I hated how they somewhat tried to slide Keith in. Keith was annoying.  The mom's name was Florida, which I always thought was awesome. Why'd you punch Jimmy Walker, Eddie?  I loved Good Times. I always saw Keith and Thelma getting married and having to live in the apartment after Keith's accident (Star Football player on his way to the NFL breaks his leg at his own wedding by tripping over JJ while walking down the aisle - what luck!) was just a lame attempt at adding a new father/mother back to the family.   Man I woulda smashed Willona and Thelma had that ass

Damn that was a good show  Yep.  That's how I felt too.  Wow, I didn't know that. I missed them so much. The show wasn't as good without them.  The concept of killing off the dad was something Lear had come up with if Carroll O'Conner proved to be difficult to negotiate with on All in the Family. But of course, you can't kill off the star of the top rated show in America. So they used it on Good Times. As much as Good Times meant to me growing up, it never made any sense that JJ was still acting like a kid when they killed James off. JJ would have been 20 years old and he was still getting punished by his daddy. Come on man. DYN-O-MITE!!! Steve Urkel was the 90s version of JJ. I came here just to post this Trevor and Corey fulfilled their contracts to Trailer Park Boys up to season 6, after which they chose to not renew their contracts and left because the cast and crew essentially treated them like shit and were paid low wages despite playing integral parts of the show.

EDIT: I figured it'd be smart to back up what I'm saying, so I'm linking a statement by Michael Jackson (the actor who played Trevor) telling his story behind his leaving of the show:

http://saintjohnshawn.com/2007/06/13/trailer-park-boys-what-really-happened-to-corey-and-trevor/ Trevor and Corey left because they were treated like Trevor and Corey  I really miss Corey and Trevor. I thought they were great characters and very funny. Especially Trevor was hilarious because he was so awkward and always wanted his high fives haha.  Cory's back now, still no signs of Trevor
 Apparently Trevors kind of close to coming back, just has some other commitments right now corey, trevor, smokes chips come on now I heard that it was just the film crew that treated them like shit and that the boys didn't blame them for leaving. I read an interview with Jackson (Trevor) where he said they had production responsibilities too and sil got paid dirt  That's a shame. Really great guys. My father goes hiking with one of them from time to time always says he's absolutely hilarious. Smokes lets go So they are Cory and Trevor in real life. 

I wondered how the actors seemed so natural when beating them up. That sounds pretty fucky. Corey has come back to the show but Trevor hasnt. Jacob really stepped up in his role though and what they did with him was great. Don was a fantastic addition too IMO. Can't wait for season 9. I'm sure you're well aware of this by now but the moment I laid eyes on Don I said that fuck chicken looked exactly like Mike Smith; sure enough, they're cousins. He had a long interview on his website and I think even some AMA stuff? Or am I misremembering?  Bubs and the boys replied to this basically saying Michael Jackson was full of shit. Would link but on phone

Update: The link to [Mike Smith's reply to Trevor's rant](http://www.reddit.com/r/trailerparkboys/comments/26eani/response_to_michael_jackson_trevor/) If you are able to supply the link later, that'd be amazing, I'd love to see that. Well, their roles in the show were basically shit-fodder.It sucks that they carried that attitude into real life. John Spencer (Leo McGary) died of a heart attack earlyish into the last season of The West Wing (after his role having a heart attack and surviving it a few seasons earlier). They didn't acknowledge his death in the show for a long time, his character would just sort of fade off the screen as they ran out of footage they already shot.

When they finally worked it into the story, everything about it was absolutely heartbreaking. There's a scene where some of the characters go to the hospital, where they are told he's dead, and the faces tell the story, you can tell there's a real loss behind all this. The memorial service a few episodes later is even harder to watch.

 Kristin Chenoweth's reaction in that ep always breaks my heart. She wasn't on long, but they had such wonderful chemistry.  It generally takes a while for shows to catch up to real life, because they are shot ahead of time by a bit. Some extra stuff: 

The episode in which he dies (or after? Can't remember) starts out with Martin Sheen who plays President Josiah Bartlett (to whom Leo was chief of staff previous, and closest friend) giving a euology to John, ending with the line "We'll miss you Johnny". It's incredibly poignant. 

Also, John's death altered the show: 

*SPOILERS AHEAD*

He was the VP Candidate running with Matt Santos, the democratic candidate. Originally, they were going to lose the election, but the showrunners ended up changing this, as they felt it would be too sad to both have Leo (an integral and very popular character) die AND the "heroes" (West Wing is pretty unbiased, but still clearly favors democrats) lose something as big as the presidential election.  I think they had something in the behind the scenes features on the dvds or some kind of reflection where they interviewed most of the actors when it happened, and their testimonials were gut-wrenching. They all seemed to be incredibly fond of him and it was difficulty to watch. The original Claire in my wife and kids left because her parents didn't like that they did an episode on teen pregnancy the second Claire was sooooooooo much hotter The second Claire was way better anyway.  I remember that show, I'm pretty sure most of the actors ended up being replaced?
 Nope just her.  Just claire was replaced and also Jr.s fiance was originally Megan Good but then she left the show and they replaced her I have never heard of that show, so your lack of capitalization made me think you were just explaining why your wife left you. I always wondered why she left. I lost interest when they replaced her
 Blue Bloods: Detective Curatola has Celiac's and was cut out of many scenes and eventually written out of the show. She's still fighting for back pay and filed discrimination claims with CBS. 

Spartacus has Cancer in real life, hence why season 2 is a prequel and not a continuation of season 1.  

Detective Stabler wanted too much money on Law &amp; Order SVU.  Unfortunately, Spartacus (Andy Whitfield) did not survive his cancer. Oh no! That's so sad, I didn't know he passed away, I thought he's still fighting it.  The last two seasons are a different actor. Different feel to the show altogether. Still good, just different.  The one thing I did like about the second guy tho was that he had a loud commanding voice. That Andy didn't do as well. But other than that Andy was way better  I still watch this show on Netflix often as it is one of my favorite shows over the last 5 or 6 years. I agree with this voice thing. However, I thought Liam did a fantastic job under the circumstances. I heard once, but never confirmed, that Liam was one of the finalists to land the role in the first place, losing out to Andy. I would give a whole hell of a lot to see what the last two seasons would have looked like with Andy at the helm but they were still great as they were. Oh yeah. I mean I'd prefer Andy for the whole show. But I agree that Liam did very well.  His death from cancer happened in the time season 1 ended and season 2 began.  It was tragic.. But the actor who replaced him (can't think of his name right now) did such a wonderful job. At least they didn't cancel the show.  Liam McIntyre. He's about to play Mark Mardon, the Weather Wizard, on *The Flash*. The dude who played Crixus was also Slade Wilson/Deathstroke on Arrow.

I wonder if there are some behind-the-scenes connections between the two shows. Don't forget Ashur as Captain Boomerang on Flash. Really? I haven't seen the show yet. I keep hearing good things though. It's still got some of that... well, I call it "new show cheese" to it that seems to plague the first season of any CW show. Still like it though. The guys from Prison Break played partners in an episode as well. Is it just me or is everyone from Spartacus in Arrow/The Flash?  It was an Australian replacing an Australian. Andy was British.  Specifically, Welsh.  He emigrated to Oz in the 90s though and had a successful Aussie TV career, hence the misapprehension. I actually felt bad for liam mcintyre.  If he was spartacus from the start the show would have been as good or almost as good as with whitfield.  Sadly, he had to fill in for a guy who also did an awesome job and had to leave under tragic circumstances.  It just wasn't to be and I really enjoyed that show.   Yeah it kind of sucks.. And I remember when I heard the news. I thought he wasn't going to be able to live up... But I think he did.  I think he did an excellent job, but to live up to another excellent job after a tragic death is basically impossible.  I don't want to take anything away from Liam, but I don't think he could overcome all the drama surrounding the show.   Idk about you... But I want to watch Spartacus again.. Lol The first season of spartacus was so good Personally, the second season, the prequel season, was the best.  I fucking loved Batiatus. Josh Hannah is so good at being bad.  *John Hannah

And I'd always really liked him and felt like he had a lot more potential when I was watching him in the Mummy movies, seeing him cut loose as Batiatus was amazing and has me wanting to look into some of his other roles. Stabler was worth it SVU has gone down hill since then and decoded to jump the shark. The new detectives are fucked john munch and craigan are gone and olivia is dealing with some serious shit. I stopped watching after Stabler left. It just didn't feel the same.  I thought Stabler left to do a role in True Blood. Yeah, I heard he was doing other acting gigs and it conflicted with his schedule on SVU.  That is the reason. /u/thetiffany is incorrect. &gt; In May 2011, Meloni announced that he would not be returning to SVU in fall 2011 for its 13th season after the failure of negotiations over a new contract.

[Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher_Meloni) it could be a little from Column A, a little from Column B. That doesn't say anything about not giving him enough money.  In fact, in his own words, he was just ready to leave SVU. 
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/01/christopher-meloni-svu-departure-true-blood_n_1641741.html Why would anyone be fired for not being able to eat wheat? How would that even impact your work? Was every episode about consuming loaves of bread? Jennifer Esposito is super hot Are you talking about the gluten intolerance, Celiac's? I have Celiac's, and that first point makes no sense to me. 

Basically the same as "he was cut from the show due to his peanut allergy." Wait, they were seriously discriminating against Celiac??? "I don't agree with the fact that you can't bread. You're fired." I'm confused.  With Spartacus, they wanted to give him time to fight it and come back so they made the prequel. Sadly, Andy passed away so they recast with Liam, a guy who was really close to getting the part originally. I knew there was something with Curatola leaving! She was like "I'm going away for a long time for personal reasons" and never came back. So stupid. Wait Celiac Disease is treated with a gluten free diet...that would have been a simple fix... Not always. I'm not sure about the actress and her health, but going for years with Celiac and not knowing it can fuck up your body. You can also suffer from Refractory Celiac Disease, where you're past the point of the gluten free diet helping. True 70% get improvement with the gluten free so that is a significant number of people with refractory sprue and for those people, malabsorption is still a big issue. No, it is not *treated* with a gluten free diet.  I mean uptodate.com says in the first sentence ["Celiac disease can be defined as a condition in which there is an abnormal small intestinal mucosa that improves morphologically when treated with a gluten-free diet and relapses when gluten is reintroduced"](http://i.imgur.com/mWZdivX.jpg) &gt;relapses when gluten is reintroduced. 

Treated is a bad word... you cannot recieve treament as a celiac the same way you receive treatment with the flu or something. [deleted] She is in every single episode and has had major character arcs in the last few seasons.  She isn't doing limited appearances. &gt; Detective Stabler wanted too much money on Law &amp; Order SVU. 

He was an ass anyway, the show is much better without him.
 Go away Dick Wolf. Go eat dick Mr.Wolf.

Ftfy Jennifer Lien was written off of Star Trek Voyager because at the eleveneth hour her co-star, Garret Wang, was named in one of the prominent top 10 hot lists. The writers quickly reshuffled the script and she was let go instead. (Someone *had* to go in order to make room for Jeri Ryan)

I'm glad too. Kes was so boring.  Kes was boring, but so was Ensign Kim.  They had real problems writing danger for the bridge crew.  Every bad thing that ever happens, happens to Kim. Dude got fucked in-story too. He was an ensign for seven fucking years. The fucking ex-con who never followed the rules and kept fucking things up made Lt. before he did. Don't forget that he [actually *died*, and was replaced by a Kim from a parallel universe](/spoiler) Right?! It never came up, Kim is dead, straight up dead, and just replaced with an alternate reality kim, and everyone just kinda goes wellp whatever. 
 Miles O'Brien says Hi. And the baby too! Ditto with tuvix. They just pretended that guy wasnt a real person. With few objections.  From anyone.  Ever.
 No kidding.  I recently re-watched Voyager for the first time in years.  There's a scene where Naomi Wildman casually mentions to someone that "one time, Tuvok and Neelix got fused into a totally different person."  Yeah, because that's a goofy Voyager anecdote, not a horrible ethical dilemma where Captain Janeway arguably murdered someone. The "drama" in that episode felt rather artificial overall.

Some may say that of Voyager overall, but that episode in particular.  In some ways it was like they were trying to manufacture an ethical crisis and imply that everyone had to quietly live with the painful implications afterwards... and pretty much failed.

The episode ads going on about how Tuvix was going to be your favorite character and the greatest being ever in the history of Star Trek (a heretical assertion by them; Morn has that title now and in forevermore) didn't help, either. Well, at least the alternate reality had on branched from the main one within the episode. As I remember it, it was the anomaly of the week that created an alternate reality just hours before Harry prime dies. It's not like it was a bizarro-Harry who grew up completely differently. If you want to count STO story for anything they brought Garret Wang in for an anniversary expansion that centers around the Kim who died. In it (30 or so years later) the Kim who died was actually found by that race of aliens who reanimate dead bodies as a form of reproduction and you help Admiral Kim chase him around. And Kim just returned from the dead as a Kobali in Star Trek Online. That's the one thing that made me really angry about that show. I couldn't believe that they did that.


Shit that happens to T.V characters almost never bothers me that much. Harry Kim and Ned Stark were a couple of them. I learned of course that Ned Stark's was necessary, Kim's was not however.



They brought over that other characters dead baby too. The baby gets to die and the mother has an alternate reality replacement for it. 


So stupid and so pointless. Kim gets fucking sucked out into space and dies for no reason. I'm still mad about it. Garret Wang actually talked about the writing for his character on Voyager.  He kept asking them for permission to ad-lib a bit or to introduce some more humor into his character, since he's a pretty goofy/funny guy in real life, but they repeatedly shot him down.

He said Rick Berman actually came in on the first day of shooting and insisted that all the human characters keep their acting as wooden as possible, so as not to "overshadow the alien characters".  

Actually, there's a lot of douchey stuff Rick Berman's done while working on Star Trek over the last few decades.  From what I remember, he resented having to work on a sci-fi show from the start. That actually really bothers me. I think the premise was really interesting for a Trek show and I really liked the concept of all the characters.


It doesn't really surprise me though, sadly. Tom Parris is superhumanly competent, so it makes some sense. He's the resident pilot, commando, nurse, mechanic, even gives B'elanna a run for her money as a shuttle engineer.  That's karmic payback for having made lizard babies with Janeway. Hell, Paris was initially made a lieutenant after they got stuck in the Delta Quadrant, was demoted to ensign, and then was made lieutenant again. Harry Kim...still an ensign. Tuvok also got promoted. Star Trek does that a lot. In DS9 the whipping boy is O'Brien. In Enterprise it is Trip. DS9 being the pinnacle of that art. I'm hard pressed to think of a character that had things worse than O'Brien. Maybe Reek. Like the episode where he gets 20 years worth of memory of hard core prison stuck in his brain? Almost gets executed by Cardassians? His daughter goes caveman? His wife possessed? 


Dude should have stayed on the Enterprise. Stayed on the Enterprise you say?

http://chiefobrienatwork.com/ He kept separating his shoulder too river rafting in the holosuites.  And could have gotten killed during his Orion Syndicate infiltration. And then his best friend - with which he is always competing - turns out to be genetically enhanced, making him superior than O'Brian in almost every way. Speaking of his wife... I found she was a horrible actor and had trouble watching episodes centered around her. I'm almost certain there is something wrong with her sinuses.  Every time she said "Miles" there is like a tiny "b" noise in there.  Like bMiles.  Drove me *crazy*. I know, I mean a botanist?  She was so playing a mycologist. Don't forget the episode where ["prime timeline" O'Brien dies after persuading "alternate future timeline" O'Brien to take his place!](/s) That episode where he has 20 years worth of memories of prison implanted into his brain was the first episode of DS9 that made me sit up and take notice of the show. For years before that, I (like many others) dismissed DS9 as the Trek where the characters go nowhere and do nothing.

Man, how wrong I was. Also, unlike most stuff in Star Trek, it wasn't fixed at the end of the episode. From that point on he had to live with those memories. Yeah! I think that's probably what made that episode draw me into DS9, the lack of a 'reset button' (I'm looking at you, Voyager) at the end of the episode was incredibly refreshing. Fun fact: he was in the first episode of TNG as a helmsman.  Don't forget that he killed a man during that prison stay.   And he came very close to suicide because of it. Keiko was a nicer person with the Pah Wraith in her. My understanding is originally it was just coincidence that all the bad crap happened to O'Brien, but when the writers noticed a pattern they just went with it. There was a quota of one awful-things-happen-to-O'Brien episode per season. O'brian must suffer They used O'Brien for the disasters because he was Everyman. Everybody else was superhuman, but people related to O'Brien, so he got strapped to a chair and his molar yanked out. Plus he was the only nco in starfleet. Took about ten years to even create a rank insignia for him.  His life was always pretty shit. 
http://chiefobrienatwork.com

(Sorry, forgot formatting, mobile idiocy)
*apparently app does linking.  That show had problems period. Apart from a handful of episodes, it never quite gelled as a show. Mostly because of the poor writing and lack of chemistry among the cast. Compare any episode of Voyager and TNG and the difference is striking.  Voyager wasn't as good as the other series, but it did have its moments, and one of my all time favorite Trek characters is The Doctor.  Janeway had her moments as well, as did 7, Paris and Tuvok, but the rest could have been replaced and it probably would have improved the show.  Robert Beltran (Chakotay) wasn't a *bad* actor but his character was an afterthought in most cases.  There were only a few episodes that focused on him and only one or two that weren't somehow cringely involved with his Native heritage.  In fact, one of my favorite episodes of Voyager was [Shattered](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shattered_%28Star_Trek:_Voyager%29), which was Chakotay driven.

And the tone-deafness of the writers didn't help at all when it came to interpersonal relations.  The actors for Paris and Torres had zero chemistry.  Negative chemistry if that's possible so of course the writers pair them up.  The Doctor and 7 have enormous chemistry for 2 or 3 seasons so of course in the last few episodes of the series they shoehorn in a pairing of 7 and Chakotay with absolutely no buildup or logical starting point, despite Chakotay having more chemistry with Janeway than the rest of the crew put together.   &gt; one of my all time favorite Trek characters is The Doctor.

All of Voyager's best episodes are Doctor episodes. What's worse is that they're *excellent* stories, in general. So I'd love to be able to share those awesome stories with buddies, but I can't bring myself to actually say "You should watch some goddamn Voyager!", and the episodes are weaker without context. It's infuriating. Voyager was by far my favorite series, along with the original series. I couldn't get into the other shows that much though, so perhaps there's a fundamental difference between Voyager and the rest that translate to poor experiences for Trek fans but not necessarily other people.


I always thought that Voyager was the least like Startrek of any of the Startreks. In terms of plot of the series it actually is. Its not really about starfleet and its relations with surrounding alien races. Where all other star trek series have this as their foundarion Oh my god I love the episode where they beam him to the Alpha quardant and he ends up with that other medical hologram and they have so many funny moments. "They think there's Romulans on board!" "THEY'RE RIGHT!" Ah, so sarcastic, so awesome.  &gt; Robert Beltran (Chakotay) wasn't a bad actor but his character was an afterthought in most cases.

Ever noticed how often he is holding a pad just for the sake of it? There's even a scene where Voyager is under attack and he's just standing there tapping away on his little pad. The computers they had on Voyager may have super-powerful AI-based operating systems, but the Mushroom Kingdom isn't gonna save itself.  Priorities, dude.
 &gt;  In fact, one of my favorite episodes of Voyager was Shattered, which was Chakotay driven.

That's what Beltran was complaining about the whole time, why couldn't his character be written like that instead of just a random stereotype?  Shattered was really good and beltran turned in a great performance.  In his ama awhile ago he kept talking about how he always tried to find the flute player whenever he was on screen.  I didn't consciously realize it, but more than half of his screentime is accompanied by random flute music.  

Shattered was chipotle at his best, but at his worst he was written as an overtly offensive native american stereotype.   Did you just call Chakotay, "chipotle?" You just made my morning.  I picked it up on reddit and have been doing it ever since.   &gt;  Robert Beltran (Chakotay) wasn't a bad actor but his character was an afterthought in most cases. 

It's never been much of a secret that he was largely phoning it in and he clashed with Rick Berman and others when he pointed out a lot of plots didn't make sense. He did better than most people would have done with the shit material he was given to work with.  I much prefer the chemistry between [THESE TWO](http://imgur.com/a/1JNPu). What's funny, is that [Kate Mulgrew and Jeri Ryan actually despised each other,](http://trekcore.com/blog/2014/11/ryan-mulgrew-feud/) but their characters had so much chemistry. To be fair, there were some freaking terrible episodes of TNG. It was still a great show, but seriously, everyone acts like 100% of the episodes were gold. Pretty much the entire first season was so, so bad. Yep. I like TNG but every time someone cites it as the end all be all of Sci Fi, I challenge them to watch the third episode, [Code of Honour](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0708689/?ref_=ttep_ep3). Oh, that's exactly what I was thinking of. (Pretty much any Wesley episode was terrible, but Code of Honour was one of the worst pieces of fiction I've ever seen.) I can never stand that episode. &gt; I can never stand that episode.

From what I've heard in interviews, neither can the cast. Or anyone else involved. I'd watched a ton of TNG before getting around to the first season and it's jarring how bad a lot of it is. Code of Honor.... jebus. 1987 and they had an episode with Space Africans.

Season 2 was a massive improvement but the show didn't really hit its stride until season 3. They were using scripts from the original star trek for seasons 1 and 2.  Now it makes a lot more sense, doesn't it?   EVERYONE hated that one.  I believe that was the "worst episode" named by a lot of the cast and crew, too.  I think it actually made it through production because they literally didn't have time to do anything else.  I vaguely recall something about the director being canned after it - supposedly he was the one who made a lot of the calls on the alien culture being "stereotypical Africans in space." I grew up watching TNG, but realized recently that I've only ever seen the episodes in syndication.  I'm watching it now on prime,  and good god are some of these bad.  Im even skipping some,  just because I don't want the memories of these episodes attached to such beloved characters.   Those bitches need some Asimov slapped into them. The best sci-fi isn't on tv, yet. I watched it, it was just as bad as most of the other episodes in Season 1. I've yet to meet anyone that doesn't think that most of the first season is anything less than terrible (mediocre, at best), even people who are fans of the show. I think the thing is, there was a lot more better episodes of TNG on average than Voyager though. Even when I was vastly less critical of shows when Voyager originally aired, I was hating the writing more and more as the show progressed in seasons until I was just glad it ended. I've rewatched the first four seasons of TNG, and while the first season was horrible and the second an improvement....it got pretty polished after that. I haven't rewatched any Voyager, but I'd be surprised if it's a lot better than what I remember. There was some alright episodes from what I remember though.
 Finally finished my Netflix binge a while back. Seasons 1,2, and 7 were by and large awful. Even the cast makes fun of a lot of the first two seasons.  
 So far I have enjoyed all the series of Star Trek. Each series had their own problem shows, but overall they were pretty good. Its sad there is no Star Trek on now. I vastly prefer DS9 over Voyager. There's a lot more character development and relationship development between the characters. I'm currently trying again to get all the way through Voyager, last time I think they lost me somewhere in season 5. Oddly, Voyager was my favorite Star Trek show. My least favorite was TNG. Voyager rocked because it had a great premise. Seriously, Voyager is the best. The writers were the main problem.  They all had their own ideas of each character's personality and so basically every episode shared only the ship itself.  It was as if each episode was being told about a parallel universe with how disparate the characters' personalities were from writer to writer. From what I heard, a lot of the problems on the set of Voyager had to do with the tension between Kate Mulgrew and Jeri Ryan.  Apparently, Mulgrew resented the spotlight pretty much being handed to Ryan after she joined the show, and she also thought that having a character with such obvious sex appeal downplayed the seriousness of the original premise, which was to have a female captain for once.  

I think she's since apologized a bit.  Garret Wang mentioned that it caused a lot of awkward moments on set.  

I know for DS9 (still a great show post season 5), the cast didn't get much time to socialize because the production crew was super serious and anal about wasting time, so they didn't really get a chance to shoot the shit or have any fun.  Frakes mentioned that whenever he or someone from TNG would visit the set to see old friends from the TNG crew, the producers would get annoyed because they'd completely change the tone of the set.

With TNG, the cast was notoriously rowdy to the point where one director refused to ever come back.  They were basically best friends during the entire run of the show, and they still regularly meet for dinner or go out to shows together.  Jonathan Frakes, Marina Sirtis and Michael Dorn are probably the closest three.  Frakes and Sirtis actually come off like a legit couple a lot of the time.  You'd barely known they were already married to other people.   Just got into star trek and watched tng and I just started season 4 of voyager. I enjoy voyager far more than tng. I think one of the biggest reasons is because I do not like picard at all and I do enjoy janeway much more. Plus 7of9 is great.  I mostly agree, but there are some really bad TNG episodes. When Q is dancing with a mariachi band for example.  I just watched that episode and I loved it. I always felt that Voyager would have been more entertaining with a "Harry Kim Owned count" that would go up every time he got beat up, shot, experimented on, tricked, etc. I don't think anyone's made that, but you may enjoy [the torpedo count](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PIGxMENwq1k). I wish someone would make a video showing every time Lt. Reed (ENT) just *says* the word, "torpedo" or "torpedoes".  I can't get over the way he pronounces it.  I love it.   How about every time he clumsily fell into open space and was replaced by an otherrealm version of himself? Like o'brien, but he actually showed emotion.

Shit, now I want to watch ds9 again... I worked with Garret Wang on a movie that was sunk in post production.  He was really positive on set and was always laughing and telling jokes.  Great dude. I don't know, I kind of saw Paris and Kim as a duo. Maybe Kim couldn't stand on his own that well, but him and Paris were my favorite characters on that show. 


He might not have had the most going on, but I thought he was really likable. I liked Kes as well to a degree, but I'm not even sure I could have kept watching without Kim in there somewhere.



Whereas I found Kes wasn't especially missed. I was kind of hoping to see her have that child she was supposed to have though. I mean the character had potential as a psychic, special member of her own race traveling far away from the cage that was their home. 



I'm having a hard time justifying why I like Kim so much now that I think about it. He didn't get written with much to do. I guess I just like stories about talented, self conscious rookies with a lot to prove?  Well he was an ensign for like, seven or eight years?  Longer?  

Honestly that long without a promotion I would have quit any job. It was a redux of "O'Brien must suffer." Kim got better as the series went on, largely through his interactions with Paris. You can view that as a bad thing I suppose, if he's onpy interesting as Paris' +1, as it were (slashfic incoming on the starboard bow).  Really?
I heard she was written in as the "beauty" of the show from the start, and when audiences refused to connect with her they replaced her with someone hotter.

And then we had a few seasons of the 7of9 show. &gt; And then we had a few seasons of the 7of9 show.

Ya, but never forget: 7of9 is the reason Barack Obama is president today. Yep, one of my favorite stories. Obama is president because an Illinois senator was apparently not satisfied with being married to *Jeri Fucking Ryan*. He's an idiot. My *wife* would marry Jeri Ryan.    
    
^^^^^^^^^No,really....she'ddoitinaheartbeat. It's not so much that he wasn't happy being married to Jeri Ryan, but he wasn't happy just banging her behind closed doors. 

&gt;After a court decision to unseal the documents, the Chicago Tribune reported that those documents revealed that then Congressman Ryan, "tried to coerce her into having sex with him in front of strangers." Following this disclosure Congressman Ryan withdrew from his Senate Campaign against Barack Obama.

[Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeri_Ryan)  ....can you elaborate? Obama won a Senate election against jeri ryans husband when some marital issues came to light. So if their marriage hasn't failed he might have won and Obama would not have been in position to run for potus. apparently, jack fucking jerry fucking ryan wasn't enough You must come to realize that no matter ***how*** hot or awesome or seemingly perfect a person is, someone somewhere is sick of their shit. There is no evidence of her shit. The reports are he wanted her to have sex in front of strangers, thus it seems its his shit, not hers. wuh? explain!! Jeri Ryan's husband was a politician running against Obama in an election. In their divorce proceedings, she shared some unflattering comments at an inopportune time and sunk his campaign, sealing victory for Obama. She didn't share it, someone managed to get the records for their divorce proceedings unsealed. She had tried to keep it a secret both for his career and so their kids wouldn't know. The Obama campaign was actually really good at getting divorce records unsealed.  They also got Blair Hull's divorce records unsealed.   Hull was leading Obama in the 2004 senate primary. IIRC, it was the newspapers, not the Obama campaign that pushed for it.  It certainly did benefit Obama though. It's good to have the press in your corner. I'm not surprised they did something like this. Why am I not surprised, damn it? We should be surprised when a politician does this. To get to the position of President, you can't be a very nice guy.  Now now Francis, calm down. You may very well think that. I couldn't possibly comment.  According to wikipedia it was the newspapers that sued for the unsealing of the divorce documents. Obama even stated he didn't think it was appropriate to release the divorce files and they shouldn't be on the table for debate. You are leaving out the important bits that really captured my imagination at the time.

Jack Ryan was apparently into that whole BDSM scenes and brought his wife to parties where they performed sex-acts on stage in front of an audience.

In her divorce papers she claims that she wasn't actually into it and was pressured into that whole stuff.  I think I missed that scene in *Patriot Games*.
 I think it's detailed in the post-Clancy books. I didn't see it in any of the other films either. Can't imagine that Anne Archer would have agreed to that sort of stuff. Damn, I never get invited to the fun parties. I find them boring.  You're not missing much unless you like watching people getting whipped or spanked.  Also, people dressed like horses complete with a "horse tail" dildo up their ass. It's possible I may think about that later. Holy shit.  Somewhere in this world, there are people walking around who have seen Jeri Ryan having sex live on stage in front of their faces. To be fair, the election was a statewide election for US Senator in Illinois.  Obama probably would have been elected anyway. If he wasn't elected to that first office he wouldn't have been chosen to deliver the address at the (2004? '06?) DNC. And that, as I recall, is when the presidential buzz began. Sorry, I should have been more specific with my last sentence.  Obama probably would have been elected to US Senator from Illinois in 2004 anyway. The DNC speech was while he was a candidate for Senate. [deleted] He was still easily favored. In 2004, the Illinois Republican Party was a mess with shitty candidates (That Alan Keyes was the best they could find shows you how much in shambles they were) with former Governor George Ryan having been sent to prison. Also notable is that current Republican Senator Mark Kirk was elected in 2010, the height of the teabagger wave. I would not expect him to be re-elected if he runs in 2016.  Jeri Ryan's ex-husband was the original Republican candidate in 2004 Senate election, but it turns out he's pretty skeevy, and information about him led to him dropping out, basically giving Obama a free ride to the Senate. &gt; pretty skeevy

I just read the Wikipedia article about him and I can't think of him as skeevy. He wanted to have public sex with his wife, she didn't want to, it didn't happen. It only become public because she had raised the issue in their custody proceedings and newspapers pushed to have those sealed court records unsealed. If anything, the newspapers are the skeevy ones for wanting to air something that should absolutely be private. I agree.  A married couples sex life is private and what people do behind closed doors (irony!) is no ones business. As a republican, you'd think he'd be all for government interference in the privacy of people's bedrooms. Thanks, *Voyager.* I'm so glad more people know this.  

Fun fact:  after Jack Ryan's sexual indiscretions came to light, he withdrew and the Republicans brought in Alan Keyes about 90 days before the election to run against Obama and nullify his race advantage.  It worked about as well as Keyes' numerous bids to become the first black president.  Obama, on the other hand... I'm going to need you to connect to dots for me on this one. Unless it's about her real life husband in which case I'm following. TIL the hot blonde chick from Star Trek with that thing around her eye was played by Ralph Nader. I feel like there's a piece of the story I'm missing.... Why? Can you please elaborate on that? Wait what? John Kerry is the reason Barack Obama is president. 7of9 allowed Barack Obama to have a cakewalk of an election for Illinois Senate. As a fan of voyager.... I need to understand this meme Which worked out well, because Seven was actually really funny. I didn't notice it when I watched it as a teenager, but Jeri Ryan was fantastic with her delivery and dry wit. I enjoyed both the 7 of 9 shows immensely.  Borg boobies.  She was supposed to be the beauty?

She'd be the prettiest checkout girl at a suburban grocery store, but that's about it. *shrug* Who else did the show have for young guy appeal?
I concur with your conclusion though. Yikes. I never found her "hot." Beautiful, yes, but she was a child. And Ensign Kim, he was so awesome.  "I can't get a lock." Harry Kim ensign Kim was Janeway's bitch for pretty much the entire show. The hell are you talking about? He was repeatedly a hero and should have been promoted several times. Instead, he was just kept at the same rank the entire show, even though his jackass buddy Tom Paris moved through ranks like a damn yo-yo. Ensign Kim deserved more. &gt;And then we had a few seasons of the 7of9 show.

Better 7/9 and the doc then the *episode that never happened*.  I legit stopped watching voyager for a while the first time I saw the episode where Paris turns into a lizard man, kidnaps the captain, and rapes her to make lizard babies.

 Warp 10, my ass. "Oh hey Captain, even though we evolved and made babies in a ridiculous version of evolution, we're totally cool right?" "Of course, Tom! Now that you've bedded two of the female Senior Staff, why not take a crack at Seven?" "That makes sense! Thanks Captain! Now I can truly be the Kirk/Riker of Voyager."

I love the show but damn did it have it's fair share of awful episodes. Was "the episode that didnt happen" ANY better than "Oh by the way the last half season didn't really happen LAWL" Including the episode where Seven of Nine cures death itself (Mortal Coil, S4E21), and it's treated like nothing serious. I enjoyed Voyager, and especially the character of Seven, but they really stopped caring at some point.  Eh, it wasn't that Seven really cured death... it was that they learned that a brain (and possibly only a Talaxian brain) isn't fully, unrecoverably dead until many hours later. So Neelix wasn't actually dead, he was just critically injured in a situation that everything expected to lead to death... and then Seven managed to revive him.

But then it was weird because the show didn't treat it like that, and instead the characters talked as if Neelix was actually completely dead and then brought back into existence again. That was the part that didn't make sense. Neelix shouldn't have had a crisis of faith, because he wasn't dead and shouldn't have expected to see his afterlife because he never died.

Anyway, Voyager did a lot of dumb stuff but inventing a situation where someone can be brought back like that was a relatively minor offense imho. &gt; I heard she was written in as the "beauty" of the show from the start, and when audiences refused to connect with her they replaced her with someone hotter.

This is all true, but it's only true that they actually bothered to replace her because of Garrett Wang was named as one of the top 50 most beautiful people by People magazine. If it wasn't for that, Harry Kim would be dead and we'd have had Seven and Kes on the ship together. Ahh, some clarity.
The two random tales are both true. They combine together.
Poor Harry, almost on the chopping block. I can believe this.  I knew she was suppose to be the hot one, but I just didn't like her.
 If read that Jennifer didn't like the fast pace of television.  Maybe it was a combination of all of them. She wouldn't have lasted too long tho since her race's lifespan was supposed to be 7 years.  I much preferred 7of9's storyline and I was so happy with the way Voyager went.  People may not like it as much as the other series, but it is definitely my favorite right behind TNG.
 I loved Voyager from start to finish, it did feel a little odd when seven had almost every storyline though. So much more we could have seen. And Kate Mulgrew apparently treated Jeri Ryan horribly the whole time. Ryan spoke about it in an interview on Aisha Tyler's podcast about two years ago. I liked Kes, but good grief - you couldn't really describe her as a hottie.  One piece body suit and with curly hair version was very foxy. I will never forget my brother coming tearing up the stairs saying, "Did you see the new episode? They have this new character... and she has HUGE tits!" and I immediately tuned in (as a gay teenage girl). Cute actress... terrible story lines for the longest time. It just felt so over the top and stupid.  IIRC, one good thing about Seven of Nine is she added conflict by questioning Janeway's decisions and morale high horse, however the bad thing is the writers always made Janeway's position the "correct" one and Seven's the "wrong" one. Then they totally destroyed her character in the last few years with Borg children and the Chakotay pairing that came from nowhere. Haha, I had a similar moment, but no one to say it too.
I had only ever seen a few episodes, but knew all the characters then tune in to a random episode from season 6 and Jerri was very "whoa" and jumps right out at ya. Yeah, but it was pretty awesome when she came back all murderous and pissed off. Aside from the part that it made no fucking sense? Yeah, great episode. Yeah, that episode was painful to watch. None of the episodes with Kes in it are enriched by her existence. Neelix deserved better. That was one of the better episodes of Voyager, in my opinion. And then the complete cop out of a resolution "Oh, I remember captain! Thanks, k-BYE!" I was torn about Kes.  On the one hand, the idea of an intelligent species with such a short lifespan would have made for an interesting arc during the life of the show (she appears in an episode a few seasons later, aged considerably).

On the other hand, the episode in which we learn how her race reproduces made me want to bash my head through the TV.  We're told each of the females is capable of having only one offspring in the course of their lives.  Simple math makes clear why that would lead to the species quickly going extinct, unless the males can somehow reproduce without females, or maybe the babies split like amoebas?  Knowing Star Trek fans, I'm sure there's an official solution for this problem on some website somewhere, but it wasn't explained in the episode. [This post](http://www.reddit.com/r/DaystromInstitute/comments/2tnx73/how_did_the_ocampa_reproduce/) covers the Ocampa Reproduction problem.  In short, "triplets are common."  Which makes sense.  Also, the Caretaker may have modified them, since they seemed pretty satisfied just to keep the species alive, regardless of any prospects for a future.  Though yes, I found that (and a lot of things) silly about the Ocampa.  I liked Kes, but her species... bleh. I always found it sad that Kes had to leave. Her species only has a lifespan of 9 years, so she'd be old by the end of the series. Would have made for some interesting storylines .... uhh, who am I kidding. It's Voyager we're talking about. They would have ignored it, or dealt with it in just one episode and then never mention it again.  you found kes boring? I kinda liked her. ~~Robocop~~ 7-of-9 didnt do anything for me

 7/9 behaved the most alien of any main character (since probably Data and Worf in TNG), rather than just being another person with a bumpy forehead, ears, etc. Though it was perhaps overplayed (I remember there being lots of scenes where someone described their current problem and her response was 'yeah, the Borg would never have that problem. If something like this came up, we'd either destroy it or reformat its brain, and everything would be good.') I thought that fit well with the ideals of humanity and getting other intelligent species to buy into that. The original species had Spock, Next Gen had Data, and DS9 kind of shifted from Odo to Quark. 

Sure, the Doctor was supposed to play that role, but he was way too emotive to do so. Seven did well because she was a human who lost her humanity and didn't want it back. That allowed for some interesting character development on a show that really needed that. i had a boner for her. I was also like 13 and she was practically naked, so there's that. 7/9, would bang Couldn't stand her in show. Her character was based around the fact that she had no individual personality - which resulted in a performance that had no personality. You've already got a stoney vulkan on the crew. It was a plot device that was poorly played with in a few episodes and then stuck around to rot for a few seasons so we could have ass hanging around during briefings.

Kes always felt shoe-horned into scenes. After a first few episodes she became the writer's version of "I don't know what to do with my hands here." 

In fact, most of the Voyager cast were a bunch of poorly played gimmicks and ripoffs from other characters that failed miserably.

Janeway? She's Picard, but lacking all of the meaningful struggles, philosophies, depth, and rich background that made Picard a great character. Her gimmick is just that she's a woman in command (and they do *nothing* with that). 

Tuvok? He's Spock, sans struggle to come to grips with his mixed heritage (i.e., utterly boring). 

Chakotay? Native American, got it. He's some weird spiritual side of the ship, like Riker smoked a joint and spent too long talking to guinan one night. All of his background with the Maquis is sorta swept away and becomes this thing everyone is embarrassed to talk about whenever it comes up.

B'elanna. Ok, she's not so bad. Spock with borderline, or maybe Alexander in DS9. The Maquis thing is still kinda swept away like experimenting with girls in college.

Kim: The god damn Meg of the show. He's there to be tormented.

~~Felix~~Neelix: Became Snarf from Thundercats. He could have  been so much more though.

Tom Paris: Wesley, if Wesley didn't come off as such a tool. More Maquis sweeping, but he's one of the few characters that sorta works. Just boring, again.

The Doctor: Obnoxious Data.

Seven of Nine: Boring Data with a nice ass.


Kes: Wesley if Wesley was Wesley Troi and not Wesley Crusher.

Almost all of these characters are bad and I don't know how the show made it to production when a lot of the alterations needed to make it work are so obvious.

Edit: yeah I screwed up a bunch of character names. Bear with me. Neelix being Snarf from  Thundercats made me giggle - I'd never noticed it before but you're absolutely right.



The powers that be in the network didn't want a show with two crews fighting one another, so the brilliant Maquis concept was completely swept under the rug. And in Star Trek sexism doesn't exist, so they couldn't make anything out of Kate Mulgrew being a woman, even though they were so awful at writing women in charge they wrote her so inconsistently Mulgrew says she ended up playing Janeway like someone with bipolar disorder (Night comes to mind specifically). Mulgrew does some great talks about it on YouTube So confused as to who Felix was. You mean Neelix right? &gt; Tom Paris: Weasley, if Weasley didn't come off as such a tool. More Maquis sweeping, but he's one of the few characters that sorta works. Just boring, again.

Paris = Wesley if he wasn't a tool. Thanks, that's the funniest thing I've seen all day. I liked her too, although it was clear they never had any idea what to do with her.

She was also kind of hot that time she got possessed by an alien warlord. Yeesh - she didn't age well Yikes...she really didn't. Oh damn; she certainly did not. &gt; Kes was so boring. 

That's a bold statement, in comparison to Harry Kim! I thought Kes was the best thing about that show.  She was sweet. In Star Trek Enterprise crewman Cutler very minor character is mentioned a couple times after the actor died suddenly. I think they intended to have her in more episodes and use her to further develop the doctor. 7 of 9.  So cold.


*but soooo hot* IIRC she kind of had a drug problem at the time too. I thought that contributed to her departure. My god, I forgot how much I hated Kes, Kim was not much better though
 &gt; "There was definitely concern on my part [....] Had they decided not to bring Harry back, it would not have been the end of my world, just as Jennifer's leaving is not the end of her world [....] Of course, nobody likes to be dropped from a show." Wang was not entirely sure why the producers decided to keep him in the series, but suspected that several factors were responsible. "In terms of what happened during that span of time, I'm not even going to ask," Wang said. "Demographic-wise, Kim plays to an audience that other people don't play to. You're also getting into a little sticky area with the ethnic issue. On top of that, it was a coup that I got into People Magazine [as one of the world's 50 most beautiful people]. I think Patrick Stewart was the only other person from the Star Trek world to get in. The timing of that, right during our hiatus, certainly couldn't have hurt me in terms of them keeping me on the show." 

source: [memory-alpha](http://en.memory-alpha.org/wiki/Garrett_Wang) Fuck, she was hot. Like seventies bush porn hot, but still. I was looking for this comment.

Kes *was* boring, *and* often very whiney.  The writers did a really shit job with the character; I'm sure the actress portraying her is perfectly fine.

I've known this Garret Wang/Jennifer Lien thing for a long time and often think when rewatching STVOY that the show would not have been nearly as good without Garret Wang. Difference between foreshadowing and foreplay.  Grandmother was amused, Mom was mortified. Either way, you know something is coming.  I re-named a goldfish "rainbow" when I was 7 because it kept changing color every few months. I told friends about this fish for years like it was some mystical kaleidoscope fish. It hit me in the face a couple months ago that the fish wasn't changing color...my parents were just replacing it when it died without telling me.  Mom: "Shouldn't we buy a fish that's at least the same color?"  
Dad: "Na, kid's aren't that bright."  
Edit: I like apostrophe's OK! &gt;Mom: "Shouldn't we buy a fish that's at least the same color?"  
Dad: "Na, kid's aren't that bright."  
Edit: I like apostrophe's OK!

Ah, those family arguments where Edit always had to have the last word. Dammit, Edit! When I was a young boy I had a black football coach (I'm white). 

I asked him, "hey coach, do black people get hotter in the sun than white people"

And he responded "well I dono I've never been white"

And then it hit me. "Ohhhhhh" Your coach's response is awesome. I love how the coach still knew the innocence behind the question.  That's what I thought, I was like... Holy shit he's totally right lol  From about 5th grade to 8th, I had the wrong understanding of what a dildo was. My friend Joe told me that it was when you cut off someone's dick and put it on a stick. Then I mentioned that one day, and everyone was just like WHAT THE FUCK DUDE. Like a corn dog?!  i thought that when people lose a body part their organism could regenerate the missing part until i was 13+-.
if i saw someone with a half of an arm missing i thought "good shit, his arm is almost complete"
 Did you ever provide words of encouragement? "Almost there! Keep up the good work!" I thought if you just blew into a balloon it would rise. I didn't realize it was the helium that caused the balloon to float until I was 18 and receptioning at a salon and had an extremely embarrassing moment of blowing up the balloons, tying the strings to them, and asking a co-worker why they were just laying on the ground. She almost died laughing. This is hilarious. All the sad balloons on the floor with strings.  I thought "I feel like a dog in heat" meant that you felt uncomfortably warm, like a dog in hot weather would feel.  

I was in the back of my friend's suburban on a road trip through Southern California when her parents asked if we wanted them to turn on the air conditioning.  *Yes, please. I feel like a dog in heat!*   As a non-English speaker, what does it mean? It sounds like you thought it was!

Edit: Got it, female dog wants to fuck. One time in 7th grade science, my class was having a discussion about volcanoes and then out of nowhere, a kid in the back yelled in the most surprised voice ever "wait! Volcanoes are real!?" I learned that I grew up in a white-trashy family around 10 through television. One night, I was watching tv and Jeff Foxworthy came on. I was a very content only child who to the best of my knowledge got everything they ever wanted and had no idea about things could/needed to be otherwise. Well, ole Jeff was well into his skit and I was avidly listening. "If you watch TV on a TV that sits on top of a broken TV, you might be a redneck." Wait, what? I'm watching tv sitting on top of a broken TV. "If you have a broken down car sitting in your front yard that hasn't been moved in years, you might be a Redneck." We have 5 of those, wth this isn't normal? "If you have appliances in your yard... If you've got shacks in your yard... If you live in a trailer next to a house... If... Etc... You might be a redneck." I looked around and painfully realized that I was living all of those things. So, that was the day I found out I was a redneck. It's kind of like the TV gag when the characters are watching a news report taking place outside of their house but don't realize it right away. Yer a redneck, Harry. This is an uncomfortable combination of adorable and sad.   

  

*Edit: I don't think being redneck is sad; I feel bad that the little girl was upset by the jokes. Not because I thought she should be ashamed.* I didn't know that dusters were used for cleaning dust off furniture until I was in middle school. When I misbehaved, my mother would beat me with a duster so I assumed its only purpose was to be a beating stick. I figured the fuzzy part of it was to provide comfort for my mother's hand as she hit me.  I'll trade the wooden spoon for a duster anyday. :( This is so fucked up yet hilarious at the same time  The actual definition of fornicate. For the longest time I thought it just meant to flirt with someone. "Yeah Jim, I've been fornicating with this girl for weeks now, but I'm not sure if she likes me at all." [deleted] "Frank, you told me you haven't even gone on a date yet!"

"It hasn't gotten that far, I've just been fornicating with her in the lecture hall and trying to get her to respond positively to me."

"Jesus! In the lecture hall? Does everyone else know?"

"Well, I suppose they'd have to.. I mean it's not like I'm hiding it or anything. The professor occasionally gives me the death glare for my fornication, but you know I have thick skin, that can't stop me.. Haha."

"If you're fine with it.. good luck I guess."

"I can't figure out why she doesn't like me though. I haven't done anything around her that could be considered off-putting. Just busy fornicating with her through text messages and whispers and masturbating."

"What the fuck, masturb- wait, what do you think fornicating means?"

"It's a synonym for flirting isn't it?"

"Fucking Frank I swear, it means having sex with."

"Oh, my bad then. Just to clarify, masturbation is choking the chicken correct?"

"Yes.."

"Phew, I've been using that correctly at least."

 *Frank hides a dead chicken behind his back.* I wasn't too old when I found out the truth to this, but it is kind of funny.  When I was a kid, I didn't realize there were two meanings to the word "fine."  I thought it just mean "okay."  I didn't know it could mean a monetary fee for doing something wrong.

So I saw signs everywhere that said "no littering. $200 fine."  I thought it meant "you can't litter.  But if you feel like leaving $200, that's fine."  And I thought, "who the fuck would do that?"  I was probably in fifth grade before the lightbulb went off. Just talked to a coworker the other day who didn't know his name was Jason until 3rd grade.  His initials were JT and his family called him by that and so he thought that was his name.

During roll call in class the teacher was asking for a "Jason" and he just sat there thinking "some sucker is late for class".  Then the name JT was never called and confusion ensued. The same thing happened to me in first grade, teachers told me my first name, and I didn't believe them, after school I asked my dad about it and I was still convinced that they assigned me a second name! Similarly, my brother didn't realize until he was about five that he had a middle name. He just thought William was something my mom threw in after his first name when he was in trouble. Down to the same middle name, my brother had the same problem. Though, he thought "William" was more universal than just mom use. He would use it after anyone's name when he was mad at them.  Thanks a lot, Barack William Obama. Cuuuute!!!! My daughter calls me "Mom [middle name] [last name]" when she's mad at me haha I didn't realize you were supposed to chew sunflower seeds to get the seed inside... I thought you just ate the black seeds whole... I on the other hand thought you just sucked the salt off and then spit them out. I had no idea there was anything inside.

EDIT: I was about 12 when I discovered the truth. This was not a recent discovery. I was a few months away from turning 17 and The Dark Knight was coming out. I checked IMDB to see what actors and characters would be in it, and that's when I learned that Harvey Dent's evil nickname is Two-Face, not Toothpaste as I had always thought. I never saw the name written down, in the animated series [half his face was white and the other half was blue](http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/batman/images/2/20/Two-face-dc-comics-20080605023632011-000.jpeg/revision/latest?cb=20120430034834), and I just never really questioned it. I've thought it over, and I deem this mistake excuseable. Also thank you for the laugh. Somehow the conversation of superhero names came up with my girlfriend (29) the other day, and she mentioned Wolverine being named after wolves. I kinda looked at her and said "Wolverine was named after wolverines." She stared back blankly. One google images search later and I had taught a biology major about a new animal. That the tuna isn't a little bitty fish, but a really big fish. Yes. Even though I functionally know this, I'm still surprised every time I see a big ass tuna at the aquarium.  I always thought the song "I saw mommy kissing Santa Claus" meant that the mother was having a torrid affair with a fat dude in a red suit, not that it was the father dressed in costume... Same here. It only occurred to me a couple of years ago. I'm 31.

As a kid, having very little concept of adultery, I would still think to myself "Hey, this song is fucked up. Mommy shouldn't be kissing anyone but daddy. This song is tragic and we really should stop singing this song." 

Then you realize as a grown man "Holy shit, daddy is dressed up as Santa and the kid is too naive to realize it." God damn it. I just realised this :( When I was a kid, I just assumed "sitcom" stood for sit-down comedy, as in the opposite of stand-up comedy because, you know, people are sometimes sitting down on the shows. ...What does sitcom abbreviate? situational comedy i thought the Amish were like an old timey group of actors who were just really into it until I was about 18, revealed that, and was promptly made fun of because they in fact are a functioning society who actually live that way, not actors.  &gt; they in fact are a functioning society who actually live that way, not actors.

Actors, of course, having no place in a functioning society.
 Not me but my ex-wife didn't realize leather was made from cows until I told her. Thank you runescape  The number of things I learned from that game Copper + tin = bronze Will u b my gf? For 1 mill and party hat, I marry u. My ex wanted to get rid of my car when she found out. I had to convince her mine was artificial leather even though it was real.  If she ever enjoys a nice cup of jello, that's made from leftover cow bones after slaughter.  
Anything with gelatin really. Like gummy bears.  A co-worker was helping me move something outdoors and he suddenly is staring at the sky bewildered.  I asked if he was ok and, I shit you not, he says "Whoa! I can see the moon....and it's day."  He's 24 and I had no idea how to respond to that. You respond with: "Wild, isn't it? Been that way for a couple weeks, at least! Coming up and going down at all times of the day or night. And the papers haven't said a word about it! It is downright spooky!" Ohhh man. So, when I was a kid, my mom was a little unstable and sort of desperate for male attention. This, coupled with the fact that we're from Northeast Tennessee, means that she always managed to date/marry some real classy motherfuckers. One day, I guess I'm around 13 or so, her current catch (Rodney) comes in from mowing the lawn super worked up over something. After a minute or two, he is finally calm enough to explain what was wrong: it was day, and he could see the moon. And that ain't right.

I was a huge nerd as a kid, and dreamed of being an astronaut. I knew a lot about space, and especially the moon. He happened to say this in front of one of a handful of kids that knew the cycles of the moon. I tried to explain to him that roughly 14 out of 29 days, the moon was visible during the daytime. He wouldn't have it. He was convinced Jesus was coming right then. Like, yelling at us all to start praying as he called his pastor. Jesus was coming. It took a few phone calls for him to calm down enough to finish mowing the lawn.

Sometimes I wonder how life is treating that guy. You know, Rodney doesn't sound like such a bad guy.  He just gets a little confused sometimes.  He's just innocent, in an ignorant medieval peasant kind of way. "Pass me that joint." Absolutely hated skim milk as a kid. This is because I thought it was pronounced "skin milk" and assumed pieces of skin and other particles floated in the milk.  I don't know the age I actually realized it, but for a long time I thought a word "brocktued" existed and was a synonym for "sponsored." So many of my childhood TV shows were "brought to you" by the companies in the commercials that followed.

EDIT: Holy shit! Thought I'd run this up the flagpole but never expected such a response. Glad we're not alone out there! Until I was 17 I thought "getting knocked up" just meant having sex.  As a guy, this was an awkward thing to wish upon myself.. ("man, I wish Sarah would knock me up... like realll good.") My uncle was in England during the war, a girl asked a policeman to come knock her up at 8 am tomorrow.

Meaning, to knock on her door and wake her up.

At least that's what he assumed. When I worked pizza delivery while studying, my boss liked to say 'fist' instead of 'punch'. One day when I was explaining to him how some dudes tried to rob me, he plain faced asked me if I fisted any of them. I mean I would have, but I was too busy trying not to get robbed. Until January of 2014 (when I was 28), I thought that the seven seas were the seven Cs, meaning the seven Continents. Man, I bet pirates threw you *right* the fuck off. But... The Seven Seas are only ever mentioned in the context of sailing. Did that not throw you for a loop or? That the little piggy who went to market wasn't going shopping for groceries. Last year it hit me. I'm 28.

Edit: Holy shit, I didnt realize there were so many of us. I'm legitimately sorry for ruining the nights/childhoods of so many 20-30 somethings. :(

Edit2: and up to 50 somethings. And thank you kind stranger for the reddit gold. I'm only sorry that my top rated comment of all time is responsible for ruining so many childhoods. 

Probably last edit: [it gets worse](http://www.youlovatt.com/this-little-piggy-dissected/) If the story is realistic enough to be getting slaughtered, why did they give another pig roast beef? omg...I'm 27...now I know how you felt. well the book i read when i was young depicted through images, the market pig (note: they all walked like humans) walking through the shops buying groceries. i guess the original version was more gruesome for kids I always bragged that I beat my dad at basketball when I was 4 or 5. So much so that it never occurred to me that he let me win until I was in my late teens.

(late) EDIT: I wouldn't have been so proud of this incident if he always let me win at things instead of motivating me to improve, now would I? It's crazy how athletic you think you are as a kid vs adults compared to reality. I remember when I did karate we had this choreographed fighting routine (I was maybe like 7-8 years old).

Looking back now, it was basically a dance. The whole class did it at the same time, kick this way, spinning kick that way, punch here, punch there etc etc. The Karate teacher happened to be standing right in front of me as I prepared for a punch, so I kinda shuffled to the side and punched the air next to him.

Next thing, he stops me and goes, "Woah woah woah, c'mon little man, don't change your routine for anybody. hit me". He had a huge smile on his face, but in my little 8 year old head I was like, "Is this guy serious? I could put him in hospital 0.o". So, I take the routine back a few steps, wind up, and fucking Jolt him with everything I had right in the stomach. He *didn't even flinch*, my little world was shattered. that man died of kidney failure 13 days later.  He may not be dead now, but one day those kidneys will cease to function.  Doctors will say 'natural causes', but we'll all know the truth. When I was a toddler I had older kid neighbors.  Once they "raced" me around the block and let me get a huuuuge head start.  Basically, they never even ran, they tricked me into running around the block by myself.  I was beyond shocked when they "beat" me!  I swear it took me until I was in my late teens to solve that mystery.  And I'd been telling that story for years "how did those kids beat me?" Uhhhhh I thought "queef" meant a really loud, prolonged butt fart. I gave myself the moniker "queefmaster" because I can fart on command. No wonder my friends' parents thought I was a weird kid. That boy ain't right Honestly though, if you went by Fartmaster they would probably still think you were weird. I was 23 on a trip with my girlfriend in San Francisco. We were both getting ready for the day in the bathroom and I needed my hair gel, so I asked if she could hand me my toilet treat bag. She seemed confused, I again asked, "Can you please hand me my bag of toilet treats!?" She ran out of the bathroom laughing.

tldr: I thought toiletries was toilet treats. smh Mm, urinal cakes.

EDIT: Thank you for the gold. I'm glad my potty humor can pay for server uptime. I love those mints they give you to freshen up after a pee.   I love having a day in the bathroom.  For most of my life I assumed Neil Armstrong was a black man, because I'd never seen Neil outside the space suit, but I had seen ~~Louie~~ Louis Armstrong. It never occurred to me that there would be anything unusual about a black astronaut in the 60s.

Edit: It truly warms my heart to know I was not alone in this childhood misunderstanding.
 I thought Bing Crosby was black until I was in my late 20's. I'm not sure why. Never saw a picture of him, and maybe the similarity to the name Cosby.  He's not? Huh, apparently he isn't. He sure *sounds* black...  That the female urethra does not exit at the clitoris. At least you know that the female urethra exists. The number of people out there who think women pee from their vaginas is too damn high. I am a girl and had another girl in high school find out I was using tampons instead of pads. She exclaimed to me "but how do you pee with that in there?" :(((((

EDIT: Well, a lot more of you are wondering how this can be true than I thought would be asking, I apologize for not sharing the answer: girls have 3 holes, so the tampon does not obstruct anything when you have to pee. The more you know. There was that guy who didn't know that men sat on the toilet seat when they poop, he was sitting on the rim of the toilet his whole life [heres the thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2jgfhw/tifu_by_using_a_toilet_wrong_my_entire_life/)

Edit: so apparently this whole sitting on the rim thing is more common than I thought due to the amount of replies saying they sit on the rim of their toilets to poop. I can only assume there's more of you rim sitters who aren't speaking up. At least rimmers can take solace  in knowing they aren't alone, hell someone you love may be sitting on the rim right now. You're all weirdos. I don't have the link, but there was one thread where a dude didn't realize you put the shower curtain inside the tub while you're showering. He had been getting water all over the floor every time his whole life. That's bizarre and I refuse to believe he went his whole life that way. 

In my house we always had sliding doors so the first time I used a hotel shower with a curtain I got water all over the floor.  It only took that one time for me to be like "Ohhh so you keep it *inside* the tub. Got it." 

I can't comprehend not being able to piece that together for so long.  I spent 20 years of my life getting into the shower, then turning on the water, then swearing at how cold it was until it warned up.  
  
One day someone told a story wherein they turned the water on and while they waited for it to get hot they did something else.  
  
Everyone else was listening to the story while my mind was being blown and I had to pretend that I wasn't having this life shattering epiphany.  
  
I was so stoked to take a shower that night. &gt;I was so stoked to take a shower that night. 

This is adorable.  That est. 19xx actually meant established. I always thought it was estimated because they forgot the exact date and just said the year. The Domino's logo is not two dice. I am half Mexican and half Irish. Whenever I went to visit my Hispanic grandparents, I would always call them abuelito and abuelita, it wasn't until my senior year of high school in Spanish class that I realized abuelito/a is Spanish for grandpa/grandma and not their actual names. I had the same issue with Polish grandparents. Babcia and Dzia Dzia seemed unique enough to be real names. My grandfather died when I was 13 and i remember the biggest issue of it in my head being that I couldn't believe his name was fucking Frank.  My dad would tell me bullshit things to mess with me as a kid. *Usually* he would remember eventually to correct it. Sometimes, however, he forgot.

I went through the first 17 years of my life thinking an artichoke was a nocturnal rodent. Went to Italian restaurant and was horrified to see artichoke hearts on the menu. My girlfriend still gives me shit for it three years later.

Edit: Obligatory thanks for the gold edit, so thanks for my first gold /u/ragekitty! "We have purposely trained him wrong... as a joke" My dad did the exact same thing! I was under the impression that male nipples were not called nipples but were called a completely made up word my dad called them which was "dinees". I was probably 11 or so until I tried to answer an anatomy question in school with that word and everyone looked at me like I was insane. My dad also told me if I shook my snow globe it would snow the next day. But that it was a BIG responsibility to have a powerful magic snow globe like that so I was only allowed to use when it told it was ok. So on certain nights before I went to bed, he would tell me to shake it and how long to shake it. The longer it was shook, the deeper the snow. Well, we played that game for a few years and whenever I moved it from room to room, I carefully held it with two hands so no snow moved. Oh to be four again.    This would have ruined me as a kid. I was far, far too literal and believed everything my parents told me. My dad once told me that snapping turtles will bite you and "won't let go until the sun goes down." I spent years wondering why the sun going down would make them release, but I believed it. Thats when the artichokes come outE: :D thanks! You would have loved some of the crazy shit my grandma used to tell us, then. Whenever she didn't have the answer to one our questions she'd make something up and stick with it.

"Why do dogs sniff each other's butts?"

Grandma: "Well, dogs used to be able to talk. But they were very bad, and one day God got mad at them. So, he took away their ability to speak and locked it in a safe. He put the key to the safe in one dog's butt. And that's why dogs sniff each other's butts--they're looking for the key."

I, for some reason, did not question this until I was 14. At 16, I mentioned to my SO at the time that the Statue of David was missing a testicle, which I thought unusual since David was the "ideal male form" for the time period.

... I was then informed that both male testes come in one cute little sack and are not divided into two separate sacks as originally thought.  The shape of the scrotum depends on the temperature, really.

Cold: basically spherical.

Hot:  I've heard a theory that Michaelangelo's David is just before he goes to fight Goliath and he is pants shittingly scared.

David isn't cold, he's terrified.  That there is more than one whale called Shamu.  I was in my mid-twenties, had just moved to Texas, and a Seaworld commercial came on.  I mentioned how surprised I was that they shipped Shamu all the way across the country just to make appearances here.

My wife and mother in law still won't let me live it down. I never knew there was other Shamus. I've only been to one SeaWorld, and being Canadian and not much of a TV watcher I never saw ads for a Shamu elsewhere.

San Diego Shamu is where my heart will reside. One more bombshell: There's more than one "Shamu" at each SeaWorld. But how do they find so many orcas with the same name? They take a boat out onto the ocean and yell "Shamuuuu" and the ones that come to that name go to the parks.  God damnit. I thought it was "war war I" and "war war II" instead of "world war". everyone always just said it like "war war" because Texas. I thought the term "prima donna" was "pre-Madonna." I always wondered what happened before her that would demand a new term.
A friend also asked me why Ellen was named Ellen "The Generous." He said "I get that she is generous, but she isn't that noteworthy. It's not like she's Alexander the Great or something."  That planes have headlights I hope they keep the headlight fluid topped up.  I was 15 when I looked at a box of Froot Loops and realized that they didn't spell "fruit" correctly. I didn't realize anything until you just said that.  Pickles come from cucumbers  While we're at it:

Raisins are dried grapes
and Prunes are Dried Plums What's beef jerky? Dried parts of a cow that had Parkinson's  [deleted] When I was in elementary school I honestly believed girls had big white (near albino) dicks with no balls. I thought that was the big difference between us. But... how? Where did you come by this assumption?? I know you came here looking for answers, but I have none to give.

I honestly don't know where that idea came from. It was just something I invented without realizing it.
 There actually ARE carrots in carrot cake.  I assumed it was a joke because it's orange and we were all in on it. The joke was on you. We were. My ex wife did not know helicopters could hover until around age 23. She saw a copter over a scene in San Diego and asked me "how is that helicopter just floating in one spot??" I was like "wut?" I was 22 before I realized what the numbers in minesweeper meant. Doesn't that just mean you were 22 before you knew *how to play Minesweeper*? Presumably you hadn't been playing it without knowing that crucial bit of the rules? And now I'm just imagining someone sat at a computer clicking randomly and being like "Wow new record! Twenty three clicks in a row without hitting a mine!" hahaaa. I was 34 before I realized that The Beatles spell their name Beatles, because it has the word Beat in it. I never really considered it before, just kind of thought it was a funny way to spell beetles... I always think beetles looks wrong because I see it written Beatles so often TIL... At age 17: finally learned that a Mini Cooper is manufactured by the make Mini, and the line of cars is Coopers. 

Until this I always thought that Mini Coopers were miniCoopers, and always wondered why I never saw regular full-sized Coopers. I figured that the minis were just exceedingly more popular for some reason. 

To be fair I can not think of a single other model of car from Mini, I live in the southwest US. 

TLDR: Mini Coopers are not miniature size of a full-sized Cooper 

edit: I've received a lot of replies, and must say I am not as embarrassed about this after all of the people learning this just now by reading my comment. I thought it was equivalent to a 17 year old not knowing the sun is a star or something like that!  I just learned a few months ago that lightning does not happen when two clouds touch each other. That was a very sad, and very disappointing day.  How to tie shoes.
When I was little, and my mother tried teaching me, I simply said I didn't feel like it. This charade continued, until she just gave up.
Years of velcro shoes ensue.
In the seventh grade, my older sister sat me down and said something along the lines of "You need to fucking know how to tie your shoes." And that's when I learned to tie my shoes.
I still suck at if. I take a good 30-45 seconds per shoe. It's bad.
Edit: I'm a lefty.
Edit 2: Misread title. Didn't see the word "fact." Apologies. I still suck at tying shoes though.  You do a loopdie loop and pull, and your shoes are looking cool!
Edit 1: Thank You all for upvoting, made my day!
Edit 2: My top comment is a spongebob quote..... the mnemonics were always confusing as fuck.

I only learned properly after someone had shown me what exactly I was doing with the string instead of speaking in fucking riddles. I pronounced "paradigm" as "pear-uh-dig-um" until I was at least 19... On the other hand, you knew that word before age 14. I still screw up pronunciation occasionally (English grad student) because as a kid most of my vocabulary came from reading. What a lesbian was.  Someone told me when I was young it was a race of people. There are Lebanese people from Lebanon. Maybe that's where the confusion comes from? Also Thespians.  And the word lesbian comes from the demonym of the Greek island of Lesbos. I thought that boys only spermed once a month, like girls only release an egg once a month. I knew they jizzed way more than that, i thought it was just like russian roulette though, never knew when it was going to contain sperm. I was 18 when I realized that wasn't how it worked.  Did you know spleens *actually exist?*

I swear, until I was 22 I just thought it was a word someone made up because it sounded funny and visceral, like 'gibs'.

Edit: YES OKAY GIBS ARE REAL TOO

I'M SORRY Did you know that gibs *actually exist?* *pokes OP in the gibs* Talkin bout chest hair, talkin bout crazy cool medallions  I only realised that the asshole was an actual round hole at about 16 when I saw it in porn. I previously assumed it was just a big long slit between the cheeks.  But what about....your own asshole? Idk, I guess I never really felt its shape when I wiped my ass. I just cleaned the whole area and still assumed it was a crack / slit. That means you're not cleaning it properly. *Must go deeper!* Do you poop slit shaped turds? Youth in Asia. I cannot be the only one.

Edit: I was referring to euthanasia. My best friend freshman year asked me how accurately a man had to jizz on a women's breasts to get her pregnant. Boy was that a surprise to him "I'll just play it safe and cum in her vagina" What an uncircumcised penis looked like in "resting mode".

Edit: I live in a country where circumcision is very UNCOMMON.  It looks like it's trying to whistle but it's sad about it. I've always told people it looks like Kenny from South Park [deleted] Up until the same age I thought I was uncircumcised because a circumcision meant cutting off the entire tip.  How to ride a bicycle. 

Also, Ray-Bans are called that because they "Ban" the suns rays from entering your eyes.

Edit: Some of you seem to be worried that I still haven't learned how to cycle, I actually learned in middle school (12-13 for those outside of the US).

For everyone who still hasn't learned, these two methods [1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRk1xZbahf0) [2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WP3DNPDKxOM) are excellent. I used something like the second one, just repeatedly coasting down a hill to get comfy with balance, and then adding pedaling as I got more used to it. Give it a try, it's a fun and useful skill to have :)

FYI, the 2nd video kinda sucks, but the techniques are sound. It was the 1st one that I could find with a demonstration of the hill technique. WHAT. I always thought there was a dude called Ray Ban that created the brand and named it after himself. Like "Ray Ban's sunglasses" that eventually just got shortened to "Ray-bans" never really thought about the Ray Bans one until I just read that. makes sense though The GE logo actually spells GE. I thought it was just a cool swirly design. I was 22 I only learned this year that ponies aren't just baby horses.  Wait what? Baby horses are foals. IIRC, to be a pony, a horse has to be less than 58 inches at the shoulder blade.  Australian ponies have to be &lt;56 inches.

We're a country that strives to have cuter ponies than the rest of the world. &gt; We're a country that strives to have cuter ponies than the rest of the world.

I think you're just keeping them small enough for your spiders to eat. You underestimate their spiders then. I thought Buffalo wings were from baby chickens. Don't ask.  No, idiot, they're made from buffaloes! I didn't realize that Mike Meyers plays both Austin Powers and Dr Evil till the third Austin Powers movie came out  I love how many people didn't realize this. He's Goldmember and Fat Bastard too. No. That's too much for me to handle. I'm surprised how many people seem to have enjoyed these movies without realizing this.. I mean, that's the shtick. WHHAAAAATT I was 23 when it came to my attention that an engagement ring and a wedding band are two separate things :| isn't one expensive symbol of uniformity enough?! [deleted] I like your husband. I want a ring too.  I'm embarrassed by the amount of facts I'm learning from this thread :-/ When I was a young kid I thought attractive people and celebrities didn't have toes. I thought their feet were perfect like the feet of a Barbie. I wanted to be famous so I could have feet like a Barbie, I thought toes were gross.  A week ago I finally made the connection that the hood is short for the neighborhood. I'm 23. I learned recently that you take things with "a grain of salt" not a grain assault. 

 It's sad how much I'm learning in this thread. Think of all the potentially embarrassing moments of ignorance you'll be able to avoid now! [deleted] I used to think orgasm was an abbreviated version of organism My sister recently found out that Sea Horses are real, not fictional. She's 34. It was hilarious watching my 20 year old brothers mind being blown when he saw live reindeer at a sporting goods store around Christmas. He thought they were just in stories. Then he asked me if they can fly.  lol Poseidon's sea creatures that drag people to their watery grave that look like seahorses are not real, in her defence. lol Sadly, those aren't the ones she was thinking of, but I really wished they were.  My friend didn't know what a narwhal was until he was 30. To be fair, they sound made up. I mean horses that live in the sea, and the male gives birth? Seems like some mythical bullshit I suppose that's what she thought. But c'mon, she either never saw one in a text book or TV, or she thought that people made awesome fake Sea Horses when she did see them.  I would have loved to be on that field trip to the aquarium... right? Like witnessing someone see a unicorn Wife thought being overdressed meant wearing many layers of clothes. She still doesn't really believe me. Milano cookies, are in fact, not for adults only You had smart parents. When I found out how good they were It was very clear to understand why they did what they did. Don't tell my children. They aren't Alyssa Milano cookies either :( And adults won't burst into flames if they eat a bowl of Trix

Rabbits might, I'm not so sure on some of the ingredients. There is/was a candy called toffeefay, and they advertised it was "too good for kids".  But they always advertised it on saturday morning cartoons.  

 Fuck, now I want some Shhhg You parents are cruel Your parents are both evil and brilliant My Mom did the exact same thing! Totally understand why though. Knew a chick who thought they were "mulatto" cookies because of their light brown color. She's not a bright girl. Alternately, until 7th grade I thought that mixed race people were "milano."

And I only learned just now that it's considered offensive. Thank you, google.  That a blanket doesn't provide it's own heat. Yes, it genuinely took me a while.  I remember being about 9 years old and reading in a book that wrapping a thermometer in a blanket wouldn't make its temperature go up. I was like WHAT?!?! I've never thought about that before. If you asked me that 30 seconds ago I might have second yeah it'll get warmer. I'm not stupid, I think? I'm... I'm sorry to be the one to break it, /u/BindeDSA... Well, there are *electric* blankets. Careful with those. I heard of one kid who turned invisible because of an electric blanket. Things Not Seen!! That was a great series.  A friend of mine made exactly the same mistake, and he was studying physics at the time, too! We were going to transport icecubes from one place to another in the summer and didn't have anything properly insulating so I suggested wrapping them in multiple bags and blankets and he was like "but... but they're gonna get warm under a blanket!" I begged my mum to put a smoke detector in my room because I was convinced the heat coming from the mattress was a small fire under my bed. I was 8 i'm glad i kept scrolling...  I am quite certain, that *most* people are in fact, of that opinion. blankets are assholes taking credit for our heat I actually think this is not unusual. If you ask people if wrapping a non heat producing item in a blanket will warm it, I think many would say yes. Okay, this one actually made me think we live in 2015 so now we have some that do actually making you not totally wrong I didn't know that sex required motion until I was 18. I didn't understand an erection or ejaculation. I thought you just stuck it in and went to sleep, and that was sex. 

My husband doesn't let me live this one down.  I slept with a guy who obviously also thought this, he got in and just chilled there, very strange experience.  This is called soaking. No, marinade. Marinade is after you spunk. Apparently, that's supposedly a Mormon thing. I live in a place with a lot of them, so I heard a fair amount about it, even though it ended up not being something that anybody actually did.  We always used to talk about this at work. I like the idea that people maybe thought that they might be able to trick god. Like they read between the lines and figured something out.

"No, god, no... to be fair, you said no sex. I'm just puttin' in her b-hole, and only thrusting enough to get 'er in there. Then... then I just let it soak. I call it soaking." and god is like: "Fuck... you got me. I should have been more specific about things. Soak on!" God calls shenanigans.  That's the name of my post post post prog / boston hardcore band. That's weird because this randomly came up a bunch at my work previously, which was the first place I heard this, then I decided to creep on your post history and now I wonder if I know you.

Maybe this is just the kinda thing people talk about at work. When I saw you talk about Seattle a couple of times, my heart definitely skipped a beat. From the looks of it though, you work in tech I'm guessing. I definitely do not...

Edit: I also creeped to see if you might be right.  My coworkers and I literally just had this conversation last week. I wonder how common this topic is at work Amy? Mormonism is a whole different brand of stupid This is because God is a Tyrannosaurus Rex and his vision is movement-based. Flawless logic.

All hail based Tyrannosaur  Thank God for your last sentence. Life wouldn't make sense otherwise I am Mormon and have never heard of this.  Now, going to Vegas, getting married, doing it, then getting a divorce--that has actually happened. I'm not surprised. People will find loopholes all over the place.  Weird! Where we live I heard it was a 'catholic' thing. Hmmmmmmm-maybe it's just a whatever I'm not thing and the Catholics walk around saying 'did you hear about that weird sex thing that Protestants do? Yea? It's called "soaking". I guess you don't move or anything. I mean what's the point of that?! I like him to get in there nice and tight and move as much as he can. Why not? Sometimes we even go to confession together afterwards."

I don't know why...I actually really like Catholics.  If they have sex throug a hole cut out of a sheet, it doesn't count! Wait that's an actual thing in Mormon communites? I thought it was just a joke they made up *Alpha House*. Um, no.  I've been Mormon all my life, I have no idea what you're talking about. Like I said, it wasn't even a Mormon thing, to my knowledge. It's just shit that somebody made up about Mormons.  Nah, it's real. Not common by any means, but it is real. Also known as the 'Provo Float." They've waited too long to tell you about the Mormon Soak.  Nope, doesn't exist. Alpha House taught me this! Workaholics, here.  That episode with the christian strongman team. This kills the crab.  The fact that this has a name that I have never heard and is so appriate had me laughing my ass off. Thank you for the education and hearty belly laugh. Soaking cork? Cork soakers are born, not made. Hmmm what was the year we soak each other's corks? what year was it...sixty....eight? Steeping. That's just with the sac though If you leave it in until it goes soft, that's called the "Star Trek Special."

http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=star+trek+special Why? Because bored people like to make up definitions on urbandictionary.com. [Soaking is what some Mormons do](http://datingisweird.blogspot.com/2010/06/mormon-soaking.html) to get around the no sex before marriage rule. But... But that's not the part that feels good I call bullshit on that, Mormon and lived in Utah most of my life, never heard of it.  Most of my classmates just fucked or didn't, no soaking. Ex-girlfriend was former Mormon, she's where I first heard "soaking" from four years ago. The mere fact that you call making love "soaking" tells me you're not ready  Where we live it's called the Mormon Soak.  You ever seen a pruny penis? Soak it in cider Amy? Yes dear? Mom what's going on? Nothing honey, now go back to sleep.  Broken arms are going on. (   ) OP's mom's got it going on (-: She's all I want and I've waited for so long! OP CAN'T SEE THEY AREN'T THE ONE FOR ME I KNOW I MIGHT BE WRONG BUT 

dickbutt.  I know it might be wrong but I'm in love with ops mom How did he break his arms? On Purpose.  (   )

 Fucking hell! O_O Dad pls (   ) I'm.. scared.  Don't be.. ***( ^  ^ )*** It's okay son. Go back to bed :) Shhh. Sleep now. Let the darkness wash over you, shhh

(*pushes pillow down gently into your face*) You broke your arms. *breaks arms* I think I've found your father Amy Amy? I Love That Show! Could you get him a beer? He's trying not to move. I never understood why people upvote comments like this when it isn't OP replying. It's a random dude pretending like they were part of the conversation jumping in.  What 'chu wanna doooo? I think I could stay with you, for a while maybe longer if I do...  Shelly? Are you Joey Votto? it's so comfy How long did you wait until you said something? It's still happening. You've got to soak your roast. Can you imagine how it would go if both people in a sex situation thought you just let it sit in there I imagine it would go very slowly. Early finishing shouldn't be an issue then I'm already done before it gets in there once. Classic case of soaking.  Some say he's still in there to this day... I saw this on Red Tube. Its called Buffering I lost my virginity to that guy. Well, you know what Confucius said: "it's good to meet girl in park, but better to park meat in girl." I hope this doesn't come off as mean, but I don't know how else to phrase it.

Was he an idiot? I feel like... if it feel awesome when you slide it in, that a little reasoning would show that it would feel awesome going back out. Then in. Then out. Etc. Also, when guys are masturbating, they rub it right, so you would assume the same friction is required right? He wasn't an idiot per say, not the brightest but still. odds are he never masturbated before sex Haha I sat next to a guy in college who described sex as being like that. I was like uhhh... buddy... I know people probably think you're joking, but this has happened to me too. I didn't know what to do. I kept thinking, he has to move sometime... Did you sleep with will from inbetweeners? It obviously wasn't randy marsh  I've heard through the mormon rumor mill that there are couples at the BYU's that'll do this so it doesn't count as "premarital sex." 

The kicker-they recite bible verses to each other to really keep it sin free. 
 "Honey? Aren't you like... ah, going to... you know... 'do' something?" you were like this() he was like that (_)
in your mind it was like this: He was like good i,ve done it (), and you were like (_) come on get started already
 I love your name &gt; I slept with a guy

See, this is where the problem starts. I was with a guy who thought the longer he could screw, the better.  I mean, he thought just hammering away for an hour or two was giving a woman the ultimate pleasure.  I finally had to tell him that if anything, it was just painful.

But, then again, at that age, I thought I was supposed to scream and claw a guy's back to make him think I was having a good time.  I had no idea what I was doing, either.  TV needs to be more real "um, that's not hurting your, right?" and less, "OH GAWD I LOVE BEING SMASHED AGAINST A BRICK WALL STANDING UP YES YES YES!"  I had a cut on my finger and my buddy told me I needed to go soak it in cider.  So, I went home, poured some apple cider in a dish and soaked my finger in it.  Burned like hell and didn't do anything.  Went back and told him and laughed his ass off.  

"No, dumbass.  The joke is to soak it inside her, not in cider"  

I don't know why the joke seems funny, but I did exactly what I was told.  *"And no I don't just lie there Michael if that's what you're thinking"* How do people get to be so old and so isolated. Wow. R2D2? Upvoted for making me laugh. 'soaking' i..need to know. are you kidding? what the fuck happened? It's called parking it in the garage. It's like charging your phone at night. Some Mormons actually do this. It's called soaking. They don't think its a sin if there's no motion. Because god is a t-rex. Hahahaha what's awesome is that wouldn't even be the weirdest thing Mormons believe [Reference](http://bigfootjustice.com/comic/soaking/) Oh that's awesome haha. Soaking was all the rage where I live for a while.  Haha, when the comic first came out there was so much debate over whether or not soaking was a thing people actually did. does it "work" like can you actually finish from it?

I've had similar when me and the GF had to be really quiet so we barely moved but I was mega horny so it worked for me but I think there was at least some slight movements. Once you've been married for a while this is almost *exactly* how it works. Pretty much. Now we don't even bother putting it in. We just go to sleep. Efficient! ...I think your marriage is doing it wrong.

 I've been married for 12 years.  You're doing it wrong. :P You get to put it in? Clearly you haven't been married for that long. Why?  I realize you're joking, but there's a subreddit support group for this called /r/deadbedroom With an *s*.

/r/deadbedrooms No shit.

On it. Thanks. "Hey honey did you put the kids to bed? Did you turn off the gas. Did you take out the trash?"

-takes out phone and starts playing candy crush-

 Unless it's Wednesday.  Because Wednesday night, conditions are perfect.  It's business time! Didn't matter had sex  As a newly wed I refuse to accept this.  give it a few years.. or a few kids Dude, grab some lube, some baby oil, don't wank for a week. One night just spend 45 minutes on your wife before you even take off your pants, rub her tits in baby oil, slowly teasing. Then get the flavoured lube and after she has come at least once put some on your dick and have her lick it off. Even if you have to pin her down to get the dick in there. When she has sucked all the lube off, throw some more on and ravage her like a caveman in a thunder storm. 

Thank me when you wake up.  I imagine you were shocked the first time you had sex. Like, hey what the hell are you doing?! Sex education is just horribly lacking.  It is such a vital part of our lives yet we make everyone just figure it out and so many people are bad at it because of it.  We literally leave it to porn for people to figure out sex and hope they get it right because our society is run by a bunch of children afraid to talk about sex. I thought the same thing until I was around the same age, maybe a year or two younger.  I didn't understand erections or ejaculation until I witnessed them first hand(job).  What if you... wriggled around in your sleep?

Or fell off the bed...

Or had a nightmare and jerked awake? &gt; jerked awake

 That's called a Wet Nap ...How old are you to have not seen any porn before you were 18? I am so confused by this question. He means that a guy in his 60's might not have had access to any porn movies before the guy turned 18. It sounds like it was a female. Judging from the fact that it's her husband that won't let her live it down.  Whereas anyone born in a first world country after 1985 *probably* saw some hard core porn before they hit 18.  &gt;a guy in his 60's

Which guy in his 60's can't get porn? Is this some guy that OP knew who was supposed to get porn for him but he forgot to or something? Does the old guy have oldtimers? He means like back in the day before the internet, when you were limited to what you could steal or your friends would also steal. Porn's super easy to find now.  you can google it on the toilet at Tesco on your phone.  Back in 1985 this was not the case.  An older person is more likely to have never seen porn before they were 18 and are this more likely to fail to understand the basics of how sex works. Probably older than when watching sex on the internet became a thing? At least 18 Jesus.  I hadn't seen any real porn by the age of 18 and I'm only 34.  How young are you to HAVE seen porn before 18? I'm 23 and I saw my first porno mag when I was 11. watched my first internet porn at 13. Could have been born in early 1976, making her 39. According to [this website](http://www.11points.com/Web-Tech/11_Firsts_In_Internet_History), the first porn website was created in 1994, which is the year OP would have turned 18 if she had been born in 1976. She also could have not had internet for a while. I'm not a dude.  And I'm 33.  We didn't have one of those evil computer boxes because they let the government know what you're doing.  Didn't have a microwave for the same reason. Huh. Well, I was kind of close, age wise. I'm 33.  I didn't have a computer because they let the government see what you're doing.  Also didn't have a microwave for similar reasons.

Oh the stories I could tell about my childhood. A woman posted that comment. A lot fewer women watch porn I was about the same age when I figured it out as well. Glad I'm not alone lol Hey, I'm a guy and had the same wrong idea. It wasn't until dial-up became available in our area that I learned the secret. My ex thought the vagina did all the work. Like the vagina would just grip the penis somehow. I'm envisioning a paint mixer. I thought the dick just went to the vagina like magnets. No guidance with hands or anything. Boyfriend mentions it every single time we talk about something sexual Based on an episode of Baywatch, I thought sex was creating a kind of double human pyramid where you both pressed as far from each other as possible, and the guy peed into her vagina Um... so what happened in that episode? o.O Pamela Anderson was appointed nature's protector of the beach or something, and she came across this old couple having sex on the beach during beach hours under a large blanket. 

It was weird You still sleep with it in after, just a little more required. You were almost right. I learned this was not the case and that women could enjoy sex when I was 14 and stumbled upon erotic fan fiction. At least it's good for something. Oh, god this reminds me of my best friend in high school. We're watching a movie with some other friends and a sex scene pops up. He says, "Why is he thrusting forward? It looks fake." We're all confused. He clarifies that he should be going up and down. After much arguing, he asks where the hole is. He thought it was just a dick-sized hole situated a bit down from the belly button. We were 18. The Mormons call this "docking". Just like a potato. Stick it in there and let it bake.  This is by far the funniest thing I have read on this site in a long time!!! Dood. I didn't know where to put the penis. I was 21. It's ok brother. I upvoted this for your username alone Have an upvote for the username!  I'm glad to finally find one other person who grew up with this misconception. My reasoning: grown-ups hated any kind of exercise or movement, but they like sex, so sex must not involve moving at all.  As a mother who will have to explain sex to her daughter sometime in the next two years....argh I don't want to explain about the motion too. But now I guess I'll have to. Fuck. I was just telling my husband this.  Our oldest is 8.  I need a shit ton of alcohol to get myself through conversations over the next few years. I KNEW I couldn't have been the only one!
I knew the guy stuck it in the girl, I just didn't know how they could tell when they were done! Did they just decide on a arbitrary time beforehand?? Relevant: http://bigfootjustice.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/Soaking.png
 ...omg BTFC friend, I know so much more about you now.  I once did this for the lolz. The girl was in on it and we both thought it would be funny. I woke up a few hours later and i realized that it's just stupid and not that funny.
I guess it's kind of funny now so...worth it? Off topic... Love your user name! You are awesome for sharing this! Ah, the dead fish technique. My ex girlfriend had this down perfect. We you really sheltered growing up? I just don't understand how this can happen. Probably an abstinence only education and religious parents.  Can confirm. I thought the same thing for the longest time.

Plus it doesn't help when people call having sex sleeping with someone. That's where I got all confused What. How. I must admit I too thought this from the way I got "the talk" as a kid.... I feel ya Holy crap you were sheltered. This is why I think watching porn should be mandatory for people in high school. It's a concept that some of us don't learn about until later in life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rg4kotXIW7Q One of my exes thought this was how blow jobs worked.  She didn't move at all... no head bobbing, no tongue movement,  not even any use of her hands.  She would hold it in her mouth for a little bit,  then back away for a second to take a breath,  and do it again.  Then she would get offended when I tried to assist by thrusting or anything that was even remotely pleasurable. Any attempts to discuss ways to improve our sex life immediately would result in her crying and accusations that I thought she was terrible in bed. But... but she was... at 17 I discovered that narwhals are real animals and not some sort of mythical creatures.  It just always made sense to me.  Unicorns had horns on their heads, and **they** weren't real.  

EDIT: formatting. Fun fact, that isn't a horn on their head, its a canine tooth that becomes a tusk, forming a helix that protrudes through its upper lip. I learned that from QI So, a horn?  Horn: a hard permanent outgrowth, often curved and pointed, found in pairs on the heads of cattle, sheep, goats, giraffes, etc., and consisting of a core of bone encased in keratinized skin.


Tusk: a long, pointed tooth, especially one specially developed so as to protrude from the closed mouth, as in the elephant, walrus, or wild boar.

Horn=bone, Tusk=tooth I had to pull out a National Geographic and show my sister an article about Inuit people hunting narwhals, and she still didn't believe me for a while. I read that as "didn't believe me for a whale," and really found it amusing. Aaaaaaaand it's time for bed. dude, its hard information to take in. &gt;Unicorns had horns on their heads, and they weren't real.

 Honestly? I was like five before I found out Unicorns weren't real. I'd never thought about them much, I assumed they were just horses with horns. Deer and rhinos and giraffes were real, so why couldn't a horse have a horn too? 

My family was driving past a pasture and I remarked on how we only ever saw hornless horses. Still haven't lived that down.  I was in second grade when I found out. You know how they teach you the alphabet by associating a word or animal with each letter? Well I was always taught "U, as in Unicorn" 

And yeah, just like you, I thought it was nothing more than a horse with a horn. Not that weird.  How can rhinos be real if unicorns aren't real?  Fun fact: one-horned rhinos are where the whole myth came from. Well, at least, the idea that the Bible has unicorns in it.

*Rhinoceros unicornis*  Funner fact... that's the joke.  Hey, didn't mean anything by it! A lot of people are surprised to learn that. 

Edit: I really didn't mean to come off as demeaning or condescending -Jaden Smith They're also the inventors of the shish kebab.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykwqXuMPsoc Did we really need to drag that out my the depths of the days of Internet past.  Sprint already did it for most of us. Sprint make me hate then more anytime they release a commercial. First was that Framily BS. Then the screaming goats. I never even heard of a narwhal until last week. Fun fact: when does the narwhal bacon? was actually a common thing on reddit a while back  Fucking annoying too Redditer for four months, his story checks out. Yeah, I never knew they were a thing at all until i was 25 (last year) and people were talking about them here. O no. Mate, sit down. I have something to tell you about your "nonexistent unicorns". I want to believe. ...yeah? I had to explain this to my now ex, who was 26. I don't know, a big part of me still thinks narwhals might be some gigantic conspiracy. I think I'd need to see one to believe.  I think you are far from alone. I know two adults in their mid-twenties who only recently learned this.  In a neat twist of fate, some have said the idea of a unicorn came from finding a narwhal tusk. unicorns evolved into narwhals so they wouldn't drown after being left behind by Noah's boat.

 Yes! I thought for sure my husband was just making fun of me when he told me they were real.  Maybe unicorns are just horses with some sort of horrible dental problem. I was ten years older than you, living with my roommate, when she casual mentions that narwhals are real. My mind my blown and I was super excited about this brave new world I found myself in. I didn't know that until I was in my 30's. I'm in my thirties and I am still skeptical about that. I never seen no narwhal. I'm glad my husband isn't the only one, except he was 22 when I had to tell him narwhals are not "unicorn whales." I remember having this argument with somebody in high school, it could have been you! KEVIN? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykwqXuMPsoc
Relevant I didn't even know what a narwhal was until I was 17. 

And I didn't believe the guy that told me because he was known for telling people stupid stories as pranks. I can't tell you how many girls he freaked out with his stories about blinker fluid and rotating the air in your tires. 

I finally found out narwhals were real when I was 20. I was 26 when I learned this. I had seen so many drawings of unicorns and narwhals together that I thought they were the unicorns of the sea. I'm really glad I never said that out loud to anyone. lol I was 24. Spent like an hour at a party on Wikipedia and google images before I ceded.  Like an underwater unicorn they got kickass facial horn you shut your whore mouth.  Thats my favorite joke to play on people. I try to convince people narwhals are real, and by the magic of reverse psychology, they don't believe me. I didn't find that out until I was 21, for the exact same reason as you.  I had never even heard of them until I saw an actual tusk in a museum when I was 23. Totally blew my mind.

In my defense, most North Dakotans like me know very little about ocean life. Wait, really? This thread is basically the same as a 'This American Life' I remember where people tell stories about things they learned embarrassingly late in life. One girl tells the opposite story where she thought unicorns were real until (I think) college where she said something about them being extinct.


The only other story I remember from that episode is a girl finding out that people don't eat the same thing for dinner every day. She went her whole life eating chicken until she came to college and remarked on how awesome the variety of food is at the dining hall. Same thing happened with my friend. The look of pure joy on his face when I told him was heartwarming. I just learned this from your comment. I am also 17. I'm 33 and know they are real. I still don't believe it. Dude. Unicorns are totally real. They are even the Scottish national animal.~ I found this out about 2 weeks ago (i'm 25) via NatGeo's instagram lol I'm nearly 50 and I just discovered this a few days ago! What do you mean unicorns aren't real?  I can like... three-up that. I hadn't *heard of* narwhals until I was about 23, when I was working for an inbound tech support/sales company. A level 3 tech (estimating, since we didn't have levels) had a narwhal figurine on their cubicle, which I looked at funny, they asked me when the narwhal bacons, which I had no response to, and I left. I looked it up then, got that it was a Reddit thing, although had no interest in a forum, because who has time for forums, seriously.

Anyway, maybe a couple years later, I actually was confronted by narwhal information again, when I looked up the wiki and... yeah...

**tl;dr: *heard of* narwhals at ~23, learned they are real around ~25.**
 I was 19. My boyfriend and parents informed me while we were watching Elf and I said that I wished they were real.  I learnt this from my younger sister last year. I'm 26. :( 

We had been discussing mythical creatures and I started singing the Narwhal song. I was mid twenties.  I was in complete denial of this until about 2 years ago when my SO nearly died of laughing. I heard people mention narwhales but I just thought it was a joke I wasn't in on. Nope, totally a legitimate animal.  I saw this in the last thread like this and just thought you guys were all fucking with me. "Haha yeah guys narwhals are totally real." You made me decide to look it up and now I feel dumb.  The same thing happened to me at 17, in my class we had a quiz and for one question we had to pick the odd one out of a list of animals and no one could get it so I felt so smart when I said, 'But guys it's so obviously the narwhal!' 'Omg highfiveem why's that? !' 'Because they're not real, duh!' Suddenly facepalms all round. I was already known as the ditsy one and didn't need that little confirmation of my reputation.  I've actually had people laugh at me for saying narwhals are real. Like straight up didn't believe me and thought I was stupid for believing they were real.
 Rhinos must have blown your mind.  Neither my grandparents or my aunt knew they were a real thing I pulled up a picture and blew their minds. They had like a thousand questions after... I didn't learn that until I was like 24. I also didn't realize narwhals existed in any capacity until I was like 22, so I guess that's a pretty fast knowledge turnaround. What do you mean, unicorns aren't real? Narwhal of Death! Don't feel too bad. I had to break that to my wife at 22. The horn logic is actually pretty sound, I think. It's like the mermaid's unicorn! I learned this from a thread on Reddit last week :/ I think I had it easy on that one. My grandparents had two narwhal teeth that were given to them by the inuits when they lived in Greenland (my grandfather was a civil engineer, and was in charge of a coal mine, until that closed down and [the settlement](https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qullissat) was abandoned). Narwhals are real?!? Are you fucking kidding me? That shit is REAL? I seriously thought it was just a bunch of reddit trolls photoshopping whales with unicorns.  TIL &gt;  Unicorns had horns on their heads, and they weren't real. 

 Prepare to [have your mind blown](http://animalia-life.com/data_images/rhino/rhino1.jpg)!

 I mean really, a horse like animal with a big horn that lives in Africa... unicorns are real, we just call them rhinoceroses nowadays.  [Here's a quick drawing of me done by a friend when I found out narwhals are in fact real.](http://imgur.com/WOr7f2o) I had the exact same thought process as you. I was about 15/16.   My friend aged 19 thought reindeer were fictional like Santa. We explained they were completely real, and then he asked "but how do they fly?"
He's a final year medical student now Are you fucking kidding me? I had no idea! Was in my 30's when I found out. Same reasoning too, figured it was some kinda of internet prank/hoax. So many of my friends are learning this right now. [unicorns are real](http://a.abcnews.com/images/US/GTY_black_rhino_lpl_131027_16x9_992.jpg) describe this animal to someone who has never seen one I thought a platypus was a type of flightless, wingless bird, so.... ....Fuck you seriously...fuck you When I started a new job, I was being trained by this guy, Jerret.  He was an extremely smart man.  Very technically savvy, king of the internet.  Knows all the good sites and videos, etc, etc.  When I told him about Narwhals, he said, "Those aren't real."  He was so convincing when he said it, I started to doubt myself.  We googled it, and he said, "HOLY SHIT UNICORN WHALES ARE REAL?!!? WHAT HAVE I BEEN DOING WITH MY LIFE?!"  He was 23, I believe. LOL me too Narwhals are the one true magical being that god allowed this world. If there were to many different mythical beasts then the combined magical energy would result in to many fluxuations in the earths weather cycle causing natural disasters and a premature apocalypse. On a side note; everytime a narwhal dies a volcano erupts. Same! I saw narwhals for the first time on an episode of Arthur and just figured it was a made-up creature (kinda like Nadine was a made-up character). It wasn't until I saw a spread in Nat Geo that I actually learned they were real. Narwhals ARE unicorns. The narwhal's "horn" is actually an overgrown tooth and it's not on their head. :) I thought they were mythical until last year (I'm almost 30). My flair in TrollX is "Narwhals are not a real animal."

Cause sea unicorns that can only be photographed by virgin mermaids or some shit? Y..you know unicorns are real too right..?.. I told my mom this and she made me find five sources before she believed it. She's forty three.  My mother, 49, just figured this out a month ago.  My stepson had to explain this to his mother the other day. She didn't believe him, so he had to Google it. The first time I ever heard the word Narwhal was in Bender's Big Score and I assumed it was just some joke animal Futurama made up.  It was probably 5 years later when I learned they were real. My 22 year old fiancee asked me if narwhals were real the other day... I learned that from watching Disney Junior's Octonauts. With my then 2 year old. I was 25... I had a similar deal with the platypus, it wasn't until phineas and ferb that I learned otherwise It's a tooth not a horn. I had to explain that narwhals are real to my girlfriend last week. She's 21. It's okay man, I found this out last week. I just kind of assumed because of that one narwhal song that I watched a few years ago, that they just didn't exist!   This was exactly my wife's thinking, only she was 26 at the time. She was like, "Why are there narwhals on this poster with the real whales?" She was ecstatic when she discovered that these mythical beasts actually existed, and still gets excited to this day when she sees them. My friend had never even heard of them until he was 30. I had a field day with that one. I literally just taught my older brother this like two or three days ago. I'm 24, he's 32. That stupid ass Narwhal Sprint commercial came on and he mentioned unicorns or something. "You know narwhal are real right?" "Shut the fuck up." He thought I was fucking with him until I casted a nat geo video from YouTube onto his tv. I have friends 24 and 29 that found this out last year. I was a nature freak at age 7. Years later, when that song came out I was downright offended that people were singing about narwhals but turned out to not know they were real. Learned this fact 3 weeks ago and I'm 23. I am blonde though. That Danish people are from Denmark. Found that out about 2 weeks ago. Where did you think they were from?Alright I've had enough with your bad puns. My inbox is full of "daneland", "danland", "Netherlands", "danishland", etc. Please make it stahp!! Somewhere delicious Dankish people. Danke meme Bitte meme In Danish, "bitte" is old slang for small. So, sure, small meme, I guess. Dank memes Dansk memes M'butter cookie every time i read your username i think "OLookItsThatGuyAgain" Probably Dane Holy shit that's priceless. idk why but i lol'd so fucking hard Maybe Dania Beach near ft Lauderdale, FL I read that in Jim Gaffigan's voice, and now I want a Danish.  read this in Jim Gaffigan's voice Turkey Magically delicious  The intoxicating hills of Danish, capitol of Dane le epic reddit zinger [deleted] Lies.  Not possible.   I laughed way too hard at this, I almost started crying.  Sugar people!! I didn't really know if someone asked me. I got them mixed up with the Dutch a lot and thenn discovered people who were Dutch were from the Netherlands. Mind blown. I got confused by the whole Dutch - The Netherlands - Holland thing before.  We should just call it Netherlandic already. And the people Netherlandian. Sounds way better! It's even more confusing when the Netherlands are called Holland in your mother's tongue (Danish).  Well not really. You also say Nederland in Danish which is the correct term for the whole country. Holland are parts of Nederland. 

Most Dutch people don't make a fuss about it though.  So the neanderthals aren't from the Netherlands? Nope, they are from the Neander valley in Germany, and Tal (or Thal) means valley in German. 

Similarly, tzi the iceman didn't just get a name they made up, he's named after the tztaler Alps where they found him! My joke became rather informative, thanks! (I actually didn't know this).  I am a font of generally useless knowledge =D generally species used to be named either after the place they were found or after the person who found them.

I will admit, however, that I know quite a lot of Dutch guys who have the Neanderthal look. Protruding brow, shaggy hair. If you ever need extras for a film there are plenty over here =p You will love this: Pennsylvania Dutch are not dutch people, they are germans. They are called Dutch because that's a bastardized "Deutsch". I thought that straight up Dutch was German (from Deutsch), the more you know... Dutch is an English word, originally meaning any continental Germanic language speaker, high or low. Thought it came from Diets (not the food thing, you say it like 'deets'/'deeds') which was gradually changed to Dutch in English and eventually started to only mean the language/people of the Netherlands. Dutch is cognate with Diets, Duits, Deutsch, Diestch, but doesn't come from any one of them in particular. Dutch just meant any continental Germanic language speaker at the time, Germans, Frisians, and Nederlanders were all equally Dutch. The Dutch are from The Netherlands unless you're speaking about Pennsylvanian "Dutch" who are from Germany and are actually called "Deutsch". The Danish are Danes from Denmark.  
The fact that so many people to not understand this just confuses me and then people say they're "Dutch" but they actually mean "Deutsch" but then they're neither because they're Americans from Pennsylvania. Does this mean you thought danishes were made in Dutch ovens? But what's made in Deutsch ovens? Ok, so the Dutch are from the Netherlands, now what exactly is Holland? The entire country is The Netherlands. Think: The USA. Holland refers to the provinces North and South Holland. Think: Just California, or Florida. But their tourist board uses Holland for the whole country.

And their soccer chant is 'hup Holland hup!'. To be fair, most tourists will probably only see Holland, as that's where there's the highest concentration of bigger cities, and Amsterdam.  I am Dutch, and it is because most people assume Holland is for the whole country. And our chant is hup holland hup because the bigger teams are from the north or south provinces, which is still Holland :) I much prefer the word 'Holland', but when I lived in Maastricht I realized how the rest of the country isn't thrilled about it. There are two provinces in the Netherlands called Noord (north)-Holland and Zuid (south)-Holland. They aren'r from Dutchlamd?!
 No, Deutschland is Germany. Were you reading about Volbeat? Are you dutch? Cause I'd like to explore your Netherlands *wink wink*  Dutch people are from Holland which is actually Netherlands. 

None of those words are ANYTHING LIKE EACHOTHER Holland is actually a part of the Netherlands. Oddly, I was taught in school that it was just Holland. Then I found out that "Netherlands" was another name for it, then longer to find out that Holland is just a region of the Netherlands. And a lot of Dutch people say that instead of Netherlands. I'm actually from Holland, but someone from Drenthe isn't!  "American people are from Montana which is actually the United States" 

That's what you've just done there.  More like California, as Holland makes up a significant part of the population, but yes. &gt;The Netherlands consists out of twelve provinces. Two of them, North and South Holland, are the two provinces that together make Holland. Due to the maritime and economic power of these provinces in the 17th century, the Netherlands became known worldwide as Holland. To make matters even more confusing the inhabitants of the Netherlands are called Dutch. 

Hope that provides some clarity on a confusing situation. Na, they're from Holland. I think I will always think about Denmark when I hear the word Dutch. Maybe because Duczyk (pronounced like doon-chik) means Danish in Polish. keep digging I found that out during the 2010 world Cup.  Netherlands.  Holland.  Dutch.  Who knew.   Wait til you find out there's a whole continent of Americans. Two. Two continents. And the Danish hate the Dutch. (Not really sure if that is true. A guy I knew was Danish and he did not like the Dutch one bit.) Am Dutch, never heard anything like that ever before. I don't think they'd have a rational reason to hate us. I once convinced a friend that people from the Netherlands were called Nethers. But this was a the girl that thought the Philippines were a mountain range where the Dolly Llama lived sooo... Nice try, Chandler.  

The Netherlands is this make believe place where Peter Pan and Tinkerbell come from. ::Holland:: blink, blink, blink. I feel really dumb. Dutch people aren't from Holland? Who has wooden shoes and windmills and tulips. (Is that even all one country, or is my brain totally scrambled?) No they're from Holland. Isn't that weird? Same Holland is weird. 

The country is "The Netherlands". Everyone calls it holland (which is more like a county. People will bitch at your for calling it holland. Of course none of them live there, people from there don't care. /Too many dutch friends). And the people are dutch. 

Italians are from italy, germans from germany, Brits from Britain... But dutch... From the netherlands....  What blew my mind about the Netherlands is that the nether part means lower, or under, like in netherworld or nether regions. These countries are lower than the surrounding lands and are also called the Low Countries. This clicked for me when learning French and the Netherlands was les pays-bas. The Low Countries.  Wait are you telling me Dutch arent Germans? It's ok.  One of my college friends asked my Finnish ex where Norwegia was.   dont forget the Deutsche  Its even more confusing when you realize Germans call themselves Deutsche. Jfc Dutch are from the Netherlands? God damn it... I'll take one Dutch Chocolate Danish please!  Dania Before I knew Danish came from Denmark, I spent a lot of time looking for Daneland on my globe I got a few years ago. I thought the globe was outdated... In fairness, the globe probably is outdated. It probably is not outdated in that respect, though.  That's Denmark in Bulgarian. And greek.   And Norwegian people are from Norwegia My mother was convinced for most of her life that there was a country called Norland in the same area. She works in Foreign Affairs.

 Ah, where they make the Dania Sandero. As well as where Princess Dania was killed. Abraham: WHO'S DANIA? a town in florida ...Denny's?? Daneland? Danemark Danland http://bash.org/?833 Seems legit Daneland.  Daneland Danoslovakia Dainland. Duh.  The bakery Someplace close to where Danes come from...?  They're Dane-ish.
 Great Daneland? Daneland? Danecookland. Daneland Daneland, like in Beowulf. Danishland obviously Daneland Somewhere halfway between Asgard and the parallel country of Danmark? The bakery Dana Drury Lane, across the street from the Muffin Man's house. Cinnabon, of course! The bakery? Daenerys - Mother of Dragons Great Dane. Probably the Netherlands.   Daneland. The Entenmann's Aisles Holland?  Great Dane. Daneland. Entemann's Daneland, of course. I used to think Danish was an adjective describing something classy. This was because there is a store near where I grew up called "Danish Furniture". I thought it just meant classy furniture. I thought you could call many things Danish.  I am a Dane. Let me tell you how classy I feel surfing reddit in my pyjamas while scratching my balls. 

Quite classy.  And responding to ANAL_DOG_LICKER. Well, Danish designers do think of Danish furniture as super classy. 

We (Danish people, not Danish designers) are many things, but I don't think that classy is one of them.  Mmmmm danish  M'danish *tips barista* I'm imagining a neckbeard-type lifting a barista and tilting him/her forward slightly, gently placing them down, and then walking away. That would be so amazing. Or, you know, giving them a little extra money on top of whatever their coffee costs. I tipped her, but the barista still won't have sex with me! You're too nice for her, obviously. &amp;#3232;v&amp;#3232; **[*danishing intensifies*]** The land of chocolate Did you know the Dutch are from the Netherlands?  No, they're from Holland. Holland is a region within the Netherlands.  I'm familiar. I'm Dutch. I was being "funny." Many people in the international community refer to the Netherlands as Holland. In danish the name of the Netherlands is literally "Holland". We have the same distinction. The correct danish term is Nederlandene, though we usually say Holland because we are lazy bastards who don't like pronouncing long things. But at least 80% of your words are really long! HOLY SHIT WHAT
 Well it is the only part that matters.  and Deutschland is how ze germans say Germany, not how the Dutch people say *Dutchland*, because the correct pronunciation is actually *Nederlands* Where Peter Pan lives? I didn't know he was Dutch.  Don't forget your Dutch dictionary!  [What's the Matter with Denmark?] (https://vimeo.com/43647988) Kinda like Swedes are from Sweden... [deleted] I live in the USA and my name is Dane, so when introducing myself I usually say, "My name is Dane, they named a country after me".

Then there is a long pause where they look at me blankly, before I tell them that Denmark means "Land of the Danes".

Then they stare blankly at me, until I explain that Denmark is a country. I always got confused between Danish and Dutch. 

And its also a little confusing that the Dutch predominately tend to be from Holland. I always have to remind myself that Swiss people aren't from Sweden. Swedes are from Sweden and Swiss are from Switzerland. Even though I learned it years ago every time I hear Swiss I think Sweden. Sam? shhh...don't tell him about the Dutch. Wow, I just learned that the Netherlands and Holland are the same country. You comment lead to that thought process. God damn. Well Holland is a very informal name. It's the name of a previous kingdom in the, for the most part, same place where there Netherlands is today.  Ah ok, a little bit of a Persia -&gt; Iran/Afghanistan situation I see. Yea actually. Nice relating!!  Yaaaay! Go team! They used to call it Daneland, so don't worry about that one. Plus, Dutch people are from the Netherlands. TIL Just wait until you hear about the people from Flanders... Danland If it makes you feel better, I asked two Swiss tourists if they missed Swissland.  I believe I have tainted their view of Canadians as more worldly than Americans...  Are they not called the Danes anymore? I have a danish friend who hates being called dutch. I like calling her dutch. http://bash.org/?833 Dan was boobies For a long time I thought they were from some obscure country that never made the headlines called 'Daneland', where the 'land' is pronounced like in the word 'Switzerland'. 

Oh well...  I didn't know Parisians are from Paris until I was 25.  I once asked a Canadian what it was like living in Canadia "I didn't know you were Danish. Does that make you part pastry."  Hey look it's Joey.  Up until my senior year of high school I thought Norwegians were from a place called Norwegia. You're mistaken my friend Denish people are from Denmark. Danish people are from Danaslavia. 

Source: I'm Denish Similarly

Dutch and Netherlandsy

Prussia was not russia

Portugal is not an Asian country

Singapore /= shanghai WHAAAAT?  NOT DANELAND?!

Oh. Em. Gee! :P oh it was that hot Danish not-politician girl righte? I have had a similar problem with the Swiss and the Swedes, I tend to muddle up whos from where unless I actually stop to think about it. You should also know that the Dutch are from the Netherlands.
 While it is sort of depressing, it's not totally surprising. I've had Americans (Why is it always you guys?! lol) say some weird things when they found out I was from Denmark. Things like: "Ohhh, Canadian!" and "That's in Amsterdam, right?"

Why are we so unknown over there? :P I eat Danish for breakfast.  I met some people from Belgium.  in the same conversation that I told them that I love Belgian chocolate,  I asked what people from Belgium called themselves.  What are people from Lesbos called? Similarly, 4-5 years back (I was 23-24), I didn't know that Yiddish people were not from the country of Yid. As a Dane, I can confirm that we are indeed from Denmark. Until I was around 10 I was under the impression that my grandfather's job was screwing the caps on toothpaste tubes at a toothpaste factory. He worked in a steel mill. It still cracks me up that he was always making screwy shit like that up to amuse himself. I think that was Charlie's (from Charlie and the Chocolate factory) fathers job  Sounds about right. That makes it even better. When I read it as a kid I can imagine that confirming for me that it was a legit job and not something he made up, but I can't remember if I did or not. It is Isn't it what Timmy's dad did from Fairy Odd Parents? I used to think my dad was a colourer.  He coloured pictures for a living. 

He's an architect.

Edit: I thought this when I was maybe 6. My friend thought cows had to die to produce milk. She didn't realize until 8th grade when she decided to go vegetarian and her mom told her she could still drink milk. What do you think happens to the males? Well, milk cows are usually killed well before their natural lifespan, so... but why would you want to when almond milk is out there.  It's a shame you have to kill the almond to get the milk. To be fair though the calves are usually slaughtered at like a week old because the farmer cant keep every calf and its just not worth keeping them till they're fully grown before selling them. And the cow produces a calf every year to ensure that she is producing a large amount of milk most of the year round.  A friend of mine worked on a historical farm. A fully grown woman said to him "It's a shame you have to kill the cow to get out the milk." "My friend" I believe this because vegetarianism is in itself stupid.  
Btw anything with gelatin in it is not vegetarian. Many foods you would not think of have it besides the obvious jello, and gummie bears.  How is that stupid though? I think a conscientious effort to try to minimise animal product consumption is a good thing, some people that employ the diet may be misinformed, yes, but so are the low fat consuming crowd (ie most people). Maybe it's stupid, because you should go vegan instead?! It's not natural. We've got carnivore teeth, we're supposed to eat meat as well as vegetables. I think it's more a case of we **can** eat both, we're not supposed to eat anything in particular, just what is available.  Indoor plumbing isn't natural either, hope you're ready to give up your running water. Clothes? Nothing else in nature wears clothes, seems pretty unnatural to me. And what are you doing on Reddit? Dont you know the internet is unnatural? I'm not even a vegetarian but you are just making yourself sound like a fool. It's perfectly natural for humans to make adjustments to their surroundings for survival. That's, like, our whole thing. Sort of like a dietry adjustment?

 Most vegetarians do it for the animals not for themselves. In fact it's a hassle getting all your amino acids not eating meat. Have you tried? I built a lot of muscle on a vegetarian diet back when I went through a weight lifting phase, admittedly I still ate a lot of junk food and did no cardio so I was never quite lean. If you're dong it as diet I get it. But I'm more talking about the pretentious ones that go on and on about chicken being murder.  Oh right, I've never met someone like that but they must exist. I think  I've just always been one to avoid melodramatic teenage minded adults. Im 21. Until about a month  ago I didn't  know that when people talked about New England that they were talking about the North eastern US.

Edit: I have lived in the US my entire life.
Edit2: because a lot of people keep asking the same things I'll clear a few things up.  I thought the New England Patriots were from a city in New York.  I know that New Mexico is a state and not in Mexico.  So did you think the New England Patriots just flew over every week or what? Now that I think about it, are they the only team named after a region? No - the Carolina Panthers.   Ah. Forgot about them. Though they are somewhat closer to having a state's name. Also the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. [According to Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tampa_Bay):

&gt; "Tampa Bay" is not the name of any municipality. This misconception may stem from the names of several local professional sports franchises (including the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Tampa Bay Lightning, Tampa Bay Rays, and Tampa Bay Rowdies) which seek to draw support from the entire Tampa Bay Area, the hub of which is the city of Tampa, Florida. You just blew my mind! (yes, I'm rather late to the party) Yeah, but, which one? North, South Carolina is not spoken of. Also they have no sports teams worth noting. The Panthers did play in Clemson's stadium their first year, while their current one in Charlotte was still under construction. So I'd say the 17 years or so in NC outweigh the 1 in SC.

Fun Fact: When they were deciding on where to build the Panthers' stadium, on the border and just across the border in NC were considered. But they ended up building it in downtown Charlotte.

Edit: Meant to reply to refinnej78... my bad I imagine that differences in state regulations and taxes had a large part in the decision to move it uptown. Though that didn't stop Carowinds.  They also used to train in upstate SC, not sure if they still do.  That was a good thing. It would just be awkward seeing that the border around Charlotte as it's being redrawn up.  Fun fact: The most popular baseball team in the Carolinas is the New York Yankees. The second-most popular is the Boston Red Sox. Charlotte (the largest city in the Carolinas) is 530 miles from New York and 720 from Boston.

Also, there's a certain humor in Carolinians rooting for a bunch of Yankees. Have you been to NC? I lived there for 7 years, the population *is* a bunch of yankees. The Triangle and Charlotte are full of people from the north. At the time, myself included. There's also no professional baseball team in NC which might account for that fact. The logo is also intended to resemble [the shape](http://i.imgur.com/Q6Kgz.gif) of the two states. If that was their intention, they did a horrible job. Ha There are a lot of teams named after states instead of cities. I'm brainstorming here but I think this is most of them.  

MLB - Texas Rangers, Arizona Diamondbacks, Colorado Rockies

NFL - Arizona Cardinals, Carolina Panthers, Tennessee Titans

NBA - Golden State Warriors, Indiana Pacers, Utah Jazz

NHL - Arizona Coyotes, whatever Carolinas team is named, Colorado Avalanche, one of the Florida teams (are they the Panthers too?)

Plus all four of the Minnesota teams. Vikings, Twins, Timberwolves and Wild

I guess the only ones that are multistate regions are the Patriots and Carolinas.  TIL the Phoenix Coyotes changed their name. It's a recent thing, they just did it at the beginning of this season. All the announcers are still having trouble haha  Hell I just refuse to call them the Arizona coyotes. I have only known them as phoenix, and that they shall stay.  Carolina's team? The Hartford Whalers. The one New England area sports team that wasn't based in Massachusetts too. It'd be nice to have some regional rivalry here. The New England Whalers. Canadian reporting in Carolina is the hurricanes Florida has the Panthers, as well as Tampa Bay lightning but that is irrelevant, and then your right with Arizona and Colorado. 

 New England revolution So close to the MLS cup last year =(. Hey, new seasons under way. There's the Golden State Warriors in the NBA. Up until recently, I assumed they were an NCAA team, since Golden State sounds like the name of a university. They just might become the first college team to win the NBA championship this year &gt;There's the Golden State Warriors in the NBA.

Err...  "Golden State" refers specifically to California.
 I always thought they were "Bush's 4th Studio Album Warriors." Golden State isn't a region though, it's the state of California. If you count that then you gotta count all the teams who's name contains the state they play in rather than the city.  No I thought there was a town in New York And all of New England hates you with just one comment... I sincerely apologize. If it helps any I am from a small town in South Dakota.  The only things people there really care to learn are how to love jesus and where to buy the cheapest beer Holy shit....the comment that made me face palm the hardest came from someone from my home state. Damnit.... Well. We still have a lot of cheap beer. I'm from New England and I don't hate you! But I do, fuck you! ............. yeah, sure, what the hay, I don't have anything going on. ;) He didn't say he loves The Yankees. OK that would only be like 1/2-3/4 of NE. Had a conversation with an Egyptian friend of mine the other day where I said how no one really plays American football outside of the US and Canada. He looked at me and said "You dumbass, the New England Patriots just won the Superbowl!" Me and my other friend just sat there for a solid 20 seconds trying to process what he just said because he sounded 98% serious but there was that hint of sarcasm. Turns out he was 100% serious and genuinely thought that the Pats were from the UK. I did. It *is* the WORLD championship.  Yeah, or why they were called the Patriots and not the Red Coats? If it were the New England Browns it'd be more believable. They're so polite letting everyone else win! New England is made up of six states: Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.

Source: from New England.

EDIT: [Yes, really.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_England) New York and New Jersey only count if you're talking about [the Dominion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dominion_of_New_England). Rhode Island represent! Come on, I know at least *half* of the six of us are redditors. Cranston resident reporting for duty! Woof. Sorry to hear that, buddy. Hey, me too! Providence: Boston's Coke Dealer Amen RI has the best beaches no doubt. Come to northern Mass! Northern Mass? You must know Mikey, Brian, or Sully then? Can't say I have...? Is that a reference to the The Perfect Storm or something?

Then again, I'm north of Cape Ann so I'm (on a good traffic day) closer to Portsmouth than to Salem. I've been. Yankee Candle factory is what's up! youll freeze your ass off in the water because the cape redirects the gulf stream The Cardassians have NY and NJ now? Goddammit Jem'hadar with those accents would be... strange. Call the Defiant! Time for pewpew! Fellow New Englander here: Thank you. New York and New Jersey aren't part of New England. That always pisses me off... And they all hate each other.
Source: From CT, live in MA. I'm conflicted.  &gt;And they all hate ~~each other~~ CT.

FTFY This would probably be because Connecticut is where all the old money fucks come from. That and Cape Cod. Fuckers are the only reason Massachusetts hasn't built a wind farm yet. To be fair, New Hampshire hates Massachusetts, Maine hates Massachusetts, Massachusetts hates Rhode Island and Connecticut, Connecticut hates Massachusetts, and Vermont gives no fucks about any of this.  If you're ever unsure, though, just assume Massachusetts is the asshole and you're probably right. You must be from Connecticut  Nope, raised in New Hampshire now living in Massachusetts, but only because it's where all the money is. Joke's on you, I live in NH and work in Mass. Pulling the money back into NH. Wait, I'm paying MA state taxes. Joke's on me. :( You're just making up for all the people who drive 45 minutes - 2 hours up to NH to save $3 by not paying sales tax. Vermont just wonders why we thought joining the United States was a good thing, and if perhaps we might have been better off staying our own country. Vermont is from the future, I'm sure of it.  They're what San Franciscans wish they were, the reality of a vague dream of self-awareness and social propriety.  Vermonters sometimes tune into discussions of social issues and think, "is this actually a question?"  They legislate with prudence and arbitrate objectively.  It's really the most laid-back, forward-thinking state in this whole ignorant union; They only stick with the rest of us because they're so cool they know we'll one day ask for their influence and counsel.  I've never lived there, but I've visited many times and everyone, from the police to the bums, seemed reasonably intelligent and discerning.  I love that place, so I stay away lest my Massholery spread and infect the last bastion against yuppies in the whole damn Northeast.  New Hampshire fell a decade ago, Maine has been clinging to an ancient illusion dreamt of their last acid binge, but Vermont is still unsullied, monument to what we once were as New Englanders; The best educated and most progressive motherfuckers in the whole country. I just teared up a little bit. VT is as beautiful and idealistic as you describe. I am from Maine, we are what we are- a vacationland. There are plenty of great communities, but VT is truly a dreamland. It's hidden. It's beautiful. The people are conscious and love their lives. I can't say enough great things about the green mountain state.   Mass doesn't really hate RI. We just think they're corrupt and tiny.

We do hate half of CT, though. The half that thinks they're NY. Fucking traitors... Mass totally hates RI drivers. Especially Providence. Connecticut sucks all around.

Source: From Mass. Massholes! But who does Rhode Island hate? Probably Connecticut, have you *been* there? The *worst.* Don't you know that Rhode Islanders never leave their state, and if they have to drive more than 15 minutes they "pack a lunch"?  They don't leave therefore they dont know any other place exists to hate I think many from CT hate CT, but we all come together to love The Big E. The Big E is so gross though. There's nice parts of it (kinda) but the rest is just hot tub salesmen, gross food and the trashiest people in the world.  I'm from CT and I don't hate any of the states in NE although I do call Maine "The South of the North." Long live the King in the South of the North!!! I always call the less pleasant parts of Maine "The Deep North."  Yea my friends uncle used to hunt deer by just sitting in his barn drinking beer and wait for one to walk by. That's Maine for Ya. I'd say that honor would go to New Hampshire Not quite. New Hampshire is rural, but not Maine rural. But their whole "we hate taxes" thing, plus fireworks, plus no seatbelt law...

That definitely makes it a lead contender for the title. [This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hnTVNZojojU) definitely belongs here http://www.hulu.com/watch/433369 Wait it's not a state?  No. Its like a region.  Oh. I thought it was the thirteen colonies. Ehh, I'm like half right, right? Sure, but it's still an F. You have to go to summer school now. Nope. Georgia is definitely not New England. Thank you for this! I always was so confused, but never remembered to look it up later.  Basically everything between Stephen King territory and HP Lovecraft territory. Northeastern.  Everything north and east of New York, really. Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut.  Thank you.  And half of Connecticut. All of Connecticut.  Half of Connecticut roots for the Yankees, so they don't count. 


Source: Bostonian Fucking people from Greenwich This is the correct answer A "Yankee" is actually a New Englander. Get out of here with your non-baseball facts. We're trying to have an argument here! champion of usernames Not if you're from Georgia. Connecticut: That state between NYC and Boston. Hey, we have some awesome ghettos  Connected to both, cut down the middle. I'm pretty sure Fairfield County considers themselves part of New York. Need some confirmation though.  Fairfield county's craigslist is lumped in with NYC Eastern ct craigslist gets so many hits from long island... I'm not about to drive 8 hours or take a ferry to meet up with some guy to haggle for a keyboard. Craigslist doesn't get this I'm from Fairfield county and don't consider myself New York lol The question is sox or yankees? That is the only way to determine it  Noooooope 13/8 of Connecticut  Technically  To be safe we don't have to count any of Connecticut.  Imho the line is drawn through New Haven.  It's about half Sox, half Yankees. Actually as you get closer to New York, it doesn't become Yankees territory, it just gets mixed. Fairfield County has fans of both teams.

Source: From Fairfield County Western MA is about 1/2 Yankees fans too, especially the closer you get to Springfield. Kinda annoying to me. Until reading your post, I thought "New England" referred to the entirety of the U.S.A... but I live in Britain. Well, 300-ish years ago you wouldn't be wrong.Now, though, the entirety of the U.S.A. is generally called the United States of America.Edit: Thanks for correcting my history, even though it was a sarcastic comment not meant to be taken seriously. I did, however learn some things about my own country that I didn't know, so thanks for that! TIL Bloody colonists. Well, New England was still a region during colonial times, so he'd probably be wrong. Something something I must be great at parties. We also all generally call Britain 'Old United States'  I've been known to call it that.Also, for clarity's sake, the rest of the world we generally call the "Soon-to-be United States". It's also known as "Britain's Greatest Gift to the World"  Of course they also named the Mid-West which has FUCKING NOTHING AT ALL TO DO WITH THE GOD DAMN WEST AND AS AN OREGONIAN I REFUSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AN AREA 2/3 OF THE WAY BACK EAST CAN POSSIBLY BE THE MID WEST.

Its East of Central, East of the Continental divide, East of the Pacific NW and the South West too, although those FUCKERS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE GOD DAMN COUNTRY DOWN IN TEXAS INSIST THEY ARE FROM THE SOUTH WEST WHEN IN FACT THEY ARE IN THE SOUTH CENTRAL,  but we won't go into that right now, oh hell no.

We can't call it the Mid-East because that makes them all into a bunch of Persians, but of course Minnesota seems to be trying real hard to become just that.

I'm sorry, what were we talking about? IT'S THE WORST WHEN YOU TRY TO APPLY FOR JOBS; THEY HAVE THREE CATEGORIES: EAST, MIDWEST, AND WEST.

When I say West I mean California, Oregon, or Washington. So by that definition Montana is midwest? And where the hell does Idaho fit? D: As a washingtonian I think we should just forget about it. Montana would probably be West. Well, this is a term that goes back to colonial times.

EVERYTHING WEST OF THE APPALACHIANS WAS THE FUCKING UNTAMED WEST.

THEN WE STARTED SETTLING IT, AND IT BECAME LESS AND LESS UNFAMMILAR.

SINCE IT WAS STILL WEST, BUT NOT AS FAR WEST AS, WELL, THE FAR WEST, IT WAS REFERRED TO AS THE MIDWEST.

THEN CALIFORNIA HAPPENED, AND THE TERM WEST STUCK ON THE ROCKIES.

IF YOU'RE WONDERING WHY THIS IS SO EAST-COAST CENTERED, THAT'S BECAUSE THE COUNTRY STARTED THERE AND MOVED WEST.

PLUS THERE'S THE THING WITH HOW THE MISSISSIPPI NEATLY DIVIDES THE COUNTRY, AND HOW THAT'S AN EASY THING TO DRAW, BUT YOU GET THE IDEA.

Personally I get tired of the people who think "The North" is one solidified New York-Chicago-Boston culture for some reason.

There *is* such a thing as the Midlands. Hey man West Texas is Southwest, East Texas is Southeast, and Central Texas is central.  It's not our fault we're so girthy /r/bigstateproblems Nope, this is Texas No, this is PATRICK Actually, it's called the Greatest Country on Earth.  Obviously you're not from around here. I genuinely can't tell if you're being sarcastic or not.  I like your snarky reply.  It's cool. We just call England "Old U.S.A" It's understandable. I'm sure a lot of British people end up saying "wait we *don't* own them anymore? What about that India place? WHAT!"  Meh who needs India, we've still got Gibraltar and the Falklands. The empire is alive! You wish 7/8 of the world are technically New England. Take the next step and [check out a word that foreigners like to use](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yankee) to refer to all of us and [why it's not quite right.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Civil_War) When someone uses it like that, I always think "How the hell do they know the person they're referring to is a northeasterner? And how is it relevant?" before I realize they're foreign.

It would be like non-British people just one day deciding that the Scottish, Welsh, and Irish are all "English" despite that usage being way wrong internally. We don't say 'yankee'. It's just 'yank'. And you're going to have to suffer with the fact that it's a term for you people. I don't like being called 'antipodean', and it's completely wrong, but me being sad isn't going to stop the poms from doing it, in fact, they'll just say it even more. &gt; We don't say 'yankee'. It's just 'yank'.

What's the difference? But you're right, we just gotta deal. No argument there. Doesn't mean we can't laugh though. And New Zealand accents sound identical to Australian ones. Shortening words is part of the Australian culture. It's my patriotic duty to make sure every word is shot down to one syllable where applicable. Real answer, 'yankee' is seen as an old word, only old people and hipsters would use a fancypants term like 'yankee'. Plus, we like double entendres. Oh, and not to mention that the rhyming slang doesn't work if we call you 'yankees'. The word rhymes with 'yank'.

But New Zealanders don't sound like us. They're all like 'where's the car?', and we're all like 'where's the car?', you Canadian so and so. All joking aside, do you guys actually say seppo? If I were someone to use yankee, I'd be equally likely to use yank. That makes perfect sense. But seppo...

I can only tell New Zealanders apart if they use a word like math. Math sounds like meth and meth sounds like mith. I certainly do. It rolls off the tongue easier. And I like rhyming slang. Not to mention that I find a little fun in using language that other people can't understand. It's a small substitute for my lack to actually speak another language apart from English. Nah, we're all like "where's the car" and they're like "where's the car" I'm Canadian, and just assumed it was one of their states when I was younger. I assumed it was a state until right now. 24 year old Canadian. Uhg, 28 year old Canadian here. Political Science Major, focused on Canadian Federalism, but fairly knowledgeable about American politics.

I'm the guy who explains the electoral college to friends during presidential elections, and knows that the vice president is technically the leader of the senate, and that's why the speaker of the house is second in line after the VP. Heck, I can name more State Governors than I can Provincial Premiers.

New England isn't a state. Well that's news to me. I guess that makes sense, I mean, i've never heard of the governor of New England doing anything... and the Pats are from Massachusetts... New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, New England I know right! Like new mexico.  TIL. I had a vague idea but I needed this comment to really connect the dots.  I thought it was another place in Europe. Whoops I really hope you guys aren't American? What did you think people were talking about if they mentioned New England?  I hope you aren't all Americans saying this... I am damn it.  Hell I learned it because of family guy and Quahog. At least Quahog I know isn't real. I'm canadian but most these fuckers should of learned this by now considering how often the patriots have been on the news This shows how far someone can live their life outside the mainstream thanks to the internet and technology ....  Got your own micro climate where New England is an unknown.  This is literally fascinating me Mine was vague to say the least (most???). Shit this thread is making me feel stupid. It's Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut.  Well I just learned that I'm a fucking idiot.  Well, at least someone admits it. Yea I always got really confused every time I saw the New England Patriots because how could they call themselves American Patriots if they're not even in America! I was 15.. Did you think New England clam chowder was some fancy foreign food? Never  heard of it Well, it's not just the Northeast...
It's only Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.

New York and New Jersey are NOT part of New England. Wait... So, it's not a state? I thought New England was a state. Please tell me you're not American. I'm Canadian. Well, then, that's forgivable. It's a region made of six states: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut. Saying "New England" is kinda like saying "the Maritimes" (which New England borders). *Whew* In all fairness, geography is America's great cultural Achilles Heel.  From Friends - "How is New England not a state?  It has a sports team!"  Being from New Hampshire  (and a Pats fan) that line always made me chuckle. There's also a New England region of NSW, in Australia. It's about the same size as Iowa, and contains a whole lot of hills, bush, and not much else. I lived in California for a few years and one of my better friends there was a guy who moved from Baltimore to California just a few months after I moved from Massachusetts to California.  I met him as he was moving into the apartment above mine.  We started hanging out a lot and one day while watching some TV show that mentioned "New England" he asked me if I had ever been there.  I looked at him like he was joking.  I mean, he wasn't a dolt or anything.

He was dead serious.  He had no idea that New England was an area comprised of six states.  I busted his balls over that one for a good month or so. I tell everyone I'm from New England. Based on how impressed the person is, you can tell right away if they're making the same mistake.  The amount of people who think New England is a state because of the football team is astonishing. Most football teams aren't even named for states, they're named for cities..

I think not knowing what New England refers to is better than thinking it's one of the 50 states. My boyfriend is 28 and I had to explain that to him recently. 
He was so confused as to why the Gillet Center was in Massachusetts opposed to New England. He's cute though, so I keep him around.  No way....this isn't true is it?  There is also a New England in Australia. It has a university too. TIL

I had no fucking clue. I'm completely appalled by this. 18 year old female about to graduate high school and I thought New England was in Britain or something. Not here in the U.S. I'm unbelievably shocked. I've lived in the U.S. my entire life and just now learned this. Wow.  When Queen Elizabeth had her coronation, Winston Churchill (born 1874) was Prime Minister of the UK.

The current Prime Minister of the UK is David Cameron (born 1966), and of course the Queen is still the Queen.

Her first and her current Prime Ministers were born 92 years apart. Might not exactly fit the question, but Hitler, Stalin, Freud, Tito, Trotsky all lived in Vienna, at the same time, in 1913. Which means they could have all walked into a bar at the same time, and that would have naturally made for an awesome joke. 

Source: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-21859771   Hitler, Stalin, Freud, Tito and Trotsky went into a bar. "I vant a weissbier" said Hitler. "I will hev a drink as cold as gulag with lots of ice, Tito and Trotsky will have the same" said Stalin. Then Trotsky said "Actually I didn't want *ice*, but I guess no one *axed me*".

Something something, tell me about your relationship with your mother, something something, Tito sounds like tits.

 7/10. Effort commendable. Room for improvement. Leonardo da Vinci was a year younger than Christopher Columbus.  I'd like to thank the Assassin's Creed Ezio trilogy for making me realize how many Renaissance-era people are from practically the same 2 generations. Black Flag was insanely accurate with famous pirates, even their deaths and actions Just barely - Paul Revere and Karl Marx They're coming, they're coming! The proletariat is coming! One if by land and two if by C(CCP) An unusually well-travelled man in the 5th Century BC could have conceivably met Zoroaster, Confucius, Lao Tze, the Buddha and Socrates over the course of a seventy-year life.  Although it's unlikely I'd like to believe in a 5th century Forrest Gump who actually did this.  Momma always said life is like an amphora of fish sauce, you never know what you're gonna get. It would be great if 5th century BC Forrest Gump good-heartedly and accidentally caused the beginnings of Zoroastrianism, Daoism, Confucianism, Buddhism and the Socratic Method.... I'll watch that movie in a heartbeat Jesus. Like every single one of those are arguably the father of their civilisation's school of thought. It's like the world decided to just shit out a load of world-changing philosophers around 500BC. Everyone had gained enough Culture to spawn a Great Person.  It's actually called the axial age, because, sure enough, these civilizations started shitting out philosophers about that time. Betty White and Alexander Graham Bell Betty White and Jesus [deleted] Well looks like I'm jacking off to Betty White. Never thought I'd say that twice in one day. What's that?  Come again? Show me a photo of Jesus topless, then I'll be impressed. Abraham Lincoln was 12 when Napoleon Bonaparte died.  Also, Abe and Charles Darwin were born on the exact same day. I came to say this.  They also hit their prime around the same time.  Cool to see those lives running in parallel   Yes, they both turned 2 at the same time. and 3,5,7,11.... Nice primes 3prime5me... Civil war veterans appeared on TV in the 1950's  This one caught me off guard Lincoln was caught off guard too Too soon bro. Too soon.  Danny Trejo and Anne Frank Together they fight crime. Neil Armstrong was 17 when Orville Wright died.  Damn. Popcorn has been around for a while. Orville must have been pissed when he lost the astronaut food race to Ice-Cream. Damn this is the craziest one  