When you're born with a bible up your ass it's really hard to get it out. He needs a Bible enema. Any volunteers?  No way. It'll be covered in santorum. Frothy.  We'll do it in that "book suppository building" in Texas. Is that you Snowball? Is that you John Wayne?   Is this me? What have we got here? A fuck-en comedian! I like you! Hell, I might even take you home and let you fuck my sister. Outstanding! SIR YES SIR! That must make you Pvt. Joker, then.  You Goddamn communist heathen, you had best sound off that you love the Virgin Mary, or I'm gonna stomp your guts out! Now you DO love the Virgin Mary, don't ya? Sir, NEGATIVE, sir! Sir, the private believes any answer he gives will be wrong and the Senior Drill Instructor will only beat him harder if he reverses himself, SIR!  Are you kidding?  If you pull out his ass bible you'll get covered in [santorum](http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/santorum).  And that would be fucking gross.

Edit for definition: Santorum (noun): A frothy mixture of lubricant and fecal matter as an occasional byproduct of anal sex. &gt; A frothy mixture of lubricant and fecal matter as an occasional byproduct of **vigorous** anal sex.

 It's a TRAP! 

He wants people up his ass.

Any and every bible thumper that makes gay anything his daily talking point ends up being caught getting fucked by another dude. This just isn't true.

Some of them are caught fucking the other dude. [This guy?](http://www.top39.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/12/jack_nicholson_joker.jpg)... maybe not, he just specializes in towns. THANK YOU. For the last 25 years, whenever I read or hear the word 'enema' I think of that line from Batman. Gentlemen! Let's broaden our minds! ...at HOME... ~~ironing~~ [wASHIN his TIGHTS!!] (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fbC4wkJmwTU)
 He also needs a cranial rectalectomy. Cranial rectal inversion is not a joke!  Millions of families suffer every year! Where is the Illinois Enema Bandit when you need him? I heard he's on the loose. &gt; He needs a Bible enema

This will be filed in my memory for later use, thanks.

Also, I'm from the UK and I have a lot of love for my fellow atheist Americans and you should know I hold you in the highest regard. Quite the opposite of how I look upon twats like Santorum. We'll do it by the book Have him take ayahuasca You'd think all the santorum would help ease that out.  [TYL the meaning of Santorum.](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=santorum) This man has made a career at pointing at things, declaring them sacred, and having not a clue what they say, mean, or do.

He's a Senator that doesn't know the Constitution.
He's a Man of God that doesn't know the bible.
He's a wanna-be Commander in Chief that's never sacrificed a minute of his life in the military.
He's a Hawk of War that wouldn't let his child enlist.

We didn't make his name mean a specific type of ass leakage on accident.   His entire life has been him pulling random crap out of his ass. It's easy to call him an asshole..but that would be an insult to assholes

I like my asshole. It works well. Without it, I would be full of shit So, what you're saying is, Santorum doesn't have an asshole? That would explain soooo much! Someone pointed out the other day that conservatives like to harp about the Constitution while telling falsehoods about the content of the Constitution. The things they think the Constitution says (like thinking it contains the word "God") are true of the **Confederate** Constitution. I'm assuming this hillbilly has been using some outdated Texan history textbooks that misled him into believing the ridiculous things he claims.  Here's something with the word god in it for ya Rick.


You're a god damn fucking moron, fuck off. Anyway, it would be a national issue. The EU has nothing to do with it. How obvious is that? That would be an ecumenical matter. DRRRRINK! After all it is Paddy's Day! Clearly the Greeks invented gayness. People like him always look for external enemies, because true, white [Insert nationality] would never, ever do something like that.

*Gayness* (and socialism) comes from Europe (Isn't gay a French word after all?), crime comes with blacks, sin comes with women, etc. Easy, Bubbles.  "We have no plan to fix things in this country, so let's talk about shit that really doesn't matter."  I too wish I could beat a dead horse and get praise for doing it. Santorum can't help but talk about shit... As a citizen of the EU I'd be more than happy to take the credit for marriage equality. However it's not just our accomplishment but the accomplishment of many. I am however glad my country (the Netherlands) has been on the forefront of this movement. I don't think Santorum realizes that the EU will take his critique as a compliment! I don't think he realizes EU is not a country.  LOL, wait why can't I find EU on the gosh darn map! Because the EU is nothing more than liberal propaganda from that pile of commies known as the Democratic Party. European Union? More like EuroBAMA Union.

No? Ok, I'll stop.  Thanks, Obama Joe's not gonna settle down until he gets some thanks. Thanks Bidin haha, I'm doing stuff But it is a country.. right next to 'here there be dragons' on the map. He probably just hopes that conservative Americans will associate the EU with dirty words like socialism. I doubt it has anything to do with insulting Europe. Well the Netherlands is often on the receiving end of republican/conservative abuse and lies, including from ther presidential candidates. We're not sure if we should be offended, laugh at their ignorance or be very worried that some of these people have/had a serious chance at becoming the president of the USA. A healthy dose of all three. But mostly the last one. I'm not concerned at all with the crazy shit crazy people believe until they have the power to affect me with it. [*"Denmark was the first country in the world to grant legal recognition to same-sex unions, in the form of "registered partnerships", in 1989."*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_rights_in_Denmark)

DENMARK WON! Eat our dust, Holland! rde plse fuck yeah 

danmag fuck yeah

^^^^sorry ^^^^don't ^^^^have ^^^^the ^^^^cool ^^^^ /r/DANMAG  Uruguayan here, proud to say Europe isn't the only continent with equality. Exactly, there's sensible people all across the globe. Wowwowwow!!! Children use this site! The least you can do is censor out the second word in this title... gross! I still think of that every time I see his name. Internetting activism at its best! I know, I can't believe we actually got people to refer to him by that expletive  on TV and radio too! I'm out of the loop (or this has just gone over my head), what's this about his name being a dirty word?

Granted, I've heard nothing but negative things about him, but still, what's this about? http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=santorum&amp;defid=942955 The whole thing was really started by one man, [Dan Savage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campaign_for_%22santorum%22_neologism) in 2003, in response to Santorum's views on homosexuality. Time stamp says 10:03:08 you are the victor. What do I win? A bucket of santorum Hope you're ready to read nasty stuff. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campaign_for_%22santorum%22_neologism Yup, truly a Savage attack. A while back a Canadian magazine called Maclean's ran an article entitled "A Santorum Surge" (or something close to that) and I know it was intentional.  Wait til you hear what Brownbacking is. Hahaha, good one. Whups!  Let me fix that:

Rick ~~Santorum~~Frothy Fecal/Lube Mixture

There we go, safe for children now. Apologies to our non-American friends. Shit-guzzling cunts like this guy don't represent the majority of us Americans. I can't wait for his generation to die off... There are plenty in his generation that are advocates of marriage equality. The generation isn't the problem. It's the closed minded bible thumping assholes  True, but the generation below him has far less bible thumpers. When the generation dies off, the ratio will improve. [deleted] &gt; Is this actually true? Are there data to back it up?

[Yes.](http://www.pewforum.org/2012/10/09/nones-on-the-rise/) [deleted] Sometimes the cycle continues, sometimes it [doesn't](https://hateandanger.files.wordpress.com/2013/01/brain-barf-blocked-by-science.jpg) I'm a bit older than Ricky "Frothy Mixture" so I represent your comment.  Lissen, kid, it's not "old people" that are the problem it's "~~old~~ people who suck Jebus dick" and those that enable them.   I don't see what the problem is; somebody give this guy an Comedy Award. He's better in staying in character than Colbert was &gt; Shit-guzzling cunts like this guy don't represent the majority of us Americans.

Election results would suggest otherwise... The outcome doesn't matter, as that would get said regardless of the outcome.  The problem is that most people that run for office are shit-guzzling cunts. Multiple election issues. The biggest two are electoral college versus popular vote and apathetic voters. I'd absolutely rate the two-party system as #1 or #2. The reason most politicians stay out of the middle is because only the most sound-byte worthy candidate from each side gets the nomination. Get rid of the primaries and simply put everyone who wants to run at the same level on the same ballot, and we'd see a lot less crazy like this shithead making my country look so fucking ass-backwards. Suggesting the majority of Americans are apathetic and don't mind having people like Santorum in charge isn't much better than active support. The apathy is more from people believing their vote won't make a difference. Ask any American, voter or otherwise, most people hate asshats like that but still don't vote. Problems with education, voter registration process is time consuming, lack of faith in the system.

It boils down to a small minority who only vote because they believe strongly in what they believe. If the vast majority always voted in every election, so many problems with America wouldn't exist. the elections in this country are complete bullshit As a EU citizen and redditor, I'm used to seeing this regularly. Every country has its nutjob politicians I guess, it's a shame they always make the most noise. when 45% of you votes for asshats like this, it tends to get harder to distinguish you from the cunts that say shit like this. For a so called "man of god", he sure likes to talk about gay sex a lot. The gayest thing a man can do is worry about what another man does with his dick.

E. Does with his own dick*. I dunno I think I've done stuff that people would probably consider gayer than that Santorum is gayer and farther in the closet than John Travolta, it's just the feeling scares him so much that he feels the need to demonize it everywhere he goes. About 80% of my professional graphic design work is in the M/M homoerotica genre. I design books covers, sometimes enjoy the occasional advanced copy of a manuscript, and even sometimes write myself. Given the community, I also often find myself dipping into advocacy and even volunteer design and web development work to organizations such as PFLAG.

I spend less time talking about gay sex than this dude. Maybe he wants to meet with other men of God and discuss it to his sweaty and breathless satisfaction.  Uh, the EU also doesn't have a constitution... so there's no mention of god in a document that doesn't exist? Shocking. [deleted] Eh, it's in the preamble and not actually a part of the constitution, so not at all important. 

And as long as the CDU and especially CSU is governing you can't expect things to change from the citizen union to actual marriage. The Lisbon treaty is pretty much a constitution in all but name. A somewhat diluted version of one I guess. Besides, if Rick Santorum knows the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty in detail I'll be shocked.  a constitution is simply a guideline that lays out how an organization is ran, which is what the Lisbon treaty does for the EU.

its only diluted in that people didn't want the previous treaty because it was specifically called a constitution, even though such a treaty can't not be a constitution, regardless of what its called. If Rick Santorum can find Lisbon on a map, I'll be shocked. Weeeelllll. In drafts of Giscard d'Estaing's doomed constitution there was a sentence fairly early on which talked about the 'shared Judeo-Christian history'. Happily, folk saw enough sense to kick that bit very firmly out.

Edit of not if Obsessed about what others do in the bedroom, Rick? Got some skeletons in your closet? I'm sensing repressed homsexuality. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8772014 or just watch 'American Beauty'. Rich Santorum doesn't have skeletons in the closet. *He* is in the closet.  With the skeletons!? He's more of a freak than I thought. It's getting awfully spooky in here. Doot doot.  He is the closet. So many people confuse the Declaration of Independence for the constitution. The mistake the "endowed by their creator" line as being in the constitution. And then they even go so far as to assume that "creator" heavily implies the christian god. 

But even though the word creator is in the declaration, it is used to show that a persons individual god or gods give them THEIR rights. The exact quote is "that they are endowed by THEIR Creator with certain unalienable Rights"(EMPHASIS MINE). 

Every human wasn't given their basic human rights by my god or your god or our god. They were given their rights by their creator, who or whatever it may be.  So, my parents gave me my unalienable rights when they got busy in the back of a chevy nova? Yes. That's exactly what I'm saying. This man truly is obsessed with gay sex. Not just gay sex.  This is a man who said that the government should have the right to control what any two adults do in the privacy of their bedroom. Small Government. 

^^^^.

^^^^Except ^^^^in ^^^^your ^^^^bedroom. Remember, it's only *Small Government* when it comes to spending money on people who need it. You're missing the point. The government has to be small to fit in your bedroom in the first place! Ahh, Frothy continues to do the work of the American Christian Taliban. I like how technically Canada is a religious country ("Whereas Canada is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of
God and the rule of law"), no one ever tries to say that. We'll also have had gay marriage for a decade come July. Kind of funny how that stuff works, huh Rick? I can't believe how bloody stupid he is. Came here to say this. It's in our national anthem for Christs sake! (God keep our land glorious and free) yet we were the 4th country in the world to legalize gay marriage.   Why are these people making decisions? Scum floats to the top. (christ, this turned out to be a rather longer and more rambling comment than I had first intended. I was just trying to show the somewhat ironic difference between one of the world's most atheist countries which was once deeply religious in its constitution (and still is, but to a much much smaller degree), and one of the world's most religious countries, which is deliberately non-religious in its constitution. Anyway, read it if you want; I cant very well just delete it now that Ive taken this long to write it :p )

It's... ironic, or something, that the founding fathers of the US went to great lengths to specifically keep religion and God out of the constitution and to keep church and state separate, while the US is now one of the most religious countries, with people just flat out denying that God isnt in the constitution.

Meanwhile, my country (Norway) is today one of the more [atheist countries in the world](http://www.parentingbeyondbelief.com/blog/norway.jpg) but when the constitution was written and signed in 1814, there was one section in particular that was rather heavily pro-protestantism/anti everyone else. And it's not like this was buried in 138 or something. No, this was 2. Considering 1 is just declaring Norway an independent monarchy, they obviously thought this shit quite important to put it in already at 2:

&gt; 2. Den evangelisk-lutherske Religion forbliver Statens offentlige Religion. De Indvaanere, der bekjende seg til den, ere forpligtede til at opdrage sine Brn i samme. Jesuitter og Munkeordener maae ikke taales. Jder ere fremdeles udelukkede fra Adgang til Riget.

Which translates as (sorry if my translation is a bit awkward sounding; I can write English just fine (I think?), but when it comes to translating to English from my own language, I somehow struggle a lot)

&gt; 2. Lutheranism shall remain the State's religion. The citizens who pledge to it (is this the right way to say it? probably not) are also obligated to raise their children the same. Jesuits and munk orders are not to be tolerated. Jews will still be denied access to the Kingdom.

(In case you are wondering about the "shall remain" and "still be denied" wording, Norway was until 1814 in a "union" with (owned by, really) Denmark, and judging by how it is worded, thats how the law was when we were part of Denmark as well). Not quite the open and free and tolerating Norway we have today. The "Jew section" was removed in 1851, on the fourth attempt (it was also voted on in 1842, 1845, and 1848; all three times it was voted to keep it). For munks it was changed in 1897.

The "Jesuit section" is even more depressing, as it wasnt changed until 1956. It was voted on in 1897, but didnt receive the required majority (2/3 majority to change anything in the constitution). It was voted on again in 1925, but didnt even manage to get a majority at all then. The only reason it was ditched in 1956, was because Norway was ratifying the European Convention on Human Rights, and kinda had to get rid of that blemish in order to do so. *Nineteen* fifty six... after WW2. *After* Quisling had reinstated the Jew section during the war, and for which he was convicted of "unlawful changing of the constitution" after the war. They *still* kept the very similar law active for Jesuits for another eleven years. That boggles the mind.

The first part of 2 remained the same for another 8 years, when freedom of religion was introduced. We introduced religious freedom in *1964*, and we mock America?? Even after 1964 the requirement of parents to raise their children in the Lutheran faith, if they themselves were members of the state religion, remained.

In 2012 it was changed so that we no longer have an official State religion.

The so far last revision of 2 was made in 2014, and it is now as follows:

&gt; Verdigrunnlaget forblir vr kristne og humanistiske arv. Denne grunnlov skal sikre demokratiet, rettsstaten og menneskerettighetene.

Which translates as

&gt; Our value foundation will remain our christian and humanistic heritage. This constitution shall secure the democracy, (apparently there is no English translation for rettsstat: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rechtsstaat ), and the human rights.

(the part about religious freedom was moved to 16). So, while it's come a long way from its 1814 origins, it still mentions Norway's values as being christian. Thank you for this. Isn't it strange how government in the US is very secular on paper, but lately has a heavy Christian influence in practice. Much of this dates back the red scares / the cold war, where Christianity was seen as American, and secularism as communist. I respect that you can hold off on some of the criticism of the US and focus on your home country. We certainly have our problems, but recently the US has been made out to be this especially evil monster, when many other "western, first world" countries are guilty of similar crimes. We bring do bring it on ourselves and that's just the way the pendulum swings I guess. Ok people. New word. 

Santormonious. 

Adjective. Making a show of being superior by illogically applying your belief system on others.  I am not saying he did not say so, but could we get a link to a more nationally/internationally recognized source? The links goes to blogspot.com (some joemygod), which links to charismanews.com, an outfit I never heard of. He really hates the gays, weird.

I can never understand why some people get so worked up about something they have no control over. Self hating gay perhaps? What a fucking idiot. Ok, so if an invisible man in the sky is the "purveyor of rights" and he doesn't fucking exist then it falls to retards like you, Billy Graham, Crefalo Dollar, Joel Osteen and other such assholes to interpret His will for us, right? Although disturbing, one can respect the efforts a man who is able to lie his entire career to successfully manipulate a large number of people for the purposes of gaining political power and influence. It would be quite a feat of charisma.

What scares me more is that Rick (can I call him Dick?) appears to believe what he is saying. He doesn't exude intelligence, either. There are places in intergalactic space which are less vacant.

&amp;nbsp;


*edit*: It was brought to my attention that, perhaps, the space inside his skull may not be a vacuum at at. He may be a *Pennsylvania Golgothan*. [A shit demon](http://monster.wikia.com/wiki/Golgothan). Santorum's mind isn't vacant at all. Vacant is harmless. Santorum's mind is densely packed with shit, like the effluent from a factory farm, or a port-a-potty after a large cheese festival. Oh Look!  Mr. Frothy is saying something again. &gt; " Uh, Rick...God isn't in the US Constitution either.

He isn't saying God is in the constitution, he is blaming Europe for it's absence.

*"The European Union doesn't have the word God in its Constitution or in any of its documents. It is a secular society and it is the model for America. It is the reason you are seeing this assault.*

EDIT:  Santorum is not talking about the EU when he mentions the model for society.  There was no EU at the time of the writing of the constitution.  He was talking about [The Enlightnement](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment)  The founding fathers of the US were intellectuals caught up in the breaking of intellectualism from religion and monarchy.  If you have ever heard of Thomas Paine and "The Age of Reason" then you know what I am talking about, if you don't read up on it.  

Yes, the text is ambiguous, the history is not. See? I hate this shit. We have enough good reasons to hate on these people. We don't need strawmen to attack. Having thought about this, I suppose you mean we don't need to make up reasons to deride Rick Santorum.

I wasn't sure.  When I make a logical observation and get downvotes for it, it appears that people aren't voting with their heads.

Thanks. I'm sorry. I was not being clear at all.

You are correct, I was saying we don't need to make up lies about what these crazy people like Rick Santorum do, say, or believe. The truth is quite bad enough.

I upvoted you. He actually does believe that God is the basis of the American constitution, because it is all based on the Declaration of Independence which mentions a Creator.  

While he knows that the actual word is not there, he repeatedly intimates that it is to his constituents.  

http://www.theamericanconservative.com/larison/santorums-muddled-constitutional-theory/

----

I should note that I'm not saying OP had a correct title, only that his mistake was sort of the one that was intended.   Santorums words are chosen to convey just that message.   Well I'm sure The Vatican's charter documents have the word "God" (or latin equivalents) in them a lot and there's definitely no sodomy going on in the Catholic Church. Nope. None. Not one bit. Separation of church and state. What is so difficult about that??? The U.S. conservative right is the American Taliban, and pretty close to as intolerant of others who don't know the secret handshake. &gt;The European Union doesn't have the word God in its Constitution 

Well, I guess that could be true. Then again, there are no other words in the European Constitution either, because it doesn't exist.   Fighting words from a guy named santorum i was always told think before you speak.....i wonder if he was  The far reaching tentacles of stupidity &gt;Uh, Rick...God isn't in the US Constitution either.

He knows that. He's counting on other people not knowing that in order to score political points. 

It's kind of like people who don't know jack shit about economics saying "Econ 101, libtards" when someone challenges trickle-down economics. Maybe they even know how stupid that sentence is... but conservative soundbites aren't directed at people who've done their homework. I still haven't forgiven this liar for saying my country practises involuntary euthanasia on old and sick people. Now he's going after the whole EU while insulting gay peope? Who would vote for this moron? &gt;Who would vote for this moron?

Other morons.  I'm not an atheist, nor am I gay, but it's shit like this that makes me SOOO happy about the new definition of "santorum." &gt; America is at a crossroads and a tipping point. This means it can go either way. 

Um, not really.  America is pretty clearly stampeding down the path of gay rights.  You've already lost this one. Yeah, Rick. We are godless socialist vermin. Too bad our hellhole scandinavian countries suck so hard. Maybe you could come over here and explain how happy we'd be with trickle down economics, a police force that outright just kills citizens and a political system completely given over to the highest bidder.

If nothing else, you'll be good for a laugh.

TL,DR: shut up and go away, Rick. I bet if he saw we have charles darwin on our money in the UK he'd go apeshit. I needed a good laugh today. Santorum never fails to deliver!  He'd be half a problem if he just did, like, an hours worth of research. That's funny because in europe people "blame" it on the US. :D A politician who is just as stupid as the people who vote for him. Here's a tip, Rick: Read the U.S. Constitution. You'll be surprised at what is actually in it; and what is not. The definition of Santorum:

1. That frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the by-product of anal sex. 

2. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA)

Thank you Dan Savage!  To my dear American friends. I have been pondering on the seemingly irreconcilable divisions between Christian fundamentalists and normal human beings when it comes to discussions about the law, constitution and so forth. And I flatter myself that I have come up with a solution that could work to bring both sides together for the benefit of domestic harmony and eventually , international relations. International relations in the sense that America needs to be a guiding light for progress and enlightenment in a world shadowed by evils such as false religions, socialism and preverted naughtiness. What I propose is a minor tweak to the Constitution to bring God's will into play in a very real sense, and thus to satisfy those in your country who need to be convinced that God is working through them to make a better world. At the moment the President gets to read, suggest amendments, ratify bills and stuff before they become law. What I am suggesting is merely that a couple of days be added to this process to get God's opinion and assent/ amendments.  Once the President has done his bit, the proposed legal bill (let's say it's to allow bears to have bare arms or some such) should be exposed on the highest mountain in America with a good quality pen and some indelible ink (we wouldn't want any cheating) for as long as it takes for God in his infinite wisdom  to add any comments/strike out any bits he doesn't like (it might be that He has covered bears' arms with fur for a reason, for example). Only when He has had a chance to make any amendments he sees fit should the bill become law. 
I'm not even asking for any money for this suggestion: I'm just anxious to be of service. You're welcome. Rick Santorum: on the forefront of fitting as much falsehood into one sentence as is possible. 

EU responsible for day marriage: false
EU constitution doesn't mention God: EU is not a country, and doesn't have a constitution.
insinuation that US constitution does have the word God in it: also false. This has been a public service announcement.

Remember, kids.

Don't be a Rick. Fact is most Europeans would see criticism from the likes of Santorum as proof that they're doing something right... &gt; The European Union doesn't have the word God in its Constitution

Neither do we. lol, obviously he hasn't looked at the governments of most European countries. I would love to be given the chance to speak with that prick. Rick looks like he's stroking someone in that thumbnail As a Pennsylvanian, I am embarrassed by this guy. The Founding Fathers considered this issue of religion and adopted the first ten amendments the first of which states "[C]ongress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion..."  There is no national religion in the U.S.  Guys like Santorum would have one believe that there is a defacto national religion regardless of the Constitution. What an asshole! Canada, Argentina and Brazil do mention God in their Constitution, yet they let gays marry.  
 Oh, Politicians are suppose to know about the constitution? I didn't realize.  Germany does have the word god in its constitution though:

&gt;Preamble
&gt;
&gt;Conscious of their responsibility before God and man, Inspired by &gt;the determination to promote world peace as an equal partner in &gt;a united Europe, the German people, in the exercise of their &gt;constituent power, have adopted this Basic Law. Germans in the &gt;Lnder of Baden-Wrttemberg, Bavaria, Berlin, Brandenburg, &gt;Bremen, Hamburg, Hesse, Lower Saxony, Mecklenburg-Western &gt;Pomerania, North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate, &gt;Saarland, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt, Schleswig-Holstein and &gt;Thuringia have achieved the unity and freedom of Germany in &gt;free self-determination. This Basic Law thus applies to the entire &gt;German people. I thought this guy was playing a part as a tool for the last election... is he actually for real? He gets the idea that America is a 'Christian Nation' from  the declaration of independence:  We hold these Truths to be self-evident, that all Men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.

That is the only time creator is mentioned in any of the founding documents and god is not mentioned once (although it is understood that the term 'creator' and 'god' were synonyms.)

Nevertheless, there it is.  That is where the idea springs from.  It doesn't say whose god/creator it refers to. Well, my creator is my mom and dad, the constitution also states "**their** creator", not "**the** creator" which in my book opens the field for pretty much anything divine or not. 

I do believe that was also the intent of the signers. While to be fair there were some religious signers, they all seem to have intentionally avoided any connection of secular government and theism of any kind.  It seems to me that the excesses of church/state relationships they saw in Europe were something they wanted to avoid.  Hence 'freedom of religion' means freedom to have a religion or freedom from having a religion both.

As for this word, I believe it to be the only concession to the idea that some of them had about deity without (in my view) compromising the distinction between state and church.  This statement says that these rights are not at the grant of kings but come from something or someone far above kings (which countered the argument of some in Europe).  

When I read this, the argument I see is as follows:  "Every person has a right, given by nature or god or something above the petty affairs of nations, to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.  When those rights are denied, every person has a responsibility to change that."

So when I read it, it really has nothing to do with god.  The subject matter is that these rights are inherent, not at the mercy of anyone. I thought Rick Santorum was found dead of a methamphetamine overdose in a Penn Station restroom? I'm confused. Maybe it was a dream. Yeah well, it's not like he's read the thing. You know who does have the word god in its constitution?  Iran. How are these people so stupid? Remember when someone made "Santorum" into a new definition on UD? So when you google just his name that comes up... hehe.  American republicans - laughed at by the rest of the world. I agree that the EU is causing gay marriage, they have a team of psychics sending out voodoo dolls causing these marriages.  Listen here:  these dolls are literally making these people have impure thoughts about the dongs.  The only solution is to give more money to Santorum's friends.  They have these beam things that bust them out of the air.  Yiss. He doesn't realize that a lot of Europeans couldn't give a rats ass less about what a backwards biblethumping cunt of a senator thinks.

And I thought god wasn't in the constitution at all?

America, the laughing stock of the planet. It's hard to believe this guy's a Catholic. He acts more like a Protestant Evangelical or fundamentalist with his extreme conservatism. The Pope would have a field day with him and Paul Ryan.  He's a politician who knows what he has to do to get the majority of republican votes something something buzzwords.

something something scapegoat. Thanks Obama easiest way to find someone who doesnt know anything about the us constitution is to point at basically any american The word Lord is in the US Constitution, once.

Too many people take it out of context though, and think it's in reference to God.  It's not, it's just a title like King or "Person of high standing".  For the love of God, will the leftists vote in the next election?    USA is stalled in the toilet internationally with the idiot gop making a generally great country look like a bunch of morons.   Americans! It's time to clean up your room! As someone who doesnt live in the states, every news regarding mr Santorum makes me wonder if he is the definition of evil itself? http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=santorum&amp;defid=942955 I sometimes think that mandating a basic high school level civics exam to all elected politicians would solve a lot of problems. Then I realize that if it was mandated, they would mostly fail, and that would leave us without a governing body. 

Still, could be an improvement.  I'm thinking a small plastic bag of miscellanious slurry would be an improvement on some of them.  I blame the EU for Santorum. His ancestors probably decend from them. If they just didn't procreate on one of those days - poof - Santorum problem solved. How the hell this guy was ever considered for president is beyond me... Does he still drag around his wife's aborted fetus? I'm no fan of this guy.  the world would be better off without him, and all that blah blah blah.

But as for the incident you are talking about...

In the old days, when a woman miscarried or had a still birth, they would hide the dead child away and tell the parents to just go home and pretend it never happened.  And while that child never had a minute of life or even coherent sentient thoughts, to their parents, they were a real person, someone they already loved.  Think of how that's all snatched away in an instant.  No closure, no respect.  Just forget that baby ever existed.

12 years ago some very good friends of mine went into the hospital on their due date as her contractions got close enough.  And 30 minutes after they were there, due to a very rare complication, they lost the baby.  My friend, in the worst moment of her life, was then told she still had to go through labor.  Can you imagine that?  The insanity of all your hopes and happiness destroyed and then being told you had to endure the worst pain imaginable for the next 6-12 hours- for nothing.

Their dead child was born early in the morning, and all they wanted to do was go home.  They refused to talk to the doctors, they refused to see their family who had been called for support.

The hospital brought in a nurse who is specifically trained and called in for this.  She convinced them (almost demanded) that they spend what few minutes they had with their daughter.  She told them to dress her, to hold her and to take a few pictures.  They eventually came around, and did all that.  Possibly the hardest thing they have ever done.  It was all awful, all painful.

But they spent the time they could with their daughter.  And when the dust settled, and they went on to have two more children, they are very thankful that the nurse had them do those things.  They planned for years to have that baby, spent 9 months loving the idea of her.  And when disaster struck, and though there was not much left for them to do, *they did everything they could for her*, which was to hold her, dress her and take pictures of her.  This was their daughter, and they owed her whatever they could do for her.  And now, years later, they feel better knowing that they did those things.  Not because it did anything for a life that didn't even have a chance to breathe even one breath of air, but for themselves.  They were her parents, even if it was for only a few minutes, and they can feel proud that they honored her even in the worst moment of their lives.

They have one of those pictures on their wall.  It's morbid, the baby is splotchy and clearly dead.  But it's all they have of her- and they are glad to have it.

For as much of a shit bag as Santorum is, he loves his family.  And when that child died prematurely, they did the same thing- they took her home and spent that short time they had with her as a family.  I would have said the same thing as you had I not known these friends of mine, but through my friends' tragedy I discovered that there's more to this than just some crazy embryo loving psychos.

TLDR:  there's a lot of reasons to hate Santorum, but their treatment of that lost child was really one of the most humane and beautiful things they have ever done.
 Thank you for your words, your story, and your empathy.

People can despise someone for their politics, their hypocritical stances, their choices...

But some people, once they have judged another, can no longer see them as a multidimensional person that can have real feelings and real pain.

People can criticize a man, but don't mock about the death of an unborn child. That is just cruel. Do people who show no empathy deserve it for themselves? Though it surprises myself, I'm going to go with yes.

Empathy isn't sympathy. It is putting yourself in the position of another and trying to understand that person. That person does not have to be moral, respectable or otherwise. 

In this case, empathy is not going easier on this person because of hardship, it's not saying you should give them a pass on their other decisions. But for me it, it putting that hardship on a human level. Nothing he has done has shown that he would not be devastated by the loss of a child. I assume that it was a horrible experience. I am not going to treat it otherwise.

Bringing up his fetus is distracting, unnecessary, and cruel. Didn't wanted to sound as if I support the statement about the fetus, I don't think it should have been brought up anyway because it has nothing to do with the topic. And I'm still uncertain about my initial question, just wanted to hear some opinions. Thanks for the elaborate response.  I appreciate that you asked a question without being certain. I feel like a lot of people are attacked for just putting themselves out there. I'm not an expert myself.

Really, if I go back and try to condense my feelings, here's my general thought...

"Rick Santorum is, from my impression, a huge douche. But even douches are human. So we should not bring up, or attack, personal or devastating life events if the have no relevance to the conversation." That's a great point.  But empathy is not about whether or not he deserves it.  This isn't about him, it's about the people who demise all his actions when it's only some (Ok, many in this case) of them that are worth despising. I completely agree. I don't understand the need to make fun of an extraordinarily painful event in his family life. Besides, he gave us enough to laugh at during the GOP debates to last a lifetime.   Until he stops intentionally causing extraordinarily painful events in the lives of gay Americans, I wish him an unending plethora of extraordinarily painful events in his own life.  Fuck him. That's different from demonizing a human part of him.

What sets us apart from him is that we have empathy which he lacks (towards those that don't subscribe to his morals).  That we choose to ignore how we feel and wish him pain is different from how he doesn't begin to place himself in the shoes of homosexuals and others. Fetuses are sentient, they are not sapient. I appreciate you making the distinction.  Thank you. When I first heard this story, I thought it was sick and disgusting. Since I haven't been reminded of this story about Rick for around 2 years, my opinion hadn't changed. Now that I read your comment, I'm definitely convinced it was the right thing to do, or *at least* not as psycho as I used to think. Thanks for sharing. **FETUS FETISH** You have a way with words - [you're needed here.](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2zffxf/wife_and_i_asked_for_nonreligious_funeral_service/) It was one of the most sick and twisted things I have ever heard of. How old are you?... r/ultralame is full of shit. Santorums had an abortion. Source? He said that the doctors told her her life was in danger so they performed "the procedure". [deleted] Keyword "abortion". Stop deflecting. [deleted] You believe the Santorum version of the story? Go right ahead. Enjoy the spinzone. I apologize for feeding this troll.  My responses to him have been deleted. What?! It was "his little guy" he used to keep a picture of it on his desk too. He's a sick man. Oh my goodness! A foetus?! Sometimes I feel like Santorum was created in order to make other GOP presidential candidates look sane. Noelle Bush robbing the pharmacy is lightweight compared to Santorum's family life. Cruz, Bachmann, Palin, the clown car is rollin. ugh (I still upvote for that but, c'mon) He keeps it in a jar around his neck, like Bob Wiley keeps his goldfish. Rick, come out of the closet already. No. Just No. Nail it shut and seal up all the cracks. I'm never coming out! Seriously, how do you Americans keep letting these idiots get near a microphone? Aren't there gun laws you can take advantage of? 

/ignorantnonamericanrant
 Okay time to vote him out PA. Please do. Life here would get so much better Can we just not give these fuckwads attention? If we stop, they stop spewing this [santorum](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=santorum&amp;defid=942955) and they will as a result stop.  Ol' Frothy is still saying things that only make sense to Frothy.  Well to be fair the constitution does declare the Year of our Lord in the day for elections:

&gt;Done in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and Eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the twelfth.... 

But then they could have just as declared AD, since the year of our lord is just the formal way of saying modern calendar. Note that the constitution specifies the year *twice* and one of the options *doesn't* mention "our Lord". "Year of our lord" has nothing to do with religion though.  &gt; "Year of our lord" has nothing to do with religion though.

You're pushing it.  I agree that as a formalism it's basically abandoned its religious connection (just like "holy shit!"), but the origin, and associated implication, is abundantly clear. When the constitution was written they didn't have BCE and CE, they had AD and BC. &gt; When the constitution was written they didn't have BCE and CE, they had AD and BC.

Yes, that was pretty much the *only* acceptable way to formally write a year, which is why they did it.  This doesn't change the fact that it's as explicitly and overtly religious as "By the grace of God, king of the Britons!"

Or, to pick a more contemporary example, the fact that there are several future-tense forms in Arabic that are impossible to express without *inshallah* ("God willing").

Saying these have "nothing to do with religion" is ridiculous.
 Now we just have to keep the republicans talking for the next 18 months. Proof that he has never read the Constitution. In his line of work who needs that piece of paper? Am I right!? Ehh! Ehh! ALSO...

If you're one of those heretics that consumes *Alfredo* sauce instead of His Holy Marinara... you can eat somewhere else too !!!

Parmesan Be Upon Him!!

Ramen. If alfredo is wrong then I don't want to be right. "If alfredo is wrong then I don't want to be right."

I suddenly have an uncontrollable urge to put this on a t-shirt...

STOP causing me to doubt my faith !!

You and your Alfredo reason, logic, and science. Join the Alfredo Reformation! No longer shall the interpretation of sauce material be dictated from Vermicelli City.  Long live Western Alfredoxy! I might be willing to convert but I'm not willing to give up meatballs that are perfectly browned and then baked with his noodleyness, may they ever be aldente, under a blanket composed of no less than three melted Italian cheeses. 
May your sauce be perfectly seasoned, and the water boil quickly on your journey. But once a year, you my freely dine on The White Darkness! Alfredofeastmas! Throw in some feats of strength and I'll convert from Festivus FOREVER. You'll boil for this, Antipastate! Serving Fusilli Jerry is idolatry.  Feativus for allavus! Do you want a Holy War? Because this is how you get a Holy War.  [RAmen](http://imgur.com/ISv40Af). I need to memorize the for the next time the wife and inlaws drag me to a church service. Just so you know, alfredo is parmesan sauce. And that is why it's wrong. If his noodliness had intended Parmesan to be a sauce, he would have made parmesan a sauce. He did, in the form of Alfredo.  Alfredo is made by men and an abomination.  &gt; Parmesan Be Upon Him!!

Just wanted to say thanks , I think I'll be using this line in the future. I can *feel* and just know in my spirit that you have truly been touched by His Noodley Appendage.

Anoint Him with Olive Oil !!!

Ramen, PickyAsshole..... (I never thought I'd get to say those words and mean it  :)
 I'm waiting for those "I'm not paying taxes as my deeply-held religious beliefs forbid them" arguments. [Been tried; didn't work](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Lee_%281982%29) I just tried to sit down for dinner, but I was kicked out for wearing two types of fabric!! (Leviticus 19:19)  Strange, I got kicked out because I had sex with my neighbor's wife! (Leviticus is weird as hell) Really? What a coincidence! I tried combining a bear and a pig (as the first step towards man-bear-pig). You always start man-bear first.  RIP Robin Williams.  if i wasn't poor i'd give you gold. oh no you missed No prob.  I got this.  Great time to log in!  if i wasn't poor i'd give myself gold.  You should just give yourself enough copper that you can trade for gold. &gt;Too poor to have a twenty dollar bill? Just give yourself 20 one dollar bills.

Are you a financial adviser in real life because you are HIRED. Shouldn't there be Reddit alchemy? Not since orangered vs periwinkle. Have you checked a gay leather bar recently? There are plenty of those. I thought about my neighbors' stuff and wished I had them. I don't even know how they knew! No shit!?! I got kicked out for NOT coming in my dead brother's wife. Typical Leviticus! Always have affairs in a different city. Isn't that common sense? Never shit where you eat. I'm always earnest and frank with women. When I'm in Philadelphia I'm Earnest and in Detroit I'm Frank. To this day I still don't dedicate in restaurants.  &gt;To this day I still don't dedicate in restaurants. 


Now I'm imagining you dedicating a song or something but having to leave the restaurant first.... I got kicked out for having sex with my neighbours slave. Also selling slaves who I didn't realise were Israelites. #totsawks #otherslavesarefine  Funny, I got a desert because I raped some hot virgin I saw, cost me fifty shekels though. (Deuteronomy 22:28-29) so... do Rastafarians get to smoke weed legally now, too? Sorry. Religious freedom is a white only thing.  Why would that get you kicked out of an anti Christian establishment?  Leviticus is in the Torah.  This in no way affects my comment.  Let's just say (FSM aside) the owners were Jewish. You can follow the the rules of Leviticus and still be anti Christian. Very anti christian actually, if you believe they crucified the motherfucker. &gt; motherfucker

Now ***that*** would make a good story in the bible! Jesus was his own father, so he did fuck his mother so he could be born, so he could sacrifice himself to himself, so he could be ok with humans again. The fucking Bible.  So basically Back to the Future. More like Predestination We've got Lot and his fatherfucking daughters. Although "fatherfucker" doesn't really roll off the tongue. Only because you don't say it enough. Slip it into casual conversation a few times a day for a few weeks and pretty soon it'll be as normal as anything.

Like this: 

"Good day Mrs Cunningham, here's the fatherfucking rent check. Hey, nice fatherfucking new shoes, by the way."  How much arm breaking is in the bible? Matthew 5:17

Can't remember the exact wording but, to paraphrase "I (Jesus) have not come to abolish rules or prophecies." 

So the "Old Testament" argument is null.  Unless you read Luke or other passages in Matthew which state the old law is forever binding.  The gospel of Mark is more anti-Jew in these regards and follows that line of thinking on the OT.  Paul wanted the OT rules out. Peter and the earliest Christians, the Ebionites were strict Jews and wanted the OT laws.  Then the incident at Antioch happened.  Ebionites were deemed heretics soon after.  

See Matthew 5:18-19 and Luke, "It is easier for Heaven and Earth to pass away than for the smallest part of the letter of the law to become invalid."  (Luke 16:17 NAB)

  obviously, that only counts for the parts you want to follow Right, I mean clearly shellfish isn't really an abomination. Jesus erased that one, since shrimp and crabs and lobsters are tasty. But the gays? That's an abomination that Jesus didn't erase. You have this backwards I like the message, but good luck drumming up any business by excluding 70% of the population.  The name of the establishment had been cropped out. It's called "Pitchforks and Pentagrams". I think they'll be fine.  why pitchforks?  Why male models? Think about it, Derek. But why male models?  You serious? I just..I just told you that, a moment ago. Look at any cartoon devil and you'll see why oh


duh You think they might get a bigger chunk of that 30% though.  50% of 30% is less than 20% of 100%  60% of the time it works every time. All this math-debating is arousing. ....

nice math? Yah, but only by 5%. You're not even losing a letter grade. -5% in sales every day forever is a lot of money. Pretty sure anything multiplied by forever/infinity ends up being a lot... Plus you are missing out on the not hypocritical at all after church lunch rush.  It's not -5% in sales, it's -25% in sales. Assume that 20% of 100% of the people gave them money but that now 50% of 30% of the people give them money: 15/20=0.75, losing one quarter of sales. get mathed  I don't know, I don't think there are a lot of people outside of this subreddit who are going to go into a store just because it says "we don't serve Christians". the place is called pitchforks and pentagrams... I have a feeling their target demographic will enjoy the sign being posted.  I doubt its something they'll keep doing for more than a day or two.

Looks more like either a kind of demonstration, or some karmawhoring. That sign came down before the picture was even finished uploading to imgur. Because Christian or Atheist, a business owner's true god is money.  I am a business owner and money is not my true god.  It mostly just a reason for being. It's stated up thread that this is a pagan shop. Depends on the business. Hipster coffee shop in a college-town, probably fine. Anyone that doesn't want to be anything more than a hole-in-the-wall type business should probably not have a sign like that though. 1) what if the store name is "Atheist Bookstore".

2) I'm sure Christians wouldn't give a crap during an atheist liquor store "half-price beer sale". came here to say this. i hope nobody's actually taking it seriously enough to ask people what their religion is when they show up. And I think it might let people who haven't thought about it to realize the implications in a rather personal but safe manner. Is it really 70% though? That may be what the census says but I'd reckon another 20-30% would be more agnostic and put Christian in any poll because it's easier. I'll be putting Jedi on all forms under religion from now on. &gt; put Christian in any poll because it's easier.

I agree with this as many organizations are currently under the impression that I'm a Catholic. Ditto. It's that guilt.  Christians cry about 'The War on Christianity' while they are the most bigoted group in America. It's called "projecting." Actually, it's called [Persecutory Delusion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persecutory_delusion), which also happens to be the most common delusion of schizophrenics. No, I was referring to this: 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_projection

And is when Christians don't want to see their own oppression so they claim it's others doing the oppression.  Non-mobile: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_projection

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) Thanks bot Best Bot ever. Why not both? Why not zoidburg? What do schizophrenics have to do with this?  They're in on it.  All of them.  Working together, to thwart me.  They *know*. This makes so much sense now.  I was watching a Vice episode about a guy in Russia who thinks he's the second coming of christ, but as he was making some point which I cant recall at the moment, he said that 80% of the world's population is literally insane.  Wonder if he is referring to religious people in general..? 100% of the worlds population is insane, that much is plain to see.

It's just a matter of whether your particular brand of insanity is deemed acceptable by the society you happen to exist in. You mean, when someone says other people are out to get me -- when someone says, all Christians are bigots? in America, "Jews are targeted most often for their Faith".   I read a full article on washingtonpost.com weeks ago that used these graphs and was a long article... anyway they said that "a high percentage of hate crimes were done by white protestants".

http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2015/02/11/anti-muslim-hate-crimes-are-still-five-times-more-common-today-than-before-911/ Irony is dead on the Internet. Civil Rights Act of 1964. We need a new Civil Rights Act of 2015. I saw this mentioned elsewhere in this thread. As a non american, what does this act do for you? It protects against discrimination by public accommodations based upon religion, nationality, race, and disability.

In some places it's been expanded to include gender and orientation.

Basically it makes the Indiana law illegal. &gt; Basically it makes the Indiana law illegal.

Only as far as using the Indiana law to discriminate against a protected class is concerned.

If exercising your religious freedom doesn't break a federal law, but would've broken an Indiana law/statute/regulation/whatever you can now do it freely (with some limitations, where upholding that law is in the governmental interest).

For example an Armish man tried to use a religious freedom law to avoid paying taxes as doing so would violate what's prescribed by his religion. He was ruled against, because it was in the government's interest to collect taxes from him. Do you want to get your windows broken?  Because that's how you get your windows broken. Nothing says good Christian like broken windows? Judging by the amount of cars that get vandalized because they have an FSM or Darwin decal on them, yeah it's pretty standard. Can confirm, someone snapped my Darwin fish in two. Snap one fish, two will take its place.  


[Hail Darwin] fish always win. Fish.. Uh.. Find a way.  Everyone is a Darwin fish on the inside. _Your Inner Fish_ http://www.pbs.org/your-inner-fish/watch/  

Lovely video.  Now I really want to fill one of those fishes with some extremely stinky, sticky liquid. Acid. Fill it with sulfuric acid. You're thinking of flatworms. And after the two fish get snapped I hope you put up red fish blue fish  or perhaps a better , more snap proof fish will take its place Well in all honesty, it's just a matter of time until those fish have evolved into a superior being and eventually eradicates and/or enslave the same species which caused its oppression. 

Also, fuck all those religious zealots! Steel alloy fish So you get another, and a custom bumper sticker that reads in small print (since they will be up close to break it) "Would Jesus vandalize my fish?" Anytime a "What would Jesus do" question comes up, remember that sometimes his answer was "make a whip and start hitting people" if he thought they were disrespecting his faith.  Someone once snapped my *Linux* fish in half. I guess ole Jehovah must be pretty down on his luck to need *that* kind of help... Can confirm by the scratch from my fender to rear door.  You expect the things they do to make sense? 

If they exclude others it's freedom of religion. If others exclude them it's persecution. There is a war on Marriage!!!!! and or Christmas!!!!! You say "war", I say "the natural result of the advancement of humans as a species"

Tomato, tomato...

We've been dragging these people kicking and screaming into the future ever since people figured out the world is round and revolves around the sun...no reason to expect their descendants to figure it out now... lol, nothing says love-thy-neighbor christians like acts of violence against their neighbors. Most Christians would join ISIS if they made mobility scooter versions of their monkey bars. They come from a proud and long line of stone throwers. Heh.  Try putting an "Evolve Fish" on the bumper of your new car. In the south, yeah. Yep, ask 70+ year old Black People how they got treated by white-Christians in the deep-south back when they were a kid You can just videotape it and press charges on them. Windows broken from "Tolerant peaceful Christians"? Never! YOU'RE NOT MY SUPERVISOR. What a great time to be a secular doctor. isnt a religion a protected class? Shouldn't everyone be a protected class? Why discriminate? Well, there are good reasons to discriminate. For example, you're allowed to discriminate against people wearing mankinis, so that when a group of people dressed like [this](http://www.henandstagweekend.co.uk/_files/stag%20do%20pink%20mankini.jpg) show up to the local Chuck E Cheese, the manager is allowed to kick them out and refuse to serve them. Prude.  Yes.  This would be illegal, but it's just karma-whoring.  

The Law will affect very few, if any in the way that they're making it out.  How it DOES affect people would include areas where say a Catholic institution is the major health provider in an area, and they won't let people get birth control b/c it's against their beliefs.  I worked for St. Francis for a short while.  I told them "I'm going to prescribe birthcontrol."   Their answer?   "Just write in the chart it's for something different, like menstrual cycle control."  

Their answer, as a "Christian" institution, was to LIE on an official medical document about what I did and why.  I was told to do this by their management.  Assholes.   Or a GGG christian boss who knows they work for a christian institution and wants to help those who need birth control.. yeah you lie on a form but only to help someone. Sounds like your institution is dumb but the people in it aren't. I know the kind of person you're referencing, do the right thing even if you have to fudge a little.  This person in particular, and the people I worked for were not that.  They were not "GGG Christian boss", they wouldn't know Jesus if he bit 'em on their ass. Yes it is, which makes this illegal. The law itself is made illegal by the civil rights act, because under the law it allows for discrimination against protected groups.

The law is simply a kneejerk attempt to fight back against the legalization of gay marriage with a poorly-planned, poorly-implemented reactionary dive back into prejudice. No, the law isn't made illegal by the Civil Rights Act, the law just can't contradict the civil rights act. You can;t have a law that goes against protected classes and this doesn't. If someone tries to use this law as an excuse to discriminate against a protected class (like shown in this picture), it won't work. This law only allows discrimination against non protected classes. Sexual orientation isn't a protected class.

But yes, this is discrimination, and this is wrong, it's unfortunately legal due to this stupid law, and the fact that the state doesn't have sexual orientation as a protected class. Also, technically this law restates what's already allowed, you can discriminate against anything that's not a protected class. They should change it to say: "Do to deeply held religious beliefs, this establishment will not serve homophobic people, or people that support SB101." I think a better sign would be "due to deeply held religious beliefs, this establishment will not serve those who think it's ok to discriminate against gay people". 

Meh. Well someone can try to make it catchier but I think it better targets the problem population without alienating a large customer base.  &lt;--------|-&gt; Axis not labelled, no scale given. Crude and subjective. Low effort. 1/10. https://xkcd.com/833/ You understand me. ^^^Love ^^^me 2/10 with... oh whatever Dicks It is labelled though.  Look directly above it. Cue the christians suing for religious discrimination in 3... 2...  Well, to be fair, this is illegal. Religion is a protected class, unlike homosexuality. 

(To be clear I think sexual orientation should be a protected class as well). Religion should not be. It's a choice, unlike sexuality, race, or gender. Well, pregnancy is also a protected class; pregnancy is choice. I think the point is we shouldn't be discriminating at all...  

Let's face it, if religion wasn't a protected class, you'd have legal discrimination against Jews, Muslims, Atheists, etc. The reason why we have protected classes is to protect people who are most likely to be discriminated against, which is why Sexual orientation should be a protected class. &gt; you'd have legal discrimination against Jews, Muslims, Atheists, etc

You mean like how in 7 of the 50 states you cannot run for public office if you're an Atheist?   Protected class doesn't mean whether something is a choice or not.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protected_class Then why do they need a law to enable discrimination against an unprotected class?   Genuinely asking... And unfortunately, due to the Civil Rights Act of 1964...they would win that suit. When MN allowed guns on private property unless otherwise noted, every shopping mall and store across the state put up "Guns are not permitted on premise" signs.

I expect to see businesses hang signs stating the opposite of this sign OP hung up, photographed, and tore down to dupe us for karma: "This business does not discriminate; all are welcome" (probably with a rainbow). We might not see signs like this in small towns, but I bet we'll see it in the bigger cities and probably from national chains. Now that everyone can openly discriminate, my money is on progressive places advertising that they're progressive. [These](https://www.google.com/search?q=indiana+sticker+for+welcome&amp;es_sm=91&amp;tbm=isch&amp;imgil=I6EpRbiUWTPqQM%253A%253BBod2COcL0adHIM%253Bhttp%25253A%25252F%25252Fwww.gaystarnews.com%25252Farticle%25252Fbusinesses-indiana-promote-fact-they-welcome-lgbt-customers190315&amp;source=iu&amp;pf=m&amp;fir=I6EpRbiUWTPqQM%253A%252CBod2COcL0adHIM%252C_&amp;usg=__3PXNcji0ffdSzj0yjFg7gHQ7A9o%3D&amp;biw=904&amp;bih=527&amp;ved=0CEwQyjc&amp;ei=rXAXVZi4C7SUsQSPhYKQAQ#imgrc=I6EpRbiUWTPqQM%253A%3BBod2COcL0adHIM%3Bhttp%253A%252F%252Fwww.gaystarnews.com%252Fsites%252Fdefault%252Ffiles%252Fimagecache%252F400xY%252Fopenforservice_sticker1.jpg%3Bhttp%253A%252F%252Fwww.gaystarnews.com%252Farticle%252Fbusinesses-indiana-promote-fact-they-welcome-lgbt-customers190315%3B400%3B280) are selling like hotcakes, apparently.   &gt;I expect to see businesses hang signs stating the opposite of this sign

You either aren't from Indiana, or you're lying. I expect a significant fraction of the people in the state can't wait to tell a fag that they aren't welcome here. Hell, outside of Indianapolis and some parts of Bloomington they still tell that to African Americans.

How do I know? I grew up there. My family moved to Indiana in 1976. The day we moved in, neighbors on our street started showing up at our door with pies, cakes, a casserole. We were surprised. We'd never seen a place where we were welcomed with such open arms. The second or third day we were there, the neighbor across the street invited my dad over for a beer. When my dad came home, he was white, the blood was flushed from his face. We asked him what had happened, but he brushed it off. It wasn't until years later that he told us the story. 

As he sat down in our neighbours yard, he exclaimed "Folks here sure are friendly." His host laughed, "Ain't nobody told you why?" My dad had no idea what he was talking about. The man went on, "A few months ago this real estate agent shows up at that house. And who gets out of the car but a family full of niggers." He leaned back in his chair and scratched the back of his head. "Folks from the neighborhood, they contacted the real estate agent. They told him, there ain't no way we were going to stand for a nigger family moving into our neighborhood. But the rumor is that the family did put in an offer on that house. So when you moved in, we was all just so happy that you weren't black, I guess folks just kind of over reacted." 

In the years that followed every time a new family moved into the neighborhood my mom baked them a pie or a cake and us kids ran it over and welcomed them to the neighborhood. But we noticed that we were the only ones who ever did that. We never knew what had happened. We don't know if we had out bid that family on the house or the real estate agent had talked them out of the offer. But that's just part of what it was like to grow up in Indiana. That. Is. Awesome. Christians can never resist the temptation to expose the evil of their god. The question really should be why are we attacking the worshipers instead of the evil god that inspires them. It's on the outside of the window... I doubt they put it there.

And, BTW, this is why the idea is bad:  in many areas, the majority is Christian, and you will go bankrupt if you decide to ignore them (unless you have some type of monopoly). Would I patronize a business more knowing that 10% of those wages arnt going to be wasted at a religious institution? You bet your ass I would.  Very few of the people who claim Christianity give more than lip service to its tenets.

You can rest easy knowing that your money is unlikely to be tithed no matter where you spend it. ;) Ramen to that! I don't like this one bit. A large number of Christians have spoken up and openly condemned the passing of this legislation. Don't sink to the level of those who helped get this bill passed or wanted it to be passed.
 I doubt they are seriously going to not serve Christians. I would imagine their intent is to show the majority that this law could equally target them.  Well it can't since the [Civil Rights Act](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_Rights_Act_of_1964) prevents you from discriminating based on religion. Since sexual orientation is not a protected class, discriminating on that is legal. You could however say something like "t" shapes are not allowed in my religion, and discriminate based on that. Using an 'x' instead of 'ks'? Thou shalt burneth in hell! Ramen! Fusili hear our prayer... Pastafarians Unite! This is really fantastic. Muslims, Orthodox/Conservative Jews, B'hai and other Anti-Homosexual Marriage folks are still allowed so this seems a bit meh. Is the US basically Abstergo? Templars vs. any other fucking religion?  And only proper pasta, no grain or gluten free crap, we arn't hipsters. They sure did open the gates for a shit storm with that bill.

Love it though :) ITT way too many people that think this business is *actually* discriminating in this way and not just symbolically trolling this ridiculous law.  Even if it is trolling, it's still retarded as fuck. This is going to be so entertaining to watch. I wish I still lived there so I could see this in action.

Major justice porn. &gt; I wish I still lived there 

But then you'd be in Indiana Ehhh then maybe just a visit. But then you'd be in Indiana. As a college student in Indiana, the majority of what I see happening is people condemning the law. That could very well be because college campuses are liberal, but I'd like to think a good part of Hoosiers disagree with the law. I went to Purdue, so I totally get what you're talking about. I can tell you though that there are a lot of small town Hoosiers that side with this law.  PERFECT. Love this! Then there are some of us who support both I'm going to go ahead and say we should support religious liberty bill, so they can't say we're trying to force our views on them... It could give quite a bit of space to remove undo influence on our politics, no? Sort of a judo type move, you know? I'm still having trouble believe that this is actually real.  You know, I was waiting for this exact scenario. Now that this bill is law, it'll only be a matter if time before more of this happens. A lot like the issue in Florida about handing out religious reading materials in school. Once it backfires against the Christian Right, then they will realize how stupid the bill was. The governor will probably say something about that not being the intent if the bill. Sorry we can only serve people of "bacon religion" at this and 50 other restaurants in this town.

PSssst: membership available inside for just $9.99 a month. ALL HAIL THE FLYING SPAGHETTI MONSTER!  Wow. Just wow. From the comments in here I think a few of you are taking this A wee bit too seriously. Do you actually think the people inside are actually denying services to anyone?  How would you even know?  "That guy looks a little to.... Christian.. don't serve him!"  This is purely symbolic
, that's it.   Only the person looking to start some shit over the sign would be an issue, meaning a total asshole.  And anyone who is gonna do that will obviously be a total asshole to the point they would fall under the "we reserve the right to refuse service to anyone" rule...and if pulled into court they would say the same thing....that it was purely symbolic, but this guy came in and acted like a total ass....so we refused HIM service. I don't think many people here thinks that what they're doing is a bad thing, just that it is a stupid thing.  They are alienating a large portion of the population that tends to be easily offended. Every other establishment in the area is serving Christians as well, but they don't have signs discriminating against them. It's a clever way of opposing the legislation but it's a bad move from a PR standpoint. [deleted] Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* Using stereotypical reddit troll lingo or outright trolling or shitposting, activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Breaking this rule may result in immediate banning (temporary or permanent).

If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. Gooood! Gooood! Become what you hate! Let it consume you. Embrace the dark side. You know, this is where I go, my religious affiliation or even lack thereof is my business  and I don't have to fucking tell you. 

Why the fuck didn't someone in Indiana's legislature go:  " What a second, isn't this against the law?   I could have sworn there is an amendment that could apply to this situation.  Do you have any idea the shitstorm this is going to cause?"


By the way, can a governor be impeached and would this signing this law be considered an impeachable offense?   Where was the uproar YEARS ago when President Clinton made this a federal law?  hear hear As an Indianapolis resident I need to know where this is so I can spend as much money there as possible.  You shouldn't be forced to serve anyone for any reason. The problem with the bill is that it's limited to religion and homosexuality.  I used to believe this, too, but now I'm not so sure. I mean, if I were to take it to its logical conclusion, that would mean we could block certain groups of people from living in certain places, working in a certain field, or receiving care when they need it. I shouldn't *have* to serve gays or blacks at my hospital, right? No realtor *has* to serve an Arab, no? That just seems wrong to me; it's not really a proper preservation of freedom if so much liberty is lost to uphold one right.  
I mean, you can legislate around a lot of it, but I think there are easier ways to preserve as much freedom as possible. 

IMhO (and I'm a young libertarian dude, so take this all with a grain of salt), the best way to resolve this is by realizing that life isn't divided strictly into the public and private spheres. Public property shouldn't discriminate, of course. Private propert can (I should be able to kick someone out of my house for any reason, for example, and if I create a private club, I should also be able to discriminate who joins there). There are other areas that are between these two extremes, though. Hospitals? Small businesses? Huge multinational conglomerates? All of these are both private in ownership but public in service, to different degrees. Hospitals shouldn't be able to discriminate at all, because what they offer is necessary. Banks and large corporations? ...I really don't know. Maybe not against individuals, but against larger groups? Like, should a bank *have* to hold money for the KKK? How about for the NAACP or a Church? Are these different? Finally, what about mom and pop shops and other small businesses?  Surely the rules should be easier on them...right? 

I don't have the answers, but I assure you, there isn't an easy resolution. Rights need to be legislated carefully, lest we unfairly rob a great number of people of their own. I'm fine with it being strict. You should be able to choose who you do business with and why.  So none of the issues I mentioned worry you? Tbh. Not really.  Ok. I mean, I don't quite see how that would work, but fair enough. 

I am curious, though: what is your political philosophy? How do you figure all of that is fine? I'm not looking to troll, just trying to understand. I'm a liberal. I believe the government ought stay out of the lives of individuals unless they infringe upon the rights of others. 

If I set up a shop and choose not to serve blonde people they can go to another shop. They're no worse off than if I simply didn't set up my shop. 

There's also the fact that some organisations need to discriminate for good reasons. Churches may only allow religious preachers. A gay support group may only admit gay members or prefer gay Councillors. The NAACP may prefer black spokes-people and so on. Whilst I'm sure you'd be fine with most of these things happening I'm sure you'll come across some more edge cases. My opinion is that the owner can decide as it's their organisation. 

You also have to think of the other side. Imagine a person who you wouldn't want to serve but who you've no right to kick out of your shop. Or imagine if the government forced you to shop at places you don't like. 
If this last paragraph isn't really convincing to you then I'll put it to you that you simply aren't considering a person awful enough or you're thinking that the government would only force you to serve people you don't mind serving. 

Lastly, just to explain, I have no problem serving people from any race/ethnicity or sexuality. I'm a gay rights supporter and racism makes me really angry. If not for my liberal view of government I'd probably believe exactly what you do.  I agree. You should be able to decide who you want to serve based off any personal whim.  

THAT is freedom.

One day you don't like blonds? (maybe your blond witch of a gf just dumped you) No blonds.  The next day all fat kids need to beat it.  And if you are a nose picker, you aren't welcome any day of the year.  To be honest, there's absolutely nothing wrong with banning that last one. This could just as easily be a Catholic establishment not wanting to give services to divorced people. I thought that's what it was... Care to explain what's happening here to people who don't follow US news? Indiana passed a law that allows businesses to refuse to serve individuals if somehow selling them a product or service will conflict with the business owner's religious beliefs. Because baking a cake for a gay wedding is such a moral burden. I think that the reason bakeries don't want to make a cake for gay weddings is because they are lazy and don't want to make a super fabulous cake.  They're afraid that they'll run out of the groom toppers if they have to use two at a time. It screws up their inventory.

Why that doesn't average out with lesbian weddings using two brides is beyond me. You'll have to ask them.  Actually its probably the other way around, gay/bi women are slightly more common than gay/bi men Research provided by Brazzers and The Pornhub Institute of Sociological Experimentation.  &gt;Research provided by Brazzers and The Pornhub Institute of Sociological Experimentation. 

Pornhub Institute of Sociological Studies. 

P.I.S.S.

Missed a golden ~~shower~~ opportunity there, bub.  Source? I ask because I took a class in college called "the statistics of the gay and lesbian population," and every study I read indicated the opposite. http://www.gallup.com/poll/158066/special-report-adults-identify-lgbt.aspx

Theres a few other studies referenced in that article supporting this as well I think that is as it is because at the moment the idea of exploring one's sexuality is much less of a taboo for women then it is for men in US society.  It'll probably even out in a decade or so (hopefully) as society progresses to a point where everyone finally realizes that who a person sleeps with (as long as its an adult) isn't this moral panic. Why should they care about inventory?  With all the gay marriages nobody will reproduce so at some point there won't be any more marriages. 

Edit:  SARCASM AND JOKES. Future lesbian bride, here - AMA. Would you be willing to buy three bride cake toppers to make up the difference? Does that mean I get to have two wives? Best answer is best! What's your perfect sunday? 8 solid hours of chiefin' and video games. Why do my headphones get tangled up when I put them in my pocket? Because you're not using the [rock n' roll wrap.]( http://m.instructables.com/id/How-To-Fold-Your-Headphones/) I have seen the light, and it is beautiful. How are you today? Hey, none of us know what it is like, the moral anguish and mental taxation...

No, fuck it.  Indiana ' s stupid is showing.   RFRA is unnecessary and I'm completely against it, but I do want to point out it's not just Indiana - Indiana is just the most recent.  21 states and the Federal gov't have passed similar (albeit not identical) legislation:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/State_Religious_Freedom_Restoration_Acts The big difference for Indiana is that our RFRA was introduced and passed as a response to Judge Posner and the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals giving the state's gay marriage ban an epic beatdown. The federal version was passed because people were outraged that some Native Americans were denied unemployment benefits for smoking peyote during a religious ceremony. I might be missing something, but that link states the Federal law only stops the government from restricting religious freedom unless there is a compelling reason involved. Which essentially a clarification on the freedom of religion right. So, while a Baker can refuse to make a cake shaped like two dudes banging, he can't refuse to make a cake at all just because the guy buying it bangs dudes/a dude. At that point it becomes discrimination against  homosexuals, which I'm fairly sure is illegal. 

So if Indiana passed a law stating that you can refuse service based on someone's religion or sexism orientation, I believe that conflicts with Federal law.  

Edit: Other comment threads are leading me to believe that I'm mixing state laws in there. Specifically, sexuality being a protected status. If so, and that is not Federal law, then that does become something that is more open to exploitation. Not illegal, as LGBT isn't a protected group under the Civil Rights Act.  There are municipalities where it has been declared protected under local law, though, and one issue is that this could supersede those statutes. In a /r/Christianity thread filled with in-fighting, one of the justifications was that a baker might view providing a cake as "celebrating" a same-sex marriage.

If a Jewish-owned catering company provided services to a Christmas party, my first thought would not be "*Well*, having second thoughts about Jesus are we?" Indiana passed a law which allows people to refuse service to gay people. 

This sign is a reaction to that.  Man, I can't get over how fucked this is. Let's segregate blacks and whites while we're at it, may as well. In South Carolina some BBQ owner is/was trying that.  Looks like somebody read the headline but not the story. I saw that same story the other day, and it was about a case from the 60s. It was one of those old switcheroo stories where they showed that the same arguments used today by people who want to ~~discriminate against gay people~~ argue "religious freedom", such as the Hobby Lobby case, are the same arguments that were used in attempts to discriminate against black people before.

http://www.forwardprogressives.com/sc-restaurant-owner-refuses-serve-blacks-cites-religious-beliefs/

Edited because the article says nothing about gay people.
 oh dear god seriously? I am not from America so I get a limited view of what goes on but it always seems as though a few people are always trying to undo any progress that has ever been made. No, not seriously. The person you're responding to got confused by a headline the other day:

http://www.forwardprogressives.com/sc-restaurant-owner-refuses-serve-blacks-cites-religious-beliefs/

Read the whole story. The Bible is actually explicitly against adultery and divorce, but says nothing about gay marriage. But there's nothing surprising about religious people selectively ignoring their own texts... Jesus on Divorce:  "And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for immorality, and marries another woman commits adultery." - Jesus (Matthew 19:7-9)

The bible on gay marriage: "   " &gt; The bible on gay marriage: " "

Filthy heathen who has no idea what he's talking about! 

    Gay

_James 2:3_

    marriage

_Exodus 21:10_

    is a sin

_1 John 5:17_

See? It's all there! Well, you got me there... Granted,  I never read Jaxodohn.  You should totally read it. My favorite dinosaur! And then an image fluttered past my minds eye. A T-rex with Jax's ( of Mortal Kombat) shiny robo arms. [Has science gone too far?](http://40.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mbcc6vYe591rvfqqto1_500.jpg) Poor t-rex had body issues. He was always told his arms were too small, so he had elective surgery. I hope he feels better. Not even surgery. He's controlling the arms with his tiny arms. This T-rex is a big fat phony! You guys are wonderful, and you made me chuckle! :D Jaxodohn is a beastly name      Exodus 21:10     marriage    
     1 John 5:17      is a sin

ftfy
 "But Father!  How is it that we were able to have sex?"

"Don't worry, as I told you, it was right her in the Bible..."

He showed her, scribbled on the inside cover of the hotel Bible, "The cigarette girl will fuck anybody" What I got from that is that marriage is a filthy sin.  Upon initial inspection this appears to be correct. When did the second book of John come out!? What do you mean by "Second"?

There's already John, John 2, John 3: Crimson Harvest, John 4: Chariots of Doom, a TV-spinoff "Keeping up wit' dem Johns" and a short-lived animated TV series "John the Jesusator and the Jerusalem Squad". John dies at the end. 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
Spoilers. Spoiler tag that shit! Wait a minute...

&gt;marries another woman commits adultery

So if I marry a man, I'm not committing adultery? I think this passage totally implies that every male gets two marriages: one straight wedding and one gay wedding.

 The fact that the creator of the universe (or his son) gives a shit about social customs of humans is ridiculous. Like most of the Bible and other religious texts/rules, it sounds more like the local customs of the place and time in which they were written. This is so fucking obvious and I don't understand how more people don't see this.  Well, to be fair (and I shit upon anyone who uses this to hurt people), the Bible *does* say that gay men should be stoned to death. It's in Leviticus IIRC. So that doesn't really leave room for gay marriage.

I'm an atheist, though, so I might be wrong :P It's funny how christians wonder how atheists can determine right from wrong without the bible, when the the bible is all like, "let's bury people up to their heads and throw rocks at them until they die" for all sorts of ridiculous shit.  The bible says nothing about gay marriage because the bible commands christians to kill homosexuals.  The dead can't get married.

The christians who oppose gay marriage as just too much of a pussy to kill the homosexuals so they instead try and make their lives miserable. And people like to argue that moderate Muslims are representative of Islamic doctrine by using the example that moderate Christians are representative of Christian doctrine... that's hardly the case in either religion.

Only the extremists and radicals are purely representative of where their faith comes from. The rest are partial. This distinction cannot be overstated!
Makes me think there must be some conspiracy by the big three (Islam, Judaism, Christianity) to take over the world. The bible only talks about homosexuality in the part that is to be ignored for everything else that it says. &gt; bible commands christians to kill homosexuals

technically it commands the Jews to kill homosexuals.  Christ didn't tell his followers to kill anyone. Where exactly in the Bible does it say that? I don't mean this to be a dick or anything, I'm legitimately curious. Lev 20:13

If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them. Interesting that they use this verse as an argument - often when a crazy rule comes from the old testament, they go "oh, but it's old testament so it doesn't count". Isn't that the same chapter where it says we can't eat shell fish or wear clothing of two different fibers? 

Who wants to go burn down a red lobster? I will liberate the cheddar biscuits before we burn the Red Lobster. They had nothing to do with this and should be spared.  Agreed. We must keep them from being indoctrinated in to the shell fish agenda.   Amen, brotha.  Wait, what sub am I am again? It's the very same page, I think. Corinthians 7:2 But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.

I'm not religious, but it's a bad argument to say "The bible doesn't say anything bad about gay marriage so you should be OK with it."  The bible pretty clearly defines marriage as between a man and woman... or a man and multiple women (but for the sake of argument we won't go there).  The bible doesn't say anything bad about 'gay marriage' because 'gay marriage' as far as the bible is concerned isn't a thing. It can't denounce something that doesn't exist.

 That book is a letter from Paul to the Church in Corinth. That particular verse sounds to me like an argument against polygamy and promiscuity. The Old Testament is the one with rampant polygamy, so Paul may be telling them to ignore those texts. Who knows what texts they were even using? They could have been using Gnostic Gospels and ancient Judeo-Christian texts that never even made it into the official Bible. (The Council of Trent excluded dozens, if not hundreds of texts from the Bible.) To best understand these books of the Bible, the Epistles of Paul, the context is terribly important. Why was he writing to the Corinthians? What troubles were they having? And what was Paul's mindset? He wasn't exactly the most forward thinking man, if I remember correctly.

I'm really not arguing with you at all. I'm more or less just rambling. But I am curious now about this.  &gt;The Bible is actually explicitly against adultery and divorce, but says nothing about gay marriage. 

Indeed. While the Bible has a lot to say about homosexuality, it says absolutely nothing about gay *marriage*. Not one jot or tittle.

Both Testaments say that gay people deserve to die, and the Old Testament gives you explicit instructions on how to execute them.

If you lived in a country that was truly run by "Biblical Law", gay people would be much too busy being dead to worry about whether or not they can get married. This is basically copy pasted from things I am working on for my masters thesis, so read it or don't I just like to feel like my last two years mattered a little bit :)    :

The problem with the Bible's stance against homosexuality is cultural.  Egalitarian relationships (heterosexual, not even talking homosexual) are a new thing (within the past 100-200 years). Sure, we see them both pop up in different societies in history, and  instances/stories of a woman running off with the love of her life are plentiful, but the standard reason for marriage was stability. 

Homosexuality has existed in society for thousands of years, but rarely egalitarian homosexuality. It is mostly all about rich guy with a "male receptacle for phallic discharges" (no joke, that is the title of a chapter of a book I have cited often), or religious rituals, or manhood ceremonies, or the women and the men are split up for a year at a time (boats, long hunting, herding) so you make due. 

Any phrasing about homosexuality in the Bible would have seen homosexuality as a loveless relationship and extremely exploitative. There weren't two men settling down together to start a life together, it was one man paying a 15 year old boy to catch his discharge, or homosexual religious rituals, or teacher/mentor convenience things. 

But, this is what we get for using thousand year old books to tell us what right and wrong is even though they were completely ignorant of the possibility that two men could love each other.  &gt; male receptacle for phallic discharges

And thus, the term "Cum Dumpster" was born. I almost did a spit take when I read that shit for the first time in a serious, scholarly book. 

I was like "Jesus christ, just say cum dumpster"  "And Lo, you shall getteth thine cum dumpster a rag soest he may cleanse himself in the eyes of the Lord."

-Jesus Very much in the vein of what I've been trying to tell people for quite some time. Very good summary. I'd love to read said thesis once it's published. &gt; so you make due.

If you're working on your Masters you may wish to know that [it's "make do"](http://grammarist.com/usage/make-do-make-due/). Well it's open to interpretation.

"A man shall never lay with a man like he lays with a woman" tot hat I say "well thats obvious, they cant because biology". Didn't that just mean if a woman asks if their jeans make her look fat a man should lie and say "no"? If a man asks if their jeans make them look fat the proper response is "yes and why the hell are you asking me?" Don't say nothin bought no good 'ol lesbian lovin though does it? I thought it used to word lie, as in "Don't lie to your homies like you would a woman". 

Not that lying to your woman is OK, but, you know, bros before hos.  It would be quite easy to figure out since the chance of "lie" and "lie" also being the same word in Hebrew or Greek or whatever the bible is written in is quite small. Aramaic, Greek, Hebrew, and/or Latin, depending on the book.  I'm not certain about Greek. _Matthew_ was written in Greek.

The word from Leviticus is "", which doesn't really have anything to do with telling the truth. gay marriage != gay sex, although... what's the point. Right because sex after marriage is just silly. I got regular married and regular marriage doesn't seem to mean regular sex. It is not open. Verse like that are used by people who never read the book. Sodomy is a sin. Bam case closed you can not have anyform of sexual relations that does not end with a baby. I think this was a major sticking point for 13 yo me. No bj's? Yeah fuck this shit. I think it's only the OT that says that gays should die. In the NT, it's just that they won't inherit the kingdom of heaven... although the translation in Corinthians is pretty debatable by some. You'd think an omniscient being could get the final version it wanted, and that it be unambiguous.

God can't even find a solid copy editor? He did have. It was called the council of Nicae where the bible was essentially created by committee and the beliefs of the church formulated. Hence why we have the Nicaen Creed.   Or you'd think he might have realized that if in 2000 years 8 billion people would be arguing about the ambiguity of the book, he would've just written it himself.  It all comes back to him just being one sadistic shit. Doesnt it actually have a gay couple of sorts? David and the prince of Israel or something?

Also some saint iirc. David and Jonathan are never called out as gay, just an example of two good young male friends.  But David later commits adultery and essentially murder over a woman he perved on while she was bathing. Is that the one where the woman is the guy's wife but he was also a general in David's army. So David gave the order that when they go into battle the army would retreat (fall back in the heat of battle) and leave the guy on his own to be killed (thereby circumnavigating the whole "dont murder and shit" law). 

Oh and David married her after that if i have my bible right.  Exactly the kind of good, moral 'historical' leader of the Abrahamic religions. Read the bible when i was 10 (went to Catholic school and was bored)... the shit in the Old Testament is 100% at odds with everything they taught us in religion class. Like the whole "kill everyone for land" thing and the "stone the shit out of everyone who is X/Y/Z and maybe a little bit of W"  I thought the point of old versus new testament was that God was super vengeful and shit until he knocked Mary up and had Jesus who said "dad, stfu. I'm going to be a hippie now and love everyone." So then God killed Jesus to prove that being a dirty hippie was dangerous to your health but Jesus was all "nah, it's cool man." Then Jesus runs out of weed and Revelations happens  The entire religion is entirely against everything taught.  If they taught what the bible actually says and if they expected people to read the thing in full, they wouldn't have Christians anymore. It's not ignoring if they never read it to start with. ignorant, but not ignoring. Wouldn't the Bible's strong stance against same sex relations in general (Leviticus 18 &amp; 20, Romans 1) imply heavily that same sex marriage is forbidden?

edit: I'm not arguing that homosexuality is wrong because the Bible says so.  I'm making a statement defending Christianity.  The point is quite simple:  The Bible explicitly says that homosexuality is wrong, therefore it is deducible that it prohibits gay marriage.  

edit 2:  Yes, any Christian who would claim that national laws should reflect a Biblical stance on marriage would also have to enforce stricter divorce laws.  Ironically, any given Christian opposed to same sex marriage on Biblical grounds doesn't mind leaving the lax (non-Biblical) divorce laws right where they are.  Indeed, I have relatives on their third marriage who think that same sex marriage threatens their own marriage, Christianity, and our country as a whole.  It is mind-blowing.

edit 3: I don't want to lump all Christians together, by the way.  Many churches and denominations support gay marriage. The point is even if it is implied it never says it outright, whereas it does outright say don't divorce or commit adultery etc. and the Christian nation tends to ignore those direct commands. Leviticus makes it ok to throw rocks at people leaving Red Lobster. It also says that divorce is a sin. So no one should be getting divorced, right! The Anglican church was supposedly setup because Henry VIII wanted to divorce his wife. and witches.  don't for get the bible is also against witches.  I thought not catering to divorced people was the point of the picture. It is, not sure what it has to do with atheism.  The point is to show the broadness of the law. You can refuse to serve anyone for any reason as long as you claim it's a religious reason. 

For example, I could refuse to serve anyone that voted to pass this law because my religion says to ignore anyone who is a detriment to humanity.  The catholic church actually caters to divorced people by now offering free annulments (I heard they made it free). 

Basically, if you get divorced, you can send ~$5000 to the Vatican to get an annulment and you're scott free to marry again - and guess what? You're forgiven...just until you remember your new spouse or think about them. Then you have to be forgiven again. Its a never-ending circle and its bull shit.

/rant What about widows?  She should have married her brother-in-law. How about this... "Gluttony is a sin, we don't serve fat people!" Aw, C'mon!  In gay weddings, it's my first! They'd probably make an exception for that. What is Indiana's Freedom of Religion act? Indiana recently passed a law which allows businesses to refuse to serve customers for religious reasons.  Many fear that the intent is to allow businesses to refuse to serve gays and lesbians. &gt; Many fear that the intent is to allow businesses to refuse to serve gays and lesbians.

Nope, we know that is the intent. Some of the lawmakers flat out said the intent. They wrote the law out of spite after the gay marriage ban was ruled unconstitutional. Hey I'm just watching the debacle and waiting for a satanic church-owned business to deny service to Christians, or for a self-proclaimed Pastafarian to mandate that anyone entering his store wear a stainer on their heads.  I was hoping something like this would happen, but it would probably be a good way to go out of business. Most people are against the law, but it's still mostly Christians around here. Plus, you know Fox News would jump on it as more evidence of the war on Christianity and have a bunch of teabaggers picketing the place. Yeah, I don't know why I was giving them any benefit of the doubt.  It is pretty clear that this is aimed at gays and lesbians.  On the plus side I am a little encouraged by the outcry against the bill, I think it is a good sign that our culture as a whole is moving more in support against gay rights.  Just ~15 years ago there wouldn't have been much of a protest against this bill.  Now it seems like more people are against it than for it. That's interesting because it is illegal to not serve customers because of race. Indiana is now moving the gay issue up to racial segregation status. So I guess Mormons can get away with it, since the book of Mormon explicitly States that black people are cursed.  That's stupid and I'm Christian. The Bible says to love your neighbor and treat others as you want to be treated. Discrimination is just wrong and using religion to justify it is even worse. Am not Christian, but couldn't agree with you more. In fact i think this type of discrimination should have nothing to do with anyone's religious affiliation at all. Shouldn't matter if you're religious or not and what your religious text says. This is a government within a "free" nation imposing laws that limitd the freedoms of those considered less equal. Should be a pretty cut and dry offense in my opinion, but yet here we are. Well. It also says to kill the gays.  So which is it bub? In the Bible, Jesus is said to have gone and dined with the sinners, so I hardly think anyone can quote Jesus's name to refuse service to anyone.
It's not that I'm justifying basing a states morality on thousand year old books, but I think the bigger problem is that these bigots are going against the basic principles of their own religion. (I'm counting only the gospels here) I thought that businesses already had the right to refuse service to anyone for any reason? I think I might have seen signs saying that in front of convenience stores. This gets tricky and there are a lot of nuances.  Generally speaking there are [protected classes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Protected_class) under federal law such as race, gender, age etc... and it is generally illegal to discriminate against these groups as a private business.  As a private business you could not refuse to serve Hispanics for instance.  There are some exceptions, I haven't looked into but for example women's shelters skirt around some gender discrimination laws by having women's only shelters (for the record I support having women's only shelters).  These protected classes were first created by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and have been expanded since then.  

These anti-discrimination laws have also been interpreted to offer some protection to non-protected classes.  Generally, the courts have said that businesses can not arbitrarily discriminate against non-protected groups.  For example a business likely could not arbitrarily bar Red Sox fans from entering their business.

However, business generally can refuse to serve anyone if they have a valid reason.  Restaurants refusing to serve someone who isn't fully clothed is fine for sanitation reasons.  Or if someone is harassing customers or employees the business can kick them out.  Additionally, you generally can discriminate against a group if there is a compelling reason.  Going back to the Red Sox fan, while generally they probably couldn't bar them under different circumstances they probably could.  Suppose Red Sox and Yankees fans in the area were notorious for getting into fights and causing problems, under this scenario they could bar anyone wearing athletic wear to try and prevent fights.

The problem is is that Sexual Orientation is not a federally protected class, meaning that it doesn't have the fully protection of the Civil Rights Act, which gives businesses more leeway in discriminating against them.  Many State and local municipalities have expanded the law so that within their jurisdiction sexual orientation is a protected class.  What the new legislation in Indiana does is says that the state or local government can not burden a person exercise of religious believe unless the government has a compelling interest.  This could overrule some local municipalities that have declared sexual orientation a protected class.  This law can not allow businesses to discriminate against people who are part of a federally protected class.  So, regardless of how devoutly someone believes women shouldn't have shoes a shoe store couldn't refuse to sell to woman.  But, since sexual orientation is not a protected class if someone believes that homosexuality is religiously immoral in Indiana they now have a much greater leeway in refusing to serve gay customers.  Since, now the government is more or less barred from intervening on behave of the gay customer.

Now many states have similar laws on the books.  However, the reason Indiana's is drawing so much attention is because of the timing.  Most states created these laws in the 90s after a similar federal law.  And at the time there wasn't as prominent of a gay rights movement, and the laws weren't seen as specifically targeting gays.  However, Indiana's decision to push the law through seems heavily influenced by recent gains for gay rights.  There were several relatively high profile disputes in which religious business owner (usually bakers and florist) refused to provide services for gay weddings.  This new law would limit what gay couples could do if a business refused to serve them.

**tl;dr:  Generally no businesses can not discriminate for any reason.  However, they can refuse service to anyone if they have a compelling reason.  The new law would make it easier for businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians.** It also gives them the same right to discriminate against the federally unprotected class of "state reps who voted for this bill and Governor Pence." &gt; As a private business you could not refuse to serve Hispanics for instance.

As a private business you could not refuse to serve Hispanics on the grounds that they are Hispanics. You can refuse to serve them for another reason, including "No reason at all". That doesn't hold up if you get sued since you're forced to explain your reasoning.  Based on the lawsuits I've read on the subject, this is very difficult to prove.  Kind of but if it becomes clear that the only group you are not serving is Hispanics it doesn't matter what the reason you say is it will be clear that you are discriminating against Hispanics and you will be open to legal trouble.

As a business you can refuse to serve anyone but as soon as it become selective who you are not serving you have to be a lot more careful about what the justifications you are. They don't.

Public accommodations cannot refuse service based upon race, disability, religion, and in some places now whether someone is part of the LGBT community.

It doesn't matter what signs they have, if they try to refuse based upon a protected class, they're breaking the law. It is a tort and not a crime, no? Hello, let me introduce you to my little friend http://www.google.com Ironically enough, this is legal discrimination without any particular state law. Explain? Divorced people are not a protected class.  If only there were a way to have a business that actually throws out *heterosexual* couples and can rationalize it using some religious pretext, or throw out anyone wearing religious themed t shirts or a cross necklace, this would be cleared up fast. Just have to avoid going out of business.  1. Invent your own religion.

2. No heterosexuals allowed.

3. Claim your religion is being discriminated against.

4. ???

5. Profit I fear there would be no 5...  Would be cool as hell of some well off business owner decided he was no longer serving Christians so they can watch it backfire (not saying all Christians support this crap) . Unfortunately the business would risk going out of business by not doing business with a majority Well, to be honest, I'm not sure that *anyone* in the state wanted this except the politicians. Guess, I can't speak for the state, we do have a lot of rural areas that keep voting the Republicans into office, but most of the people in Indianapolis are strongly against it. They wrote the law out of spite because the gay marriage ban was ruled unconstitutional.  What they need are some major restaurants or hotels near the state senate that say they believe the senators are putting themselves above God by acting as kings and therefore they can't in good conscience serve the senators. It's BS but it might get the point across without affecting heterosexuals or Christians that probably had nothing to do with this.  I plan to try this, starting Monday. What do you do? I'm an EMT. I'm going to try contacting businesses after work. Damn, talk about someone I don't want to discriminate against me. You could wield some power! Solid idea if we had some CEOs with huge balls. But I feel like the dollar rules all and nobody want to start a war with lawmakers and enforcers. I want to see a store, owned by Muslims, who refuse to let women in who are showing their face. Or a Jewish restaurant who refuses to serve anyone that doesn't say a Jewish prayer prior to eating. Or a Scientologist-owned place that requires theton tests.

It would be great to see the Christian right immediately scream discrimination and not get the irony. The bill says that a person may act or refuse to act "in a manner that is substantially motivated by the person's sincerely held religious belief, **regardless of whether the religious belief is compulsory or central to a larger system of religious belief**". Emphasis mine.

You can literally discriminate against anyone and say "religion" and the State of Indiana can't do anything to you. &gt; The Jedi are trained to use the Force through deistic reasoning, [...] They are conditioned to reject negative or dangerous emotions (such as love, passion, greed, fear, anger and hate) as these desires inevitably lead to suffering., and believe that true balance and happiness is best achieved when they are content with themselves as they are.

That'll work for heterosexual couples. I hope the governor is denied the cup of coffee he ordered, because his Mormon server cannot in good conscience serve it to him for religious reasons. Just wait until a bakery refuses to serve unaccompanied women or women not covering their head.  The only good thing that comes out of this is that it guarantees Mike Pence will NEVER be elected President.  Man, Indiana hasn't seen this much hate since The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. Best response is it's Indiana not Indisteve And you better not come in here wearing a garment that mixes two different fabrics together. IT'S UNNATURAL.  The bible says nothing against marrying several wives, can we order twelves cakes for my new harem?
edited to be clearer in my meaning. It does; it condones many forms of polygyny. Weeeellll, it depends on which part you read. Could you imagine if engineering texts were like that?

 Don't worry, man, I made your car by the book.  Get in. Um... Which book did you use again?  Don't worry man, I skipped the parts about inertia and thermodynamics, so if you crash nothing will happen and it has infinite fuel. Infinite fuel!? Sign me up you crazy half-assed Engineer! Meh, that car looks fine. Go ahead and drive it over my bridge!  Why aren't the wheels round? Did you use pi = 3.0? I feel like I am the only one who can find the optimism in Indiana's new law. Now, sane Indianaians (also, what do people from Indiana call themselves) know which businesses to avoid. Hoosiers. They're called Hoosiers... For some reason. Literally nobody knows. I looked it up. It's true. No-one knows why they are called that.  I'm a Hoosier. We were told as little kids that during the civil war after a rather bloody battle on Indiana soil, some redneck saw body parts strewn about, picked up an ear off the ground and yelled out in his hill billy accent "who's ear?" which sounded more like "Hoosier"... Thus the legacy was born. Let's come up with a list that businesses can use against most "christians" using their own religion.  Here, I'll start

We do not cater to:

1. people who have eaten shrimp or any other shellfish 
2. people who have had sex during menstruation
3. people who have had sex outside of marriage


 what if it's your 2nd gay wedding? Why would anyone turn Down business at all
 Because Jesus. Good question. You've obviously got it made if you can afford to worry about what your potential customers do in private. "Out here in the middle, we don't understand capitalism..."

I own a small business and let me tell you the idea of not selling things to my customers for any reason strikes me as pure fucking retarded.  What kind of economy does Indiana have that everyone can afford to turn away sinners?

If my business fails I'm going to move to Indiana and I'm going to open up a store where we are nice to people, and I'm going to take all your customers. But adhering to a religion doesn't mean following ALL the rules, just the ones that suit you. It's the same way in all religions after all Gluttony is one of the seven deadly sins. I wonder how Indiana would feel about "No fatties" signs. They should hire Aaron Paul to be their spokesperson. If that's the case, then I'm moving to Indiana to set up a shop whee I'll ban customers who wear blended material clothing. And eat shellfish. There should be signs on the front door that say "no gays allowed".

That way I know who to boycott. Can they really just call people a bitch like that? It's not illegal. You can call anyone a bitch. Bitch.  Yea, dude, religious freedom.  &gt;Yea, ~~dude~~ bitch, religious freedom.

FTFY &gt; FTFY. bitch.

 No.  That's why Schrader was so intent on arresting Jesse Pinkman. I'm hoping some brazen casual Muslim posts "No service to women without headscarf and male family member.".  No worries. "Sure, it's totally my first marriage^since ^the ^divorce ITT: People who defend businesses discriminating against anyone, criticizing a business for turning away customers for whatever reason they choose. I like that..."religious freedom...bitch" !

I don't even consider this to be an issue of religious freedom at all, really.

Where does it say that I have to make a cake (I'm not a baker irl., just for argument sakes I am talking about) for ANYONE I don't want to?

Let's say Charlie Manson gets paroled and he wants me to make a cake for him...should I be FORCED to make it?

What are you going to do...have the 5-0 force me to bake a cake for him at gunpoint?

Didn't think so...
 How far can this religious freedom bullshit be driven?    
Not serving women? Not serving non-jedi?  
How about not serving republicans? I'm all in on the non-jedi rule.  Because anyone would really want to be a jedi? Living without love? Jeez. Train as a Jedi, learn everything you can, quit. Laser swords and mind bullets.  You might say they're 'encouraged to love.' It's more of a guideline than a rule.   It is not, it's one of the fundamental principles on which the order is built. Eh, you might be over-reacting. I thought he/she was quoting from Pirates of the Caribbean? Like literally you will be removed from the Jedi order for taking on a spouse. Now if there was a gray Jedi order, I would totally sign up. If you started a totally peaceful warmonk-type gray Jedi order, the actual Jedi order would probably butcher you. They aren't nice people.  Are you like some sort of mando apologist or do you have some supportive evidence that they kill unprovoked? I'm just saying that they put "balance of the Force" over life and would probably see you as a threat.  It's not that Jedi do not love. In fact, they are taught to "love" everyone unconditionally, as the force flows through all creatures. 

However, individual attachments can be dangerous since they might cloud judgement of a particular action. 


Realistically speaking plenty of Jedi , both fictional and real, get married or have loved ones. We are human and it's in our nature to do so.  So that's why there was no Mrs. Yoda and a bunch of little Yoda sproglets.  Huh.  TIL. Luke did away with that rule after he rebuilt everything and there were also times when it was allowed/not enforced. you know what I'm tired of? False fucking misleading names like "Religious Freedom Act" to try to make a horrid thing sound like a good thing. It's Newspeak. Orwell nailed it. Women. I'd say no. Sex is a federally protected class. Non-Jedi. Eeh I'd still say no. Religion is a federally protected class. Republicans. Absolutely. Go for it.  This does raise a really interesting question for us to parse out though: when they come into conflict, who's rights come first? I'm not taking a position, I am not making an argument....but that's the question really being asked by society, and it's a very complex question, perhaps one with no right answer. If the church of satan is recognized as a religion in the eyes of that law... very, very far. Quotes:

&gt; Do not give opinions or advice unless you are asked.

&gt; Do not tell your troubles to others unless you are sure they want to hear them.

&gt;If a guest in your lair annoys you, treat him cruelly and without mercy.

And the nine sins may give reason for further discrimination based on the law. Including "Lack of aesthetic" and "stupidity". It should read "We do not cater to CHRISTIANS celebrating their 2nd or more wedding" Why should that be noted? The point is that the business owner gets to use their personal religion to discriminate. It has nothing to do with the religion of the customer.

 Hypocrisy? Irony? C'mon man!  No bakery is going to cut their sales by 80%! Really, repeat customers are the key to any successful business :) There is a contest among red states to see which can be the most obnoxious, sub-human, representatives of organized stupidity and evil. It's a close race, but several have successfully explored the depths of human depravity. The only real question is whether the conservative mindset is a treatable condition or are we doomed to be consumed by this evil disease.  It's called sociopathy and it will ultimately be the death of the human race.  Grow up. Its so people can privately run their businesses without having to participate in something they don't believe in. 

If you are a Christian baker, you should not have to endorse gay marriage with your business. And fuck the whiny attention whores suing over shit like this. 

I thought we were told tolerance is what matters, or is it only tolerating a certain point of view and no others?
 Running a business is a lawful privilege; not a right. You are not your business, and your business is not an individual. There are laws protecting it, but it has no rights, and in accepting the privilege to run a business, you agree to honor the social and legal contracts that outlaw putting an embargo on peaceful, lawful citizens of the United States of America. Behaving in any other way is strictly un-American.

Now, once more for good measure. Tell me how refusing to allow people to use their business as leverage to thrust their bigotry upon citizens of the country they supposedly serve is "intolerant." I revel the irony and would like to have a good reason to drop this facade of respect for you.  First of all, cut it with the "I'm very very smart talk". Its pretentious. Trying to draw comparison to the "corporate personhood debate" makes no sense. 

Now, sorry, but you, as an owner of a business, have a right, and that includes to your own beliefs, and who you want to serve. Limiting that is wrong. 

But frankly, this could have all been avoided if the homosexuals didn't purposefully pick on Christian businesses to sue for not wanting to take part in something they didn't believe in. 

And now you're going to force the government to force them? Fuck right off with that. 

Separation of church and state doesn't just mean "No 10 commandments at the state house".  They really don't understand how much of a nightmare this is going to be.  They also don't understand their politicians are morons who are just wasting their time and money on something that will be struck down by the court system - something which these idiots knew when they did this. Yes, but they feel like they'll have won some 'moral victory.'

Why don't they say what it is- "no coloureds," "no Muslims" etc. 

Rosa Parkes would not be amused. Damn, I'd love to order something from them just to show support.  obviously fake tho. which bakery writes bitch and has blinds like that? Or turns away repeat customers I see you've never been to the downtown portion of a city. There's more of them than there are gay people! This might as well be compared to the Embargo Act. Just goes to show you can't legislate morality, or legislate away bigotry. Just let the bigots be bigots, it's not the laws purpose to stop it. Why would straight people want to use a bakery that won't serve gays? What is it with bakeries and politics? 

Every other week, there's some kerfuffle involving a cake and some civil rights issue.  From the comments:

&gt;Seems like that atheists must believe in something or their would be more people hacking/slashing/thugging around. Why not, there is only the here and now and nothing to lose?

I've never understood this. Is holy-punishment the only thing keeping these people from murdering and stealing? I don't hack/slash/thug people because I don't enjoy seeing others in pain. I never understood that either. If I know there's only the here and now, why would I spend that time doing something so hurtful and negative? I think instead I'll make a pie and paint something or travel. Violence is not the inherent wish of all humans that just spews forth when we no longer fear god.  Ignoring the violence, if this is my only life, why would I want to spend it in jail?  And the opposite, if you're deeply religious, you can do something atrocious in the name of your religion and happily go to jail, believing your reward to be in heaven. This thought always boggles my mind.  Yeah, the religious are superior to atheists. We have to actually take personal responsibility for the things we do. /s

Edit: added "/s". &gt; If I know there's only the here and now, why would I spend that time doing something so hurtful and negative?

I may not have an answer for the meaning of life, the universe, and everything, but I'd at least like to leave the world the same or better than I found it, not spend my life on something negative 42 This reminds me of a redditor who commented about some quote stating that, if anyone, who else should have the keys to the "red button" that launches the nukes than an atheist? The atheist knows that if they do it, it's not about just themselves, they know and fully believe that they're ending, forever, the lives and very existence of every single living being in their path. I really liked this take on the argument about theology. Well said. Well before I became an atheist my father once said, much to my shock, that if he didn't believe in god he'd kill people. I continue to be confused and highly perturbed by this sentiment.  Precisely, if there is only the here and now, then the best way to approach a lind of immortality is by investing positive spirit in the world.  It won't matter if someday no one knows my name if i have spread some compassion around to make the world a bit of a better place. &gt; Violence is not the inherent wish of all humans that just spews forth when we no longer fear god.

Nonono, we're all horrendous sinners, that's exactly what we do. Geez, didn't you read the bible? I've heard it said before (I might be paraphrasing some famous quote here)

As an atheist, I murder as many people as I want to murder - and that number is zero.

We don't need the threat of divine punishment to keep us from misbehaving, people are so much smarter than that and somehow they don't realize it. Feelings of empathy and compassion, decency and humanity - that's a better source of morality. One of my favorite quotes! Penn Jillette (of Penn and Teller) for future reference.

http://theinterrobang.com/penn-jillette-morality-without-religion/ &gt; As an atheist, I murder as many people as I want to murder

Well, that was easy to take out of context I'm sure the TV news would do something like that, cut it off so that you sound bad. True Detective sums it up nicely:


"If the only thing keeping a person decent is the expectation of divine reward then, brother, that person is a piece of shit. And Id like to get as many of them out in the open as possible. You gotta get together and tell yourself stories that violate every law of the universe just to get through the goddamn day? Whats that say about your reality?"



http://youtu.be/_RfUj09pWfM "Religion is an insult to human dignity. With or without it you would have good people doing good things and evil people doing evil things. But for good people to do evil things, that takes religion." - Steven Weinberg It's not,  but they believe it is. They think if they drop their religion,  they will become evil people. It scares them into keeping their faith. Those that begin to lose their religion tend to wake up and say, "i dont believe anymore but im not a bad person. What gives?" I am deeply annoyed by people who equate religion to morality and goodness  It bothers me because we have examples of social creatures with beneficial and almost compassionate behaviour and they have no religion. It is no stretch to imply we were in a sense moralistic before we were 'human'. I see a lot of somewhat the opposite too. I've known a few people that have done horrible things, (one killed a black man for "fun" because he was drunk and a racist.)  They come to a point in they're life when they see no way out of the hell hole they've made for themselves and turn to God, and go around preaching how God saved them. You mean to tell me you needed some dude you will never meet to tell you how bad of a person you made yourself out to be and he's to only reason you are now a decent human being? Are you a robot with no self control, morals or a shred of decency? No, you figured out how shitty of a person you are and now live a lie because you can't accept the horrible person you are.  &gt;Is holy-punishment the only thing keeping these people from murdering and stealing?

I think so, yes. I vividly remember an otherwise intelligent friend once asking me a hypothetical question, "If you found out tomorrow that there was no god, what would you do?" He honestly thought that I would go crazy and start raping and pillaging and wouldn't accept my answer of there being no change in my moral behavior. 

The sad thing was that he knew I was atheist prior to asking.  its because thats what he would do There are 2 option.

1. They either feel like they are being kept in check 

2. Everyone around them is homicidal, with their Jesus keeping it all at bay.

One is terrifying, the other is sad. Holy shit, maybe we do need religion to keep these crazies in check.  One is almost psychopathic and the other is paranoia.  I don't know which I would prefer to meet. He can't accept your answer, because that would mean implicitly rejecting the Bible's truth that we are sinners by nature.

At some point holding a faith with such holes means you *have* to be willfully ignorant, this was one of those points manifest for him. I always ask them how the hell they think humans survived 200,000 years until Jesus was born if they were all murderous psychopaths prior to his arrival on earth.  I dunno, reading a little history makes me think humans *were* all murderous psychopaths prior to Jesus's birth. And after, too. Best part, when they used jesus as an excuse to be murderous psychopaths.   I was in law school having a few beers with friends, and I asked them if the law was really stopping them from murdering people. A couple of them answered yes, and so I followed up, so you're not really against murder then, you're just afraid of police punishment.

There's a lot of things people are afraid of and they act accordingly; some are just more real (guns) than others (gods). &gt; A couple of them answered yes, and so I followed up, so you're not really against murder then, you're just afraid of police punishment.

I dunno, maybe they're against murder but understand that without proper disincentives they may not have the willpower to act in accordance with their beliefs 100% of the time. Or maybe they're against murder but have found a couple of personal circumstances where they believe they have justification (i.e. maybe they believe the world would genuinely be better off if persons X and Y were dead, but worse off if murder were generally legalized). this is what they believe.  the fact that there's a higher percentage of crimes committed by religious people than non-religious persons relative to the population doesn't compute with these folks.  Facts are useless to people like this But can we correlate that with religion or the pervasiveness of religion in lower socioeconomic groups? 
That is, religion might be a factor, but lower levels of income and education could be more deciding. I wonder if these people actually believe this. That is, if they've thought hard about their belief and can justify it somehow.

Or if it's just some kind of mental defence that they use to justify their own beliefs, and every time they think hard about it, they get uncomfortable and stop. I feel like it's something they've been taught and they've never really questioned it because they've never lived without that fear of punishment. So they're told people are good because they fear hell/God =&gt; they actually do fear hell/God if they aren't good =&gt; this makes sense.  If they've never seriously considered how they would behave without believing in God (b/c that is so obviously preposterous [or so horrific that they think they'd actually go crazy from it]), then they won't understand how non-believers hold to morality. It's just another one of their weak, desperate arguments.  There was a whole lot of hacking/slashing/thugging around during the Crusades.

 Well, I do believe in something, and that's being a good person.  You don't have to believe in a God to believe in being good to others.   I have raped, tortured, enslaved, and murdered all the people I want to: Exactly none. 

This is a lot less than is condoned by their holy book. I think a big benefit of religion for many people is that they don't have to think about the hard questions of morality and life because they have been answered for them, and they "must" take those as definite answers, so they get an excuse for their mental laziness You're thinking it too rationally. It's an expression of fear. The fear that lack of authority will lead to chaos. 

God provides an order to the universe. Moral laws, an overall plan, and divine punishment. Religious authority gives guidance, structure and purpose to people's lives. They fear that without these, society will collapse into violence and anarchy. 

How inherently good people are and how much authority is needed over them to maintain a harmonious society is one of the most important aspects of a person's politics. Usually they don't outright state it, and it's merely a major unstated assumption behind their thinking. On one side, you have those who think humans need little or no authority, and on the other those who think that humans need totalitarian level authority. Most people fall into the middle somewhere. 

People who express sentiments like this would fall more towards the "more authority" side than less.  The effects on society from people that believe in too much authority has been felt in all aspects of society, in our prison systems, drug policy, school systems (think kids can't pretend to have a gun), and the way people parent children and most of it stems from the overwhelming influence of religion in our past history. These are relics left behind by religious thinking and in the age of information, these religitards are being exposed for what they really are. One stupid person can't do much but a lot can really do some damage. I see this exodus from the church as a healing to society. Well, as they see it, with their god there is nothing for your actions to be answered to (of course, ignoring police and the justice system). If there's no higher power to answer to, then OF COURSE you want to kill, rape, and do all sorts of bad things. Yeah, but that is where they have a crucial thinking error. Refraining from doing something for fear of punishment is not morality, it is obedience. 

I rape and kill all the people I want to. Zero.  Ironically, that is such a cynical outlook on their part. I do my best to be kind to all not out of fear of consequences should I not, but how it will make the world better.  Also, I don't really want to go to jail and I'm not a dick... I'm an atheist and what I believe is that if I cause harm, there is a system of laws and law enforcement in place which will punish me.  I think that has something to do with those who are religious thinking that the only reason they do the right thing is because they'll be punished if they don't.  I remember growing up in a religious family thinking that I needed to marry another Catholic so that he'd feel as if he had God to be accountable to and that we'd always be able to fall back on that inherrant agreement.  Turns out we can just decide to be good people because it feels good to do the right things.  I think one of the basic misunderstandings of a lot of atheists is the reason a lot of people follow a certain religion.  These people don't think they're bad people without religion.  Many don't think they would turn into murderers without religion.  They think they'd be unhappy.  It's the 'guidance of god' that builds a system that helps them handle all the shit life throws at them. Not all religious ppl are crazy illogical magic believers; they've found a way that makes them happy, and they're willing to go beyond logic to stay that way. The article draws a correlation between a rise in non-affiliation and internet use. I wish they would take that one step further to call it like it is: people are less likely to believe in unprovable stories when they are given access to factual, scientific information.

Religions started as a way for primitive people to explain the unexplainable - where does the sun go at night, why do people get sick and die, etc. Now, scientists are shedding more and more light on the realities behind these natural mysteries, which inherently removes the need for all that supernatural guesswork.

As belief is replaced by knowledge, so is religion replaced with science. The dark unknown that once scared us so deeply is now filled with the light of explorers, scientists, philosophers, and all those who can't help but to ask questions, to challenge unsubstantiated assertions, and to share their knowledge with the world.

Tl;Dr : People aren't leaving religion because of the internet, they're leaving because of education and information. The internet is simply a tool they use to access that information.

EDIT: Thank you for the gold, kind stranger!

Also, a number of comments have pointed out that correlation is not causation, and that I made that step when I "called it like it is". Fair point.

I don't mean to say that the article writer should have jumped to causation from a correlation while calling it fact. My original point in commenting was simply to call out that the Internet is simply a medium, a tool, and not a driver of change. People are drivers of change, and they use the internet to propagate these ideas and to find new ones.

I then continued on to speculate about causation between education and religiosity, and I should have called that out to avoid confusion.

Also, I'd like to make the distinction between education and intelligence. They are not the same thing, and in this context I'm talking about education.  It is so true. Open access to the endless knowledge of the internet allows people to find resources outside of their "local perspectives".

This is however a double edge sword, because it also allows people with crazy  ideas to find each other more easily, but I think overall the internet is responsible for more good than bad. 

Youtube alone is responsible for a lot of Atheism. I can attest to that. It's true, the internet is used for all kinds of nefarious reasons. However, I think that this is not really a 50/50 argument for a couple reasons:

1. There are more good people out there than bad (it may not seem like it if you're OP, but it must be true, otherwise civilization and humanity would not still be here).

2. Crazy ideas are typically not sustainable in the long run, while good ideas always are. This means that, add long as people exist who are willing to champion good ideas, then they will win out over enough time.

Another way to look at it could be that, currently, religious fanatics are having to resort to violence more and more to convert people. If you don't join us, you will die. That means that one side loses a supporter, and another doesn't get one either. 

On the other side, we have scientists and free thinkers who are non- violently changing people's minds away from religion. This means that religion loses a supporter, and reason gains a supporter.

Kill 100 enemies and you will only find 100 more to fight against alone. Change 100 minds, and you've got 100 allies to fight alongside you. I forget who said this originally (it's paraphrased), but it's great.

Edited for formatting. It seems to me that the effect of this double-edged sword is increasing polarization. Yes, that is true, as the rational crowd grows, so does the irrational. Yeah everyone is getting more vocal. As the religious see their numbers fall, they try to get more vocal to retain people and scare other back into believing. This causes the opposition to get louder in turn. The religious side knows they are "losing" so they will go down kicking and screaming.  &gt;they will go down kicking and screaming.

Like a petulant child throwing a temper tantrum when they don't get their way. &gt; Tl;Dr : People aren't leaving religion because of the internet, they're leaving because of education and information. The internet is simply a tool they use to access that information.

If I could give you more upvotes I would. This, so much. ISIS just recently burned thousands of historical texts. They want their radical view of islam to be the only way of thinking. When books and information exists, the public can freely access this information and form their own opinions, which is the most dangerous thing that can happen to radical dictatorships (think North Korea, ISIS, Russia). 

I believe the Internet and the access to information will steadily erode religion's farcical grip on this world. 


 They can't burn the internet. We need to get the whole of human knowledge digitised and out there. Then these religious nuts can burn all the books they like because they're just paper. The contents will be preserved forever. &gt; We need to get the whole of human knowledge digitised and out there.

Luckily companies like Amazon and Google are working to make this a reality.   And the publishing companies are suing the heck out of everyone to try and stop it. Knowledge is the enemy of religion.

Being reasonable and knowledgable are not virtues in the eyes of the religious. "Do not think, submit. Do not question anything, just have faith."

No thank you. Science has provided more for humanity than religion ever could have hoped to achieve. Your religion is a worthless distraction from the beauty of the natural world, and the wonders that can come from just figuring out how it all works. What about this can anyone disagree with? &gt; Knowledge is the enemy of religion.

I frequently point out how the original writers of the bible were so threatened by the idea of knowledge that they made attaining it the very first and worst sin ever committed by humans.  A sin so bad that it's forever imprinted on every human ever born and can only be washed away by joining a church.  See what happens when you pursue knowledge?  Now come here and I will pour water on your head and accept 10% of your earnings for the rest of your life while you remain woefully ignorant of the world in exchange for a direct ticket to heaven.  Amen!  And this whole time I thought Original sin meant to avoid apples or pomegranates(depending on interpretation). ;) "The essence of Christianity is told us in the Garden of Eden history. The fruit that was forbidden was on the tree of knowledge. The subtext is, All the suffering you have is because you wanted to find out what was going on. You could be in the Garden of Eden if you had just keep your fucking mouth shut and hadn't asked any questions."

-Frank Zappa

 I realized the ridiculousness of this when I was like 8 years old. Amazing to me the number of adults that are ok with this. I did the same but as I grew up in the pre-internet era it took me until I took high school science courses to completely break away.  If I'd had the internet to look into the questions that troubled me I'm sure I would have moved away a lot sooner.  It's only going to get worse for fundamentalists as future generations will increasingly pity their superstitions.

Religion has a chance to succeed but it has to learn to change and that has never been its strong suit. Many people use it as a justification to keep going. They live their life hoping and believing that the things that religion promises will be theirs if they just live their according to how their religion wants you to.

Pretty sure that's how many suicide bombers justify it. They're told and made to believe they're going to be a million times better off than the life they're living, and as long as they do it in their god's name it's okay. To put it more succinctly, they use religion as an excuse to deny reality. I will never forget sitting in church as a child watching a white preacher hooting and hollering pure gibberish to a black congregation. And the black folk were eating that shit up. Then these poor ass black folk reached in their pocket and gave up their little money to said preacher. I was confused, disgusted, and progressively enraged at the sheer stupidity of it all. I just knew something was fundamental "wrong" with this world. I tell my friends all the time that I want to start a church. That sweet tax-free money [gggaaaaahhhhhh](http://cdn.meme.am/images/300x/5514414.jpg) Science and historical fact is always up for scrutiny, preferably amongst experts in said field. But for those things that survive such scrutiny become fact or true -- until something else disproves it. Religion is not open to such intellectual discourse (though there is some dogmatic academia within religion). What absolutely sickens me is that people are using religion to suppress already established scientific and historical fact. 


 &gt; using religion to suppress already established scientific and historical fact. 

Yes, they constantly use the argument that, for example, "Evolution is just a theory"

A scientific theory is defined as: 

a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world that is acquired through the scientific method and repeatedly tested and confirmed through observation and experimentation.

"Repeatedly tested and confirmed" are the keywords here. Gravity is a Theory as well, we can all see the obvious effects of it. The Scientific meaning of theory clashes with the dictionary definition and creates a disconnect. 

 I'm at university and a classmate of mine is reading a book called How to Stay Christian in College or something like that.. I was like yup. Because your gonna need help to believe that shit once you start learning a thing or two.. Haha, wow. Its funny/sad how they have to prep religiously indoctrinated people before going off to college so they don't become "freed" by the knowledge they will gain outside of the religion. 

It says a lot about the relationship of the sciences to religion these days. Religion just becomes less and less relevant as science advances. Even though it became obsolete a long time ago in my opinion. This! "just have faith" may have been a fix-all-answer-all response before, but it is not good enough anymore. So are you telling me I can not  actually pray the gay away ?  Except ISIS has been extremely successful using Internet and social media for recruiting... Agree and ISIS are fighting for a prophecy that is no more stupid than the Rapture. If a book is burned because it is against Islam then I feel it's a moral imperative to stand against Islam. I hope so. where they burn books,  they will ultimately also burn people... and so it goes  There's a reason that back in the day, only scribes were allowed to know how to read and write. Can't let people get too smart. This is true but don't forget that religious institutions were also founders of many early schools and universities. while I strongly agree with your statement, the article mentioned that critics point out that correlation does not necessarily imply causation. The author was probably trying to avoid having that criticism leveled at her as well, so she focused the article instead on the hard facts and not too much on speculation. 
 I think I remember reading this as the "god of the gaps" perspective. The idea is that god bridges the gaps that science can't explain. They went on to provide the example that humans used to believe in fire and thunder gods before science could explain these phenomenon. Now, almost nobody believes in these gods.

Think it was godless geeks dot com. Unfortunately I'm bad at sources, but I'm pretty sure.

Also, thank you for your well thought out and articulated post. I appreciated the opportunity to treat my eyeballs Although I agree, I think more significantly it is security and stability that have actually led people to become less religious. If you look at poorer countries which are often characterized by instability, natural disasters, disease, etc. there is higher religiosity. Whereas the information argument doesn't account for all the highly educated jihadists of which there are many. Let's not forget that internet is full of religious nonsense; no doubt in equal measure to science based websites if not far more (as I suspect). Exactly. It depends what you go on the internet for. Obviously most people in /r/atheism are atheists. Let's be real, it's a circlejerk. 

Most religious people aren't going to type into google "is god real?", they're going to look up religious stuff. The people that are teetering will look at both sides, and decide either way. That's true, but let's not throw out the baby with the bath water here. Just because there's all kinds of depravity online doesn't diminish the fact that the internet distributes information better than anything else we know.

It's like how the printing press allowed both the bible and the newspaper to be printed, so does the internet allow for both logical debate as well as /r/spacedicks. 

It allows people to ask questions. Maybe even more important than that, or allows people to know they're not alone. That can be an incredible thing, to know that, even among all the fanatics, believers, bigots, and crazies out there, you are not alone. (Not that every religious person is all of those things, etc) Don't stress the "correlation isn't causation" argument. People tend to think that means "correlation can not be causation", which is false.  Another possibility is that atheists who were once hidden amongst religious people are now able to say how they really feel... On the Internet. Their (religious organization) anti-intellectualism is exhibit A. Good points all - but it's not just access to knowledge, but exposure to opposing viewpoints.  If you live in an echo chamber,  you never have to challenge your beliefs. In the comments' section: addlebrains arguing that atheism is itself a religion (among other wonderful and informative tidbits). Beware; ye who enter. No dogma, no faith, no rituals, no clergy, no hymns, no holy book, no fashion of garb, no required eating habits, no ancient creeds, no commandments, no brutal punishments prescribed for commandments, no supernatural creation stories, no eternal paradise, no moral code, no miracles, no instructions on how to live, no fantasies about what happens after we die, no infinite punishment for finite crimes.

The only people who claim that atheism is a religion are the willfully ignorant, or those who are trying to make their own beliefs seem more reasonable. The person who says "atheism is a religion" either cannot or will not allow their minds to register this paradigm shift towards a world in which religion is increasingly redundant and rejected by masses. "Wilfully ignorant" as you put it  an "Argument from Personal Incredulity".

An anthesis to one's religion  in some well-supported movement  has always been some *other form of religion* (Judaism vs. Christianity vs. Islam vs. Mormonism, etc). This is a paradigm shift in which the contender to a particular faith isn't actually a religion in any sense of the word  which is new and frightening to some.

There's also the Strawman Argument in which someone knows very well that atheism is not a religion, but continues misrepresenting it out of frustration. And lastly, "Wishful Thinking". It is much more comforting for some to shut their eyes and ears to the truth and pretend that atheism doesn't spell the end of religion. They would rather live a comforting delusion, which isn't exactly new territory. Thanks for the warning. I'll stay out. 
'One does not simply walk into the comment section of a religious article.' In a recent post on reddit, an article was linked describing how Christians aren't able to understand how atheism isn't a religion. They were raised with the mindset and worldview that a person HAS to have a religion or some institution that takes its place. They literally can't fathom not having that framework in their lives. The indoctrination is what does it. 


The article for those interested:

http://www.patheos.com/blogs/excommunications/2015/02/what-christians-mean-when-they-use-the-word-atheist/ Atheism is as much a religion as 'not green' is a color

Oh man, let's go eat some 'not lobster' for dinner at that 'not mexican' restaurant with my 'not spoon', then later we can wash it down with some 'not water' and go back to our 'not an apartment' and 'stay not awake' while we watch some 'not drama' on our 'not a radio' contraption. How 'not not fun'! "Atheism is a religion, like off is a TV channel" Like not collecting stamps is a hobby. Like bald is a hair color. Like abstinence is a sex position. Like the French military in WW2.

Just kidding ;). [There are literally dozen of us!](http://reddit.com/r/aphilatelism) Atheism is a religion, like FOX news is a news channel. Atheism is as much a religion as Fox new is a news channel. Some would say it is, but those people would be dumb.  That is the most beautiful explanation I have ever heard! I'm stealing this.  Im not getting out of the boat - that's a fetid swamp with nothing but rotten mangoes.  looking at only the word atheism, a-theism, clearly means no gods are involved. How can someone argue atheism is a religion.  My friend considers Atheism to basically be a science based religion. He says I have faith in science, and thus its a religion. I can't seem to make him understand that his faith in a God is so much different than my knowledge of science. This is why I don't like for symbols or logos to be associated with atheism.

The whole point of atheism is trying to get away from symbolism and metaphors. I mmmmostly agree. 

Although, I could sympathise with someone arguing its use in self-affirmation/determination or identifying a (r)evolutionary movement that challenges various societal norms. We've seen the success in the rainbow flag in the gay pride movement, for example. The problem comes when people put the "A" besides the crucifix or crescent moon and star of David however, because it's incomparable to these. The other problem, of course, is that atheism doesn't necessarily mean secularity or progressivism or any of the other stuff that gets melded in.

The most ironic example in my mind is the "Anarchy" movement having its own corporate identity with logos and mission statements and merchandise. &gt;Pew research shows that a third of Americans under 30 have no religious affiliation.

This is what hope looks like. From my perspective, what the hell are the rest doing. How far is their head up their ass, they don't use the internet or something? It's the simplest concept in the world. Lmfao I've always thought this. Thanks for that comment. They don't care simply put. They've long sense thrown there hands up in frustration and resigned themselves to be a cog in the machine incapable of changing things. There is a difference between "no religious affiliation" and "no belief in god."  For instance, it's nearly impossible for an open atheist to hold a position in congress and completely impossible for one to win a presidential election.  Given that knowledge, don't you think that a chunk of the 'religious affiliated' congresspeople might be closet atheists?  A lot of these kids might just feel pressure to affiliate themselves with a religion while not actually believing in it.  I don't believe for one second that 'true believers' in that age group approaches anything close to 66%.  *Organized* religion, eh? Wake me when the percentage of creationists drops into the single digits; that's when we'll know that people aren't simply leaving church to become solitary practitioners... Continued belief in what is demonstrably false is largely caused by surrounding yourself with other believers.  Your family, circle of friends, teachers, the pastor you see every week all corroborate it.

Not saying solitary practitioners don't exist, but it's much harder. These days it's kind of a trend to say "I don't believe in organized religion, I believe in Jesus!" They still believe in a lot of crap and care little for actual evidence, but they also don't like the growing stigma associated with "organized religion."

I throw them in the same category of people who say things like "but science and religion *can* coexist" because part of their brain knows there is too much contradictory information but they just *have* to cling on to the faith. I think those people are mostly the result of years of brainwashing. They get to the point that they have been told for pretty much all their life that if they do good, they'll go to heaven and that there's some big guy up there that loves you. Abandoning your religion means accepting the fact that there's probably nothing after death and that there's no god that loves you.

Not all bad, of course. It also means that there isn't some being that has the power to stop all the evil in the world and chooses not to. It means that you have the ability to make your own choices and that there's no predeterminism.

I once was one of those people. The headline of this article doesn't surprise me because it was heavy internet usage that played a driving role in losing my religion.

For the people that hold such views, it's my opinion that teaching critical thinking and forcing them to confront their illogical beliefs is the best approach. I rather wish I had known someone earlier in my life who would have challenged my views rather than just accepting them. It's pretty easy to keep telling yourself what you want to hear, especially if everyone else lets you. Personally I don't think that "unaffiliated" means atheist or agnostic. I know a lot of people who are basically non-churchgoing theists. They believe in a deity, a single one, and that deity has a lot of the same features of a Christian god. But the person doesn't identify with any particular denomination or church. That could definitely be a big part of the "unaffiliated" count in my estimation. The number of people I know who are settled, thoughtful non-believers is much smaller. Although this is probably true, this is how we'll start seeing the results we want see. For a lot of people the first step to realizing that there probably isn't a sky daddy watching down on us, is letting go of organized religion. Also, personally I don't really mind what religion people believe in just as long as these groups of people don't try to force their beliefs down my throat, and lack of organized religion will make sure of that. Regardless of who's an atheist/agnostic and who is a non-churchgoing theist, this rise of "unaffiliated" is definitely a good thing! atheism and secularism will not be spread by the sword - it will be spread by the internet The article states that only 3/4 of the atheists support same sex marriage? That's it? I'd really like to ask the remaining 1/4 of them *why* they're against it.

I honestly don't understand. Without 'because Jeebus said so', how can you justify being against it? Unaffiliated people might still believe in the bible. They just aren't a part of an organized religion. My close friend is an atheist who strongly opposes same sex marriage. He thinks that homosexuals shouldn't be allowed to marry each other, as they aren't as worthy for the society as man and woman couples because they can't have their own children. He thinks of marriage as a kind of gratification for being a traditional couple, and claims that not being able to have it may discourage some people from being in a homosexual couple. Of course he fails to notice that having children is not the only way one can contribute to the society, that sometimes even "traditional" couples don't have children because of infertility (or their will) and most of all, that being gay is not a choice and you can't force homosexuals to marry people of different gender. Keep in mind that I don't agree with this opinion, I just tried to help you understand one of the reasons for being against it.  &gt;  and claims that not being able to have it may discourage some people from being in a homosexual couple

... and this is supposed to be a good thing? Why would he not want them to be in a couple? Don't need god to hate he just provides a great excuse. Similar to what's said below, probably a semantics thing. I know some religious folks who oppose same sex marriage but are fine with same sex civil unions. Distinctions like this may not make a difference on your taxes, but they are real distinctions to be made.  And that's just the ones who admit it

Methinks the proportion of "closet atheists" is even higher

Many people believe that admitting they are atheist will lead to negative social consequences, so they claim to be religious just to "get by"

My father was an example. Most of his life he said "I'm a lutheran"

It was only in his last years that he finally admitted to being atheist Somewhere there's a punchline to a joke set in Northern Ireland asking if whether you're a protestant atheist or a catholic atheist. I'm a closet atheist hidden among the bowels of Southeast Texas. If I were to proclaim my lack of beliefs there would be a shit ton of consequences. My boss is extremely religious and extremely loud about it. My coworkers are also...just not as loud. I would lose my friends. I would lose the majority of my family. I would lose my boyfriend of two years. My job situation would be stressed if not done away with completely. So I keep my mouth shut. I don't associate with any religion, however. I simply don't attend any church. And that gets me enough flak as it is! No way I would tell anyone (other than two people) that I don't believe! I understand being a closet atheist due to backlash from coworkers, parents, grandparents... But spouse or girl/boyfriend? As an atheist, I couldn't imagine being in a relationship with someone who is religious, especially not so religious that me being atheist would be a problem for them. He would dump me. Literally. Us being "unequally yoked" and all. But he's not the loud kind of religious person so it's not shoved in my face all of the time from him...doesn't really make it any better tho I suppose. I'm an idiot.  See, I would have to dump him preemptively for being (I assume) a grown  up and believing in imaginary friends. Especially if he goes the full creationist universe is 6000 years old route.

Well that, and if have to break up with him because he's a dude, and that's not my bag, baby. &gt; I would lose my friends. I would lose the majority of my family. I would lose my boyfriend of two years.

If this is true then might I suggest you just get it over with now instead of drawing this out to this inevitable scenario later on in your life when it will be harder to make new friends and find an SO that shares in your beliefs about the world.  If you truly believe what you wrote then you are just delaying the inevitable.  Are you really going to subject yourself and your future children to years and years of church doctrine and lies just to save your relationship with your husband and family?  Are you ready to go through divorce and child custody hearings without any family or friends to support you when you finally put your foot down?  Just food for thought.  I have full custody of my kiddos from a previous marriage and I teach them to think for themselves and always question things...and I cannot have any more children so that's a highly unlikely scenario, thank goodness! Also, silly as this sounds my SO and I don't plan on marrying due to cultural differences rather than religious ones. So none of that will pan out. That sounded like I am heartless but I'm far from of it...just being realistic. I know I'll probably get more comments about being with someone who will never marry me and dragging things out when we could just terminate it now and walk away less scathed...but we have talked about it and this is the route we are both okay with taking. So it's mutual. I may regret it one day and I may not...we shall see further down the road. Back to the topic at hand however, yes I am okay with being with someone in the right now who does not share my lack of beliefs. He's not a Christian and I find other beliefs and mind sets strangely fascinating and interesting anyway. He doesn't influence my children...he's respectful of that. He is aware that I am not into Christianity...he just doesn't know the depths of it. And I am okay with him not knowing. For now anyway. ;-) Well you are in a unique scenario for sure and my advice doesn't appear to apply to it.  There is absolutely nothing wrong with "being with someone who will never marry" you and I should hope no atheist would ever give you flak for it.  The only reason I brought it up is because I assumed you were fairly young and setting yourself up for disaster but you seem to have a solid grasp on your situation which seems to be a rare thing for people in general.   Its not you. You are just surrounded by shitty people. Either that or you are paranoid. Move here and you will know I'm not paranoid ha! 99% of people that reside here are deeply religious.  So move out. Try and get a job some place else. See how the experience changes your perspective on things. Then think about the next step. Sounds like my dad too... On Canada's last census, I answered that I was catholic only because that was the religion I was born into. I wouldn't have done this if I had given it more thought.  I once read a post from a Danish dude

He said that he, and everybody he knew, called themselves "christian" on official forms

He also said that he was atheist, and everybody he knew was atheist

It appears that in Denmark, "christian" means something else entirely    This will only matter if these people who don't need "organized religion" VOTE.    I simply refused to be a part of "organized religion" decades ago and my life became quite uncomplicated and happier. Uncomplicated is right. I do not see the appeal of arbitrarily assigning rules to my life that supposedly come from a supernatural sky daddy who's existence happens to be unprovable. Ugh... This! It was so freeing to decide it just didn't matter if I used swear words (in somewhat societally permissible situations), or wore a skirt above my knee, or had premarital sex, or didn't attend church anymore. So freeing.  I suppose it's a step in the right direction. Wish the numbers were for atheists and not just anyone that doesn't identify with a specific religion.  i feel like it's less important for them to identify with the same labels as me as it is for them to abandon those specific mindsets which harbor hatred and discrimination. In effect they are. It's just that crackpots and liars have made the word toxic. Lots of people believe instinctively in some sort of higher power or purpose even if it's undefined.  We see what will happen and wish it wouldn't. But ...

... millions long for immortality who don't know what to do with themselves on a rainy Sunday afternoon.  
 Susan Ertz I sure do hope there's a reversal on that soon. Where people aren't shamed anymore for it. Either that, or you start seeing a word like 'non-theist' start being used. (And then the fundies will rush to try and vilify that new word.) its probably a bunch of cherrypicking christians too. Not in Texas. Seems to be getting worse here. Worse, or just louder?  I'm hoping-for your sake-that they're just getting louder. Closet atheist Texan here. Definitely louder. But I see that as progress. It tells me that change is happening.  Both, I guess? There seems to much more of a push to get kids indoctrinated right now than when I was growing up in the 80s. More churches than ever, and existing churches are adding on "classroom space" as more parents seem to be enrolling their kids in bible study. 

Lots of my peers from high school (95-99), who were mildly religious back then have seemingly doubled down on it. 
I've become withdrawn from that crowd and almost all of my old friends, since I'm not religious. Pretty much a hermit now, sucks. I have one other friend that's a firm atheist. A handful of others that I'd call "chill Christians". Super cool folks, just rare (down here).

Back in HS I don't recall evolution or even basic biology being controversial. Kids who were super religious were the odd ones.
Now I hear my coworkers talking about their respective churches having "how to talk to your kids about evolution" seminars and crap like that.
In MS and HS we had sex education taught to us in health class, which was mandated then. Now, I think health class has been dropped completely.  

Also, I know from talking to my old man about his friends (he's a closeted heathen), many of his old buddies have become ultra religious and paranoid. He considers himself conservative but even he calls these guys crazy for the batty/racist shit they believe and talk about. 

It's surreal. And depressing. About a decade ago when I was fully shedding my superstitions I wasn't so sure what was changing. Was it me or the world around me?
I thought that maybe it had always been that way and perhaps I wasn't paying attention back then. But no, the fervor is increasing. And my dad opening up to me about his own concerns confirmed it a few years ago. 

One good thing about this insanity is that it's brought my parents and I together. They now see religion for what it is. My mom was Catholic but dropped it. She still believes in something but it's a hippy version of faith that's all love. So we're cool. 
It's become something we can all talk about and vent over. Because down here we're inundated with it daily.  You poor bastard:  Rest assured that in the rest of the country (non-red, anyway), I think it's on the wane--as people become more and more *able* to say that they aren't buying into it without facing repercussions.

That said, even where I am (rural, blue) there are still more churches than bars (Hey, fun fact: The town I am in has an ordinance limiting the proximity of a place that sells alcohol to a church...and there are a shit-ton of churches :(


 Wow, makes me glad I live in hippe comifornia. The interesting thing is 27 years ago when I broke away from religion, things weren't that bad in Texas.  At the time I was scared shitless from a personal discovery perspective, but looking back on it, better it happened back then vs. the overly vocal morons today; although the availability of resources is 1000% better now. That's because they're scared.  Its not getting worse,  but the worst of them are getting louder and more desperate. Of course it's going to get worse before it gets better, but eventually it will get better. I really do believe it. good Of course, every year that there's an increase in those turning away from religion, it will technically be "in record numbers," so don't get too excited. I hope so. I am so sick of pretending like people don't sound insane. [PEW numbers](http://www.pewresearch.org/files/2013/10/FT_5-facts-atheists.png)  So people give up irrational beliefs when given access to the largest repository of knowledge in human history. Who'd have thought? They may be walking away from organized religions, but people are certainly adopting their ideologies as religions. Well with assholes like David Brooks urging them on it's no surprise. A SJW doesn't have time for a religion when they have their own social agenda that is much superior to everyone else's ideas on society! This isn't dangerous at all! Unfortunately a large portion of these people are turning away from Jesus but turning toward Deepak Chopra &lt;chuckle/&gt;.   Sadly, I think you're right.  Plenty of "atheists" love that sh!t too.  Humans are really good at being rational on one topic, and totally loony on another.

 This makes me so very happy. And the sad result of this is fringe groups grow more and more desperate. The far christian right is getting as riled up as they were since their segregation roots. COMIC SAAAAAAAAAANNNNNNNNNSSSSSS!!!!! If we can only get them to turn away from idealizing the government/politicians. We should start by holding the media accountable. Religion, Government and the Media, the big three in truth prevention. I think it's safer to say that more people are willing to openly admit their true beliefs as opposed to just going along with the people in power or fearing backlash or blacklisting for admitting their true feelings. I have a family member that just "joined the dark side" as my aunt likes to call it.  She renounced her religious views.  When I asked her about it she said that for her the tipping point was how many bad people she knew in her church and other churches she had attended over the years.  And that if there really was a god, that she just couldn't believe that he would let people like this not only get away with their wrong doings, but let them prosper as a number had.   "Harvard professor Robert Putnam, who studies religion, thinks the trend among younger people is part of their general lack of interest in community institutions and institutions in general."

Well this just annoys me to no end. 

Just because I support different institutions (like Reddit) and work with groups that the religious don't recognize, doesn't mean I don't want community. 

I just don't like the judgmental a$$hats at my local parish.  I'll stick with my judgmental peers here thank you!    Wow, finally a good-news article. Hopefully this indicates at least a step in a new and positive direction for the country. I've been atheist for a long time but didn't talk about it because of the stigma of anti-theism in this country.  I now speak freely of my stance and volunteer this information whenever I'm confronted with a religious viewpoint.

I'd be curious to know how many people who have felt the same are finally starting to come forward to reveal their absence of belief, and if those folks are getting recognized more.  
 [deleted] Most useful takeaway:

&gt; But when talking to voters, the GOP really can't afford to tone it down, because while monied elites tend to be secular, selling free-market pillage to the people getting robbed is not a very effective strategy. As long as they aren't turning to crazier cults. Cults are just less popular religions.  No other difference. You know of crazier cults than organized religion? Good, now let's get the ignorant primitives out of our government, and maybe we can seem like a first world nation again. This is, hopefully, the early stages of the beginning of the end of religion as an arbiter of mainstream thought. Maybe even, eventually, the end of religion. "fatcats....plundering is their holy scripture."

yep Maybe rationality will save humanity?  Doesn't look like it will in time. Ok, here's my 2 cent's worth.
It all boils down to will to power, Nietzsche.
I can say that I want to kill George the Animal in hand to hand combat, but if I try that, he'll most likely squish me like a worm. In the reverse, if George the Animal wanted to make me his bitch in jail, he could. Simple as that.
To counteract that, humans associate in groups, so now we have the power of a group counter the power of the individual. 
However, there's a snag. Now, if individual X, part of the group A, has been wronged by individual Y, not part of group A, then it is easy for X to coop the effort of the group to destroy individual Y.

But what do you do when Indiv. X wills to power over Indiv. Y, both part of the same group?
Thus, it seems you need a hierarchy of some kind and a set of internal laws to settle any such issues. 
Now we see how, for example, if person X is at the top of the hierarchy, the group will be quick to react, while if a person is at the bottom of the hierarchy, the group may not react at all.

Even more, if we consider the group as being the entire human race, then we are all insiders, and a hierarchy is necessary. 

Enter GOD. The hierarchy is not necessarily a blood-thirsty tyrant, so instead of acting with violence against members who break the law, uses soft force into keeping the members in line by offering them a potential reward outside of the group. 

Without universal buy-in into the scheme, the group itself cannot survive. Thus, any member who opposes the idea becomes a threat to the group and likely to be eliminated. What gets me is religious people are trying to fight back against all this non-belief, almost as if it's a war, for religion... well, that's actually nothing new now is it? Religions can't survive the information age. 

How can they ?

They have been obsolete for a few centuries already but not everyone got the memo.  Unless there is a genetic predisposition for having faith or something like that. Then religion could hold on for a very long time, in the genepool of the severely religious.

You assume that exposure to information will eventually free people of their faith, but that hasn't been demonstrated. There's more at play than simply access to information, although that might be a significant factor. I know we are masters at compartmentalization.

One could argue that humans have been bred to have faith.  One could do better arguing that faith was evolutionarily advantageous in the past, because that avoids the idea of there being a breeder. Sure, natural selection.

Must be why we suck so much at democracy. 

 Why? More education and reason. It's the only vaccine for a mind virus. Correlation does not causation prove. Plenty of the most highly educated are still religious to some extent, so there has to be something else. I was really hoping I found this in /r/news.

*sigh* It's nice to know that as time goes on humanity continues to get more and more intelligent. [celebrate the good times /r/atheism/](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3GwjfUFyY6M) I have an honest question:

1. What happens to voting when the scales fully tilt towards voting non-believers, and the old regimen of religious voters dies off? Right now it's easy to point towards the religious and right wing and/or conservative thinking. That skews our politicians towards anti gay rights, science denying, possibly anti pot, etc.. which in as far as we can tell, those things that the politicans stand for, have been overturned, rebuked or otherwise dismissed. 

Do we end up with a smarter society for X amount of time before the scales shift again? Or do we end up being overall "more smart/learned" and never go back to those old ways?

Follow up: Then what might be a large platform for politicans to run on? The lines were pretty cut and dry for my adult life, but those lines blur often today. Is it going to be "I'm the most in favor of science and truth" vs. "he's only 99% into science and truth" and trying to mudsling by stating things like "he used to go to church.. boo him!"?

I just wonder what the outcome is in the political world (South Park.. huh?) &gt; I just wonder what the outcome is in the political world

Well it's a pretty difficult hypothetical you've presented, there are so many variables that it's pretty impossible to predict what the political landscape would be. But I will say, if politicians are generally more in favour of evidence and logic based policy, and are held more accountable by a voter base that is on average more rational, that can only be a good thing.  Nope. Then conservatives just have to admit that they are selfish and don't give a shit about anyone other than themselves. That's fine if you feel that way, it just annoys me when you wrap it in Jeebus.  In my lifetime I got to see the beginning of the Internet and the beginning of the end for religion. That's pretty amazing when you stop and think about it.  Next step is for religion to become so marginalized that the name to changes to 'magical thinkers society' and governments stop rewarding them with tax breaks.

Why is it considered rational and good to single out groups who espouse magical thinking for special treatment and monetary reward? Why did that become a thing? That stupidity can't be over soon enough. Thank God GOOD! God bless the Internet. [deleted] [deleted] The guy is a psycho. I wasted far too long debating with him over what amounted to nothing. He couldn't get over the fact that "I'm floating through life, making up my own moral guide", to him that meant at any time my moral compass could change and I would rape or murder. The guy has some serious issues. /u/459pm
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; I'm gonna laugh when in 150 years religion is almost gone and so will rape and murder.

Uh...right. Religion is the sole reason rape and murder happen, and once one fades away so will the other two.  

Are you high?

 Last response to you. One final question. I just want you to answer it.

Do you believe that if you had never been introduced to religion, that you would have raped and murdered people by this point in your life? I prefer unorganized religion. I hang lucifer ornaments on my menorah while i pray to Lord Xenu facing Mecca. "we shouldn't tax churches, that would give them influence on politics" I **fully** agree that they already have too much influence.  But taxing them would legitimize that influence.  Rather than that, I'd prefer to enforce the prohibition on their participation in government.  If we tax them, there will be no legitimate recourse to restricting their influence. There is absolutely no reason: none, zilch, zero, not fucking at all - why you shouldn't do both. Tax them, and enforce the separation of church and state.

If they want to do charitable works with their money, they can get tax breaks on that.  Yeah it's funny how we forget corporations aren't supposed to control our government I wonder why Goldman Sachs hasn't tried to become a religious institution yet. Currently churches are exempt from applying to the IRS for tax exempt status, but even if we continue to not tax them I think they should at least have to be put into 501(c)(3) status or something of the like. That way religious folks don't get butt hurt from having to be taxed and then if they were under 501(c)(3) they could be regulated better. They already receive tax exemption under 501(c)(3)--*that's the problem.* If they want tax exemption for their non-religious, charitable activities, they should create a sibling 501(c)(3) organization. They have a weird exempt 501(c)(3) status where they don't have to file any taxes.  Normal 501(c)(3) exempt organizations have to file taxes just like everyone else but don't pay taxes. Yes that's what I meant, thank you for the additional info. As a mormon, I can categorically say, the Mormon church does fuck all charity work and has virtually no community presence outwith Utah.

The don the tabards once a year as a photo op.

 I don't think the Mormon church is unique in these respects. He didn't say they were unique. They shouldn't get a pass because 'other people do it'. My friend was Mormon and talked about going on mission. He talked about it like it was a rite of passage that many Mormons do. Is this something that's not common across the board? Ex-Mormon here; Going on a mission is more or less expected of all young men in the church at age 19, but the focus is increasing membership. They spend time in charitable works, sure, but it's all about the ulterior motive of conversion. Also nowadays missionaries have to fund quite a bit of the whole thing out of pocket. Missions are overtly about gaining new members, but most missionaries convert ~0 people. IMO, missions are primarily about solidifying the missionary into the church doctrine.  Also, the age at which young men become eligible for a mission was recently lowered to 18. Better not let them have a year in college (or life) or they might realize going on a mission is going to suck. 

I have also heard, though I don't have a source handy, that the lower age has led to a fairly sizable increase in the number of early returned missionaries suffering from anxiety, depression, faith crises, and more.  Wow, a f bomb dropping, reddit browsing Mormon. If you are pro choice my brain will explode. check out /r/LDS and /r/exmormon - lots of mormies on reddit my friend :) Exes technically aren't... They're all just a racket anyway. Tax 'em. I think any group that violates its 501 (c3) status should be taxed.  Any organization that politically advocates on either candidates or issues should be taxed.
 I couldn't agree more. &gt;But taxing them would legitimize that influence.

How so?  Oh, you mean the separation of church and state?

It don't work, does it? You're missing the point. Religious influence on politics is already 99.9% legitimate. Stopping churches from lobbying directly in their own name only stops one small thing out thousands legal ones they can and actively do.

Example: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Focus_on_the_Family I'm very much not missing the point.  I'm well aware of this and many other issues.  (Have you looked into the "Quiver-full" movement?  THAT'S a scary one.  They make Focus on the Family look like liberals.)

My point is twofold.  From a practical point, I think we're much more likely to be successful in lobbying to have laws that are already on the books to be enforced rather than lobbying to changed the laws to exclude churches from this type of tax exemption.  Secondly, I think that the enforcement of current law is on much more solid philosophical ground than the changing of the laws. Your point is that America would be better served by weak, small, ineffectual incremental changes to "existing laws" than by actual reform. This same talking point is thrown up any time anyone proposes an actual solution to a political problem. By all means, lets continue to move at a snail's pace. Plenty of actual reform gets done via your method, right? &gt; Your point is that America would be better served by weak, small, ineffectual incremental changes to "existing laws" than by actual reform.

I don't even want to change existing laws!  We don't have to change the laws.  They already preclude churches from advocating a political party or candidate if they wish to keep their tax exempt status.  We have to change the fact that the laws are not enforced. i dp wonder if this would be possible without infiltration of churches to spot the hidden or from the pulpit political speech.  

and in my opinon a church without political interference would be hard to imagine

so id rather find a clearer set of rules than even no establishment of religion

as in churches have proven themselves to be weasel corporations just like any other so pay up just dont call yourself the official church of our country So private companies shouldn't get taxed, because it legitimizes their influence? The way you make it sound is that you want to prohibit participation in government due to having religions beliefs.  Which I doubt you mean but it's not entirely clear.   Ok, sorry about that.  I would like to prohibit *churches* from participating in government.  *People* who happen to believe their imaginary friend actually exists have every right to participate in government.  I may well disagree with what they think and how they vote etc., but I'd never inhibit their rights to think it.

But as tax exempt organizations, churches can and should have their tax exempt status removed if they advocate a particular political party.  It's not only right, it's the law.  The problem is that the law is often unenforced. Just for historical reference, tax exempt organizations could endorse candidates up to 1954 when Lyndon Johnson pushed the law through congress because he didn't like Texas preachers talking shit about him.  

Obviously *you* don't think tax exempt organizations shouldn't get to endorse candidates because you think powerful Senators ought to be able to silence critics.  So what principle informs your position?   Well, I don't think people should be able to both skirt the law and influence the law. And I don't think organizations should be able to either, religious or not.

You can't take a free-ride on a bus while demanding that the wheel be handed over to you. You are riding free, you have no right to demand greater control. If you want greater control, act like the rest of our somewhat-civilized society and pay your fucking taxes. "We can't have a Catholic president, he would think the pope is infallible" The Supreme Court ruled against Taxpayer standing a long time ago so no it wouldn't. Who needs that when they can simply threaten to take away some spooky, magical, eternal paradise? Wasn't this the Christians problem with Kennedy? They were worried he'd be taking orders from the Vatican. It is well understood that American Catholics ignore the Vatican half the time.  Cafeteria religion. Being raised as one, I'm well aware. Well understood when and by whom? As far as I know, it was enough of a concern to prompt some "separation of church and state" statement from Kennedy. Of course, [this](http://www.chick.com/reading/tracts/0071/0071_01.asp) is the work of a crazy person, but still. My favorite:

http://i.imgur.com/BAeLW.gif Why is the antlers-guy wearing an original series Star Trek uniform? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_Moose In the northeast US, it's more like 90% of the time. My whole family is catholic and I know maybe one person who take the Vatican seriously. And that was only because Pope Francis decreed all dogs go to heaven after all. But Kennedy never went on a rant like [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZLX-xmNs4g) while he was running for president. only got through 30 seconds.....what an asshole Yup, exactly. The distinction between Mormons and Catholics is that Catholics *aren't* remote-controlled by the head of their Church. Mormons... well, it seems like many of them are. Yes, this fear was the primary driver of his strong stance of separation between church and state. If not for that, protestants wouldn't have elected a papist. First of all, I'm an exmormon. I also live in Utah.

I want everyone to notice how the article never actually says excommunication. There is no evidence that the claim OP made is true. As an exmormon living in Utah I feel like we all have maybe some hunches, but nonetheless there is no proof. It is dishonest to claim otherwise.

Also, Carl Wimmer, the author of this blog, is a former Mormon and a former legislator. He converted to some form of evangelical Christianity (not sure which, I wish I knew more), and is known for having a pretty hefty axe to grind with the Mormon church. His arguments generally are based on the idea that his insane religion is better than the predominant insane religion. He is a zealot, both religiously and politically (right wing style). He also has an axe to grind with the Utah Legislature. More importantly, he dislikes how Mormonism affects the Utah Legislature, but in ways that don't make sense (like, for example, the fact that Mormonism doesn't want to support abortion bills is a bad thing to him).

My point in talking about this is that we need to consider the source of this information. PPIs are real, but they rarely lead to excommunications. Excommunications are real, but Utah legislators are rarely, if ever, excommunicated by voting against church policies. So, at some level, there are inconsistencies in his story.

Mormonism is bad, and the Utah Legislature can be absurd at times. It is also heavily Mormon. Nonetheless, it doesn't do us well to be making up stuff just to make them look even worse than they normally would look. When it comes down to it I find it significantly more likely that it is because legislators are Mormon that Mormon leaders have a seat at the table. Not, as the OP claims, that they are being threatened with excommunication.

Edit: some poor grammar Great reply. I too am an exmormon in Utah. And i trust evangelicals less than I trust my neighbors...haha Evangelicals are the literalist Bible versions of Mormons--just a more elementary strand of the same untruth. I can't imagine all those legislators all wearing those stupid 'magic underwear'. I agree that ex-ing is highly unlikely. But if a legislator was a bishop, and it was known that the GAs were unhappy with him and he got released... that would send a very clear message to enough voters for him to lose his seat.  It would also send a message if one night Mormon missionaries showed up at his house, hacked his head off, and wrote "CONFORM" on the walls in his blood.

I mean...  as long as we get to just wildly make up shit that hasn't actually happened, let's go wild.  Let's get crazy with it.

 If you think that kind of subtle control is wildly making shit up, I recommend the Feminist Mormon Housewives podcast. It gives the background to the "say one thing in public, another in private" Mormon culture. There are plenty of examples of how pressure to conform works, including examples of where the Q15 gently lets it be known where their views lie, and suddenly the legislature all switches its votes. I wasn't expecting this thread, so I apologise for not providing specific links and times.  This article does not mention excommunication. Where are you getting that from?  Exactly! I feel like we are some of the only people who noticed that. For those interested in learning about just how deceitful and fraudulent the Mormon church is, read [The CES Letter.](http://cesletter.com/Letter-to-a-CES-Director.pdf) It was written by a life-long Mormon, /u/kolobot ,who later became disillusioned with the church after compiling that list of concerns about the church, church history and church finances. Also, [r/exmormon](http://www.reddit.com/r/exmormon/) is awesome. I also recommend Jon Krakauer's [Under the Banner of Heaven](http://www.amazon.com/Under-Banner-Heaven-Story-Violent/dp/1400032806).

It's primarily about a double murder committed by a Mormon splinter 
 cult, the Fundamentalist Latter Day Saints, in 1984. However, it also goes into detail of some of the really shitty things in the history of the Mormons.

It was a fascinating, frightening read. I fucking love Jack Krakauer! I have lent Under the Banner to so many people. 

Also, I grew up in Utah and can confirm the Mormon stranglehold on the state and its politics. If you really want to read something that will make your blood curdle, [Prophets Prey](http://www.amazon.com/Prophets-Prey-Seven-Year-Investigation-Fundamentalist/dp/1608193241), covers a PI's investigation of Warren Jeffs and the FLDS church in southern Utah, and is edited by Jon Krakauer. 

It just got made into a documentary that had a good reception at Sundance. Book is brutal, and incredibly entertaining. Okay, say absolutely anything you want about the Mormon church, but LDS =/= FLDS Neo-Nazi organizations =/= Hitler's Nazi Party, but they are spiritual successors. It's important to note that the FLDS split from the "normal"  LDS in order to *continue* practices that had until then been defining aspects of the Mormon faith/lifestyle. The FLDS is actually how Joseph Smith would be running the LDS "church" if he were alive today.  This is true, but they do originate from the same place. The aforementioned Krakauer book sets out to trace the violence and ickiness in the FLDS directly back to Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and early Utah culture. Definitely shows the links now hidden in history. My friend sent me this book in the mail and I received it today. There are 2 documentaries on Netflix right now about this cult. Rex Mormon (using the "r" from the subreddit indicator) sounds like an action star. R/ex Mormon: The slash means he's eXtreme.  LOL I saw the map on page seven and thought it was legitimately a map centered on PA at first. People fell for that? It's sort of hilarious how all the things this guy is outraged over are instances where the church is insufficiently conservative for him. He's mad that they interfere with the private liquor industry, that they won't focus on abortion issues, and that they're too nice to illegal immigrants and gays.

Interesting that the church may actually be acting as a moderating influence these days, by virtue of being a little bit less insane than the average Republican elected official. As a resident of Utah, and an atheist, I've always found the state to be much more republican than Mormon.

Mind it's kind of hard to tell the difference given how well aligned their goals are, however on issues where the church doesn't have a stance like climate change and net neutrality, most Utah residents fall along republican party lines.

I'm not sure which party I'd call dominant , eg: do the Mormons influence republican policy, or do the republicans influence the church policy, since it seems to go both ways. However if there is a schism between the church and republican dogma I'm sure any vote in utah will fall along republican lines. Since the last Republican presidential candidate was Mormon, it reinforced Mormon-Republican relationship I don't want to be forced to decide which group of entitled assholes is in charge.  On the climate change one, I've known several Mormons that have the stance of, "Well the second coming is close, so why does it matter anyways?" Not super related but this pissed me off this morning; I live next to a Mormon church in LA and they water their ridiculously large lawn multiple times a week, all night long. The amount of water they're wasting during this drought is criminal. In Utah, the only places that do that without repercussion are town/city halls and Mormon churches. Anyone else watering the pavement, or at the hottest hours, subject to warnings/fines. I live in Utah and have never heard of this happening FWIW  I also live in Utah and it happens all the time where I live.  I Utah and it lives sometimes where I am Maybe immaculately manicured lawns is a religious belief

Wouldn't want the city to get sued for discrimination would you? Is it just a church? Or is it the big temple on Santa Monica?  They water plenty of oversized lawns at churches all over the city, but the temple really takes the cake in terms water wastage.  I think the really surprising thing is that in each case the author describes, the LDS church applied pressure in order to make sure that MODERATE legislation (i.e., anti-discrimination, immigration rights) passed or REACTIONARY legislation (i.e., further restrictions on abortion) didn't. 

That runs counter to the usual narrative about politics in Utah--that the state's extreme conservatism is driven by church positions. Yeah. I found it disturbing that when Wimmer tried to enact strict abortion laws, he was unhappy with Mormonism because they wouldn't support it.

I'm not saying I like the Mormon church by any means, but I am completely in favor of them not weighing in on abortion issues. I like to think that even the church leadership is a little creeped out at how their teachings have been dragged into the territory of political extremism.
 This website does not look like a reputable source. FFRF's FAQ on [churches and lobbying activities](http://ffrf.org/outreach/item/14005-churches-and-political-lobbying-activities).

I wonder if Mr. Wimmer has told the IRS about his experiences with this 501(c)(3) tax-exempt church's aggressive lobbying campaigns? It's notoriously [difficult to follow Mormon money](http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2012/01/30/what-is-it-about-mormons/there-is-a-dark-side-to-mormonism), so maybe the IRS should be following the church's meetings with legislators instead. Neat article, I appreciate the inside look into a state's politics, especially a state influenced by religion.

I have to quibble about this quote, though:

"They regularly meet with legislators behind closed doors, (as do other lobbyists, this is nothing nefarious or unusual,) to push the agenda of their employer." (end of quote)

It might not be unusual, but it damn sure is nefarious.  
 No it isn't. If you go meet with your legislator, do you want everything you say on public record?

Talking with people in private isn't wrong. It's not so much the act of talking in private that is nefarious... Threatening people behind closed doors that if they do not vote exactly how their church tells them to that they will be excommunicated and likely alienated from their friends and family as a result is pretty fucking nefarious if you ask me. But that isn't what the quote is saying at all. Oh yes, that's nefarious. But meeting with lobbyists "behind closed doors" is absolutely not nefarious. If it's something that effects the general public (and not classified for some reason), it should be public record.  If it affects citizens, damn sure it should be on public record. LOL! So every conversation John Boehner has with anyone ever should be put on public record? My god, you people just don't live in the real world. Do you even read? If the outcome of it would affect citizens, then damn sure it should be on public record.  Although I've lived behind the Zion Curtain (Utah) most of my life and been non-mormon, mormon, and non -mormon again, I've never seen or heard evidence of this. However, peer pressure among those in the Church is extreme,  even though it's usually only seen/heard behind closed doors. I like the term "Zion Curtain" I live here too... and people legit think i'm a devil worshipper for not going to church -_- And yet the public at large doesn't care, because it's Utah. 

 That's because the majority of the public in Utah is Mormon. I might be wrong, but I always thought the majority of the VOTING population was about 60%, but it's about a 50/50 split of actual population.  The LDS are very, very big on voting and politics.  The rest of the population could possibly swing politics their way if they had a person or movement to get behind. The church doesn't openly tell members how to vote, the bishops just openly state that they'll be praying for Brother-so-and-such during election season.  Everyone is free to choose, but there's a lot of winking and nudging going on. Also, look at who votes. Old people. I guarantee you the population in Utah over 50 who are LDS is dramatically different than other demographics. 
The other important statistic here is rural vs. urban. A majority of Utah's population lives in and around Salt Lake City and the valley. In SLC, the LDS population is only about 20-30 percent, whereas rural areas will be in excess of 70 percent pretty consistently. These rural areas all have their own representatives, and combined have a reasonable amount of political sway. Mormons probably won't vote for non-mormons (even democratic candidates are Mormon, usually). The church has an unreasonable hold on the states laws and legislation. Not a bad place to live though.

All those numbers I stated are probably close to being right, I didn't bother sourcing them. But, I am a lifelong Utah resident who has lived in rural and urban areas, and I have read articles that state something similar.  About 4 years ago, there was a redistricting of the valley. It's one of the most blatant recent examples of gerrymandering that I know of.

http://www.sltrib.com/sltrib/sports/52646273-90/areas-committee-county-district.html.csp

Salt Lake City, the only Democratic foothold here in Utah, is split amongst the rest of the state to ensure a solid red vote. 

http://bloximages.newyork1.vip.townnews.com/cachevalleydaily.com/content/tncms/assets/v3/editorial/0/8a/08a835a6-b8e9-11e3-b7cc-001a4bcf6878/5339899a2688b.image.jpg


 Actual population is about 60% mormon [or 58%, according to wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_Utah).

Utah is [districted](http://www.google.com/url?sa=i&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=images&amp;cd=&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CAcQjRw&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.quazoo.com%2Fq%2FCongressional%2520districts%2520of%2520Utah&amp;ei=oMUMVYn8MIGigwSoj4ToCw&amp;psig=AFQjCNGPqe0vBhI1FGZEuIA6XF-V3n2RkQ&amp;ust=1426986778860540) in such a way as to ensure conservative congressmen. While Salt Lake City is extremely liberal (home to nearly all the non-mormons in the state), the districts meet in the middle of the Salt Lake area, splitting up the Democratic vote and ensuring unquestionable Republican domination.  Typically I don't comment on the /r/atheism links I run across while browsing all. It rarely leads to actual discussion and typically only results in negative karma (muh precious Karmaz).

Honestly I've never heard of that. I've had around a dozen bishops in my life and have never heard a bishop say who they'd be praying for or secretly (openly?) endorsing. 

The only thing I've ever heard over the pulpit regarding election is what comes from the first presidency which is basically the same every year.

&gt; As citizens we have the privilege and duty of electing office holders and influencing public policy. Participation in the political process affects our communities and nation today and in the future.

&gt; **Latter-day Saints as citizens are to seek out and then uphold leaders who will act with integrity and are wise, good, and honest. Principles compatible with the gospel may be found in various political parties**.

&gt; **Therefore, in this election year, we urge you to register to vote, to study the issues and candidates carefully and prayerfully, and then to vote for and actively support those you believe will most nearly carry out your ideas of good government.**

&gt; The Church affirms its neutrality regarding political parties, platforms, and candidates. The Church also affirms its constitutional right of expression on political and social issues.

http://www.mormonnewsroom.org/article/first-presidency-issues-letter-on-political-participation *emphasis mine*

Maybe I'm in the minority but I've been in meetings all over Utah at various election times and haven't ever heard a "vote for Brother so-and-so" message. Chatting with a few coworkers today (by no means an actual study) I hear the same things. Just a reminder from the leaders of the church to do our duty and vote.  Then again I'm only in my 20's so maybe this was a thing in the past. I was saying that the majority of the U.S. public doesn't care.  Ah, misunderstood that one, I did. I thought you meant the majority of the public in the state.

The Mormons are on par with Scientologists in the public eye, so the only time anyone really cares is when they do something totally outrageous in public, like the FLDS bullshit in Texas, or the Romney compound in Mexico.

Edited for examples. Not really. Active Mormons only account for about 25% of the population in SLC and the surrounding counties, and around 35-40% of the population in the entire state. SLC is surprisingly liberal. This will probably come off wayyy wrong but Utah is by far my favorite state to visit,  so whatever they are doing there I say keep doing it.  Everything appeared so clean,  organized,  and pleasant.  The people are terrific and happy,  or at least it seems that way.  Hell,  I'd become a mormon just for the unity and community.  If the majority of the population is mormon and they are happy with things,  I say more power to them.  This is just one outsider looking in, but I can only hope of living there one day.

Edit: forgot to mention I don't practice any religion... Just loved my visits to a state that happens to have a lot of mormons.  Although the alcohol restrictions weren't much fun,  just had to drink more!  I'm not sure where you visited but as someone who lives in Utah, the main attractions are often in the least mormon populous areas. In Salt Lake City (not including suburbs) and Park City mormons are actually quite outnumbered. They dominate the suburbs and other outlying areas though. If you did ever move to utah I would highly suggest avoiding living in those areas as mormons aren't exactly pleasant when there are that many and they've spent their whole lives in that kind of environment. Non members are basically a scary foreign concept for them. The larger cities aren't so bad though.  
  
Edit: as a side note, if you actually found somewhere to drink you weren't truly in mormon country yet. I live in a suburb of over 100,000 people and there is only one bar in the entire area and I don't know anyone else who would be willing to go who lives within a 45 minute drive of me so I'm not sure they get much business.  We've been through a lot of it,  from St George down south to SLC and then drove all over before going to Wyoming.  We had drinks at a number of restaurants.  Im sure we were mainly in more tourist areas, but that drive from SLC to Yellowstone was incredible.  Then stop over idaho at Grand Teton Brewing co.  They were kind enough to hide our high alcohol content beer in popcorn bags to travel back into Utah.  They said the utah cops would give us a hassle if they found it.    Sounds like you had a good time. Utah can definitely be a good place to visit and the mormons are very nice to visitors but in areas like where I live it can get pretty bad.  
I once saw someone on here put it really well (at least for the type here who are around nothing but other mormons all the time, lots of them in utah), for mormons there are 3 types of people, 1: other mormons, 2. potential mormons, and 3. undesirables (exmormons, rebels, criminals, etc.). And once they realize you aren't a potential mormon they will treat you like a third class citizen.  
  
I would say that if you want to live here, under no circumstances live in Utah county, or the south or west portions of the salt lake valley (west jordan, south jordan, riverton, herriman, draper, bluffdale, etc.).  I lived there for 4 years and loved it for all the reasons you said.  My husband is a long-haired Chinese agnostic and we were very welcome, and he didn't have a hard time finding a job or anything.  I have heard that it strongly depends on where you are in Utah, but we would (and probably will) happily move back at some point. The fuck of it is, they get TWO U.S. Senate votes on everything.  

Why does not the FBI infiltrate them like they did the mob?

Oh right, this (USA) is in fact a theocracy.  Silly me. Not just that, but Senator Orin Hatch (R-Utah) is *Third in line* for President should things happen.

Let that sink in for a moment. Sorry I thought the speaker of the house was 3rd in line. I'm a Brit so I don't really know, could you explain why this Utah guy is in line?  The order of succession doesn't include the President, so the Speaker of the House is second in line. Orrin Hatch is next as Senate *pro tem*. (In theory, the Senate *pro tem* is followed by each Cabinet officer in the order their department was created, but if we get to that point we're probably pretty fucked anyway.) Speaker of the house is second in line (after vice president), Hatch is president of the Senate making him third in line.   Ah thank you. I thought it meant in line of power so had Obama at 1  Right, a total theocracy.  That's why it's illegal to practice any religion other than the official one, right? &gt; Why does not the FBI infiltrate them like they did the mob?

Because the FBI was primarily Mormon before they got sued for discrimination (IIRC it was in the late 80s). Not even joking on that one.

Operation Snow White has nothing on the FBI's ties to the Mormon church. I have been to that country. The Theocratic Republic of Utah. Traveling to Moab this weekend from Colorado. I can't wait to get pulled over for having Colorado plates! Seriously... don't bring any weed with you.  My brother in law got pulled over on Monday.  The cops circled his car with a K-9 before they even spoke to him.  He was pulled over for having a burnt out headlight.  

They are all over I-15.  Don't bring any of the "The devil's lettuce" into Utah. You don't need to bring it with you. There's plenty to buy in Moab. I live there, I can attest that it is indeed a theocracy  you know, I have a crazy brother who lives with my mom.  The mormons come over, talk to my brother, give him company, and do yard work for my mom.  I'm not mormom, nor do I condone whats being done in Utah... but they do show acts of kindness sometimes and aren't 100% trolls. Good thing Romney didn't become FUCKING PRESIDENT. And Mit Romney was almost the president...... And Harry Reid is the Senate Democratic Leader.  Harry Reid from Nevada is about as Mormon as the mustang ranch. Right, Mormons only get criticized if they are Republican. The slant of the article was amusing.  The church wasn't supporting a conservative agenda, and the author was disillusioned.  Had the LDS gone hard anti-gay/anti-immigrant/anti-abortion, there wouldn't have been an article. So I read the entire linked article, and the title's claim (that legislators are threatened with excommunication) is not present anywhere in the article.  To be clear, I find the actions of the LDS church w/r/t lobbying for legislation in this article reprehensible - but the one claim of the title is not true. Democracy /s The significance of the PPI is being missed here:

A PPI is a personal priesthood interview where a priesthood leader conducts an interview to assess the worthiness of a priesthood holder (any mormon man). If found "unworthy" he can be disfellowshipped or excommunicated. 

One of the questions during an interview is "are you keeping your temple covenants" where a person consecrates his time, resources and even his life to the church. 

If found "unworthy" the person can be excommunicated for apostasy, to a mormon this means you lose the priesthood, you lose your marriage, you lose your eternal family, you lose your eternal blessings, you lose your standing in the community and you don't get to go to heaven. Compound this with the fact that for a mormon politician it immediately kills your career. 

These legislators would risk absolutely everything by denying the Church. I'd say conduct like this is just as bad as kidnapping a politicians family and threatening to kill them if they don't vote a certain way, except a mormon would prefer that because they'd still have their family in heaven. The church is threatening to take away their family forever.  We're not being controlled by the church, we promise. Utah is sort of a creepy place. Most of the kids are married by the time they are in their early twenties are even earlier. Businesses celebrate holidays that are religious/mormon based (e.g. Pioneer day). If you're not LDS it's unlikely that you will get ahead in your career unless you manage to work for a non-LDS led company. The mormon church has A LOT of influence and control in that state. It's scary.

But the surrounding area and mountains are beautiful.  Shouldn't evidence of this revoke their 501(c)(3) non-profit status?

Taken from the IRS publication ["Churches &amp; Religious Organizations: Benefits and Responsibilities Under Tax Law"](http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p1828.pdf)

&gt;Churches and religious organizations, like many other charitable organizations, qualify for exemption from federal income tax under IRC section 501(c)(3) and are generally eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions. To qualify for tax-exempt status, such an organization must meet the following requirements (covered in greater detail throughout this publication):

&gt;* the organization must be organized and operated exclusively for religious, educational, scientific, or other charitable purposes,
* net earnings may not inure to the benefit of any private individual or shareholder,
* **no substantial part of its activity may be attempting to influence legislation,**
* the organization may not intervene win political campaigns, and
* the organizations purposes and activities may not be illegal or violate fundamental public policy Yeah, but nobody wants  to be accused of "waging a war on religion"; particularly not against the Mormon Church, which has extraordinarily deep pockets, a tremendous amount of influence, and followers willing to adhere to its wishes to an extreme (even when compared to other Christian faiths).

The Mormon Church knows that, so long as they aren't blatant too often, they are powerful enough to be above the law. And they don't just benefit politically...You should give "City Creek Mall" in SLC a Google. That's the kind of shit to make Jesus roll in his grave, or tomb or whatever.  This is such a load of bullshit. There are zero sources, there's nothing to it at all.

If this was the case, why would downtown SLC have one of the most thriving LGBT communities? Wouldn't they do something to stop it? They just DID something to stop it, by passing their stealth LGBT discrimination bill, which they passed off as a "LGBT rights" bill. that's not bad for a cult Was there somebody in the world who didn't know this? So much for representing all of the people. They also control The Boy Scouts of America.

Penn &amp; Teller: Bullshit! S4 E01 The Boy Scouts: https://youtu.be/n2xJKGPDZpk God I can't believe I was raised in this bullshit! 

My dad was a bishop, 2 of my 5 brothers was in the presidency. 

I almost went on a mission too. 

Is there an I was a Mormon in the priesthood AMA?  In all honesty, I'd like to visit every state, and have been to the VAST majority of them, but I can't think of a single reason I would want to step foot in Utah.

Mormons, and just nothing else going for it. I'll keep my distance, and be happy when I hit 49 and consider it a win. Utah is one of the most visually stunning states. Mormons are generally really nice to strangers. Just dont stick around and youll be fine. A group of excommunicated Mormons should get together to start their own LDS Church, with blackjack and hookers. Just look what happened to Harry Reid and his "accident". Mormon Taliban. If Obama were to do anything about it everyone would scream Armageddon and start living in the mountains. "You're kicking me out of your stupid religious club based on all sorts of fake, made up shit because I voted against you? oooooOOOOOOoooooo!" 

All joking aside, how many Mormons are in the Utah state legislature, and wouldn't a threat like this normally result in immediate investigation by the IRS?  Speaking of IRS, of the 5 or 6 national processing centers, one is located in Ogden Utah.  The massively underfunded IRS? They won't investigate. I believe about 80% of Utah State Legislators self identify as Mormons.   In 2012 it was 91%.    What separation of church and state? Religions go after the separation all day, every day. Let them pay taxes.  If you don't do what we tell you, we'll kick you out of our imaginary friend club.  It is a truism that almost any sect, cult, or religion will legislate its creed into law if it acquires the political power to do so.

Robert A. Heinlein
 I love me some Heinlein. Perfect quote. Wow, it seems that USA are very jealous of our middle ages, so they decided to recreate their own middle ages in modern times TBH, at this point, I'd be willing to build a wall around Utah and leave the state to its fate. (Any non-crazies will be free to leave, of course. They just need to take a shot of rum.) Yet another reason as to why religion is holding us back.  Dum Dum Dum Dum Dum 49 states and one theocracy so far. They are also buying up news radio and tv stations as fast as they can, so they can control the news and promote "decency." &gt;hey regularly meet with legislators behind closed doors, (as do other lobbyists, **this is nothing nefarious or unusual**,) to push the agenda of their employer. 

Well, maybe not *unusual*. Utah is a beautiful State.

Just don't get out of the car. If blatantly illegal crap like this is common knowledge to any Reddit user, why is nothing being done about it? i lived there off and on for 12 years for work. i married a descendant of a big mormon family there. they own tons of land their state parks have their name on it. fuck them. 

that place is such a weird mix of fucked. so much weird crime and shitty people. i never once was able to walk out of a walmart or whatever without being stopped and searched since im an evil dark skinned person. 

they tend to vote in blocks and were directed how to vote i got to see that much.

they arent all bad several in the family just associated with the church because they had to other than that they were regular people. it was just weird though and there seems to be an almost genetic predisposition for lying and delusion amongst a lot of them. lots of domestic violence amongst the extremely faithful i watched women get hit then explain it away boys get their asses kicked etc.

it was to the point where i cringe whenever i see any wall hanging deal about family or faith. it became associated as a surefire sign of something sick behind closed doors.

havent been there in 4 years stopped working due to problems with the wife that became unfixable. And the LDS controls Nevada as well, through equally thuggish lobbyists who make sure that Mormons can make lots of sin money off Nevada. I. Am. So. Surprised. /s/ Stop voting in silly religious people. Problem solved.  So much for separation of church and state. Last time the lds church was threatened worth losing their tax exempt status over not allowing blacks to have the priesthood.  Low and behold God revealed that the priesthood would be available to all worthy males. It was a miracle /s So.. Slaves of the church?  
  
They are clearly fully 100% owned by the church. Slaves of mythology! Mormonism is similar to Scientology in that its so clearly a huge fraud, simply something someone made up. To think that .there is a State that is controlled by  an organization based on lies is insane. I hate theocracy. That is a good reason not to vote for any Mormon for any public office. How is not against the law? Most of it is unspoken. In a tight community you get a nod and a wink and you understand what is expected. All with plausible deniability.  If you have a hundred hours free I recommend the Feminist Mormon Housewives podcast. It's mainly about polygamy, but you get a really good feel for the origins of Mormon culture, and why it's all about controlling information and circling the wagons against the outside. http://feministmormonhousewivespodcast.org/

Or for a single podcast on the subject of money (it gets really good about half way): http://mormonexpositor.com/85-mormons-and-money-the-prosperity-doctrine/ Both of those are great podcasts. No religion in government. OK. Sure Down with totalitarian Islam! Can anyone say RICO? non English speaker here, is a Mormon the same as a moron? I thought church and state were supposed to stay seperate....hmmmm... And this is why Mitt Romney for president should have scared the shit out of normal people.  The fucking mormons would have ruled the free world. I think this is what people forget when they complain about people voting for Obama. 

Look at the alternative.  This is why alcohol laws are fucked, and we have the most lax gun laws.   Theyll find a way to prohibit marijuana even if it is federally legalized recreationally. Think of the rabbits! That medical bill ALMOST passed recently.  I think it will next time around.   I live here and can confirm. The LDS church owns the Utah legislature.  I remember as a child I was listening to General Conference and the 'Prophet' informed members that 'any member who wants to enter the celestial kingdom [heaven] will vote X'... Its a damn good thing Romney wasn't made our 46th president! That sounds awfully treasonous to me.  Nothing treasonous is ever treasonous enough, apparently. When laws affect legislators, the legislators change the laws. Yes!  That's why Madoff is in jail, he stole from the wealthy and powerful.  It's well known that it's okay to bilk the plebs. See also: 0 arrests resulting from the 2008 financial crisis America almost elected Mitt Romney, a Mormon, as president. Imagine that.  They are getting almost as bad a Scientologists.
 almost?  Spend some time on Mormonthink.com and you'll see they are on par if not crazier.  Thanks. I'll check it out. I know nothing about Mormonism.  Read the article and it seems that the person who wrote it, is mostly unhappy because they didn't want to force all the other mormons to make abortion illegal and didn't want to make life harder for illegal immigrants.

&gt; For weeks we had worked on legislation that would prove to make Utah the leader in the fight against abortion.  We presented our idea and expressed our eagerness to have the LDS church help in the fight to pass a bill that had failed the year before. They turned us down flat, telling us that the First Presidency has made it clear to them that they will not engage on abortion issues.  

And

&gt; HB116 was an extremely controversial bill dealing with illegal immigration and proposed issuing state worker cards to illegal immigrants. For at least two weeks prior to the final passage of HB116, the two church lobbyists practically lived in the back halls of the state capitol and in the office of house leadership. I was vocally opposed to the legislation, but was still contacted repeatedly by both lobbyists who attempted to change my opposition. The calls became frequent enough from the LDS Lobbyists, that I stopped taking them. 

To be honest, I find it ridiculous that this article would be used to paint the LDS Church in a bad light. It's bad that they have this much influence, but in this article it seems that if they didn't do that, even more extreme idiots would take control. &gt; if they didn't do that, even more extreme idiots would take control.

Ex-mormon here. Inside Mormonism there are throngs of these super-conservative fuckwits who think the Mormon church leadership is way too liberal. Ex-mormon here. I think that the perception is that Mormons are all super-conservative fuckwits, but that only a very simplistic view. Mormons now days are much more liberal than they used to be. This is especially true for our generation. Most of my friends who are still Mormon are in favor of gay rights, for example. In fact, the reason Mormonism is softening on issues regarding homosexuality is because rank and file Mormons would become less active (and pay less tithing) if they didn't. I realize that when you compare Mormons to evangelicals they are more liberal, but as an Exmo yourself I'm sure you know what I'm referring to. Every ward in the church has a some of these super crazy prepper families in them. Yeah, but every ward has even more people in the middle. The vast majority of Mormons who are still on the records are inactive or completely outside of the religion. It is something like 66%. I think it is very likely that the remaining 33% are somewhere in the middle, like jackmo, or more TBM, but socially liberal, etc.

All I am saying is that it is unlikely that the crazy conservative fuckwits (totally true name, btw, haha) are really representative of Mormons as a whole. When I used the word "throngs" in my original comment I wasn't implying they were a majority. Sorry for the misunderstanding.

One thing that bothers me about LDS, Inc. leadership is they don't ever attempt to muzzle the conservative crazies, e.g. Glenn Beck, Cliven Bundy or the CIA torture guy Bruce Jessen, but god help any poor left-leaning sap who wants to express an opinion. They'll drum your ass right out. No worries man. I might have misread it too. :)

You are so right though. They'll excommunicate someone for making a missionary calendar or for a podcast, but crazies like Cliven Bundy are given a pass. It is a pretty skewed view they have. as it pertains to /r/atheism, how are they doing on separation of church and state? I wouldn't say that they are doing great. The Mormon church likes to throw its weight around. How dare someone have different opinions than you on two very controversial political issues! He must be an extreme idiot!

The point of the article is to expose the Mormon church's systemic corruption of the legislative process. The author's personal political leanings are totally irrelevant.  I'm against lobbying in principal, but honestly, just read the bloody article. The reason the author wrote it, is not because he's disgusted with the LDS lobbyism, but because they don't want to push his own agenda. I even quoted that relevant part. But for your convenience, let me do that again:

&gt;  **We presented our idea and expressed our eagerness to have the LDS church help in the fight to pass a bill that had failed the year before.** That paragraph is totally unrepresentative of the rest of the article. He wrote it seemingly out of frustration that the LDS church will threaten its members with personal spiritual consequences, but is arbitrarily silent on what should be the big moral issues of its doctrine. I get where you're coming from, but the clear takeaway from the article as a whole is the wildly inappropriate coercion tactics used by the LDS political machine on Utah legislators.  I guess we'll have to agree to disagree. I understand where you're coming from, but I disagree that a person (who went from mormonism to evangelicism) who thinks it's ok to impose his own religious views suddenly comes to the conclusion that any church trying to do this is wrong. Geeesh, And they're all condemned to hell for eternity, according to my Church! Just because the majority agrees with something doesn't mean the majority is right. and yet Salt Lake City is crime ridden Compared to where?  Any major city that's not run by a bunch of old white religious Mormans. http://www.city-data.com/crime/crime-Salt-Lake-City-Utah.html they call it beta testing, now going live in a western government near you!
 President Andrew Jackson was a fierce opponent of the central banking system and favored gold and silver coin or "hard money" over paper currency, yet he is immortalized on the $20 bill. And Henry Ford detested Jazz music, fearing that it was a conspiracy between the Jews and blacks, yet Jazz music is all that's played at the Henry Ford museum.

Kind of funny, actually. The F in F-150 probably originally stood for Fhrer. Model A, for Adolph.. The plot thickens. Adolf Oh, for shame. I can't even follow Godwin's law correctly. ***Why exactly? Is it because of the soup metaphor?*** That just raises the question what happened to the first 149. Well the F100 was one of the most popular trucks ever, until the F150 eclipsed it. Didn't that become the ranger? Kind of sorta a little. They have the same load capacity and filled the same place in the overall lineup, but the F-150 replaced the F-100 as the base model of the F-series. Gas Fahrenpanzerblitzenkrieg-150 Going into stripper thongs you put 20's into stripper thongs? damn... can I borrow your Ferrari and vacation house for the weekend? Sure! Can you be in Japan in 15mins uhh.. can I also borrow your private jet? PSSSSST: you should have specified *which* vacation house.  I am sure he has at least three of them. He probably would have been ok with that detail. That's why if you're going to clone money, clone 20s. Jackson wouldn't give a shit. He also killed a whole bunch of Indians.  Kennedy favored a currency whose value was backed by actual metal, and signed an executive order to start printing a metal-backed currency to compete with the federal reserve.

3 weeks later he was assassinated, and before long, his face was being slapped on metallic half dollar coins created by the federal reserve. I thought it James Van der Beek... Yeah, but he's also responsible for the senseless murder of many native Americans. Sooo... This is his penance. Source?

Edit: I was dumb and thought he was talking about Twain. Thanks for the replies. Any American history textbook dude. The Trail of Tears Are you by chance not from the US?  I hear there are some non Americans I  the internet these days... We just got a telegraph line installed here in Canada. I'm posting in morse code. For one: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indian_Removal_Act &gt; yet he is immoralized on the $20 bill

FTFY It just goes to show that you really don't get a say in the matter after you are dead. "God, so atrocious in the Old Testament, so attractive in the New--the Jekyl and Hyde of sacred romance." - Mark Twain You'd need a coin the size of a Wagon Wheel to fit that quote. What if they use a QR code? Unfortunately a QR code needs to be about 1" square for a camera phone to register it. 

Edit: optimally 1", some apps on the same phone scan better than others; .6" (15.2 mm) has mostly worked for me. kinda depends how good your printer is and how close you put your camera/qr code reader to it, [this guy says](http://www.quora.com/How-small-can-a-QR-code-be) as small as 12.5mm x 12.5mm (25mm in an inch) Looking back at some of my recent files, the last one I made was 13 mm. When I was testing it, some QR apps couldn't focus on it, but most could.  Interesting. The guy also mentions microQR for shorter URLs, id nevr heard of those before. Does anyone actually use those? They were made for the automobile industry so something can be scanned at different angles, but as URL links, the only people that seem to use them are people testing if they work. Out of hundreds of thousands of different posters/brochures I was asked to place QR codes on, I was the only person to ever scan the codes. I see QR codes around everywhere but they're always either unlabeled so I don't give a fuck what they lead to or on a poster that already tells me everything I need to know so there's no point in getting out my phone and installing an app just to play along with that stupid gimmick. They're incredibly useful, but only in incredibly specific situations. I've used QR codes at museums that have them with a promise of more information than is on the plaque. That sounds pretty dumb. If I'm going to a museum I want to learn about the stuff there. I don't want to be given a link to the wikipedia page for Pablo Picasso, I can find that at home. Plus, what if I don't have a smart phone? I hope they're not opting for a QR code instead of a properly informative document. Even a piece of paper taped to the exhibit is better than being required to buy a smart phone then download an app then scan a code just to find out more about the subject matter you probably drove (or even flew) a really long ways to get to. I'm not saying it isn't dumb, just that that's the only time I've used them. Yeah they work great for Bitcoin wallets. http://picturesofpeoplescanningqrcodes.tumblr.com Apparently, in the Far East. But that's only a fifth of the world's population.  Can you even imagine the disdain Mark Twain would have for QR codes QR codes are just a tool. 

People hammer nails with wrenches too.

I don't think he'd waste his time getting upset with the wrenches. Or just put it on the entire back side of the coin. I always wondered, why isn't Judaism criticized as much if they only have the OT and it's so much worse than the NT? They mostly keep to themselves and don't evangelize.

Also, being a minority religion tends to instill its followers with more humility and skepticism.

Now, in Israel where conservative Jews are increasingly becoming a problem, yes, they do get lots of criticism. Especially on commercial flights. I think the following text (clipped from a Judaism for Dummies book) might contain part of the answer:

&gt;Jewish "fundamentalism" doesn't focus on the "literal truth" of the Bible as some other forms of religious fundamentalism do. While many traditional Jews believe that the Tanach expresses the Word of God, very few Jews would argue that the literal meaning of the words is the right one. An important rabbinic teaching says that there are 70 interpretations for everywordin Torah  and they are all correct! Jewish tradition talks of four dimensions of meaning: the literal, the allegorical, the metaphorical, and the mystical.

Christian fundamentalists tend to be more literal-minded and mission-oriented. James Barr writes that

&gt;[i]n order to avoid imputing errors to the Bible, Fundamentalists twist and turn back and forward between literal and non-literal interpretation.

Maybe there are even some "Jewish fundamentalists" who admit that there's error in the Bible; but if you ask me, "twisting and turning back and forward between literal and non-literal interpretation" in order to make things fit is about as "fundamentalist" as it comes.

Also, FWIW, the Christian saint Augustine -- who's sometimes held to be one of the biggest champions of non-literal interpretation -- specifically instructs Christians on how to cleverly interpret the Bible so as to avoid ever charging it with (in this specific instance *ethical*) error:

&gt;anything in the [Scriptures] that cannot be related either to good morals or to the true faith should be taken as figurative. . . . Jeremiah's phrase "Behold today I have established you over nations and kingdoms, to uproot and destroy, to lay waste and scatter" is, without doubt, entirely figurative, and so must be related to the aim that I mentioned above. Matters which seem like wickedness to the unenlightened, whether just spoken or actually performed, whether attributed to God or to people whose holiness is commended to us, are **entirely figurative**. (*De Doctrina Christiana* 3.33, 41-42)

Biggest cop-out there is. I don't think it's a cop-out at all. 

Here's the thing- when you subscribe to a philosophy or agenda, a lot of the time you do so with the knowledge that you don't agree with everything in that philosophy or agenda.

Take political parties for example. I might agree with 80% of what the Democrats stand for, but I'm more pro 2nd Amendment than many democrats and I'm more pro-nuclear energy than many democrats. Does that make me a cop out though? No.

I suppose it's easy to say that it's different for religion because the word of god is supposed to paramount and flawless, but in the end, many of these religious texts **aren't** the word of god- they're regular people writing down what they believe to be god's word. Now, you might consider that to be a weak argument and you're totally allowed to do so. It's just that I feel that just because you interpret ***your*** religion in ***your*** way, that doesn't mean that you've become a cop-out. It's just that you're adapting the teachings in those texts to your own life, and into the perspective you deem suitable.

And I mean, we do that with everything in life. You may not agree with everything your company does, or how your family acts. But just as that doesn't make you a cop-out to your company or family, interpreting the Bible or any religious text to fit your life doesn't make you a cop-out to that religion and is perfectly fine... unless your interpretation violates the rights of others.

My two cents. It's a cop-out because they wind the bible around like a snake to make it fit into anything. They cherry pick crap and say 'oh yeah.. Uh that part we don't like so it is figurative.'

Politics is a bad analogy in my opinion because it just doesn't really compare to a book that's supposed to be inspired by a god. 

Sorry in a hurry and can't write more or explain better. :( That's a totally valid point of view. I just feel that you should never be constrained to the exact viewpoints of a book or a philosophy.

And as far as cherry picking goes, one could argue that many people on this subreddit cherry pick the worst of the Bible or any religious text to show how religion is bad :P Of course the view is valid.. I don't argue that at all. It's just a cop out. It's exactly the same as simply making shit up as you go along. 

And of course people cherry pick bad parts and contradictions! That should be a given really. When you have a book that claims what christians claim and they are all pro life and gay hating, of course everyone throws the 'bad parts' in their faces. 

I'd go a step further though. I'd say I rather like to smear it in their faces like religious dogmatic feces.  Well, no one's arguing that the Democratic platform is immutable, either.  My point was that you aren't constrained to every belief of a philosophy you follow or a group you're part of- you can have your own opinions too. Well, that's the thing about declaring something to be "the infallible, immutable word of God:" you can't say it's wrong and you can't say you don't agree with it.  You can twist the meaning around to say "Surely God didn't really mean *this* part literally," but you can't say "This tenet of the faith is wrong."  With human ideologies you can definitely say "I disagree with this position, and I wish to convince you to change it." They can cop-out all they want if it stops them from bombing abortion clinics and locking their sick kids inside in case god decides to heal them.  I won't fault them for it.  I wish we had a whole fucking lot more religious cop outs. Makes you wonder why you need the book at all. To keep them from ~~raping~~ stealing and murdering, obviously. And for eternal life.  http://www.timesofisrael.com/ultra-orthodox-modesty-patrol-clash-with-police/

I can't recall any recent story in the USA of Christian Fundamentalists attacking a woman for not sitting at the back of the bus.    No, but they do deface private property and assault people of other religions, or lack thereof. Jews have a long history of questioning the Torah's words and debating their meaning.  This makes sense, as Old Testament God is entirely fallible and possesses numerous emotional traits like jealousy, wrath, etc.  There's no concept of God being wholly good and loving and perfect and therefore infallible, but he is seen as just.  Furthermore, Jews don't take most sins as seriously -- "nobody's perfect" -- and sins between man and God are easily forgiven on Yom Kippur.  Sin against your fellow man is more severe, but all but the most very wicked can eventually suffer and atone (either in this life, or for a time in Hell) for their sins and eventually join the righteous.  For a Jew, if you did your best to lead a good life as you saw it and you weren't literally Hitler, you'll be okay.
 This is possibly because oral tradition is part of their collective cultural history.  &gt;  For a Jew, if you did your best to lead a good life as you saw it and you weren't literally Hitler, you'll be okay.

Jews really have a hatred for that dude, don't they? Not that he doesn't deserve it. I'm Jewish, and to be honest, there were people in the nazi regime who were worse than Hitler. If they put quotes around it and have Mark Twain staring at it in an annoyed manner, I'll let it slide. A coin with an off-center Mark Twain glaring directly at the phrase?

I'd buy everything with that coin. I'd be hesitant to spend it, but I get your meaning. I'd buy more of those coins with it.. 5 easy payments of $19.95! What about looking slyly at the viewing audience to show his comedic disdain? And a speech balloon coming out of his mouth that says "The fuck? I never said that!" Only in the "extra subtlety" series Exactly In "God" We "Trust" This....But you know it won't happen.  Still, let's hope the designer can sneak something in.... It would be entertaining though... Especially watching christians try to oppose it Mark Twain facepalm. And he would appreciate the irony, I'm sure. He would have, yes. Here's what he had to say:

&gt; It is simple, direct, gracefully phrased. It always sounds well -- In God We Trust. I don't believe it would sound any better if it were true.

&gt; If this nation has ever trusted in God, that time has gone by ... for nearly half a century its entire trust has been in the Republican Party and the dollar -- mainly the dollar.

You can find a bit more context for the quote in the forward to [When in Doubt, Tell the Truth: And Other Quotations from Mark Twain](https://books.google.com/books?id=5oWFmBHH00wC&amp;lpg=PR16&amp;dq=%22entire%20trust%20has%20been%20in%20the%20Republican%20Party%20and%20the%20dollar%22&amp;pg=PR16#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false).

On a side note, as a Freemason, I'd like to point out that Clemens, also a Freemason, would have been very comfortable with the sentiment. Placing it on the same coin as he would not be a mischaracterization of his views, only of his views with respect to the nation.
 Foreword*. &gt;Some years ago on the gold coins we used to trust in God... Well, I didn't see that the statement ought to remain there. It wasn't true. But I think it would better read, 'Within certain judicious limitations we trust in God,' and if there isn't enough room on the coin for this, why enlarge the coin.

-- Mark Twain Non-American asking a serious question: How is "In God We Trust" even allowed on coins? 
It is surely a state endorsement of monotheistic religions? Way to piss all over the constitution. The [basic reasoning of the courts](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_God_we_trust#Controversy) is that it has nothing to do with the establishment of a religion nor does it sponsor religious exercise. It's "ceremonial deism"

It's been on coins since the Civil War in the 1860s and has been the official motto of the country since 1956. It's not going to go away via the courts. "ceremonial deism".

A very specific kind of "monodeism", which I would argue *does* sponsor religious exercise. Yeah, but the Supreme Court gets to make the call.  There was recently a case about opening city council meetings with a prayer, and the court upheld it on the same ceremonial grounds. Well, with 6 of the 9 Justices being practicing Catholics, you can't really expect them to say otherwise. It's too bad they can't do their jobs without letting thier superstions get in the way.  You can expect it, we just won't get it. You could suspect bias, but I don't think there's any evidence of that. It's kind of like saying a homosexual judge couldn't adjudicate impartially a matter involving same-sex marriage by mere virtue of his sexuality.

In fact, I agree with the courts on this one. I would prefer to eliminate any and all references to religion in government, even non-coercive references, but that's what the legislature is for. If you are familiar with First Amendment jurisprudence in any way, you would be hard-pressed to say that the First Amendment proscribes such "ceremonial" references.

Even if you think the courts are headed that way, and I think they are, it would be quite extraordinary if the Supreme Court were to ignore decades of jurisprudence and all of a sudden come down on the issue like that. That's not the appropriate role of the Court. &gt;It's kind of like saying a homosexual judge couldn't adjudicate impartially a matter involving same-sex marriage by mere virtue of his sexuality.

That is fundamentally different. The state has no legal right in accordance with the constitution to differentiate on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender.

The fact that any judge would uphold a ban on same sex marriage is unconstitutional.

Also the Supreme Court constantly allows biases to effect their rulings. 

How exactly could 4 out of 9 justices so much of the time have differing opinions on subject matters. They are nominated by a party, and they vote along party lines. &gt; If you are familiar with First Amendment jurisprudence in any way, you would be hard-pressed to say that the First Amendment proscribes such "ceremonial" references.

I guess I must not be sufficiently familiar, then, because I have no problem at all saying that making the phrase the national motto goes beyond the occasional ceremonial use and establishes religion. Yes.  You are being honest and rational.  The same cannot be said about the Supreme Court's jurisprudence on the relevant issues.  The facts *clearly* show that the Conguess changed the national motto to "In God We Trust" and added "under God" to the pledge *precisely* as governmental endorsements of religion.  The Supreme Court precedent ignores reality. Well, they wouldn't have to "ignore" it. You present an oversimplified, and false, dichotomy.  Precedent is important, obviously, but the Court has reversed itself on constitutional matters before, when the precedent involved was incorrect, poorly reasoned, etc.  And, adding "under God" to the pledge, and putting "In God We Trust" on money and making it our national motto, were not acts of "ceremonial deism."  History and reality clearly say otherwise.  It would not take any mental gymnastics for the court to reverse itself there.   I'm reminded of the passage where Jesus tells his disciple to "render unto Caesar what is Caesar's" as he looks at a coin with showing the despotic oppressor of his people. Perhaps the flip side of US coinage should read "...in governments we don't".  Pssh, you're only saying that because you're sane. Regarding the official saying, IIRC, Eisenhower had it changed from E Pluribus Unun --out of many, one -- to "In God We Trust" to help combat the so-called Red Scare of Communist Insurrectionism. No doubt the US national motto strongly influenced Gorbachev to disband the Soviet Union and Castro to quit oppressing gays. And it's not like we don't know which God they're actually referring to. They say "Oh, it's for all religions" but that's obviously bullshit  It will eventually.  The "ceremonial deism" is a bullshit argument.  Deism is religion and has no place being promoted by government.  It might be 40 years from now but it will be removed. It could go away via the courts, if they decided to drop the disingenuousness and concede that it's an establishment of monotheism. Even if it was only an establishment of "ceremonial deism" that's one step too far. Because the Supremes refuse to enforce the 1st Amendment in this, the Pledge, allowing religious displays on government property and the like.  Because it was added in the 1900s and almost all of congress now is religious or a closet atheist. It was in the 60's. It first appeared on coins in 1864, and on cash in 1957.

["History of "In God We Trust""](http://www.treasury.gov/about/education/Pages/in-god-we-trust.aspx) Like he said, the 60's :) So it averages out more or less to 1900's, no?

...Sorry, I just came from /r/shittyaskscience I grew up just down the street from that church. Not much of a story, but it's mine and I like it USA was still a constitutional republic in the 60s. That didn't stop them . Please. Our Pledge of Allegiance contains "One Nation, Under God". And when that was brought up in a court case and it was looking like it was going to be ruled unconstitutional, about 150 members of congress recited the pledge publicly repeatedly in protest, pressuring the supreme court to keep it. Their excuse was that the person pushing for it to be removed didn't have the grounds to be in court, basically so they didn't have to deal with it. Is it still required to swear oaths in court or swear into office with your hand on the Bible? Why isn't that unconstitutional? Why use a book at all and why say "So help me, God"? As if God is going to bail you out if you lie in court or punish you if you lie as a politician? You're supposed to swear on whatever holy book you believe in. Ironically, Matthew 5:34 says  "But I tell you, do not swear an oath at all: either by heaven, for it is God's throne;" But, if you're an atheist, from what I can gather, you just have to swear to tell the truth. Also, I'm pretty sure, correct me if I'm wrong, that Atheists weren't allowed to give testimony in court until some time in the 20th century because it was not believed that they would have any reason to tell the truth. &gt; I'm pretty sure, correct me if I'm wrong, that Atheists weren't allowed to give testimony in court until some time in the 20th century because it was not believed that they would have any reason to tell the truth.

I wouldn't doubt it. They're trusted even *less so* than Muslims in this country.

Maybe what atheists could do (if there has to be a "book" involved) is to swear the oath on a looseleaf binder full of blank pages? Or possibly just look the judge in the face, and say, "hook up a lie detector test, otherwise you'll have to believe me for my word is as sacred to my being, as yours is to your god" I swear on "Cosmos".  As if perjury penalties weren't reason enough. The proper procedure is to ask the witness "Do you solemnly swear or affirm that the testimony you are about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth?"  And you can object on religious grounds if they do otherwise. It's never required to put your hand on a Bible, or to add "so help me God." It is not a legal requirement, one may optionally affirm and many courts do not use bibles anymore.  It is obvious that not taking an oath to GOD here in alabamA would immediately prejudice a jury.  So is it right to force non-believers to lie while promising not to lie? That's what I mean, if I was called as a witness in court and asked to swear an oath "so help me God," I'd probably be held in contempt because I'd be perjuring myself from the get-go. I don't know how it goes in the US, but I did jury duty in Australia, and all jurors have to swear an oath. You can chose to swear on the bible or just swear an oath without a bible.

There's also two different oaths, the bible one has something along the lines of 'I swear before God' where as the none bible one omits God. It's to distinguish us from the godless communists.  It's as much political as religious. What a blurred line that can oftentimes be. Which is complete bullshit because it implies that the US is a religious nation, when in reality we're a pluralistic nation founded on natural law and individual liberties. That's nonsense. It doesn't say "In Free Markets We Trust".

It's purely religious, because it only distinguishes us from the godless, which only incidentally includes the communists. It also distinguishes us from the godless Japanese. I don't see how you can say that.  Atheism is a tenant of Marxism, and it was incorporated in our coins in 54, at the height of the red scare.  And the Japanese aren't godless. First, it's "tenet" not tenant.

Second, I concede that it was done (on bills and in motto) for "red scare" motives, but those motives were expressed in religious terms, not in any other fashion.

Third, yes, they are. The emperor is no longer a god, and nature spirits and ancestors are not the same thing at all. Yeah... that's the unwritten motto.  Basically this. There is something someone thinks is counter to our values so we throw our values away.  Which is the whole reason for the separation in the first place. Only until November of '63. It first appeared on coins in 1864, and on cash in 1957.

["History of "In God We Trust""](http://www.treasury.gov/about/education/Pages/in-god-we-trust.aspx) The "tradition" argument for anything is a fallacy.  Slavery was a tradition but how is that an argument for preserving it?  It does not matter if religious text appeared on US coinage in 1777, it is still wrong. I agree. Aren't those the ONLY two choices?? yea basically. THANK YOU.

Yeah, as an American, I have absolutely no fucking clue, other than to say that we've allowed religious ideologues to invade our government because a large portion of our voters are idiots.

Edit- also, I believe many references to "God" in government, at very least in the pledge of allegiance (something else that bothers me but that's a whole other story), were inserted around Cold War time, to differentiate us from the "godless commies". White English speaking christians call their deity "god", No one else does. Yet they play this semantic game trying to convince everyone else that "god" means allah, or budda, or the great spirit. They pretend to be inclusive, when they are not, they are supremacist. May The Great Spirit look after their poor children. Doesn't allah just translate to god? Kinda. "Al" means "the" &amp; "lah" means "god". It was made into one word to reinforce monotheism. At the time most people worshiped lots of gods &amp; they wanted to really establish the idea that there is one god &amp; he is all. So yes it's almost just the Aribic word for god but not quite. It was ushered in during the 50's in the middle of the nationalistic god-fearing anti-communist movement.   The christians are in charge. Either that or the ones in charge fear the christians and want to pander to them  In addition to what redavid commented, the Supreme Court has 9 members -- 6 are Catholic and 3 are Jewish. So they're not likely to see the use of the word God as inherently problematic if they can find a way to explain it away as relatively harmless. WE DONT FUCKING KNOW! Because he majority of the country is mentally retarded  Another example of the rewriting of American history, by the appropriation of American historical figures to fit the narrative of Christian ideology.   

Ray Comfort does the same thing with Albert Einstein. Einstein did not believe in the bible or its god, but that doesn't stop Comfort from using certain quotes from Einstein to give the false impression that Einstein was a believer.   "He used the word god, my god is also called god, therefore Einstein believes in my god" the Declaration of Independence Just imagine him saying it with air quotes. Or on the reverse of the coin, him crossing his fingers behind his back. Make the coin holographic and have him rolling his eyes with the quote next to him Or a coin that has a Venn diagram of Sam Clemens' likeness and religion in two separate circles.

In the middle is the motto: And never the Twain shall meet. Sigh. Soon they'll come out with an Anton LaVey "In God We Trust" coin. Sort of like having presidents that wanted to break up central banks on federal reserve notes.  American currency is filled with irony. Andrew Jackson on the 20 dollar bill being one of the more curious seeing as he was opposed to type monetary system he's immortalized on. And given that he was a total bastard for what he did to the Cherokee.   One of my favorite quotes is from Mark Twain: I do not fear death. I had been dead for billions and billions of years before I was born and had not suffered the slightest inconvenience from it.  "In God We Trust. All Others Pay Cash" Andrew Jackson hated central banks and paper currency and he is on the $20.  This is extremely offensive and totaly disrespectful to the memory of Mr. Clemens. "E Pluribus Unum is concise, but deep, and so much more meaningful. I think it's about time to go back. "E Pluribus Unum" is a strong, unifying thought. "In god We Trust" is meaningless, untrue, and divisive.

Was Mark Twain atheist? &gt; In '29 when the banks went bust,

&gt; Our coins still read "In God We Trust."

--Yip Harburg [Bill Stamp](http://billstamp.com/), you're welcome.  [Young lady, I come from a time where men achieve power and wealth by standing on the backs of the poor. Where prejudice and intolerance are commonplace and power is an end unto itself.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7mmjxkL5X0) I feel like we should start a movement like #spocking, to remove in god we trust from our money. [I'm already on it.](http://imgur.com/a/CAYZ0) But it's, arguably, not illegal. This isn't intended to render the bank note unfit to be reissued. I've united and binded several bills together. Banks take 'em, barbers take 'em, I am more than able to pay for things with dollars taped together. Weird law! i feel like people would confuse the punchout with some cheesy metaphor like "god is love". An 'X' punchout would have been better imo. https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/remove-god-we-trust-all-currency-we-are-nation-different-religions-not-just-christian-god/XGMGcyh4 According to the website I was the 100,00th 

Don't trust cause it's the government though. That would be remaining because no one else has signed it besides me This really is an affront to who Mark Twain was.  Obviously whoever made the decision never read what he said about religion or doesn't give a shit.  In a few years they'll be selling a 9-11 themed slip n slide.

We hold nothing sacred in this country cept for our bibles and our guns. Cuz we're fucking retarded as a country. If we could just harness the rotational momentum of his corpse, we could power a small city, at least.
 And Pres. Barack Obama, America's first non-white president, walked across the Edmund Pettus bridge to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the historical Selma march. Edmund Pettus was a Confederate soldier and a KKK leader. His name still remains on the bridge in a town that over 80% black. America is full of things that do not make sense. Is the coin going to be made of iron and be able to be used to remove creases from fabric? I almost think this an intentional slight against a man who spoke reason... something those who own the world simply cannot abide. That was the "WE OWN YOU IN DEATH" Reminds me of when C Lo Green (sp) changed the lyrics from Imagine to "all religions true" One of several relics from the Cold War in the US due to the socio-geo-political benefits that came of distinguishing the US from the USSR which promoted state atheism.

Before that it was "Out of Many, One" in Latin.

Of course I guess it also a reflection of how the Islamist Arab nations like Saudi Arabia (not the secular ones like Egypt) naturally came to our side during the Cold War [Petition to have this changed](https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/not-burden-mark-twain-commemorative-coin-phase-god-we-trust-mark-twain-was-against-phrase/Cb6TYNMd). Soooo wish these folks would stop putting religious shit on money and in the court houses etc.  Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/sFeFf9X.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Would be disgusted.... Ironically enough he was a Freemason so must have had some belief in a deity Some of his satire was subtle; maybe he'd appreciate the joke.

Though I think it'd be better if both sides of the coin had different inscriptions:

"Religion was invented when the first con man met the first fool."

"In God we trust." How poetically ironic. #Irony To be fair, Mark Twain mocked a lot of shit.  I'm pretty sure that he wouldn't want his face on coinage at all. Let's put a commemorative Allahu Akbar plaque on ground zero! &gt;Some years ago on the gold coins we used to trust in God. It think it was in 1863 that some genius suggested that it be put on the gold and silver coins which circulated among the rich. They didnt put it on the nickels and coppers because they didnt think the poor folks had any trust in God.  If I remember rightly, the President required or ordered the removal of that sentence from the coins. Well, I didnt see that the statement ought to remain there. It wasnt true. But I think it would better read, Within certain judicious limitations we trust in God, and if there isnt enough room on the coin for this enlarge the coin.

Is the quote, which the author has misunderstood on a profound level. For starters, Mark Twain above argues that the phrase should remain and further be expanded, and if the coin was too small for it then the coin should be made bigger. Mark Twain seemed like a man of unique clarity. mark twain was a man of unique humor. . . . How is it that phase has not been banished from money and the stupid pledge of allegiance? Someone from the church of satan group should sue to have "Hail Satan" added. The phrase "In God We Trust" not only does not belong on currency because it is unconstitutional, but because a god has absolutely nothing to do with or basis whatsoever on our economic stability...it is just as stupid as if we put "In Fed We Trust" on money - and silly as that is, it would make more sense (cents?) A more apt hypothetical would be if we put "In magic we trust" on the bills. Wouldn't this be a perfect opportunity to change it?  They could remove the phrase from this coin and later (assuming it's a hit) remove it from other coins as well. But Mark Twain mocked everything. If we were to go by what he did and did not mock, there would be no appropriate place for him. Maybe that's the best you can hope for if you never give up: your enemies will teach your corpse to dance.  Out of respect for Mr. Twain, we should scratch the words from each "Twainie" we get.  Also, I believe Kamehameha on the Hawaii state quarter is the only dictator to appear on regular U.S. currency. I wish he could have somehow known about this. He would have loved the irony. Gott mit uns Checkmate, atheists!

Or better yet, remove the phrase for the coin he is on. That would be a nice little nod to him. The CoS needs to meet with this guy and put a "satanism station" there with free coloring books and crayons, just so we can all watch the horror on his face when a (suitably prompted) child calls out "I'm gonna go color Baphomet!"

(Edit: It's the Satanic Temple that does this, not Church of Satan. TIL, and stuff.) Screw that. I want the Hare Ka devotees to get a station! People will want them out of there *real quick*, and when they go they can take all the various faith stations with them. No one needs religious counselling when they're paying their water bill. Jesus, take the bill! But can he turn the water bill into a wine bill? You want to pay an extra 30,000 dollars? Ol' JC wouldn't pick up the tab? :,( He's against moneylending sometimes... JC Wentworth I have faith-based delusions and I need god now! Well, he is Jewish.  If I'm drinking that much I ain't having no fancy schmancy rossi. We're going full MD20/20 A case of Boone's Farms is like 7 dollars.  Nah let's get an Islamic Station and give out Korans. That will really mess with their heads http://youtu.be/E3GGKF6CsjY This should be permanently stapled to the front page of /r/atheism, it's hilarious Can we get a pasta station? But then you'd be feeding the hungry and aint no one gonna chip in for that. We all know hungry people are lazy. Can we put it next to the rasta station? I'm sure people wouldn't mind purifying themselves with some ganja before enjoying his noodly goodness. Polytheism at its finest.  This is going to be so much better than those nasty crackers and grape juice.  the blood and body of FSM are much more delicious Ra'men Pastafarians would certainly approve...

All Hail the [Flying Spaghetti Monster](http://www.venganza.org/) You have my vote if you ever run for office  Ra'men! By "CoS", I thought you meant Church of Scientology. They could set up a booth and ask passersby, "Would you like a free personality test?" Or "Have you accepted L. Ron Hubbard as your personal savior?" Or "You have thetans. You need to be freed from them. We can help." And so on.  "YOU THERE, YES YOU, YOU HAVE XYZIBLORKS THAT MUST BE SQUELPCHIZOHNED. WE CAN DO THIS FOR YOU. for sixty easy payments of $9.99 If scientology drains them of their funds, how will they buy out their politicians? Its the The Satanic temple that did the coloring book, there are some really fucked up Satanist organizations, this is the good one.  You are thinking of The Satanic Temple, www.thesatanictemple.com.  They are the ones doing "God's" work. A Muslim one would end the practice today Too bad girls can't color his erect cock because puritans.  Forget atheist, Mormon, or even Satanic displays.  Get some Santeria cult in there with the goat sacrifices and whatnot if you really want to drive the point home. I don't practice Santeria, I ain't got no crystal ball. 

Though I'm sure if I had a million dollars I'd invest a lot of it.  &gt; "The bottom line is we have a prayer station," Fouts told the Free Press. "We have a nativity scene. And I feel we have been victorious.

I've never really considered losing two court cases and being ordered to pay $100,000 "victorious" but hey, to each their own. Right? Nobody was asking him to take his nativity scene or his prayer station away.  This is what I don't understand about these kinds of conflicts. &gt; Nobody was asking him to take his nativity scene or his prayer station away.

Not this time, but the Freedom from Religion Foundation did in 2008. The city complied with the request and was subsequently sued to put it back by the resident that constructed it. 

&gt;In 2008, the Freedom from Religion Foundation successfully had an annual Nativity Scene removed from a public median in Warren. The Warren Road Commission, after receiving a letter from the organization saying an anonymous resident was offended by the Christian decoration, ordered John Satawa, the man who's helped construct the display for nearly a half-decade, take it down.

&gt;Satawa sued the city. Again, the city lost when a court ruled the Road Commission violated Satawa's freedom of speech. The Christmas tradition started by Satawa's father resumed in 2012.

[The full article on the nativity display](http://www.mlive.com/news/detroit/index.ssf/2012/12/nativity_scene_returns_to_warr.html)

It seems Fouts presumed based on the nativity debacle, the intention of Freedom from Religion Foundation was to 'disrupt' the prayer station. If this occurred or the prayer group alleged it occurred; it is likely Fouts/the city would be sued by the prayer station group for violating their rights as he was for the nativity scene. 

The best possible choice would have been to 'reform' the policy for stations or to make it follow the established (or similar) guidelines for campaigning activities. 

Allow the prayer station, reason station and all other stations to be provided with an area of equal space and public proximity (cannot place a group in a closet).  

Create a code of conduct that all groups must follow which ensured that no groups practices would infringe the rights of any other group or individual.  The two conflicts seem unrelated in that, the nativity scene was along a public road, whereas the prayer station was inside a government building. Well, I think they did ask that, but got denied, so the only other thing to get equal protection under the law, and to piss off the Christians was to request a reason station.

Of course the atheists would just prefer the prayer station come down. It's a legal thing. It's easier to garner sympathy when you cast the conflict as "atheists taking our stuff away" rather than "atheists want the same rights as us". He doesn't understand the concepts of win and lose. Fouts was my government teacher in high school.  Was he dumb? Smart? Asshole?  Extremely smart. Involved in a fair amount of scandals IIRC while on the city council before he was elected mayor. IIRC most of them were bogus scandals. He was a very difficult teacher who demanded a lot from his students. My father knew him professionally and he took a special interest in me because he know I grew up around the law. I sincerely hope you learned government better than your teacher did. Actually, Fouts was an amazing civics teacher who quite literally formed the foundation for everything I know. 

I have not spoken to him in years, but he either has become senile, or knows he was wrong and was trying to prove a point. But then again religious people get funny when religion is involved. I quite honestly had no idea he was religious, and had always naturally assumed he was an atheist based on his interpretations of the constitution.

I went on to study political science in university largely because of the respect he and my father (an attorney) instilled in me for the constitution. It resulted in a very unwavering republicanism... but not Republicanism. Liberals think I'm right wing, and Conservatives think I'm left wing. We live in a mad world.

I guess what I'm trying to say is that this incident saddens me because of the respect I have for Fouts.

edit: Fouts is all about city / state governments being empowered. He's an anti-Federalist whereas I fell heavily on the Federalist side of the line. On the other hand, it's also possible he allowed the prayer station and refused the atheist center to give atheists an opportunity to sue, while at the same time allowing for himself to come out a winner in the sense that it's OK for him (who is ostensibly Christian) to have a prayer station at city hall, because while the constitution keeps us secular, there is nothing prohibiting it.  It sounds to me that you did learn government better than he did. :) It's a hobby. He was my dad's good friend. I remember him having coffee at my house.  According to his bottom line, having those still there is a victory at *any* cost.

::craaaazy:: Sucks for the citizens of the city who aren't really involved, since the money comes out their pockets essentially, but maybe it will be a lesson at least. &gt; Sucks for the citizens of the city who aren't really involved, since the money comes out their pockets essentially

Hopefully they'll think of it as financial consequences for re-electing lawbreakers. They won't...

They will think of it as evil atheist oppressing them and swindling them out their tax dollars. Clearly they need to vote for someone even more religiously fundamentalist and sectarian.  Yay, more money for us evil atheists!  Er...more money for the lawyers I think. I'm not getting any money, are you getting money? I am from warren. To be honest 100,000 is a drop in the bucket. Warren is a very successful city and the mayor barely has any power since decisions are made by an elected board. He is just the ribbon cutter and apparently opposer of the war on Christmas.  And then blame Obama. This guy is an embarrassment, it isn't the first time the taxpayers of Warren have had to pay for his above-the-law hubris.  In December of 2013 the city had to pony up $175k + $47k in lawyer fees to settle a [whistleblower](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_R._Fouts#Mayor_of_Warren) case against him. He also looks like Heinrich Himmler. I used to live in Warren.  I didn't vote for this idiot.  By sheer coincidence, I had to move out of state shortly after he was elected.  I am very grateful I haven't had to live under his administration. Exactly, let's call it a "stop being such a fucking moron and pay attention to who you're electing tax". You elect morons, you gotta pay the price. Votes have consequences. What do you do when all (2) candidates are morons? Run for office. &gt;Run for office.

Great, now there's *three* morons.

(I keed, I keed) And for those of us without $300,000 just kinda sittin around gathering dust? You suffer. Borrow some money from your parents or sell some stocks, of course! Slow down there, Mitt. pfff, that sounds like a horrible idea.

If you weren't smart enough to have your parents set up a trust fund for you when you were born, do you really deserve to get elected? Donate to Wolf Pac?  You contemplate very long and deeply your decision, as this will be one of the people in charge of making decisions for you and your neighbors for the next couple years, then the rest of the electorate elects the dumbest most unqualified person running.  Elect stupid politicians, win stupid prizes. Trust me. As a resident of Warren, I can't wait for fouts to be gone. Have you seen the prayer station? I have. Its inside the lobby of city hall, right in front of the entrance to the library. Impossible to miss. No one has ever accosted me to pray when I'm returning my books, and I've also never seen anyone sitting there but the attendant. Its an oddity. The attendant sounds lonely. Try talking to them next time you're there. Its usually one of those babushka type women, stern/sad face, sensible nun-looking shoes, lots and lots of layers of black clothes and maybe a head covering. Not warm and approachable imo. Warren is heavily Catholic, and I already escaped their clutches once, sooooo ...... No thanks! :) Go over there pray for the removal of the prayer station.  Fuck it pray to Satan! 

Dear Satan, please make these heathens leave our city hall at your convenience. And please, have this prayer station replaced with a gargoyle fountain that shoots fire post prayer.

In Satan's name, amen. Yep. If they fined him personally, maybe he'd actually learn his lesson. [According to the wickster](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warren,_Michigan) the city has a population of 134,141. So yeah, this cost everyone in that city a buck.

It also cost the mayor a buck.

I'm not seeing any lessons that can be learned here. One of these days people will realize this shit is stupid and a waste of time and money.  No, no they won't. (But I respect your optimism) If they were good at learning they'd be atheist. But does it address the issue?

The court should instead order that the "Reason Station" be allowed at once. Something tells me they still don't understand why the government isn't allowed to endorse one religion over any others. Or they don't understand that allowing public space to be devoted to one religious thought but not another constitutes endorsing a religion. Or they don't understand either concept. In any case, they need a quick lesson from a lawyer. These are people that think the US is specifically christian country. It may be because Christianity is the most popular religion. It's the majority. Same reason why there are people that think the US is a white country.  Many, but certainly not all, Christian denominations preach that although other faiths exist, they are all worshiping false gods, (or goddesses, or learned people).  When they see the word "religion" in *any* context they automatically think of their own, and only their own.  So, to them, the First Amendment protections of religion are protections of *Christianity* and nothing else.  Some are [very surprised to discover](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/06/valarie-hodges-lawmaker-retracts-support-for-bill_n_1655249.html) that the word "religion" applies to those other beliefs equally. Not for much longer.  Are you talking about the religious aspect or the race aspect? Because Latinos are exponentially increasing in the population of the USA.  Yes. Fascinating.  I love watching the douchebags at my church squirm when I ask them to show me in mosaic law or new covenant any mention of "rights".  

The fact is, the mere presence of the bill of rights negates the idea that we are a Christian nation.  Mosaic law and Jesus's teachings revolve around covenant, not rights.  

i've gotten slick about it.  First getting them to admit that the people owe the government nothing.  That the people have naturalistic rights that include stripping the government of all it's power with a single constitutional amendment.  

Then I take them down the covenant path to trap them into admitting that YHWH/Jesus never worked on natural rights.   Exactly, they don't understand the underlying concepts. The only hope is that the monetary loss will force someone to try to explain it to them. Or it could make the people who fund them shy away from giving to people like this. &gt; Something tells me

Is it the letter from the mayor where he explicitly laid out his understanding of the "freedom of religion amendment"? It's quite clear he has never actually read the 1st Amendment, let alone any of its jurisprudence. He understands it as well as a typical 12-year-old child. &gt;Is it the letter from the mayor where he explicitly laid out his understanding of the "freedom of religion amendment"?

Yes. From the mayors comments it seems like he thinks he is in line with the law, and that he was allowing all "religions" space. He just thinks that "atheism" doesn't count as a religion under the rules, so he is free to deny atheists space.  Maybe that speaks to a broader argument a lot of seemingly educated people in his position have, atheists are fine to discriminate against (without running afoul of laws preventing religious discrimination) because they think atheists aren't religious therefore not covered.
 A lot of atheists say that too actually. "Atheism is a religion like "off" is a tv station.  Yeah, but that's a reaction to religious people saying atheism *is* a religion. Looks like they understand it isn't when it suits them. I gotta wonder if he would have been fine putting a Hindu booth in. Because so many of his type think freedom of religion means freedom of christian religions only. true.  but freedom OF religion is and should be synonymous with freedom FROM religion.

if you can endorse a religion to pass out propaganda, then you should also endorse ANY group who would pass out propaganda.  because a religion is just an idea, after all.  just as his philosophy station is about discussing ideas. &gt; In any case, they need a quick lesson from a lawyer.

That is the lesson being taught by the lawyers from FFRF, AU, and ACLU.
 &gt;Fouts told the Detroit Free Press he denied the "reason station" because he thought it would cause conflict in City Hall.

Which is precisely why we have a separation of church and state. City Hall and other governments have more important things to do. As soon as you start making it a place for religious debates, you invite conflict. One route would be to allow all religions in, but I think a secular state is a better way of avoiding this nonsense. 

Of course, to him, the conflict is a result of OTHER people wanting to espouse religious or philosophical positions in that space, not his religion.  &gt; City Hall and other governments have more important things to do.

They act as if somebody has closed down all the churches in the country and that there is no other place for prayer stations now that the churches are gone.

The same goes for nativity scenes and 10 Commandment monuments. 
 From the article, Mayor Fouts personally denied the request saying,

*Freedom from Religion is not a religion.  It has no tenets,
no place of worship and no congregation.  To my way of
thinking, your group is strictly an anti-religion group
intending to deprive all organized religions of their
constitutional freedoms or at least discourage the practice
of religion.  The City of Warren cannot allow this.*

Bet he felt pretty smug when he wrote that.  Wonder how smug he feels right about now... Indeed. And ofc, Fouts definition of religion is restricted to "Christian religions". There would have been just as much trouble from him if someone had wanted to put in a Hindu booth. "John Satawa, the man who's helped construct the display for nearly a half-decade"

Oh sorry to interrupt your life-lo...err 4 year... commitment to this project. Was looking for this comment. Here is my upvote. So they get to keep the prayer station without putting a reason station in City Hall as well? A $100,000 fine isn't good enough.  I think more religions need to step up and apply for their own stations.   $100k each.  Where are the Satanists when you need them most? I think I'll send a check to the satinists with a request. Such a random number. Why not $1,000,000 or $1,000,000,000. Clearly, $99,999.99 was a penny short of the monetary payment for the state to take the side of religious people in this debate. No, if they keep the prayer station they have to allow the reason station.  They also have pay the $100,000 either way. *"See those atheists... they're costing us $100,000!"*

-- Average town folk religious nut On the other hand, the town has just been educated that freedom of religion doesn't mean you have to belong to a religion first. Freedom of religion is actually freedom of thought. &gt; the town has just been educated

You give them too much credit. Is there any way more rulings like this could be bad in the long run? &gt; Is there any way more rulings like this could be bad in the long run?

Forcing the government to endorse every religion equally is a tactic meant to educate corrupt officials about why no endorsement at all is the superior option, but I have a bad feeling they might not understand and we'd get enough of the "coexist" types in power to completely overwhelm public institutions with insert-religion-here monuments or stations.

Right now I favor this tactical approach but I fear the possibility that it would bog the government down with excessive accomodation that shouldn't be there in the first place. So 'none' rather than 'all'. I can't disagree. Good point! Perfectly summed up. Right now it's bogging the government down with unnecessary costs based on fictional conflicts. Hopefully instead of creating an over-accommodating government it motivates people to vote for candidates that aren't going to waste their time on money fighting arbitrary personal battles. Yeah, it gives the majority ammunition to continue vilifying atheism. Does legalizing gay marriage give ammunition to those who are against it? Good point! And fear of reprisal shouldn't be a reason to not fight for equality and truth. Perhaps a more apt analogy would be legalizing gay marriage in the 1980s when homophobia was the overwhelming norm.

I believe firebrand activism like this is necessary but I don't pretend atheists would have it as easy as marriage equality activists have it today. The sea change in public attitude is still a few decades away. Actually, legal rulings on social issues *does* give the opposition something to rally around, and this is actually a concept in legal studies/political science. It happened during the 1970's with Roe v. Wade. What a lot of people don't know is that abortion wasn't even *that* big of an issue prior to the SCOTUS ruling that it should be legalized.

After the ruling, however, many religious groups mobilized and what we are left with is the current state of affairs regarding abortion.

Rulings like that provide a foundation that the opposition can build upon, and can symbolize what they are opposed to. This is why the SCOTUS has tried and tried to prevent gay marriage from getting ruled on thus far, it's expected that they will legalize it but they are afraid of the social implications of such a ruling. They have historically took the position of allowing social acceptance of an issue like gay marriage to happen organically- and *then* they can make the ruling without fear of mass opposition and becoming the enemies of millions and millions of people.

Unfortunately for gay marriage, recently two of the appeals circuits are now in disagreement about the legality of it- so they are (pretty much) forced to take the case, and have.

Edit: Sort of related, a case that demonstrates how important waiting on the salience of an issue to reach a critical mass is Plessy v. Ferguson. A large swath of people were in favor of integration between blacks and whites but not enough. The case happened too soon and set a horrible precedent that took decades to wipe out. Ok.. but the initial situation is "no gay marriage"

Returning to initial conditions is not "bad in the long run".. it's neutral in the long run. 

Since the initial condition here is "funding for religion.. no funding for atheism" then the most a rally against atheism can accomplish is a return to no funding for atheism. Which is not worse than it was originally, just the same.

 Except that it might change from "no funding for atheism due to apathy" to "no funding for atheism due to antipathy" which is demonstrably worse. 

Not saying I think we should stop,  I'm in favor of the strategy,  but it isn't quite as simple as that I think you spelled equality wrong Look, I support this as much as you do.

But the question swordstool asked was not "Is there any reason we should not support this." It was, "Is there any way more rulings like this could be bad in the long run?"

The vilification of atheism is a real problem, one worth being honest about. From what I gleaned off the internet, it seems to only be a major problem in the bible belt. The majority of americans don't completely accept atheism just yet, but this is a temporary problem, as the older more bigoted generations die off, more people accepting of atheism will be in positions to decide who is in power. Then we can put our world domination plan to fruition. LONG LIVE THE ATHEIST GOD! *gleaned My personal opinion is that rulings such as this only serve to reduce vilification of atheism - at least in the long run as it will set a legal precedent which in time will help serve to influence the public opinion. Yes, because otherwise what reasons would they have, right?  There is a reason the expression "out of sight, out of mind" exists, and rulings like this keep it in sight.  You want to give religion special privileges to save some hurt feelings, go ahead, but don't act like you're doing anything more than enabling their beliefs.

 Whenever I see this type of sentiment expresses it reminds me of an old Abbott an Costello movie. Costello has somehow found himself in a professional boxing match against, obviously, a much more formidable opponent. Somehow he manages to avoid getting knocked out in the first round by comically dancing around and avoiding punches. When he's back in the corner between rounds Abbott tells him he's got to get on the offensive and start punching the guy.

Costello's response is what reminds me of this discussion: "But I'm afraid if I do that'll make him *really* mad."

So it is with atheists standing up for themselves. Some of us are afraid that if we do, then theists will get *really* mad. Well, it's that or give up. "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win."

Mahatma Gandhi


 It's sad to see this downvoted when it's an honest direct answer to the question being asked. I don't know why some people are incapable of seeing the context of the response and immediately read all sorts of assumptions into what you said.

However, I disagree somewhat. The question originally specified "in the long run", and I think that in the *short term*, these sorts of things will continue to incite animosity toward atheists as you've said. In the long run, however, I believe they will eventually be seen as an appropriate response. I get what you're saying here in that some of the backers of this probably anticipated the reaction and fine, and actually use it to energize their base. It's commonly thought that Roe v. Wade really pushed the pro-life camp into overdrive and is what caused them to take up the issue with renewed vigor and push all manner of limitations in state and local law to chip away at the Roe decision (look at where we are now with abortion). 

This isn't to say that atheists should just "grin and bear it" when these clear transgressions take place, but I do think it's pretty clear that a lot of these "religious favoritism" acts are intentionally instigated to draw a "humanist response" and allow them to rally the troops. We need a Satanic station on the other side too. Warren resident here. I truly can't wait until fouts is gone. Suggestion: everyone donate a few bucks to the ACLU and/or FFRF in Jimmah's name and let him know about it via Twitter.  Remember to thank him for reminding us of how important they are!

Edit: #fuckyoujim I could not agree more. Everyone should be a member of the FFRF. It's only like $40/year. Why can't people find their own, not publicly funded space to set up whatever booths, dioramas, orgies, blood letting stations their hearts desire? There isn't enough space in City Hall to represent every belief, so let's save some money, skip the bullshit, and reserve government space for governing.  You can hear Douglas Marshall's perspective regarding this topic via FFRF's March 3, 2015 podcast.

[FFRF Podcast](http://ffrf.libsyn.com/time-to-fight-religion) Thanks for the link! "Victorious because all this horse shit is being paid for by the citizens of Warren so my petty pride doesn't give a shit" - what Fouts really means.

What a prick. Keep religion out of public spaces and off public property. It's not that hard! We'll see how much of a victory he sees this as when the Satanic Temple booth opens up. Just rip out the prayer station and leave a sign explaining the separation of church an state, tell this fucker to go fuck himself.  LOL! I might accept that instead of the money! As a jew this really pisses me off my people aren't represented. I demand a "food station" with a jewish mom giving out delicious homemade meals.  I think we'd be better off if all these kind of stations were food stations. 

Some gefelte fish *here*, a nice fried rice *there*..  Now please someone in this town ask the city to open a prayer station for Satan, and someone else ask for a prayer station for the FSM, and someone else for cthulu(sp?) and and and

I wonder how long it takes until the town and the major get the message There is no intelligence test required to become mayor.  He is clear proof of that. They should have fought for a Pasta Station.

People could make pasta with meatballs and cover them in delicious marinara sauce.

NOT... in pesto sauce like those heretics in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Anoint Him with Olive Oil !!

Ramen. Agreed, NO PESTO! No pesto? BLASHPHEMY! 

*pew pew pew*  Should be $100,000 per day until either the prayer station is gone, or the reason station is built.   It should not come out of taxpayer money, it should come directly out of the mayor's own pocket. This fine should be levelled against the mayor personally.  A really classy move would be if the guy who won the suit takes the money and very publicly donates it to a worthy charity.  Like maybe the local Food Bank.  That would make a hell of a big splash for them to get a 100k donation. If they get the money they should invest it back into schools &gt; That would send a nice message.  Garbage.  This implies that atheism is on par with Christianity or any other magic club.

The law suit should have been to remove it altogether. Well, I'm depressed and I want an unhappy station. I'm also a fallen away Catholic/Atheist and I want a deindoctrination station, because even though I'm not religious anymore, I still think I'm going to Hell. I would also like to see an Anarchy station because learning how to live in a cooperative society, without so many rules would be formidable but may negate the "reason station." I can't be the only one who was confused why Warren Buffett has to pay $100,000 after reading the headline...  I thought the same thing as I posted it!  Wait till they see my Islam Station.  I look at this persons face and see the last face someone being burned at the stake for witchcraft sees sneering back at them as they burn to death.

Pure unadulterated evil. I still want my Spaghetti Station &gt;... the man who's helped construct the display for nearly a half-decade...

Anyone else think this is not a significant amount of time when you're talking about an annual event? Indeed. We're talking about 4 years here right? LOL I noticed that too. Almost seemed like an author's bias to try and make the time sound significant. For a quarter of a decade! haha I lived near Warren and Jim Fouts (the mayor mentioned here) was my high school government teacher back when he was a council member.

He used to bring in people from the far right and moderate left (in the USA they would be considered far left) to show us the difference. Students would be crying and angry after the right wingers spoke (they usually said racist, sexist, and quite villanous things) and they would be charged to vote after the leftys spoke. The difference was very clear to students. He did the same for a separate talk on abortion with most female students becoming pro-life afterward and again... tears.

He used to make it a requirement to visit city council meetings like 6 times or something. The result was the council chambers would be full of students (all supporting him) and his opponents would be angry as hell.

 ...

3 ideas to fuck with this. 

1. Invite the church of satan to host specific prayer meetings at the christian prayer station. Complete with satanic mass and all. Bring a camera and a bucket of popcorn. 
Repeat bi weekly with a new religion. I would love to se what a vodoo prayer station looks like. 

2. Go to some old as muslims. you kno, the really old ass muslims, that barely speak english. Pay them to teach you the dark secrets of the ullulation ( https://www.youtube.com/watch?list=PLB7770355C66C6E9B&amp;v=Md7OvU5JIcI&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=0 for those not in the know. ). It is a valid method of expressing joy, grief, or just announcing that you are here. So, you can reasonably argue that you should be allowed to pray like that at the prayer station. See if you can get some friends to join in. I hear these ol buildings have great accoustic. 

3. Aquire 50 nicely dressed people. Ask kindly if the local cult of baccus can pray here. Show those closet freaks what a baccernalia is. 

Or, of course, you are perfectly free to just have a seat, and go, i'm an atheist, before you take out your smartphone and use the free wifi to play your favorite mobile game. 

Or, join the John Frum movement, or the Prince Phillip movement. I can think of how worshipping random american soldiers or british royalty as divine beings may just be the bit of absurdity this debate needs.

But yea. I think at times like this, atheists and those people that follow a religion just because it is awesome to see the horrified looks on peoples faces that do not follow that religion have to work together to overcome ugly tomfoolery. 

May the divine being, if it exists and feels responsible for you, offer you a tasty treat of your dietary preference, and may you live long and prosper and retain the ability to laugh about yourself till a high age.  Why is atheism a "faith" when people argue against it ("Atheists have faith in science/nothing/spaghetti!") but not a faith when you bring up freedom of religion to those same people? Not a bad question.

It's not a faith. Neither is humanism. 

Unfortunately the law works in such a way that if you want the same rights as is afforded to religions then often you have to class yourself as a religion as well, in a legal sense. Otherwise an entirely new law has to be made and it is just easier to change a law to also encompass those of different faith or belief or ideology than to make a new law. 

So it is a legal construction which allows people who are not Christian to have the same rights and privileges as Christians enjoy. It doesn't make atheism or humanism a religion in reality.  Cognitive Dissonance.  They mayor is an idiot.  No one was saying he could't have a prayer station or the fucking nativity scene.  It was a fight for equality, not dismissal of his precious christianity. Aww i live in warren. Would have totally checked this out Good lord, why does this guy look like he's been embalmed already? I demand a station commemorating the rock group Steel Panther! This city is poor enough without having to pay a tax for being stupid.  Hey! I'm from (and live) in Warren! What does one do in a reason station? And don't say "reason." Ahh, my city taxes at work. Fuckin pricks threaten me with a $1000 fine if my grass gets 1mm too long. Nevermind the crackhouse next door, the crackhouse across the street, the crackhouse they tried setting up inside my house. My god damn grass is going to blight the neighborhood! Well, no, they shouldn't get to get away with a fine, especially since tax-free churches can just take up donations from their flock to offset the costs.  They shouldn't be allowed to do this, straight up. That looks like Christopher Guest... are we sure this is real? /s This is one of the reasons why god always needs money. YEAAAAAA WARREN, MI FOREVERRRR So does the city pay 100,000 and then have to allow the station, or is it a one or the other type thing? I think he gets the money AND the permission to put up the station. he shouldn't pay shit he should lose his position in government
 Didn't cost him a dime --- it was the residents of his city who are the losers. partially my point Wait, is the fine against his person or office?  Kinda shitty for the tax payer to pay a $100,000 fine for an asshole trying to force his personal beliefs on the public. Religious nuts in power means you will never progress. Equal representation for non-religious NOW! Yes, equal representation for ALL!  &gt;for nearly a half-decade

"4 years", why all the extra words and deception. &gt;  The Warren Road Commission, after receiving a letter from the organization saying an anonymous resident was offended by the Christian decoration, ordered John Satawa, the man who's helped construct the display for nearly a half-decade, take it down.

So, a cherished and ancient tradition was ruined, stretching all the way back to 2012, or possibly even as far back as the halcyon epoch of 2011?

The paragraphs makes it sound like John Satawa spent almost 4 years *building* the nativity scene, rather than the apparent meaning that he was hired to ~~build~~assemble it in 3 prior years. Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/7FsQhRo.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Dude, that's awesome! You are getting Gold my friend!  I bet the bot is going *squee* in it's CPU :) " Freedom from Religion is not a religion.  It has no tenets,
no place of worship and no congregation.  

To my way of
thinking, your group is strictly an anti-religion group
intending to deprive all organized religions of their
constitutional freedoms or at least discourage the practice
of religion.  

The City of Warren cannot allow this."

Hahahaha...pay up Warren, you stew pot of unAmerican hypocrites. 
 Stories like this always make me want to hear what believers have to say about it but usually /r/atheism is the only subreddit that has a thread for it. I'm not interested in the good feels we have here, I want the tears and anger of believers. Wow... So you're not interested in promoting equality or getting rid of corruption that comes with using personal beliefs in decision making... You're interested in trying to provoke "tears and anger of believers." How far would you go to do so? Honestly... You're the type of person that gives atheism a bad name. HA! Don't overthink this. Government needs to be impartial, and in cases where it has *obviously* been captured by a special interest this sort of thing should happen. 

It would be *equally shitty* had the situation been reversed and any "superstitious displays" been banned while earnest promotions of "reason" were put up "as a public service."



 Reason isn't a religion. Not when people behave reasonably. However, seeing how badly you missed the point there... perhaps it's best if government leaves reasoning to the reasonable and concentrates on making the line at the DMV shorter. Yep, nothing to do with god Religion isn't defined by "having to do with god".  It's defined by ritual, cultural bans and geasa, usually pertaining to non-evidential speculation, but not exclusively. A "half-decade" is not a unit of time.

half a decade. Both are acceptable as far as I can tell. Where is this official unit of time list you are using so I can pass it along to all the journalists who use "half-decade" all the time. &gt; nearly a half-decade 

So like 4 Christmases.  Why are either of these stations there?  Or why was the christian one there first? I'm sure that town has lots of churches, so why put more religious stuff in a city building? Because it makes the mayor look like a man of God that's why, and is sure to keep getting him votes. Good. It's good to see large companies are standing up against allowing discrimination. If the lost income to the state doesn't do the trick, then the thousands of pissed off voters will. Indiana forgot the rule: Don't fuck with the money.  Indiana forgot the other rule too: Corporations can be more powerful than the government. Indiana forgot that one other rule too: Don't be dicks to each other. I believe the rule is "be excellent to each other."  I thought it was "san dimas highschool football rules!"? That's the new one that they bought in around the mid-fifties because of the soviets or some shit. Though shalt not be-eth a cunt to thine neighbor. Can be? I'd like to see a death match between Radio Shack and the government of Burkina Faso.  Loser has to run Burkina Faso. I would watch that. Someone do that. Before selling you these batteries, I will need your home address, postal code and phone number... Me: What's the zip here?  
Salesman: 12345  
Me: My zip is 12345...phone number is...867-5309 12345?  That sounds like the combination an idiot would have on his luggage! I will always upvote Spaceballs Someone change the number on my  luggage. SUCK SUCK SUCK! I've got your number now, Jenny.  I'm going to make you mine.  I never realized how creepy and neckbeardy the lyrics to that song really are until just now... &gt; 12345

 That's Schenectady, NY zip, and your area code is 518. I LIVE WHERE YOU LIVE Schenectady is my fill in swear word when I'm around children.  Specifically, that's General Electric. Nobody else. OK, Woody. MTV celebrity deathmatch please Wouldn't the loser be dead? Well they would have to run Burkina Faso, so essentially dead. How about BP vs. Texas? It's important to remember government actually gives the power to corporations in the first place. Take high fructose corn syrup, for example. The only reason food producers use it is because it's cheaper than sugar. However, it's cheaper because of a protectionist trade policy which limits the amount of sugar we're allowed to import, which obviously raises the price by decreasing supply. Additionally, government subsidies for the corn industry drive the price of corn products such as HFC to artificially low levels. This was done by the government in the name of "protecting American jobs". Incidentally, many of those corn industry jobs just happen to be in the same state where the first and arguably most important primary election takes place (Iowa), and many of the sugar industry jobs happen to be in one of the most important "swing states" (Florida)  which I wouldn't exactly chalk up to coincidence. So in order to benefit people who work in the sugar and corn industries, we ended up with this wildly perverse outcome where all Americans loose with food that is very likely less healthy and higher prices for anything which still contains real sugar. In Mexico, where no sugar quota exists, sugar is still cheaper, which is why Coca-Cola made in Mexico is still made with real sugar.

If we were to take away the government's power to provide subsidies and special treatment to corporations, corporations would have far less incentive to lobby and finance campaigns. It's a vicious cycle we've created, but corporations are simply doing precisely what our system has incentivized them to do. There is nothing like Mexican 7 Up when sick,  let me tell you.  Easy to get here thankfully.  No kidding. I'm surrounded by Latin groceries and only drink the Mexican sodas. They taste crisper, more refreshing, and not as thick or sticky. It is a huge difference,  no comparison.  Tastes like childhood.  I can't see how many upvotes you have [what with the whole score hiding thing], but however many it may be, it's not enough. This is 100% spot-on. Well firestone isnt pressuring the government anytime soon Great reason to bail on Indiana. They may just... Is, son. That is correct. Not all corporations are more powerful than governments, and even then those that are aren't in all aspects. Hence they said "can be", not "are". You talk as if they're two different entities.  Thought they are the same thing.  To be fair, as a Hoosier, Mike Pence forgot. He's pissed off and shamed plenty of Hoosiers. I didn't vote for his conservative ass, that's for sure. I know a lot who didn't, I didn't, and the rest just didn't vote at all. Thanks fellow Hoosiers. Look where that got us. The only good thing I have to say about him is that he took care of an insurance issue when I sent him a letter of bad faith against Anthem for not paying a valid claim for 3 years. Other than that, I've got nothing. As a resident of Phoenix, I always thought the rule was "don't be like Arizona." But thank you Indiana for taking the focus off us for a little while. I'm sure by the end of next week a legislator will bring up a bill to require preschool teachers to carry guns and check the kids residency status. And we will be right back on top. Didn't Janet Brewer veto this same crap when it came across her desk? I swear she is the only republican governor to not have screwed her state when it came to the ACA and this discriminatory shit.  It won't to the people. The reason is that, the ones supporting religious discrimination are generally hardcore Christians. And these are the people that seem to suffer most from the "Christians being persecuted". To them, every new difficulty, every new obstacle is another step in their achieving martyrdom and being more "christlike".

But what might work is if we can plug the money businesses pay to politicians running for reelection in this state. If those businesses can say no to religious discrimination, it might work.  The entire state can't be fundamentalists. Once enough people lose jobs or businesses suffer, then hopefully the rest of Indiana will put their fundamentalist in the corner where they belong. &gt; The entire state can't be fundamentalists.

[We aren't.](http://i.imgur.com/MVSp8Pz.jpg) There are some [pretty interesting correlations](http://www.psmag.com/books-and-culture/atheism-linked-economic-innovation-productivity-75669) between economic well-being and religiosity. Conservatives said exactly the same thing when Magpul left Colorado.

The truth is, the voters of Indiana are not going to reconsider their beliefs for one second over this.

If anything they're going to say "Good, gay-loving companies are not welcome here anyway - this law is working out even better than I thought!"

If the economy does suffer, they'll just seem themselves as noble martyrs making a necessary sacrifice for which God will reward them.  You're right this isn't going to make some homophobic church goer rethink all of there beliefs. But things like this will help galvanize and engage people in the state who are sympathetic to the cause but were perhaps somewhat apathetic about this issue in the past. There's a lot of people who support LGBTQ rights but don't take any political action whatsoever. They don't vote on it, they don't care if there representatives support it. They care more about other issues. But now with these companies leaving it effects them directly. 

People never seem to realize that the purpose of debate and dissenting isn't to "convert" the radical on the other side. It's to win the hearts and minds of the people who are undecided on a particular issue or apathetic about a particular issue. You're trying to win the middle. Having this religious law effect people in the middle directly is really helpful in working towards ending this bigotry.  At this point what they think doesn't matter. Fundamentalist have decided they are going to stand in the way of progress. So, the solution seems to be that they need to lose all resources that allow them to stand in the way. the main one is money. Any fundamentalist companies and/or organizations should be boycotted. If they can't keep their lights on, they won't have time to be bigots and homophobes. They'll have larger issues to worry about and the adult world can move on and start dealing with real issues. And then they'll beg for Obamacare, but they'll call it something else. [deleted] I think the key to your statement is "voters of Indiana" - we just have to hope that future voters take note of what's happened and how bad it is for their state, and outnumber the religious fundies that currently are a majority of their current voting population. I think something like only 30% voted for Governor last election, a number that can easily be beat.  Fine then. They can be their own small community of gay-hating poor folk living in a shattered economy, while everyone else moves out of the state. Perhaps this law is just a way to drive out the remaining blue from Indiana and color it a solid red?  With the progressives leaving in droves now, Indiana will never be a swing state again. Doesn't matter. Once Texas goes blue the Republican Party will be forced to step back their bullshit.  Is that actually forecast to happen though? I think it was a 1.2mil voter difference in the last election. It's certainly been blue before, but I don't feel like it'll ever truly go blue. One word: Latinos Unless the Republicans can come up with an immigration plan that isn't just "Mexicans GTFO", you are absolutely right.  All it takes is one generation for people to go from "I came here and see the plight of my brothers" to "My parents came here legally, not like those no good illegals."  Yes, it actually is predicted. It just isn't any time soon. Somewhere around 2020-2030.

 It's going to turn a lot of people against the Republicans with lost jobs being on the agenda and it being such a tremendously unpopular law. The rural areas are already voting Republican. Turning the urban areas more blue is a shot in their own feet.  You give the people of Indiana too much credit. 
 [We're not all assholes.](http://i.imgur.com/MVSp8Pz.jpg) Whoa.  Come to Cleveland, it's kind of been getting better here! We're not Detroit!  I like the message, really. It says "Bigoted voters, you might want to vote for people that pass bigoted laws because you might agree with these laws. And maybe these people will pass these laws even if they drive the state down to the ground, because they'll be happy as long as they get elected. But you don't want that. You don't want to live in a shitty state, even if it follows your bigoted ideals. So stop voting for bigots, or at least stop voting for stupid bigots." &gt; then the thousands of pissed off voters will.

Nah. They'll just blame Obama and libruls. This is precisely why I support the "Religious Freedom" law. Go ahead and be an asshole bigot, see where it gets you. There are problems with that in rural areas where there is only 1 option for certain services.  In a bigger city those business can be killed off easily and people have many options so the inconvenience is fairly low.

 I hope people remember in November 2016 when they go to the polls.  Pence is up for re-election. Good for Angie's List. But calling the law "anti-gay" is disingenuous. It's exactly as "anti-Christian" as it is "anti-gay". See other posts on Reddit today for proof. 

This law is a GOOD thing. It had to happen somewhere for everyone to understand its impact, at least it's happening somewhere with fellow atheists.  Hey, look republicans... it's the unrestricted free market in action. Enjoying the irony. politicians only "love" the "free market" when it's a talking point or when it's convenient to them.  otherwise, it's an empty phrase; much like "love thy neighbor" is to a lot of conservative christian/republicans. love thy neighbor*


*neighbor must be white, wealthy, christian, healthy and popular or a fetus Don't forget straight. No icky gay people! Terms and Conditions may apply. Definition of "love" subject to change without warning and at the sole discretion of Christian.  Hoosiers don't get to enjoy the irony, it fucking sucks. Fuck Governor Pence, I've lived in Indianapolis for my entire 19 year old life, and for the first time ever I am ashamed to be a Hoosier. No one here that I've talked to, Republican or Democrat, Christian or Atheist or anything else, not one single person agrees with this bill, all its done is alienate Indiana as a place of hate and discrimination when in reality Indianapolis and *most* of Indiana is one of the friendliest, cheapest, and lovely places to live.Because of this blowhard we are losing money, GenCon is threatening leaving, nearly every major employer in the state has spoken against it, the Pacers and NBA have spoken against it, what the fuck has this bill done to help anyone? Its trying to fix a problem that *never* existed, all it does is hurt business for no reason and discriminate against people who can't control who they are, fuck Mike Pence bring Mitch Daniels back, I didn't always agree with Governor Daniels but at least he was a good man with the common sense that clearly our current Governor lacks, for fucks sake the Mayor of Indianapolis is calling Pence out on this, and yet he still thinks this is a positive thing for the state.I love this state and the people here, I am a Hoosier and I always will be no matter where I live. Please don't take this bill as the opinion of this wonderful state, we are all just as angry as you are and wish it was gone.So yeah, *fuck Mike Pence*. But in this particular example, the Angies list CEO is a Republican.  So they all aren't bat shit crazy. Conclusion doesn't necessarily follow from the premise. The republican party is an odd coalition of groups the business side generally isn't concerned with promoting Christianity,  Muslim or atheist money it's worth just as much to them.  But, the religious right is useful to support their policies.  If the religious right threatens their profits they will turn on the religious.  And a bit less cynically some business leaders are greedy but at the same time support gay rights. &gt;it's the unrestricted free market in action.

Yes, but not in the way it seems. Angie's List has been in business for 18 years and has never turned a profit. They are entirely dependent on debt to fund operations. Other companies offer the same product for free. I don't know where Angie's List was getting the $40 million, and I don't know why they needed 1000 new employees...but I think this is a convenient coincidence for a company whose reach exceeded their grasp.  Twitter, Snapchat, and Reddit have also barely turned a profit if at all yet they have money for spending.  Don't forget Amazon And the NFL is a proud non-profit organisation.  The NFL as an organization is non-profit.  The teams are all their own enterprises who do make profits.  It's a weird structure. It definitely is. I was just pointing out that not all non-profits are broke. Thanks for the clarification Wiz.  And non-profit doesn't mean there is no "profit", they just don't treat it as such and it is "reinvested" into the organization, rather than distributed to shareholders.

There's a lot of non-profits, like the NFL and Red Cross, with CEOs and other employees that are paid millions and millions. They make $70-80 mil in revenue a quarter. If they are always reinvesting it may not look like they make a profit but it doesn't mean they can't reallocate a little marketing money for a few months and open a new branch. I've never heard any of my customers mention Angie's List. I hear yelp and sometimes google and yahoo (customer ratings)   all the time though. 

How the hell do they have enough to even contemplate a $40 million building? LOL, aint nuthin but the truth brother. Not OP's fault, but that title does not english. The subtitle makes much more sense: "Popular local business review and search site Angie's List is canceling its expansion plans in response to Indiana's 'religious freedom' law."

Also good on Angie's List for doing something about the law.
 Yeah, that title was hard to read.  Understatement ^^Yeah,thattitlewashardtoread. Yoda level journalism. Meh, put a comma after million, get rid of the s in jobs and it's perfectly correct grammatically. 

I've seen much worse.  but it wasnt too hard to comprehend.  /r/titlegore Yeah, I was really confused until I actually read the article. I'm glad I'm not the only one.  /r/titlegore It continues to amaze me how often these are real I'm glad I'm not the only one who had trouble reading this. I thought I was having a stroke. Probably doesn't Engrish too well Don't mean English language not everyone.  Its quite repulsive the way people try to use their religion as a means to inflict discrimination. Why do people of a particular faith hold this notion that they are exempt from basic human right laws? Should we start creating laws that unless you are American companies have the right to not hire you?

Thankfully there are companies out there that are willing to stand up against bigotry.  As Barry Goldwater once said

&gt;The religious factions will go on imposing their will on others, unless the decent people connected to them recognize that religion has no place in public policy.  They must learn to make their views known without trying to make their views the only alternatives. . .  We have succeeded for 205 years in keeping the affairs of state separate from the uncompromising idealism of religious groups and we mustn't stop now. "To retreat from that separation would violate the principles of conservatism and the values upon which the framers built this democratic republic." For those too young to know, Barry Goldwater's nickname was "Mr. Conservative" back in the day. He was THE conservative of his time and ironically would be considered heretically liberal (on many points) by the standards of today's Conservative Right. He came from a time when Conservatives weren't raving lunatic extremists and the Right was able to compromise and be reasonable. Because they feel they have the backing of the "one true" god, and if you follow that god and its will, then fuck you, you're wrong.  Angie's List seems like a terrible service, but good for them Yeah  it's actually not bad and helps you balance out other reviews online. I know I take the time to leave honest reviews of people I use on Angie's list. Especially people that don't have many reviews like a carpenter who did an amazing job in my house and had zero reviews. I left pictures and comments about how great he did.  Yep. Pay them monthly for good reviews and if you stop the payments you get bad reviews is what I always hear from people that have used it.  You sure that's Angie's List and not Yelp? I've heard that about Yelp a lot. I always thought since Angie's List charged people to use it, then it would avoid needing businesses to pay it for good reviews. Angie's List billed themselves as incorruptible because they ran on membership fees from consumers and didn't take advertising dollars from businesses.
They changed their tune a couple years ago when they were failing to turn a profit.

This is the 2nd lawsuit I've seen, and I've heard a steady stream of similar yelp-like complaints from businesses.
http://www.phillymag.com/news/2015/03/26/angies-list-class-action-lawsuit/ I did not know that. I don't even use Angie's List, I just assumed they were clean because of the membership fee thing. Until news broke of this lawsuit I didn't either. They've been around since 1995 and have never turned a profit.  They lost $32 million last year alone.  How are they still in business?  I think Angie's List did post a profit this last quarter... And apparently Amazon hasn't ever turned a profit.. So it's not really a great judge of success. Pouring revenue into advertising eats at profits, and supposedly that's what Angie's list has been doing.

Angie's list provides a lot of jobs, and were looking to add a lot more, in addition to further improvements to a formerly run down area of town.

I have some seriously mixed feelings about them. If they're scamming businesses for good reviews I'd like to see an end to that, but losing them would definitely be to the city's detriment. That's yelp.  How are you liking that new Blues Travler/303 song? What's this about 311? What's this about 911? Apparently it's Angie's list too.
http://www.phillymag.com/news/2015/03/26/angies-list-class-action-lawsuit/ I have never heard this about angieslist. We recently bought a house so we signed up for a year. It was like $8. So far we used 3 different businesses and they were fine. The reviews seemed real. No one sentence bullshit. 2 paragraph reviews with details and prices. I'm happy.  What a time to be alive. Our president is black and the CEO of the largest company, Apple, is gay.  i live in indianapolis, as much as i would like them to actually be pulling out because of the RFRA, most likely they are using it as a scapegoat.  they have been trying to get the funds to do the expansion and havent been able to for quite some time. they were trying to get all kinds of tax breaks and funding, but they are a sinking ship, and a blight on the near eastside. but im glad they are at least using the fact that they are a failing company to hopefully do some good by claiming the RFRA as the reason they wont be expanding. Angies list is a ripoff,  worse than the BBB or all the newer cruddy ratings sites that charge for ratings.  

I don't care where they are based,  they suck.  I have never had a problem with it. The reviews were detailed and included prices that matched up with estimates offered. I keep seeing this being said but it seems to be very anecdotal. I haven't seen a legit reason this is being said about them.  Just another example of the gay agenda terrorizing poor Christians who just want their freedom to be bigots without other people calling them bigots. &gt; without other people calling them bigots.

Don't you mean, "without violence/force of the state being used against them?" which is what the law actually does? I find this pretty interesting considering some of the criticism that Angie's List has taken in the past for being so politically conservative. The market has spoken, bitches.  Is this the time to point out the one of my news stations said 20 other states have laws like this and a "few more" are considering them?
 Adding to the federal version of the law.  The states are passing these laws because the Supreme Court said the federal law can't be applied in state matters.  Also, the federal version of the law was signed by none other than Mr. Clinton.   The states are passing these laws to make sure Christians are allowed to discriminate. It's literally the exact opposite purpose of the original law (which was to attempt to protect the religious rights of the minority religious, like Muslims). 

Clinton passed his version in '93, it was found unconstitutional in '97 (rightfully so). 
The fact that we're seeing it pop up almost twenty years later now, is clear to see. 

Arguing that it is the same as one Clinton passed 22 years ago is a thinly veiled attempt at pretending it's not specifically to allow discrimination.  First the gays caused God to send hurricane Katrina, then the started damaging the sanctity of marriage, now they are harming the economy.  Don't they ever consider the consequences of their actions. /s Sorry, I couldn't hear the consequences over the sound of all the gay sex I'm swimming in To those posting with an axe to grind about Angies list, there are many places to do it, this post is not one of them. 


The entire point here is that some companies are finally standing up to these politicians who cater to Christian privilege. 


We cant truly be the Land of the Free, until all citizens are treated equally regardless of the beliefs of the majority.


If you don't stand up for the rights of unpopular beliefs then one day your beliefs, popular in the past, may be stripped away. Freedom is protecting the minority from the majority. Freedom is those who have a right, fighting for those who do not yet have it. If you are not willing to fight for all people to have the rights you have, then one day those rights may be taken away from you.


As Henry Rollins said:

&gt;You always know the mark of a coward. A coward stands behind freedom. A brave person stands in front of freedom and defends it for others.
 I find it funny how certain businesses want to refuse service to those they view as "sinners", and churches (probably the ones these same business folks attend) will take any and every dollar any "sinner" is willing to part with. This is sort of like having economic sanctions on a foreign country. I'd hate to be that bigoted prick of a governor right now. Or ever, really. TIL that Angie's list is a $40 million 1000+ person company.   Indy resident here. It's too bad the economic impact this bill has had so far almost exclusively affects Indianapolis and not the small, backwards communities in rural Indiana that are actually responsible for electing these idiots. I appreciate the message, but it's hurting the wrong people. If you talk to the people in rural PA, they will tell you how much they hate it that the "liberals" in Pittsburgh/Philly control the state, come voting time. 
  
Same with Illinois/Chicago. Same with Washington/Seattle. And on and on. 
 
If you live there, you know better than I do. However, what you're saying usually don't happen in other states.   What you said.  Indianapolis is already an oasis of blue in this red state.
 I'd love to see Apple pull out of Indiana. Close all stores etc. Great news. good for them, move to a new state completely. Now all we need is for Andrew Luck to ask for a trade. I know it's never gonna happen, but a man can dream, right?  haha. It's weird to think if Luck did request a trade because of this, it would cause a huge ruckus. The nfl should move the combine out of Indianapolis.  http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/indianas-religious-freedom-restoration-act-explained_900641.html?page=1 I am having trouble comprehending this title.  Could the title of this post be any more convoluted?  At least make it coherent please. More of this needs to happen. Money talks.  The title of this post is maddeningly incomprehensible. How's that bigotry bill working out for you Indiana? I wrote governor Mike Pence a letter asking him to reconsider. He refused. So he just signed a bill that will never allow him to be President. I'm glad. Theres a lot of misinformation in here, upvoted right to the top. Angie's List was in the process of asking Indiana for 18 million tax payer dollars for a bailout. They do not make profit, have stupid business practices, and fire people in droves. They were getting killed in the local press for asking for tax payer money, this was just a convient way they could get out of it and reap some good karma. They 100% are extremely Republican, and lobby Republicans all the time. Dont fucking give them credit for this. Really, as a Indianapolis resident them cancelling their plans is the one brightside to this bill. 
 I'd be wary of Angie's List actually going through with this. They are fairly right wing and cynical about these things.

http://m.huffpost.com/us/entry/1523842 They were too broke to build anyway, so its just free social points to cover their failed expansion. No big deal, the losses will be countered by all those businesses moving into the state because they will finally be free to discriminate the way they have always wanted. Right?  Right guys? Anyone? No?  Yeah i'll move their and set up an anti god shop. When it is vandalised i'll use the TPP to sue the country for lose of profits. and become a millionaire without actually doing anything apart from sign some paper work and shove a sign up saying "Anti straight, Anti god bakery opening soon" Will the homophobes and bigots come to the rescue for Indiana like they did for Chic-fil-a? And foolish me, I thought we'd resolved who can sit at the lunch counter, the front of the bus, and use the good drinking fountain back in the 1960s.  speak up with your dollars! More Conservative job creation in action! Their staff will earn $40,000. 

I'll do that...  That sucks about the Jobs but it's good they can make a statement like that.  Didn't Angie's List just get in a bunch of trouble for taking reviews? Like got fined a lot I think? If that's the case they might be using this as a scapegoat for their canceling which makes them just as crummy as the state of Indiana What the fuck is this title trying to say? angie's list cancels their 40 million $ (thats 40k per job), 1000 job expansion in indiana over their new anti gay "religious freedom" law I had no idea Angie's list was that big of a company. Pile it on y'all, that bullshit needs a repeal ASAP. How does that sentence make sense. "including the world's largest and most-respected corporation, Apple, Inc."

Lolwat? Isn't Angie's List a paid version of yelp. Don't know how they even have the $40 million dollars to build the headquarters or why they need 1000 employees. Good on them for fighting discrimination though Damnit, I'm moving to indianapolis for my wife's job and now all these companies are leaving! Fuck you Mitch! Angie's list is big enough to pluck down 40 mil? This is misleading.  Angies List was asking the city for millions in tax money help.  The company has never been profitable and there was huge opposition to it.  IMO this is a PR move by Angies List because they weren't getting the money and probably moving elsewhere anyway.  This is the worst title I've ever seen. Indiana can have all the Jesus they want to eat now. Angie's list is actually a useless service that's never made money and its stock price is at an all time low and going lower. This was just the excuse they needed to not burn more cash. Angie's List is likely going to be bankrupt within a few years.  This makes me want to go there and dress "gay" and sue after they refuse service to me and I show pictures of my wife and daughter. Yeah, I always wondered how these jerks single out Teh Gayz. Do they rely on their internal gaydar, or do they actually ask about their customers sex lives??  

If I appear to be a lesbian, do they just ask me to leave?  Could I then sue them by proving that I'm straight?  

Also, can they now legally discriminate against unwed parents, people of other (or no) religions, women who cut their hair, divorced people, or those who masturbate?? Those are all prohibited by the Christian Bible, too.

Bigotry, ignorance, and unethical behavior aside,  the entire thing seems rife with legal complications. Indiana will lose more money.  And in the end, that's what everyone believes in. And they were first to start advertising again on Rush Limbaugh's radio show after the Sandra Fluke scandal. Title gore I wish more definitive consequences were being given by business just like this, rather than just threats. Need to make them really feel the pain so others don't try to emulate Angie's List wanted major money from Indianapolis to expand there.  Then this bill was passed and they said to hell with it. As much as I can't stand Angie's List (you can find sites that do the same thing for free) I applaud the move.

But, this is also the same company that supports Rush Limbaugh (more because of the CEO, not Angie herself who's basically just a figurehead).  So, it's a tad hypocritical that a company who supports one of the most homophobic public figures gets angry about an anti gay law. Good, this is what happens when the rest of the country/world is  moving forwards (mostly), while you decide to take a leap backwards. Well done yelp for old people! The GOP ladies and gentlemen. Always putting a state's economy first /s Indiana, the redneck state of the North.  Thanks Pence (and legislators voting for this bill) for making us all pariahs over "religious freedom" (which is basically code for making it easy for people to keep hating on LGBTs now that the state has to recognize them as, you know, people when it comes to marriage equality).  *sigh* Every business you enter. Asked them if they serve everyone. If the answer is no turn around and walk out without saying another word. Even though I have little respect for Angies List, I have no respect for business owners that would turn away business for the magical man who may or may not live in the sky. So good on them, I guess The registered voters of Indiana brought this upon themselves.  
If they choose to have a christian Taliban govern their state, so be it. Unless there is a lot of jerrymandering of districts in Indiana.  Then the voters are blameless because the deck is stacked against them. While Indiana is definitely gerrymandered, we only had 30% turnout in the last election - the lowest in state history. That's a problem no matter how you're districted. Less blame, but not blameless.  
You can still have an effect. 
I live in a Florida district that is super republican.  
In the end that just means everyone registers republican and you have to pay attention to the candidate to see what they really are.  

Or you know, you could try changing people's minds in your community.  It does happen.  If jerrymandering led to this, the registered voters of Indiana placed those elected representatives in the position to jerrymander in the first place.  Nothing short of modern day Jim Crowe laws that will be upheld by the christian Taliban members of the Supreme Court. First off, it's gerrymandering. Secondly, you're an asshole. When I lived in Indiana, I voted Democrat. Does that mean I'm responsible for shitty Republicans in office? You'll find something that Indy, Bloomington, and Gary all have a strong Democrat voting base, but it doesn't do shit when it comes to state elections. Hell, even the Republican mayor of Indy is against this law.  I stopped reading at 'you're and asshole'.  Says alot more about you then it does me. Make you feel better about yourself by chance?  OH, and you still live in a shithole christian bigoted state.   BTW, Indiana needs to change it's license plates to read Indiana - the Hate State. Lumping voters who are against this (and the thousands of registered voters currently protesting in Indiana) in with Pence and his lot in any way seems unfair. How did I 'lump' in votes.  I ref. registered voters.  It is assumed that those elected representatives that drafted and supported these bills were elected by a majority of registered voters, that is how elections work.  Those who did not vote for these individuals and/or protesting the law I have empathy for them, gotta suck living in a shithole state governed by christian bigots. Even with the new law wouldn't it only be a tiny handful of businesses that turn away gays? You'd think most business owners are happy for any business they can get and don't want to give up money just because of someone's sexual orientation. I actually think Christians will still sell cakes to whoever, they simply will not deliver them (or top them). Yeah I mean in any large company that has shareholders they are going to demand maximum profits, you can't get that and refuse service to large swaths of the population. Any business that chooses not to serve people is creating a hole in the market that can be filled by a competitor very easily. This is an argument of principal. It's perfectly fine for a religious non-profit not to service people of other faiths. It's not okay for a public business to do the same. That a business *can* turn away gays (or anyone else due to religious objections) is problematic and a very, very slippery slope. I know, I'm just saying it would be very stupid for businesses to do that. Usually they spend thousands of dollars (or much, much more) in advertising *trying* to convince people to spend their money with them.

&gt;  It's not okay for a public business to do the same.

Well I agree with this entirely. However the United States isn't the Soviet Union, except for a couple of notable exceptions (Amtrak, the Post Office, FDIC, etc.) there aren't any public businesses.

&gt; That a business can turn away gays (or anyone else due to religious objections) is problematic and a very, very slippery slope

I actually am not sure I agree with this. It was in segregationist south back in the 50s but honestly private businesses are private. If they want to shoot themselves in the foot I'm not sure it's the government's job to tell them that they can't.

I think it really comes down to how people's lives are being impacted by a business's decision to deny service. For instance I'm totally okay with a christian small business owner deciding not to provide flowers for a gay wedding, in the scheme of things it's not a big deal and there are tons of competitors that would love to have the business. I think it would not be okay if a hospital decided not to treat a patient because they were gay. On this topic there are a couple of key questions you need to answer:

* How important are the services this business provides for the community?
* How many competitors are there that can fill the hole left by this business?
* How much effort is it to find an alternative business that will serve them?

For instance if a local Starbucks franchise owner decided to deny service to gays it wouldn't be a huge deal because they're in big cities there is one on pretty much every street corner. If Starbucks as company decided to deny service it'd be a huge deal because they are a huge portion of the coffee shop market and it'd be a large impact.

Practically speaking gays have more money than straight people do because:

* They are both men (no female pay gap problems)
* They can't have biological kids (more disposable income)
* They can't have unplanned pregnancy (more disposable income)
* They are less likely to be stay at home parents (dual income)
* They are more likely to attain higher education (able to get better jobs)

So unlike African Americans in the deep south gays are actually a pretty lucrative demographic to go after. This is true for Lesbian woman as well minus the first point of course. Bunch of idiots in that state or what?  How'd those morons get into office in the first place? Same way the did in Az. Stupid scared hateful people in a special rapture club Good.

Angie's List is nothing more than a "pay to play" organization anyways.

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/why-angies-list-is-getting-a-rash-of-bad-reviews/ How the fuck does that review extortion ring have 1000 employees?

I tried to leave a review on there about a company that fucked up my shit and it said "please note that your name and address will be revealed to the company"

yea thanks asshole, I'm sure people will totally leave unbiased reviews.

Meanwhile "Angie's scam" is still billing my credit card for $3 a month hoping I won't notice.  Why would you care if the company knew you complained about them, unless you were making stuff up? Exactly. Business have and do sue for defamation. Saying your food was undercooked can cost you thousands to defend. Its called a SLAPP

 If they wanted revenge, small biz owner could key my car, slash my tires, etc. Where the fuck do you live that you think that some small business owner is going to do that shit? You honestly think that some small business is going to risk a criminal conviction over you? Get over yourself, man. Lots of companies *appreciate* an honest review or, at least, the opportunity to correct the error so that they can keep themselves in business. 

Anyway, if you had such a bad experience with them, wouldn't you think that they might figure out your anonymous review? This is Capitalism at its finest.   Yay.. Fewer jobs? The economy in Indiana has been in rough shape for a while.  Mike Pence just trashed any chance of re-election. Mike Pence does not give a fuck about this state. He's using this office as a springboard to be the VP on somebody's ticket. Of course, he probably just trashed that too. It's not gonna be this cut and dry but let a business refuse service to a public official using this law.  that would be amazing.  My religious belief says people who believe in Christian gawd are going to hell.  So get the fuck out.   Serious question. I have been asking around and looking for an answer and haven't had any luck. 

How does providing goods and services to a gay person infringe on someones right to religious freedom?  

Maybe I'm stupid and if so please DV accordingly but I just can't find a reasonable answer to this question.   It doesn't. It infringes on their right to be a bigot. The bill has a misleading title. I wish I could up vote this more. ITT: They're lying about why they're not moving to Indiana; We're glad they're lying. Nope Nope Nope!Its because the State won't give them tax money for the expansion. It is sad that you are being down voted just for saying a true thing people do not want to know.  I do not agree with this new law,but Angie's list is using that as an excuse.I don't care about down votes anyway. It begins with mistaking one's privileges for one's rights.  If you're in the cultural majority and have enjoyed the privileges of such, you might begin to think that those perks you enjoy--like never being questioned--are fundamental.  Later, when someone is permitted to disagree, it's shocking...from the myopic perspective you've come to enjoy.  But, as Jon Stewart put it, Youve confused a war on your religion with not always getting everything you want."

We recognize this as an extremely distorted perspective...but as a humanist who deep down hopes people can grow and change, I just don't know how to communicate this to someone who's adopted this perspective.  How do you cure myopia?

**Edit:** typos You mean the majority religion in the US *isn't* being discriminated against?

You don't say.  In the minds of the people who think that Christianity is under attack, our majority christian nation is ruled by a secret Muslim atheist dictator who wants to punish the faithful masses.    Can you please elaborate on this?  I have one of those as a neighbor. I asked for detail, but suspect that the belief isn't internally consistent.

The whole "atheist muslim" part may be relevant. It is internally consistent when you combined two to the worst thing for these people into one person. Knowing my neighbor, I can guess "black" but don't know which other option is worse between Muslim and Atheist.  Based on polling, Atheist because "at least those Muslims believe in God!" Yes, but "the wrong god", as many Christians don't know enough about Islam and their own religion to know what it means that they are both "Abrahamic" religions. Exactly! Remember they mix just enough gay in with the atheist and Muslim. Once you add gay in you can claim slippery slope, cats and dogs sleeping together, mass hysteria. It's like the wild card of right wing conspiracy. Once you add in gay anything can happen! Aliens, satan, electric cars! 

 &gt; anything can happen! Aliens, satan, electric cars! 

This made me giggle far more than it should have What do you mean Biblical? Muslim is a 'race' to many people, despite that being obviously bullshit.  So racists attack Sikhs because they are 'muslims', and muslims cry racism whenever someone critisizes their religion. Just read the comments to this [article](http://www.frontpagemag.com/2015/dgreenfield/obama-defends-islam-attacks-christianity-at-prayer-breakfast/) Whyyyy did I do that Jesus Christ! Love this one

"He is the fucking POTUS...and acts like sone sort of college professor."

Not douchebag, not asshole...but college professor.  Really?
 I think he was joking, but who knows.  &gt;secret Muslim atheist ~~dictator~~ communist.

That's even worse than dictator! Why not both? Clearly he's a Secret Muslim atheist socialist communist dictator.

 With a radical Christian preacher nonetheless!
 "Being shown evidence that evolution is true means that my entire religion is under attack." "Not getting special rights and privileges for my religion and nobody else's means that my religion is under attack"

is more like it. Christians can *never* accept evolution as true. It exposes their precious belief system for the fraud it really is. I think this is one of the most obvious "no shit Sherlock" I've seen in a while. It's along the lines of water is wet on its level of obviousness. Just because something seems to be common sense doesn't mean it shouldn't be studied and results drawn conclusively. True.

And now that's done for this subject, and everyone's assumptions were found to be correct. The mystery is solved. Gee gang I can't believe it was Mr. Jenkins wearing a rubber mask once again.  And I would have gotten away with it too, if it weren't for you meddling kids [deleted] [MOVE ALONG FOLKS NOTHIN TA SEE HERE](http://www.wallpapersweb.com/data/media/513/Officer%20barbrady.jpg) Sigh.  It's probably not resolved. As a former Christian, this article is an "attack" in itself!  Well for a lot of Christians I'm sure this is a slap in the face. Some will even see this and still say they are being persecuted. I'd assume it's obvious to most non-religious or other faith based people.   Yes, but that's because Christianity has enjoyed a place of privilege in the U.S. for so long and is now being challenged on that. Losing a place of privilege appears like persecution *from inside the place of privilege*.

For people who think objectively, it's not hard to separate "what I feel like" from what the evidence says. However, those sorts of people tend not to be very religious *because* of their means of thinking critically. The strongly religious tend to be those whose thinking processes are heavily biased by how they instinctively feel, and that will tend to bias them against evidence that they aren't being persecuted.
 &gt;This study was based on false evidence planted by Satan to test true Christians.

When we're dealing with people who believe in magic, is there really anything logic can do that will affect their opinions? They're being persecuted by not being persecuted!

Discrimination! Equal persecution for all!  That's not how science works. Testing the obvious is the only way to be sure, otherwise we'd still think that heavier objects fall faster.  If only water was wine I could see that causing a few problems.  Christians are good at turning water into whine though. Drink water, then whine about being persecuted for not getting special treatment While everyone here is going to agree with you, it baffles me that so many educated people just want to see it the other way.  Maybe if you have never felt real prejudice your entire life (white male Christians), you almost want be able to play the victim card.  This is their only shot. In the modern western world, there seems to be this idea where everyone sees them self as a victim and never as the oppressor. I mean I suppose it makes sense on some level, being a victim allows you the benefit of justifiable indignant rage, whereas being the oppressor would mean that you would actually have to give up something you already have for the benefit of the people you oppressed. I can't help but think that the heart of the issue is that we have a system where the oppressors see any attempt at removing their power to oppress as a form of victimization.  Delusions of persecution. But Christianity is a religion that celebrates "persecution." I mean their symbol is a symbol of ultimate persecution... And they love to put a lifeless, bloodied, Christ dangling on the thing...they never want to stop being reminded of their "persecuted" status.  Isn't the wet/dry argument basically semantics?  As South Africa showed decades ago, it is possible for majority groups to be suppressed and discriminated against by tiny minority groups.

But yeah, Christianity isn't anywhere close to that in America. Anyone who thinks otherwise should move to the middle east for a few years to learn what it's really like to be discriminated against because of your religion. Which is why numerical majority is not the most important thing.

Economic power and political power majorities are arguably considerably more important than numerical majorities, and in South Africa is was the political and economic majority oppressing the numerical majority. Well, soon it won't be the majority, and then the discrimination can begin. /s To some Christians, not acquiescing to their every demand is discrimination. So basically, the extremist Christians have a lot in common with the extremist Muslims.  

I'm sure many of them would object to this comparison. The Tea Party is the American Taliban. I love The Newsroom! Hey... Nothing unites people more than an external enemy, imagined or otherwise. BUT... BUT... POLITICALLY CORRECT CULTURE! The War on Christianity is just another scam to get a large, fearful group of people to vote against their own interests.  You are 100% correct! Whenever people talk about the "war on Christianity" all I do is point them towards the statistics regarding how many Christians are in Congress. 

There's no war on Christianity, Christianity simply lost the monopoly on conversation and thought.  &gt;Christianity simply lost the monopoly on conversation and thought

See? They're being persecuted because they don't represent 100% of all public discourse. You know the sad thing is this is a genuine feeling of many people  The even worse thing, though, is that many of them can't (or won't) articulate that. Many of the "persecuted" Christians in my life are otherwise completely reasonable people. When it comes to their faith, they can't see that the idea of other people subscribing to different/no ideologies is not an attack on them. The thought process is simple really. If their religion isn't obviously true to everyone, then even for them there's a slim possibility it could be wrong. Precisely. It represents a threat to their belief system on a subconscious level, which makes them vehemently oppose any differing opinions. When I was a Christian I felt the same thing any time a comedian would make jokes about my beliefs. I slowly grew to love those jokes though... &gt; point them towards the statistics regarding how many Christians are in Congress. 

And the Senate. And every state government. And every city government. And every president. The Senate is part of Congress. Why does everyone believe that Congress is solely the House? It's the House and Senate.

Edit: typo Thank you for correcting my mis-information.

In my defense I am not an American. &gt;In my defense I am not an American.

Don't feel too bad. I personally know Americans who didn't know there even was a House *and* Senate.  [deleted] What if it was a sunny day? Then you get a pass. :-) I'd assume it's because the title "Congressman" is pretty much only used for members of the House. We call Congressmen from the Senate "Senator," as it's perceived as a higher title. The title Congressman can be used for both. The House has Representatives. I'm aware. I was referring to typical use. Kennedy was catholic though. Don't know if he counts as christian. 

Edit: I was kidding.  And Irish? So he wasn't even white. &gt; Don't know if he counts as christian. 

Why the hell wouldn't he? For almost a thousand years Catholic was the *only* christianity (outside of a few eastern orthodox). If there wasn't Catholicism, the protestants wouldn't exist. There was a huge question in the general public at the time of his run for presidency whether or not having a Catholic President would mean that the US would lose Sovereignty to the Papacy.

I wish I were kidding. There was a huge question as to whether obama was a muslim not born in america - clearly we haven't learned anything since then As an agnostic atheist in Texas, where's the loss of monopoly happening and can I move there? Austin and yes.  Most places along the coast.

I'm in TX for work. The overt Christianity here really freaks me out. And I'm in houston. I can't imagine what it's like in smaller cities. But that's completely negated by the fact that our President is a Muslim!  Or at least that's what I believe, therefore it's so!

Also, I really believe Unicorns exist, so therefore, they do. He's gay too. And the anti-christ.  The unicorn? Meanwhile, a fox news host suggested that there is a christian genocide going on and the "mainstream media" isn't talking about it. The persecution complex is truly strong in them. &gt; The persecution complex is truly strong in them.

Their title character is nailed to a cross. Oh shit.  Christians also like to wear small replicas of a torture device around their necks. Shut your mouth.

FOX news is all about TRUTHINESS. You know, the truth you feel in your gut. Facts and logic be damned. All I know is Christ our Lord and Savior speaks to me and I can feel his truthiness.

You scum. Why you hate Murica so much to begin with? You must be from one of those socialist marxist communist god hating anti Murican countries...You fagget. You need Jesus in your life. You need love in you life you low life cock sucker. You like sucking cocks don't you. Big, hard, thick long, throbbing, pulsating, luscious, cocks. 
 well, that .... took a gay turn real fast at break di-neck speed.  I am glad people are getting my sarcasm in my previous post :) I find it amusing that somehow Faux Noise doesn't think it's "mainstream media", when it's the highest rated and most watched cable news channel in the country. I don't know why this is discussed more when talking about Fox News. They complain about mainstream media, than brag about being the most watched news channel. Literally telling people to not trust them. They're either a fledgling news station or flexing their strength depending on their needs at the time.  Talking about a liberal?  Point out how the giant mainstream liberal media brutes are glorifying that person.  Having an interview with a critic?  Whip your metaphorical dick out and hit them with it. I was having a chat last night with my roommate who's a conervative republic christian. (Can it get any worse?) When he was arguing his side, he had no data to back it up. When I was arguing my side, I acknowledged I didn't have an example right in front of me (but could get one), and he says, "Just like a liberal!" The streets go in whatever direction they need to at any given time. The people obsessed with these programs not follow that line of logic, however. They keep watching Fox and repeating what they hear. "The robo mafia support your cause, but don't tell anyone!! Spread the word!!" That is because to them mainstream news means network news like ABC, CBS, NBC etc.  I would agree with their statement if it was still the 80's where the three letter news networks where the staples.  Their persecution complex can be seen through their "underdog mentality".  Fox News is totally an underground indie channel who pirates their signal so that the man can't silence them. FIGHT THE POWER! Do they ever mention where these genocides are taking place? Like, at least if they mention the Darfur genocides that could be considered real journalism, but everyone knows those killings are not religiously motivated, or at least not one of the top factors. It's just fear mongering at its worst at Faux Oh, Bill O'Reilly has seen the Christian genocides! He's covered those wars with a pen! Well, yeah, I mean, he's seen photos of it, so yeah, he's seen it. The problem is that none of the other journalists are macho enough to cover the Christian genocides. I prefer Maddy O'Reilly. Or ISIS-controlled territory, where there's a definite ethnic cleansing thing going on.

Genocide against Christians isn't outside the realm of possibility, but it's definitely not happening in the western world. That was talked about being a Christian genocide on fox news but I don't think it can be called that it should just be called a genocide of non-Muslims. Victim complexes seem to be a common theme amongst the groups I despise. Maybe they feel victimized by your despisement.  [deleted] Genocide might be too big a word but a lot of christians are being killed in the middle east. A lot of everyone are being killed in the middle east... is there anyone particularly targeting Christians?  Besides ISIS, who targets everyone who isn't ISIS. There's also a place called Africa. Like not to poo poo on anything here but facts are facts and Christians are actively targeted by Boko Haram. It might not be genocide but it's still a lot of killing.  And Boko haram would kill you if you are atheist as well. Basically take every where that Christians die for being christian, then add a few more countries that are supposed to be civilized, that everywhere atheists can be killed or jailed.  The coldness towards atheist discrimination even in my own (conservative) family is baffling. They'll point to a handful of Christians who get killed along with everyone else in a Muslim country and scream genocide, but the fact that you can be legally sentenced to death for atheism virtually anywhere in the middle east or Africa gets not a word.  

They really just don't give a shit about you if you're not christian. If the large scale secularization of the west hadn't occurred, they would be doing exactly the same kinds of things as Isis.  Yes, it's true - there are a lot of places where it's not safe to be the religious minority.   Including the USA........ Along with every secularist. If by genocide, we mean that people are leaving christian churches, then maybe so. Outside of the west Christianity is attacked.  Like ISIS just killed a bunch of Christians.  The greatest threat to religious people is... other religious people. Funny how that happens. *offer not valid in russia during the 30s That's because the government doesn't count each instance of someone saying Happy Holidays as a hate crime. FoxNews is in the "Business of Anger". There's an entire business...a huge industry, actually...that bases all that it does on getting you p!$$ed off! Rush Limbaugh. Bill O'Reilly. Glenn Beck. All variations of the same thing: people in an industry who want you to believe their function is to "move the public dialogue forward" or to "make an opinion count on your behalf"...blah blah blah. But NO!

Their sole function is to make you angry. That's right. Get your dander up. Get you riled up and feeling as though you're right and all those other asses are wrong - and stupid! In turn, they hope that you'll pay more and more attention to them - while they reinforce your growing anger and disillusionment - and give them big ratings and more money from their advertisers. From the three or four evangelical church things I attended, due to loved ones who wanted me there, I noticed that they have the same thing. Half their stuff centers on war and battles, swords, and all this us against them stuff. Their songs are all about war and battles, their sermons are constantly about warfare. I asked one time... like why are you guys so angry when Jesus seemed fairly chill? They said it was "spiritual warfare" between demons and angels. I still have no clue what they meant, but it has the same effect. Gets people all riled up and hot and angry, and they do stupid shit like give 10% of their money to people who have fucking helicopters and all that.  &gt;  I asked one time... like why are you guys so angry when Jesus seemed fairly chill? 

spat my food out due to laughter. 10/10 question phrasing. Used to be a fundementalist christian and this is something I've come to recognize as well. Always talking about war with something.  If I owned an antacid company I know where I'd place my ads! I think this can be expanded to include one more emotion: fear. The data also basically shows that no one persecutes athiests either, for what it's worth.  
  
&gt;17.4% of crimes are religiously motivated. Of the 1,223 victims of anti-religious hate crimes:

&gt;* 60.3 percent were victims of crimes motivated by their offenders anti-Jewish bias.
* 13.7 percent were victims of anti-Islamic (Muslim) bias.
* 6.1 percent were victims of anti-Catholic bias.
* 4.3 percent were victims of bias against groups of individuals of varying religions (anti-multiple religions, group).
* 3.8 percent were victims of anti-Protestant bias.
* 0.6 percent were victims of anti-Atheist/Agnostic bias.
* 11.2 percent were victims of bias against other religions (anti-other religion).   
  
[Direct Source](http://www.fbi.gov/about-us/cjis/ucr/hate-crime/2013/topic-pages/victims/victims_final). Its probably because atheists generally aren't easy to distinguish from everyone else. I bet if we all started wearing some kind of hat or a patch on our jacket we'd probably see more violence against atheists. But I think to a lot of people atheists are just a common amorphous enemy. I've talked to some people that swore blind they didn't know any of those "godless heathen devil-worshiping a-the-ists, and if they did they'd give 'em what fer". Naturally I held my tongue. Yeah, I love the South.  Devil worshiping atheists. Love it. As if some people go around going, I don't believe in God, I just don't see compelling evidence for it, but Satan, that makes sense.  It's a one or the other thing: "If you don't worship God, then you must worship the Devil." The idea of "none of the above" just is incomprehensible noise. I live in AL and work with a woman who claims that the gays want to close all of the churches. They don't pray in school anymore and that's why Christians are being attacked.  I get that, it's just amazing they don't stop one second to actually parse it. Pants-on-head retarded &gt;atheists generally aren't easy to distinguish from everyone else. 

And generally we don't actively "stand up and be identified" in public. 

Certainly not historically. What happened to suffering for your faith being a badge of honor for those worshiping the invisible man in the sky? 

Modern Christianity is turning into persecution pansies.  