Solar panel washers will be the new ramoneurs Translation: chimney sweep.  They should re-make 'Marry Poppins' with updated technology. *A spoonful of Nutella makes the medicine go down* oddly, nutella and mary poppins (movie) came out the same year. Trivia game too strong *How did you know that*?? Internet. I'm going to have to try that Internet thing someday.  don't bother, it's just another stupid fad Full of idiots trying to be funny, I've heard. Judging by the subject matter, and that this is Reddit, I'd assume he was going to attempt to make an intellectual quip that nutella was on the market before the Mary Poppins movie came out, only to discover upon his Wikipedia search that they both came out the same year, which instantly became a more interesting matter to make his comment about.  ... Did you know that off the top of your head? &gt; ramoneurs

[My dictionary extension is strangely poetic.](http://i.imgur.com/bmSY1UZ.png) Strangely poetic, strange poet, poem. Don't forget rooftop landscapers!! Does it say if the plants need to be alive or dead? Do you need to maintain them or just put them up there and forget about it? they generally use succulents that need very little maintenance Aren't there better choices if the goal is to lower the carbon output, assuming that is even the goal and it's not just to make things look pretty. It does lower the carbon output. Any rooftop that is covered in dirt and plants naturally insulates the building and also protects the roof of the building itself from the sun during the summer. It reduces the amount you need to heat/cool the building for winter/summer. It reduces carbon emissions that way. Fair point, didn't think about it like that.  Well I live in France and in the town my parents live in, they have already implemented the rule that newly constructed building had to have "green rooves" meaning covered in plants.

So when our neighbors built their house they put one on top of their house and never maintained it since. It's now covered in weeds. So yeah they just "put it up there and forget about it" like you said ... 

When the wind blows the seeds go into our garden and there's nothing we can do about it. Nobody cares except us...  My mother is *not* happy about it at all ! [deleted] I mean, technically weeds are plants right? They still sequester carbon and produce oxygen, so they got that going for them.
 which is nice. Unless you garden in very specific ways, gardens are usually carbon neutral (or slightly carbon positive when you factor in energy used to grow any greenhouse plants), meaning any plant matter that dies is then eaten by bacteria and other critters converted back into CO2 and then released back into the atmosphere when the soil is tilled the next spring.

There are ways we can farm and garden that would make it carbon negative like through using biochar or "no till" gardening, but most of us do not do that. The case imabouttoblowup mentioned falls into exactly the category that is carbon negative, though.

Let's say you have a lawn. The grass grows by combining water with CO2 in the atmosphere. It doesn't (mainly) build itself from carbon in the ground. That's why a big tree doesn't end up standing in a huge hole. If nobody mows the lawn then dead grass will end up rotting, but rotting it doesn't free up all its carbon. The result is humus which accumulates with each generation of grass. So over time, the lawn moves upwards, rising on a thicker and thicker layer of humus. A lot of that extra mass is carbon captured from the air.

If somebody starts a garden on their roof and leaves it to itself (and it doesn't die), then I would expect the same thing to happen there - a build-up of more and more organic material there. I've seen old grass-roofed cabins with thick wildernesses on top of them. 

But anyway, carbon capture was not the purpose of this new law. From the article:

&gt;Green roofs have an isolating effect, helping reduce the amount of energy needed to heat a building in winter and cool it in summer.
&gt;They also retain rainwater, thus helping reduce problems with runoff, while favouring biodiversity and giving birds a place to nest in the urban jungle, ecologists say. they are not technically plants, they are just plants Better those than unjust plants. A weed is but an unloved flower.  Nothing wrong with weeds, let nature do its thang up there [deleted] Clovers!! :D At least here in the US sedum has been used in many rooftop gardens as it is low maintenance and doesn't need a lot of water. It's a win win. We're I work we grow tons of it for upcoming building projects and it comes in some really pretty varieties.  &gt; All new buildings in commercial zones across the country must comply with new environmental legislation

So only for buildings in commercial areas (supermarkets, warehouses, etc.), and therefore no individual dwellings. It's a decent start though, isn't it? It sure is. The most civil discussion I've ever seen on Reddit. Fuck you Ah, that's more like it.  That makes sense - while it would be nice to have it on the houses, not everyone can afford them. For a commercial building though, those costs are not as big (as a percentage of the total cost of the building). I live in southern part of India,in a place called Kerala. Even though we have two monsoon seasons, we used to have water scarcity from the months of Dec to April. We invested a couple of years ago in rain water harvesting .Nothing fancy. Just a pipe that would channel the rooftop water into a pit near the well that naturally filters it and recharges the aquifers. Now we dont have to buy expensive potable water. Water harvesting is a real game changer.  In some parts of the US water harvesting is illegal. I dont understand the logic of that. it depends on each person. Like  have heard in some places in the West you cant dry your clothes out on the line. that is downright ridikulus, Some people say that clothes hanging on a line makes the neighborhood look unkempt and poor. It reduces the value of peoples property. So even thou it saves electrify and contributes no harmful emissions to the environment some cities ban the practice.

We always hang the wash out to dry. I appreciate the explanation and don't doubt the reasoning. I still think it's just plain wrong. 
Ignoring the environment for a minute I don't want anyone telling me what I can or can't do with my own clothes on my own property.
Luckily I don't have any restrictions like that so I can only be outraged on behalf of others! There are actual reasons for water harvesting limits.  Mainly due to the fact that in many places water is a shared resource,  one person damming their property can have a significant impact on smaller streams.  the issue isn't rooftop harvesting, but guys with giant plots of land diverting watersheds.

Also, iirc, only Colorado really had a law against it. Good. I'd wish they'd do that in Australia. We have so much sun that could be harvested and so many vast factory rooftops to place panels or plants. I rented a place in Perth with solar panels. Didn't pay an electricity bill for 3 years. I've been living with a 5Kw system (20x250w panels) for over 2 months now. It was costly to setup but when I looked at my electricity meter totals versus my quarterly bill, I expect to pay sweet fuck-all this quarter. And once we can get affordable lithium ion domestic batteries, not even that. Meanwhile, Energy Australia is telling me my bills are going to go up by 20% in the next few months - even more once the electricity infrastructure is privatised here in NSW - and I'm more glad I made the switch when I did. 15k dollarydoos? &gt; dollarydoos

Is that what you people call your money? According to the Simpsons yes.  What do you mean, "you people?" What do YOU mean, "you people"? &gt;lithium ion domestic batteries 

Lithium ion batteries shouldn't be used in places where weight doesn't matter. Fixed installations in buildings are better off with lead acid. Cheap, safe (don't tend to explode/catch fire on failure), don't need complicated charging circuitry, and lead is abundant and so is the electrolyte. 

Lithium is quite a bit more rare and mined in a rather environmentally degrading way in places that don't give a shit about the environment like China.

Only real downside to lead batteries is weight, which, in a fixed installation inside a building, who cares? There are actually a number of benefits to using lithium-ions beyond just weight, one of them being significantly better performance under high temperatures (which Australian summers... and winters) have a tendency to have. 

http://www.altenergymag.com/emagazine/2012/04/a-comparison-of-lead-acid-to-lithium-ion-in-stationary-storage-applications/1884 Don't even get me started on the fuck up Energy Australia/Ausgrid is now. My dad has worked there for 25+ years and now they're cutting his department (aka the training department) by at least half. He refuses to reapply for his job because they've treated them like shit over the last couple of years, so his redundancy payment is worth more than the shit they'll put him through to keep his job.

Edit: Basically, raising costs, cutting staff = more money in the big wigs pockets. &gt; redundancy payment

What is this?

\-edit: I remembered google is a thing.  

Apparently, in Australia and UK, there is a special government-enforced severance to employees who have been "downsized" due to their position being deemed redundant.   Neato.   Wait, so in the US once you get downsized out you're just... left?

Wtf. Well, if you're laid off you would typically qualify for unemployment benefits. It's not a whole lot, but it's typically enough to live on if you have some savings. You still have to eventually get another job though. In Sweden, if you are downsized, your job is protected for 2-6 months depending on how long you've worked and depending on what kind of collective deal that company has signed. So to say, they have the right to make you work for that time, but often you are let go to have time to find a new job, all while on full pay. [Japan's solution](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/17/business/global/layoffs-illegal-japan-workers-are-sent-to-the-boredom-room.html). 
&gt; 
&gt; For more than two years, he has come to a small room, taken a seat and then passed the time reading newspapers, browsing the Web and poring over engineering textbooks from his college days. He files a report on his activities at the end of each day.
&gt; 
&gt; Sony, Mr. Tanis employer of 32 years, consigned him to this room because they cant get rid of him. Sony had eliminated his position at the Sony Sendai Technology Center, which in better times produced magnetic tapes for videos and cassettes. But Mr. Tani, 51, refused to take an early retirement offer from Sony in late 2010  his prerogative under Japanese labor law. It's more a cultural loyalty thing over there. In Japan, you get employed by one company and then you work there until you retire. I am pretty sure he did not want to retire so early, so he contested it and since their laws are based on this culture, he won. I think it would be almost impossible for him to find a new job if he actually lost his job due to the weird culture in Japan. Here we have a 55-year old guy that wants to work for us. Their perspective of labour is different. What happened after three years? He had to pay his way overdue bills. Duh. Don't forget the interest.  You remind me of Cheryl Tunt. The dingos came  Sometimes we get hungry. Sun went out. The Fire Nation attacked We don't talk about that  &gt; I rented a place

 Total solar eclipse.  Bird shit The electric company turned off his rainy day supply after he didn't pay any of his outstanding balance for 3 years. Our electricity bill went from $550 a quarter to $150 with solar. So good. How much did the panels cost? K: They wrote it off, Jerry.

J: You have no idea what that means, do you?

K: No, I don't. But they do. And they're the ones writing it off. That's gold. We went from a rental to a place that already had 5kw, so nothing. Aren't your politicians owned by the coal industry, like many of ours? The richest woman in Australia (and probably the world) is a borderline imbecile who "worked hard all her life" by waiting for her coal baron daddy to die.  She is a horrible, horrible woman by all accounts.

She sues people for saying that she inherited her fortune, because she thinks she is "self made."  She went from pretty much nothing, to "richest woman in the world" in an instant, the moment her father died and left her the fortune he made from raping Australia of its mineral resources.  I guess she worked really, really hard during that instant in time, the precise moment her dad died.

Here's [a little intro](http://thecrat.com/articles/gina-rinehart-australian-dickhead/) to Gina Reinhart.

[**Here**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0q8z9oSWaDo) she says people should work for $2 a day, while she makes $598 a second.  Plus she's a big sloshy blob of a woman, and in the same video she's criticizing her countrymen for 'not being as healthy as she is'. I rarely use this word because it's reserved for the most despicable people--that lady is a cunt. Reinhart means pure/clean heart in Dutch. Which this woman probably doesn't have. Definitely not her coronary arteries... &gt; Gina Reinhart

[World's 5th richest woman](http://www.forbes.com/pictures/fkem45edj/christy-walton/) according to Forbes Reinhart's wealth seems to be plummeting vis a vis her peers.  I wonder if her "self made" claims will persist when it becomes glaringly obvious that she "self un-made" her fortune.

Still, she's probably richer with each passing year.  It's just that her uber-rich fellow inheriters are snowballing their wealth more quickly than she is.

When you ask the obscenely wealthy what they could possibly still want, the answer is always the same:  "More!" I'm sorry I have to share the same oxygen as her. Don't you guys have to pay a ridiculous tax to have solar panels up? 

I remember being shocked and angry from reading a headline like that a while ago. In most places you get a tax break, not another charge. Don't know where you heard that.  Guess swaggerqueen was right. That is absolutely ridiculous. https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2dpome/in_australia_businesses_are_getting_hit_with_a/ Something similar happened in Spain and Germany. A tax break or similar, Im not sure.

But when the solar panel stuff really kicked in, and the private owners of solar panels started to give power to the grid, the big energy companies complained that their profits were going down, and so the tax break (or something) stopped...

not sure about the details.

Edit: words. The rich bought solar panels in spain because they could afford more of them because of the government subsidizing them. This in effect made the rich have to pay less for energy and the poor have to foot the bill for not only the energy but also for a larger percentage of the power grid maintenance that they previously shared with the rich. Someone should have seen that coming They do. It's why a lot of people complain about using tax credits to change people's behaviors. While somewhat correct thats a very negative view.


What happened (Germany):


The government wanted people to get excited about solar &amp; invest in it, so they put subsidies in place. People did invest. These subsidies were in place for a long time (10 years or something?), drove the prices down for solar panel manufacturing and put Germany in the place where it is today: World leader for Solar Tech. The US and others are only now slowly catching up.


The big energy providers did of course complain during the process, but that was the point of the entire exercise all along.


Then the subsidies ran out as planned, everything is amazing and people are still investing in solar.


You are of course free to believe in horrible conspiracies, but so far it has been a success IMO.


Attention: I am biased as I am German myself. Yeah, that was my impression of their intent as well - to lower solar panel prices and encourage people to buy them and contribute to the grid, increasing the renewable energy use.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_Renewable_Energy_Act
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_power_in_Germany It's not so much the big energy companies, but the local power companies, reverse metering is a great idea in theory, until you get an unsustainable amount of people doing it, and then the power companies can't afford to maintain their grid.

The problem is really you are selling power back into the grid when the grid doesn't need it that much, at non-peak hours.

This is why solar leasing is a good option, you can lease solar panels rather than buying them and incurring a heafty initial investment, and pay essentially the same electric bill, but you are leasing solar panels that are maintained and replaced when needed by the power company.

Lets be honest, there are better ways to get a return on investment than installing solar panels, we need to think of it as a choice of efficiency rather than cost saving at this point.

When you try to save money out of it you end up buying Chinese solar plants that were made in factories powered by the dirtiest coal fired power plants in the world, not exactly eco friendly, as solar pv cells are very energy intensive to manufacture. &gt; The problem is really you are selling power back into the grid when the grid doesn't need it that much, at non-peak hours.

Eh, not really. The peak hours for electricity usage is usually during midday when everyone is at work and businesses are using a ton of electricity and also homes are idling with their air conditioning.

But if you have enough solar panels, this is also peak solar output and likely you have enough to beat out your appliances and you're selling back to them when there is a greater need for energy. Legitimate question: how do solar panels hold up to hail damage? If we installed these in Texas and they were susceptible to hail, it wouldn't be anywhere near beneficial because we would have to replace them after every major hailstorm  Solar panels come with acrylic or glass casings that protect the fragile crystaline structures beneath. The casings are strong enough to withstand a pellet gun shooting 260+MPH. 

Hail pellets were tested but casings are very resilient, to put the pellet gun in perspective 1cm hail can only travel up to 20MPH and 8cm hail has a terminal velocity of 110MPH. So before anyone shows up with more math, the answer is hail is not the problem you think it is.  260 mph is 381 feet per second... Even the world's shittiest BB gun is better than that.

That's within the velocity range that air soft guns shoot... Middle school kids those shoot at each other in the back yard.

Also, velocity is irrelevant to the amount of force without mass.

Edit: 8 cm sphere is 268ml.  Ice is 0.92g/ml, so 8cm hail weighs about 247 grams.

A typical .177 gram pellet (assuming the most common pellet gun caliber) weighs about 8 grains or about a 0.5 gram.
 
At 260 mph, 0.5 grams exerts 2.6 ft-lbs of energy.

At 110mph, 247 grams exerts 219.3 ft-lbs of energy.  A whole different ball game. We occasionally get hail the size of baseballs and grapefruits in North Texas and can weigh up to a couple of pounds. They have enough force to destroy slate and tile roofs. With some quick googlefoo a large hailstone that is 2 lbs would be around 907 grams.

[Hail stones from Texas.](https://cbsdallas.files.wordpress.com/2013/05/imag0212.jpg?w=420&amp;h=702)

Edit: A 2 pound hailstone is extremely rare but they can happen.

Edit 2: I found a few pictures of what hail can do to a solar panel. This was in Missouri.

Hail stones that hit the roof. [In persons hands.](http://forum.solar-electric.com/filedata/fetch?id=320737) [Dollar for scale.](http://forum.solar-electric.com/filedata/fetch?id=320738)

Damage to the panels. [1](http://forum.solar-electric.com/filedata/fetch?id=320739), [2](http://forum.solar-electric.com/filedata/fetch?id=320746), [3](http://forum.solar-electric.com/filedata/fetch?id=320740)

Edit 3: [This is what ~~softball~~ baseball sized hail looks like hitting a swimming pool.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFv2W7Duqiw&amp;t=10) The video was shot in Oklahoma City in 2010. Well that's just plain horrifying.  Extremely rare, localized events like these should be handled by a socialized risk-spreading scheme. In other words, insurance. In my experience it almost always is covered by the customers homeowners insurance. A major storm can be a windfall for the homeowner too. IIRC some insurance companies will bring in adjusters that are contractors, and therefore have no loyalty to the insurance company, that overpay for the damage done to the house. Rain water harvesting and solar rooftops should be deployed to all possible places. Isn't rain water harvesting frowned upon in some areas because dryer areas rely on river water to be replenished upstream? Harvesting rainwater takes water from such a miniscule portion of the rainfall catchment the impact on river levels would be negligible, surely? Depends. Is it one guy with a barrel, or an entire urban population with several? Even if every rooftop in a city collected rain, each building can only store so much, any overflow would still behave as normal.. Also, the surface area of even an entire city is pretty small compared to the amount of surface area needed to feed a river via rain water Doesn't processed waste water typically get fed back to the river anyway? It's not like collected rainwater disappears from the face fo the earth. It just eventually makes it way into the city sewers rather than the storm sewers. Some cities are lucky that way, I live in a city that is fed by river water (and after treatment, that's where our water goes back to), but some cities utilise underground aquifers or dams. Those water sources aren't replenished very well by civil runoff Urban rainwater isn't a big feed for rivers anyway- urban collection is by far the easiest and highest payoff area for collection because the water that runs through a city mostly just causes issues or becomes polluted and useless anyway.

What you worry about is rainwater collection that is very large scale, and actually traps water that would supply groundwater directly, meaning you are taking water that would be conserved under the earth and often wasting even more of it by retaining it on the surface. In areas like that, the best infrastructure isn't usually to catch rainwater but to improve the system that you use to distribute water ie. burying your perforated hoses rather than shooting water through the air and letting it sit on the top of the ground to water your crops. This exactly. This would be a big part in stormwater management. Concrete in cities causes flooding downstream and in cities themselves. Water captured would reduce these effects and many other negative effects down the flow path. Wouldn't most of the water in an urban area end up evaporating off concrete or in the sewer system anyway?  Why not get a round of use out of it before putting it in the sewer?  It's not like water is gasoline.  It doesn't go away. Well, that entirely depends on the area. If you listen to the boss of Nestle on the issue of water, you get a pretty good idea of what would start to happen if there wasn't a severe disincentive...
So, if you are talking about rural places, or people in cities retaining a part of what falls on their roof, sure, probably not going to be an issue.
But then you get creative to "cooperations buying harvesting rights from building owners", and then some drier areas get effed pretty quickly.
If we only count "reasonable behaviour" it shouldn't be an issue. Once you include the cross interaction between morally bankrupt and desperate, things change. Even if you capture all of the rainwater falling in a given area, it's still going to get pissed back into the system eventually. Nestle guy is sure to be totally honest too! He's saying Nestle would try to buy all the rainwater runoff from individuals, and quickly dry out the surrounding area. Not only frowned upon but out right illegal. I know Florida and Colorado make it illegal for different reasons I believe. Florida because people would leave standing water which would get infest and Colorado because it feeds the rivers which feed 1/3 of the united states.

*edit*: I have been corrected in the following ways.

(1) It is not Illegal in Florida and some places actually encourage it. /u/celticherald

(2) It is not illegal in Colorado as of 2009. /u/DabbinDubs

    * Legal only if you do not have public utility access in Colorado /u/DabbinDubs


(3) It is still illegal in Denver Colorado but they are working to change that. /u/TheBarefootGnome Rainwater harvesting in Florida is not illegal anywhere. It is actually encouraged in dozens of counties by the extension offices and their rain barrel courses. Anything to save the potable water is highly supported here. 

Here's one for Miami-Dade:
http://www.miamidade.gov/waterconservation/rain-barrels.asp

Tampa:
http://hillsborough.ifas.ufl.edu/fyn/rain_barrels.shtml

Orlando:
http://www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/publications/files/rain_barrels_guide.pdf


 Well fuck me sideways. My Fiancee's father told me he hides his rain barrels so the government won't stop him from collecting. He lives in Tampa Florida. But he is also a prep-er... So there's that.

**edit**: Ya ya guys I get it, prepping can be a little crazy. But the guy just over prepares for a hurricane not for Obama bin laden storming tampa beach. BLACK HELICOPTERS  More like global hawk drones that can see grains of sand from orbit. JET FUEL CAN'T MELT GRAINS OF SAND FROM ORBIT! False flag! Thermite Paint! What's a prep-er? Some one who prepares for the apocalypses, or martial law, or foreign invasion or natural disaster. Or Barack *Hussein* Obama's socialist muslim atheist ISIS soldiers storming their RV to take their guns. *BREAKING NEWS*: President Obama ascends Throne of Skulls in Ohio to begin thousand-year reign of darkness

AbstractLogic's Father-in-Law: "I knew it!  Now who's stupid, everyone!" That's ridiculous.

Everyone knows the Throne of Skulls is in Chicago. I got two bricks of Ramen, a back pack, a canteen, a first aid kit, a fishing pole, a tent, a tarp, binoculars, and a machete in my car ready to go.  All I gotta do is make it to the woods.  

If I am going to need more than that, fuck it. Someone who uses the term "shit hits the fan" far too often... That's the friggin truth. The messed up thing is that on some prepping sites there's some decent information to be found on things like urban gardening and such.

Then on other sites it's as if you've stepped into a realm of adult escapism where folks go on about how the BRIC countries are going to drop the dollar and then everyone will see how right they were.

Prepping to a degree is actually responsible in my opinion.  My wife and I actually try to keep a couple weeks worth of food around but that's more in the event of natural disaster or anything.  Stocking up on 10 years worth of freeze dried food though? Yeah you're fucked in the head. I dont know why people are fucking with you.  Being a native Floridian and living through multiple natural disasters and hurricanes I can tell you these are the same asshats who move down here arent ready for hurricane season and come begging if they hear you have extra.  

*also stock up on booze.  When a natural disaster is declared no booze is sold.  And you can trade that shit or drink away the fact that everything around you is destroyed.  Your choice Thanks for the update, comrade.

FEMA's re-education department will be paying him a visit shortly. There have been instances in which people have diverted river water and created retention ponds that disrupt the historical drainage, and have been sanctioned for doing so.

I don't think I've heard of anyone that's been fined for setting out a rain barrel, even if "MAN ARRESTED FOR RAIN BARRELS!  ECO-FASCISM DESTROYED HIS LIFE!" headlines are typically the lead in to the story. Yep, there was an article that blew up on facebook about the government stopping a guy from harvesting rainwater.  Turns out he was diverting a river that ran through his property to a giant man-made lake.  Of course, nobody actually bothered to find out the details and internet rage ensued.  

The government doesn't care if you are collecting rainwater from your gutter into barrels.  That water is usually discharged onto the property anyways. Don't drink the rainwater though ;-) I only drink rainwater and distilled water, its how I ensure the purity of my precious bodily fluids.  Purity Of Essence &amp; Peace On Earth "But I... I do deny them my essence." Women can feel my power, Mandrake Have you ever seen a Russian drink water? I believe most Russians are allergic to water. ice or vodka only Vodka ice, if possible. It isn't unless you can get your freezer to around -40 Is that celsius or fahrenheit?

edit: guys I know, it was a joke -40C = -40F

Just in case you don't understand why people are replying *yes* to your question.
&gt; -40C multiplied by 9/5 +32 = -40F

&gt; (-40F - 32) multiplied by 5/9 = -40C

edit: I just wanted to be helpful incase your inquiry was genuine or others had a similar thought. Sorry, I'll try and redeem myself with some relevant content.

[1](http://drawception.com/pub/panels/2014/5-21/jBgSZhHHKq-1.png)

[2](http://mrwgifs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Joke-Goes-Over-Your-Head-Star-Trek-Gif.gif) Yes.   So a typical winter in Russia then? On no account will a Commie ever drink water, and not without good reason. Yes. She immigrated here but grew up in StPetersburg. Unhappily married to a lawyer from down south who practically went over there specifically to bring back a bride. His thing worked out great, he got to bring home one of the prettiest Russian girls he could have met. Sweet lady, attentive and caring. But he was very busy and  increasingly distant, to the point of sleeping in a different bedroom after a year. She grew dissatisfied with the lack of attention. 

Sometimes later, I saw her drink a glass of water. :p "Fluoridation is the most monstrously conceived and dangerous communist plot we have ever had to face." I do not avoid women, Mandrake... But I do deny them my essence. Boo fluoridation, [I only drink water with TDazzle and H2Flow](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNCaZT94mg8&amp;ab_channel=jerry5040) Distilled rain water No, divert it to landscaping, and toilets. That alone does a lot for water conservation. I think as a species we need to stop shitting.   In NZ there's tons of places that just use collected rain water. Tastes pretty good too! Run it through a simple pot still and you're all set. Run the still with solar reflectors. How green you wanna be? Shit works.  &gt; How green you wanna be? Shit works.

Instructions unclear. Put rainwater catchment system in septic leach field. Gray water tanks. You use it to flush your toilet and other high usage tasks. It's just a slight buffer before it enters the sewer/storm drain anyway.

Plus it'll act as a slight buffer to overwhelming those systems.  Out west, we cannot harvest rainwater because most of us don't own the water rights to our own land.  I live in a suburb of Denver, and my mortgage/deed paperwork says in big letters "You do not own water or mineral rights to this property, only occupancy rights."

Which is fine with me.  I couldn't afford the property if it came with water rights.  Those are crazy expensive.  

Edit:  western United States.

Edit 2:  for real.  I don't own the rights to water on my roof.  At least that is the opinion of Denver Water, and I'm sure their lawyers are better than mine.  http://www.examiner.com/article/why-are-rain-barrels-illegal-colorado That water could be used for watering lawns and filling toilets. No need for drinkable water to be used in those situations.  &gt; The Socialist government convinced activists to limit the scope of the law to commercial buildings.

Boy, things are different on the other side of the Atlantic. First thing I could think of is that [we allready have this in Norway.](http://i.imgur.com/p2Jc8X7.jpg)

Seriously though, this is great and hopefully will become more common to see in urban areas. I can't wait to see city skylines after this is made. It sounds like it could drastically change how some buildings are built and I'm excited for it. If you do the high tech living thing (not sure what it's called, it's a policy that raises land value) then most of the residential buildings get solar panels. They should make a policy like it for commercial: lower power consumption, higher land value, slightly lower taxes, and $2/building to maintain or something. 

Edit: just realized you are not talking about the game. I still think this would be cool though!  /r/outside Lol he's not talking about the game but thanks for the info, ill try it out in my city.  they already have solar panels in game for high end housing he meant real skylines. i had to read it twice too. Imagine how pretty the average brown, urban, concrete jungle would be if every roof was covered in plants, every wall covered in vines, ever unused piece of land replaced with plants.

I've seen concept drawings of modern cities filled with greenery and it's absolutely gorgeous, naturally controls the temperature of buildings and improves air quality. I wonder what the unintended consequences of that would look like.  Improper maintenance could cause those vines to slowly degrade concrete structures, we'd seen an increase in the insect population, which would increase the population of insect eaters. We'd end up with more animals in the city in general.

Though we haven't even got into the possibility of genetically engineering plants to be structurally beneficial. Imagine a wall of vines that constricts to hold broken pieces, or act as natural drainage pipes for rain.

Then we can get into even crazier shit like using genetically engineered plants as buildings. &gt; Improper maintenance could cause those vines to slowly degrade concrete structures

there's a reason why grass beat rocks in pokemon. And probably significantly increases other problems like pests, rot, mold, etc. FYI: Plants can also be brown.

As a badger, you should know this. Ok it seems at least reasonable to me. Can people who disagree with this legislation care to elaborate why? I'd like to get both views before I make up my own. From what I've read, a similar thing occurred in Spain. What this meant was that now wealthier people (the ones who can afford solar panels and build buildings etc.) now pay less for their energy because they're generating some of their own.

Eventually the power companies start to feel this impact on their bottom line, and to recoup lost profits they raise their rates, impacting a lot of poorer people, leading to an even bigger income gap. 

This may be super simplified, but it's the most valid thing I've seen to oppose this.

EDIT: Just to clarify, this isn't my view, I'm just repeating what I've read to answer this persons question. It does seem like there's plenty of valid reasoning to not feel this way, which you can find in various comments in response to this one. The most compelling one has been [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2zp28m/france_decrees_new_rooftops_must_be_covered_in/cpl23ea) one. That have literally 0% chance of happening in France.

It's been a long time since the governement helps people install solar panel on their rooftop by giving money or with tax advantage. I've got my 18m of solar panel, 6 years ago due to this help.

In France you can't use the energy coming from your solar panel directly unless you completly cut yourself from the public network which absolutely nobody does. Instead you sell the electricity you produce to ERDF (the state company for electricity). Which means, EDF don't loose any money from solar panel it's even the opposite, they are able to buy cheap electricty w/o investing directly a cent in it.
 Cost, Maintenance, Etc  As someone who works in the flat roofing industry this is getting overlooked all over this thread. The cost to install a green roof is roughly 50%-200% more than a traditional one. Thats purely the cost to install the roof from the deck up. I cant speak for the extra structural cost to support the weight of the systems over a traditional roof, but i know its pretty substantial. 

Then there is maintenance costs..... fixing leaks on a green roof? Good luck with that. Putting plants on roofs , which also absorb rainwater, increases structural load substantially.  More structural materials and more building cost. A somewhat similar law was made in California a few years ago. They mandated that no energy generated by private solar panels should ever go wasted, forcing power companies to buy power from anyone with a panel. The problem is that these microproducers are quite inefficient and companies had to spend a lot of money to upgrade infrastructure to transmit power 2 ways, even for insignificant amounts of energy, and they passed the upgrade costs along to the consumers.  Areas where sunlight isn't plentiful will struggle to find a good return from these types of installations, remote buildings will require labor to maintain their roofs that wasn't needed in the past, construction costs overall will rise, which slows economic growth and disadvantages new players in a given industry, and lack of maintenance will have more severe consequences for the health of a building. I'm not an expert on the subject nor am I against this law, but I'll provide an argument anyway:

A centralized power grid that distributes energy from the power plants to the users is a lot different than a two-way grid where everyone is buying/selling at different times. This law will create a ton of micro-sellers who will put into the grid an intermittent electric surplus whose pattern may be very hard to predict and could create some problems given the right circumstances.  I love solar energy, but starting and running a business is hard enough without rules and regulations about what goes on my goddamn roof. This increases the cost of doing business and makes it more likely people will set up shop elsewhere taking the jobs with them.  Time for me to start a solar panel business This [global solar map](http://solargis.info/doc/_pics/freemaps/1000px/ghi/SolarGIS-Solar-map-World-map-en.png) is conceptually useful for the areas where these efforts make the most sense. Regional maps can be obtained from the [parent page](http://geomodelsolar.eu/maps/free-solar).  This is very interesting. I wonder what the cost/return of doing this is. I'm wondering why companies don't already do this if these solar panels actual do save energy and money in the long run. What about solar water heaters or algae biofuel production? I'm amazed more Countries don't do this. Yeah, we all know how well forcing citizens to buy a product works out... No doubt.  I laud the intent here, but my first thought was that the price to install rooftop gardens and solar panels in France just spiked. Hopefully, the Chinese solar panel companies will come in and undercut the gougers and offset the spike somewhat. Then, just like in the US, the government will slap a tariff on them and artificially raise the price of those imports to keep bloated domestic industries fat and happy. There was a reason for that, though. China was/still is subsidizing production of solar panels (i.e. partially paying for the production using government coffers) and then selling them abroad to drive out the competition. the US tariffs were intended to 'cancel out' the subsidy to level the playing field. How is that a problem? the US consumers were getting the cheap solar panels they wanted. 

In the long term what would happen is that Chinese tax payers would continue to subsidize solar panels for the US or they would stop/lower the subsidies and non-Chinese companies will be competitive.

Everything was good for US consumers until the tariffs.

Its the same thing that happened with sugar tariffs.

The tariffs only help US based solar panel &amp; sugar companies. You very carefully worded "Everything was good for US consumers until the tariffs," for good reason.

US consumers don't exist in a bubble, and you're placing too much emphasis on consumers. You're also assuming that panel vendors were doing perfectly well for themselves and making tidy profits until Chinese subsidies came in to help consumers. It's too easy to ignore the needs of businesses, but that's absolutely the wrong way to go about this discussion. What's good for consumers isn't always good for the population in general.

Arguably you could say things are still good for the US. Domestic panel manufacturing - which helps local economies - is assisted by tariffs, which also provide additional revenue to the government. I would argue US consumers getting cheap solar panels, partially paid for by Chinese taxpayers is a lot better than protecting a struggling and inefficient US based solar panel industry. 

Keeping jobs within the country has always been one of the main reasons for protectionist policies and it never works in the long term(cars &amp; electronics during the 50s-70s and sugar today). It just makes goods and services more expensive for the consumer, while keeping afloat companies that wouldn't survive. Out of curiosity, why do you think that the US solar panel industry is inefficient?

And why decry US tariffs as overly protectionist without doing the same for China subsidizing their own industries? That's a convenient excuse, but look at how even after the initial tariffs on those two Chinese companies, the US also levied a huge tariff on raw polysilicon coming out of Taiwan.

It strains credulity to say that's all just about leveling the playing field. The cause for the Taiwan tariff was that China was trying to get around already-existing tariffs on subsidized Chinese panels by using cells manufactured in Taiwan. This worked for a time because the US makes a legal distinction between Taiwan and the PRC despite the fact that the Chinese government exercises power over both.

Dumping has been a serious problem in the West for years. As convenient as you may find it, China has a history of subsidizing the cost of goods made domestically, shipping them abroad, then selling them at prices that foreign manufacturers cannot compete with, giving a larger market share (and thus, more control of future prices) to Chinese businesses. And giving lower prices to consumers.  In the short term, sure. Consumers flock to subsidized, low-cost panels, and businesses who literally cannot afford to charge prices that low go bankrupt.

But the reason dumping is a financially sound strategy is that once the competition is eliminated (the influx of subsidized panels took many businesses out of business), the controlling businesses have the market cornered, and the price can be raised to the desired level.

For Western panel vendors, which don't receive subsidies, it's not just a matter of "we take a hit to our profit to keep our prices competitive, and everything's all fine again." To be competitive, they have to sell solar panels at a loss, cut jobs/hours for their workers, shrink as much as possible, and axe future expansion plans. 

Obviously, this is a completely unsustainable business plan, so they have to shut their doors, and Chinese vendors get a near-monopoly of the market. Then other European solar panel companies will come in and undercut the gougers and offset the spike very slightly (if France convince the whole EU to raise the prices in first place...) I thought the cheap Chinese ones would be of a bad quality, but they're actually really good. Quite impressed.

But I did go with a quality installer so perhaps that's why too. so to paraphrase, you hope the solar panel industry in france, if there even is one, becomes less competitive due to their own laws? More competitive.   When you have more companies involved, there is a pressure to decrease price while keeping quality acceptable.  The Chinese solar industry is decent quality and low price.  If there is a conspiracy to increase price amongst the local industries (as /u/razerzej alludes) then they will have to find a way to include the Chinese companies.  I suspect that won't work very well and they'll end up needing to compete on price or show a quality improvement. We'll just fix the price of that equipment and the labor to install it. We'll set it to the Objectively Correct Price.

When that inevitably causes unintended consequences in other areas of the market, we will go set those prices to the Correct Prices too.

This can't go wrong. And businesses will go somewhere else and just export to France bringing the unemployment rate even higher than the record high it is now.  I think France needs to make it cheaper for businesses to build and do business there, not more expensive.
EDIT:  16 year high "record high"? Ever heard of the 30s?   Why? Is there a lot of new construction in France?  This is for new buildings.  The building has to be engineered to hold the weight and the roof has to tolerate dirt on it.  That's not cheap. Of course.  But on top of that, contractors have a lot more leverage pricing a product you *must* have compared to something you *can* have. Which is why drinking water is the most expensive good in the whole world. Followed by staple foods and clothing. Right?

This law will cause a demand increase which will increase the price of solar panels, but the price increase is purely because people are buying more solar panels, the reason why they're doing it doesn't matter in a free market. The building has to be engineered to hold the weight and the roof has to tolerate dirt on it.  That's not cheap. If you like your utility company, you can keep your utility company  But I hate my utility company.  That's why I installed a 9kW solar array on my house.  If I could be my own doctor... do you live in the US?
do you have car insurance and now health insurance?  It wouldn't make sense to force US Citizens on solar, however.  Sure panels would make sense for folks in most of Hawaii, Arizona, Texas or southern California.  But what about other climates &amp; latitudes?

Where I live, there are too many overcast days where the panels don't generate.  What little energy the panels can harvest is only there in spring-summer.  Solar is not the way to go for renewable when your primary resource is water. Don't drive and you don't need car insurance. And that's why health care is a big debate topic  don't have a building don't need to do this.  You only need car insurance if you are driving on public roads. I can drive a car however i want on private property(depends on the landowner obviously). 

Most commercial buildings are private property, and they are being forced to do this. Yes, stop commercial services in France. Stall economy. Cure global warming. That was easy. Haha you believe businesses will cease to exist because they have to have plants or panels? No, I believe they will cease to exist with no buildings. Unless, of course, they decide to start selling in the open environment. That would save energy.  man it is cheap to put some dirt and weeds on the roof. Xeriscaping and vegetative roofing is easy. I think people are missing my point. They said, "don't have a building don't have to do this" in an oversimplified manner. Governments dictating citizens purchasing private industry goods is never that simple.  Right, that is one of the least intelligent things I've ever heard.  Your excess of insult and lack of argument tells me you do not comprehend my sarcasm  No I mean fightsfortheusers comment. Ah. OK, thanks. I thought it was more hate mail. It's hilarious they got so many up votes for such a narrow viewed comment. I even work for energy conservation.  Well there we go. Problem solved  There is no real debate on healthcare. The uninsured use the emergency room which you and I pay for (and happens to be the most expensive and least effective form of care). 70% of all US bankruptcies are healthcare related. Every single first world nation mandates/provides health insurance.  &gt; Every single first world nation mandates/provides health insurance.

Most of those countries don't make you pay money to a private health care insurance company, who then tells you which doctor you may see. They just have a national healthcare system.  Agreed. The ACA is a step toward a real national healthcare system.... which is better than nothing. I agree, but I was speaking to your statement that reads: "There is no real debate on healthcare." Clearly there is a debate, I think the ACA is a huge thank you to the insurance lobby, the largest lobbying group on Capitol Hill. Other's think it's a huge overreach by big government.  The insurance lobby hates the ACA. The mandate grows their subscribers but they can no longer cherry pick healthy people (refuse preexisting conditions). Before the ACA, costs where spiraling out of control esp. emergency room care which is where the uninsured go (and where you and I pay for them to go). The cost increase has been cut drastically by the ACA. There is no **REAL** debate on these facts. They may not be able to cherry pick, but their stocks have gone through the roof since the ACA became law. They like money.  Don't live and you won't need health insurance How is that relevant? If you don't own a building, then it doesn't apply to you either just like how you don't have car insurance.  Many people commute to their jobs from nearby smaller towns/cities and there's almost zero option for public transportation. Hell, I live 30 minutes from my job and there's no option for me to get there without a car and I'm technically in the same city as my job. &gt; Don't drive and you don't need car insurance.

I guess I'll bike 5 miles to work when it snows a foot and there aren't any buses. Look, I love biking, but for several months out of the year it's not a viable option for me.  For a good portion of the country, not driving is not really an option. if you don't need a body I think you can file for an exemption.  Do you have a fleshy body that will, at some point, break down? Solution to health care insurance: don't live and you don't need to buy it! Because forcing people to buy health insurance has gone over swimmingly... how dare people have health coverage. 
especially since medical bills is the number 1 cause of bankruptcy in the US. You can thank the US government for [high](https://www.google.com/search?sourceid=chrome-psyapi2&amp;ion=1&amp;espv=2&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;q=mises%20how%20the%20government%20made&amp;oq=mises%20how%20the%20government%20made&amp;aqs=chrome..69i57.2527j0j7) medical costs too. How dare people not be forced to buy something they don't want! How dare people not be responsible for their poor financial decisions! Except they aren't responsible. They go to the emergency room and can't pay, and the taxpayers foot the bill. 

Honestly this circular argument just goes around and around and I can't believe I'm still seeing it. It eventually boils down to "LET 'EM DIE!" vs. "FREE HEALTHCARE FOR ALL" and so we are left with forced insurance because it's essentially a compromise between the two that noone really wanted. I don't want to pay for wars in the middle east.  How's that working out for me? Well, I certainly hope you are complaining to your applicable politicians and voting for ones against them. "If you don't want the government to provide (or force the provision of) x, you must be opposed to x in general."

"Don't want the government to provide food? Yeah, how dare people eat food! Why do you hate food and people so much? Such scum." I think a better analogy is: does the home you live in have have safe and efficient insulation, wiring, and plumbing? Or do you live in a tin shed with a port-a-potty? If it's the former, you (or your landlord) paid for all of that when the dwelling was built and purchased.

Wiring, plumbing, insulation (and other aspects of construction) are required to comply with certain building codes which didn't exist a few decades ago, and are constantly updated to reflect advances in technology in the areas of safety and efficiency.

Requiring solar roofing via building codes would be like requiring low-flow showers and toilets: an initial expense for builders that would disappear once economies of scale and routine installation drive down costs. Yes, homeowners would be "forced to pay for them", but as with other things you buy due to building codes, you wouldn't notice as it's simply part of the cost of the home. Just FYI, the International Code Council which writes building costs was a free-market project. Only once it was popular for companies to adhere to it's regulations did the government formally adopt it into law.

&gt;low-flow showers and toilets: an initial expense for builders that would disappear once economies of scale and routine installation drive down costs.

Except as usual, this decree caused a lot of unforseen problems. For example, all of these low flow fixtures connect to what are now oversized public sewage systems, and they don't flow/function properly. This problem will be seen more and more in the next 5-10 years.

&gt;you wouldn't notice as it's simply part of the cost of the home.

And it's little wonder why the cost of housing is so ridiculous. Now that I have car insurance I can play bumper cars on the highway Car insurance doesn't have to cover your own car, just damages that could be done to someone else's vehicle/property. But if I understand the article correctly this legislation only applies to any new building in a commercial zone, which means only businesses need to follow this law. Building owners are citizens also. Nice try [Mitt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E2h8ujX6T0A&amp;t=17s) It's commercial, first of all, so that's not exactly what's happening. Secondly it works fine in new construction, which is the requirement. New environmental restrictions pop up for builders to meet all the time. New 'industry standards' are pushed through by big corporations all the time. Builders adapt. Sometimes the cost is passed on, sometimes it's absorbed, and sometimes it actually works out to be around the same when the real numbers get crunched.

I've lived in counties that require hardwired pest control systems in all new construction. Some counties require water fountains in *all* commercial buildings no matter how small. Some counties don't require building permits for post buildings, some only require permits for buildings with power run to them. All of these regulations force citizens into making purchasing/building decisions they wouldn't have otherwise made. There is grumbling, sure, but no real consequences.  not citizens,corporations I assume Corporations are run by people. These people have to make decisions on how to run the business, and that is influenced by what they are forced to buy. In the US, you are forced to buy car insurance if you have a car.  That worked really well. You can read down into the comments for replies to the car insurance angle. Like that time the fucking government forced me to buy seat-belts for my car? Out of control bureau-fascists! You know what I hate as a bussiness owner? The fact that I have to install sprinkler systems in my buildings in case there's a fire. Or fire alarms. Or fire escapes, for that matter. I should have the freedom to build a 10 story building and only put 1 elevator and 1 door in and out of it, because: freedom.

And don't get me started on those damn wheel chair ramps. No one I know is in a wheel chair! Why should I spend 10s of 1,000s of dollars making my buildings handicapped accessible? &gt;You know what I hate as a bussiness owner? The fact that I have to install sprinkler systems in my buildings in case there's a fire. Or fire alarms. Or fire escapes, for that matter. 

Do you ever think that as a business owner you might have trouble attracting tenants and customers if you don't provide a safe space? It's not only regulation that drives the demand for safety.

&gt;I should have the freedom to build a 10 story building and only put 1 elevator and 1 door in and out of it, because: freedom.

You should have that freedom, and then also have the freedom of suffering the consequences of having wasted money on a building no one wants to rent. Forcing companies you mean. And lots of regulations already do that. It becomes just another cost of doing business. and limiting the competition for businesses, allowing only the rich ones to remain. So the government is going to increase the costs of products for consumers. Why should they be able to do that? For the greater good. You pay for the seat belts that car manufacturers are forced to install, the protective equipment that construction companies are forced to buy for their employees, the exit signs that all public buildings are required to have, the pay of the health inspectors that inspect restaurants, etc all through paying more.  The greater good is impossible to define. Construction companies pay for protective equipment as a risk analysis as it will save them more money in the long run than paying out workers comp claims.

The market has great reasons to employ safety, and does so.

The point is, a company should have a CHOICE what methods they want to employee, and people should have a CHOICE to patronize them or not based on those choices.

 Because capitalism without regulation is terrible? Economic growth is not the be-all and end-all of humanity. Except government regulation has not kept pollution in check, which is one of it's major jobs. It just fines polluters instead of shutting them down. The government fails.

You can have regulation in the markets without it coming from government, if you have a functioning legal system that actually defends the property of citizens. The notion that government regulation has not reduced pollution is, quite frankly, fucking ridiculous. Please tell me with a straight face that air pollution is as big a problem now as it was in 18th century London, or that air pollution is as big an issue in Europe or the US today as it is in China today. Your argument that economic incentives (e.g. fines) do not work is even hypocritical - economic incentive is the primary motivator in a capitalistic society, which it sounds like you're a big fan of.

For your second point, do you even understand how a state works? Have you heard of the [the separation of powers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_powers)? Who decides what property rights citizens have, and who makes sure those rights are upheld? Please stop assuming everything is so simple, it's not like everyone who thought about this stuff for the last 2500 years were complete morons. I never said it hasn't reduced pollution. Read what I said again. However, it's hard to argue that it does a great job of keeping polluters in check. 

&gt;Your argument that economic incentives (e.g. fines) do not work is even hypocritical - economic incentive is the primary motivator in a capitalistic society, which it sounds like you're a big fan of.

Duke Energy, TVA, etc, are fined millions of dollars CONSTANTLY for the illegal dumping they do. The fines are not a deterrence to continue the practice. They make more with the practice than they are fined for doing it. So, they keep doing it. Financial incentive in this case doesn't work because the penalty is so pitiful.

&gt;Please stop assuming everything is so simple, it's not like everyone who thought about this stuff for the last 2500 years were complete morons.

Except the government has to violate your property rights (tax you under threat of force) to obtain the funding to protect your property. Sounds a bit paradoxical, doesn't it? 

You assume that the people who were in charge for 2500 years weren't interested in their own gains. Shit, Washington talked about all this freedom, and then used the army 3 weeks after signing the Declaration to put down the Whiskey Rebellion because people didn't want to pay taxes. He didn't care about freedom, he cared about power and money. &gt;I never said it hasn't reduced pollution. Read what I said again. However, it's hard to argue that it does a great job of keeping polluters in check.

You said the government has failed in the context of reducing pollution, which you now admit it hasn't. Good try making it seem like you didn't admit you were wrong though.

&gt;Except the government has to violate your property rights (tax you under threat of force) to obtain the funding to protect your property. Sounds a bit paradoxical, doesn't it?

The government is democratically elected. Don't like taxes? Vote for the party that represents your point of view. I agree that this is not a satisfactory situation in the US, but that's because the US election system is fucked up and basically only allows 2 parties, but that is a separate issue.

&gt;You assume that the people who were in charge for 2500 years weren't interested in their own gains.

I'm not talking about the people who were in charge. I'm talking about political science and philosophy, which has always been done by many different people, many of whoom had very little power themselves. If it were only ever done by those in charge the Romans would still rule the world. Taxation = literally slavery am i rite Being forced to labor on behalf of someone else who decides how much of your income you get to keep is, yes, slavery. Guess who runs companies? Works pretty well with car insurance.  Well no. Because you HAVE to have it by law, the companies can jack up the price. You should be allowed to face the consequences (and pay  the damages) of not having insurance. 

There is nothing noble about forcing people to purchase something. except for the part where no individual (aside from Gates and Buffet) is ABLE to pay the damages or right the wrongs they cause with traffic accidents.
Spreading out the cost to as many people as possible is the only way to get rates down.  That's why insurance MAKES SENSE. That doesn't justify forcing it on people.  The person who neglects to buy insurance isn't the only person who has to face the consequences or pay the damages when they get into an accident.  That cost is almost always passed on to the taxpayer or policy owners. There's your justification. If you want the privileged of driving a motor vehicle on public roadways you are justifiably required by law to purchase insurance. OK, so let's talk about Canada's health coverage. Tell me why that's an awful bad thing. Or how about any other country where you are FORCED via taxes to pay for free education, or FORCED via taxes to participate in a national health plan.

It's not always a BAD THING to have certain things be required purchases, or to be paid for via taxes such that everyone is participating.

Building codes require certain purchases. gotta buy materials that adhere to codes. gotta buy permits. not complaining about these things, right? safer buildings are a "given". without the mandate to buy these things, not only would buildings be of questionable safety but the materials and tools required to do it safely would be hella expensive - because they'd be purchased infrequently. &gt; ell me why that's an awful bad thing.

I don't know the ins and outs of Canada's program so I won't speak to it.

&gt;Or how about any other country where you are FORCED via taxes to pay for free education,

Speaking for America, our public education is complete shit. Many people would like to take a private route, except that since they CAN NOT OPT OUT of paying for public school, they'd have to double pay, making it too expensive.

&gt;or to be paid for via taxes such that everyone is participating.

Taxes are also used to pay for tons of things the people DON'T want. If you cannot withhold funding from the government for programs you disagree with, how can it be said that you are free?

&gt;Building codes require certain purchases. gotta buy materials that adhere to codes. gotta buy permits. not complaining about these things, right? safer buildings are a "given". without the mandate to buy these things, not only would buildings be of questionable safety but the materials and tools required to do it safely would be hella expensive - because they'd be purchased infrequently.

You do realize the International Code Council, which most governments in the US have adopted, were free market innovations that were adhered to voluntarily to produce better quality and convey safety? Kinda like Underwriter's Laboratories. Complete free-market rating system so people can feel assured their toaster won't blow up.  &gt;you should be allowed to face the consequences (and pay the damages) of not having insurance.

you do realize though that the reason behind mandatory car insurance, here in Germany for example, is to be able to cover damage if you cause a crash and hurt someone or damage the property of someone else? It exists so people aren't fucked if someone crashes into them and they're broke and can't cover the damage they caused you. Yeah, and if you had a worknig legal system, and chose not to get insurance, you could have your wages garnished for life to pay off your debt. Insurance makes sense because of this, but people should be allowed to be stupid. &gt; you could have your wages garnished for life to pay off your debt.

And what happens if the guy causing accident has no money and he dies in accident? With current system insurance still pays to other guy. This is being looked at in too much of an isolated picture. The issue here is that we are assuming the road is public property, as is common property. It is likely that if roads were privately owned, they would require drivers to have insurance before being allowed on them. It is likely that banks would loan people money to pay for cars + insurance. There are many mechanisms that don't exist today that would make this problem almost non-existent. First off, we actually do have a working legal system in Germany, secondly, yes people can be as stupid as they want, as long as it doesn't impact other people. Not being able to pay the damages you caused actually does impact other people. We're also not 'Murica and cry about our freedoms every five minutes because of some mandatory stuff, so please keep that in mind. &gt;We're also not 'Murica and cry about our freedoms every five minutes because of some mandatory stuff, so please keep that in mind.

I do keep that in mind, and it's one of the reasons your country is very expensive to live in. [You mad? Germany isn't expensive. It's notoriously cheap..](http://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/compare_cities.jsp?country1=United+States&amp;city1=Austin%2C+TX&amp;country2=Germany&amp;city2=Berlin) You get what you pay for. Germany is a significantly safer and more humane place to live than much of the US as a direct result of this. That's subjective.

I consider a place where I'm allowed to keep the earnings of my labor and spend it how I see fit to be more humane and free.  Found the Libertarian. And proud of it. With that comment you will either get heavily upvoted or downvoted. Depends on the subreddit... I'm not sure how /r/world news feels about libertarians though. Typically we get downvoted to hell. People recognize the problem, but don't want to admit the government they vote for/support is the one committing the offense. That's a bold move, cotton, we'll see if it pays off.

 So fucking brave of you to say that. Three words; Garry Johnson AMA. You'll grow out of it.  Growing out of it would mean not only accepting the violence that lies at the base of our social interactions, but supporting it also. No thanks. To suggest that wanting actually liberty is something people should grow out of says a lot about you.  Whatever, Nathan Hale. Grow up.  That's not the attitude i'm sure you would have suggested to other people who wished to move the world beyond it's current state, now would you? Yeah man environmentalism is fascism and people can just be convinced to independently save the world all on their own, anything else is dictatorship, yup The world doesn't need us to save it. Climate change is how it deals with rabid apes shitting all over the place. The world doesn't, but humanity does, and while you apparently don't give a fuck about humanity, most people do. Humanity is demanding that I step in and rescue it from it's own folly. Placing inordinate value upon human life, as if we are somehow more important than all the other life on this planet, is what created this mess. It's not our choice of energy source which is the problem, it's selfish egoism and lack of reverence for the natural world. Solar manufacturing is extremely harmful to the environment, and folks are acting like exchanging carbon in the air for heavy metals in the water is a positive change (as if we're not actually going to keep burning the oil until it's all gone.) 

Politics is only addressing the symptoms while the disease runs unchecked, and history has proven government solutions to be an abject failure. The only people threatened by climate change are the ones who can't give up all the harmful conveniences they don't really need. All they're doing is trying to maintain humanity's destructive lifestyle (and protect their revenue streams) while avoiding the consequences of consumerism, and I have no interest in subsidizing that sort of behavior. Nature can take care of herself. You mean taxes? Seems to have worked out alright. Taxes aren't a product... Public services are the product. But then you knew that, didn't you? Some public services are a product, which I would gladly purchase on my own if given the opportunity. Many public services, like the MIC, are not products I want. &gt;commercial zones across the country

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^\
&gt;All new buildings

Did you even read the title? Did you read the article? Seemed to work fine with automobiles here in the US. Try having a job outside the small public transit area of a major urban center and tell me your not essentially forces to buy one to survive. Well this is only for commercial zones so ... Again, companies are run by PEOPLE who have to make economic decisions. But it's very different to mandate things on corporations than it is to mandate things on individuals. Corporations tend to have much more of an economic heft, especially ones that can develop real estate in commercial zones. In addition, there are always mandates that force people to get things (car insurance, this building material, that code compliance ... etc) It's nothing new. &gt; Corporations tend to have much more of an economic heft, especially ones that can develop real estate in commercial zones

Ok - so what does that mean?  They have more money to spend on things per corporation than an individual. The cost of solar panels or plants as a fraction of their overall budget would be much smaller than an individual building/buying a house.

Basically, they're bigger than individuals financially so those costs would be relatively smaller. You mean because it creates jobs, drives technology innovation and helps the environment? Particularly for the poor. It just got a lot more expensive to be destitute in France since new buildings will cost a lot more  Do poor people build new commercial buildings? No but they shop there and prices will rise.  France has a very peculiar approach to heritage buildings, so I don't think this is going to be as big as everyone is making it out to be. France &amp; Quebec are very stoic in the face to development, and protect heritage buildings to a great degree. I have no doubt that the law will stipulate that heritage buildings won't need to be modified, effectively eliminating any benefits in major French cities, especially Paris.  It specifically says the legislation is for "new" rooftops 'New buildings in commercial zones' not heritage buildings.  It says "new buildings" in the title. It is the second sentence though so I can understand why you didn't get that far before commenting. Wrecked Not just the second sentence. It's the third word in the first sentence! Tbh in Paris most buildings are pretty new, just mimicking old buildings. But the roofs are not flat, so it would be pretty hard to put anything else than solar panels on them. A lot of European countries have strict conservation guidelines for historical buildings; it's not just France! 

It only for tends to be rigidly enforced in places that make money from being nice to look at - Paris, or Carcassonne for example.

Loads of people put new plastic windows and solar panels in old houses in the poorer parts of France, and no one bats an eyelid. I found the German. Because benefits are bit dubious.

1. Solar panels cost to manufacture. Mining materials and making the panels produces greenhouse gasses.
2. As with everything small scale installations are quite inefficient to build, run and maintain so having huge farms would actually be much more ecological than every house having some.
3. If someone is forced to build the panels he is not likely to take good care of them so they might end up just additonal waste after year or two.
4. All buildings are not in ideal place to have panels so blanket mandatory panels can be very stupid idea in some cases. []cwatasut [score hidden] 5 minutes ago 
its a stupid idea... solar is money sink

^^^^ comment was deleted lol


Why is that? Because it costs more money to.... run the sun?  Or maybe.....because the suns going to run out soon?  I don't see how collecting free energy could be a "money sink" especially in the long run. You know those big rectangle things that collect that free energy? Those are not free. And they require maintenance. And they degrade over time. OK, I'd like to know how you know that costs *more*, in terms of capital and environmental costs over the long term. If you'd be so kind. It doesn't necessarily, but forcing a business to make a 10 year ROI is crazy.  Most businesses look at 5 year ROI to be the limit. That's a fair argument....perhaps one that could/will be made as an appeal. 

If it were doable with a 5 year ROI instead of a ten, how do you think businesses would respond?  &gt; I don't see how collecting free energy could be a "money sink" especially in the long run.

Then perhaps you don't understand the bottom line cost per kwh of solar vs just buying off the grid. Personal solar deployments aren't really there just yet, it takes a long time for current consumer panels to pay for themselves (15-20 years i think). But they do eventually pay for themselves, and they have the added benefits of having lower emissions and decreased reliace on the grid. To many people those benefits are worth paying a premium per kwh.

But "the grid" should really be investing in solar to generate their power so using the grid would amount to the same thing. Solar has a high upfront cost and then extremely minimal operating cost. It should be an attractive investment for power companies.

Though to be fair i think the main reason power companies dont invest more heavily in solar is battery tech isnt there yet. So there isnt an efficient way to store energy for cloudy days or night time. The state I live in has invested heavily in wind farms, and we hear the same complaints about battery issues. Only here, it's that the turbines create more energy at night and on cloudy stormy days. I wonder if these two concepts could be incorporated somehow. Then perhaps you don't understand the ROI on solar energy in most of the world exceeds the 0% ROI of buying from the grid. Then perhaps you don't understand the long term environmental costs of "just buying off the grid". Where do you think that energy from the grid comes from? 

I swear, a little thinking 20 years ahead on this planet would go a long way. 

EDIT - proper quoting The initial argument presented by /u/oomellieoo was that solar is free and will only get better in the long run.  The reality is that solar is more expensive than conventional energy but that ratio will flip in the long run.  So, reality is a MUCH different situation for people with limited funds.  That's the whole point behind incentives and regulations: they (try to) offset the short-term concerns and encourage people to make the choice with the better long-term outcome.   Um, no. It would have been completely retarded for me to say solar was free. I *implied* the initial costs will eventually be earned back. I believe this is why it's only for commercial buildings. What average homeowner can front that cost?

I think I was a bit misunderstood... [deleted] Have you seen what goes into making solar panels? They aren't the cleanest of technologies. Probably the worst of the "green" energies. Wind is better and cheaper, and nuclear better still. Ok, so let's break it down.  According to Enerdata, [the average French home uses a little over 500kwh a month.](http://shrinkthatfootprint.com/average-household-electricity-consumption)

[This system](http://www.wholesalesolar.com/solarpowersystems/large-home-1-off-grid-solar-power-system.html) is capable of producing over 530kwh a month, and is designed to let you be totally off the grid.  It costs 10k with zero tax breaks or discounts, which is highly unlikely.

[The cost of energy in France is about $0.19/kwh](https://www.google.com/search?q=france+kwh+cost&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8), meaning the average electricity bill is about $100 a month.  At that rate, the panels would pay for themselves in just over 8 years, and that's assuming you paid full price for them, and that's not counting any credit you receive for power that you sell back to the utility company.  And since most solar panels come with warranties guaranteeing them for 25 years or more, they're probably going to end up paying for themselves at least two times over.


So where does the money sink come in?

Solar panels are an investment.  How the hell is buying something that leads to your eventual independence from the power companies and has the potential to cut your expenses by over $100 a month more of a money sink than just spending $100 a month on something that will never give back? That's also assuming perfect sun at all hours AND that you happen to have a mounting point that never sees shade ever, which is highly unlikely. I love the people who assume solar is the magic solution to all our problems. If solar really was cheaper, people would use it. It isn't. No, it's actually only assuming 5 sun hours a day.  Most residential homes experience more than 5 hours of sunlight on some part of the property unless you're completely surrounded by trees. 

 If this system is such a screaming deal why isn't it on your roof? Because installing a 10,000 dollar PV system on a rental house would be retarded.

Any more questions, smart-ass? There's a reason people aren't doing it. When your own money is on the line maybe you'll realize what that is. 

The people the most vocal about how fantastic of an idea solar is NEVER have it on their own roof - that's how I knew you didn't. I didn't even have to ask. Well since you know everything you should also know that part of this legislation isn't forcing everyone to completely get off the grid.  Installing one or two panels is well within the range of the average home's budget, and if you don't want solar panels, then put plants up there.

But hey, that might be inconvenient or cost money so fuck that let's just abandon all alternative energy and then cry when the oil runs out.

Bunch of greedy fucks, god forbid you do your part to save the god damn planet.  If it ain't free, it ain't for me. It's a good first attempt but you might want to ... double(?) your estimate since you're currently linking to the cost of equipment and assuming installation, permits, etc is free.  Also the solar panels don't fail that often... so a 25 year warranty is really easy for the company to do. The inverters fail much more often (you're pretty much guaranteed 1-2 replacements in 25 years).  They're also the most expensive part of the system.  Coincidentally, they have a [5-10 year warranty](http://solarenergy.net/solar-power-resources/guide-to-understanding-solar-warranties/).  The inverter you're linking to has a [2-5 year warranty](http://www.wholesalesolar.com/products.folder/inverter-folder/magnum-ms-4448PAE.html) and costs 2k.  With such a vanishingly short warranty, expect to replace that one frequently.  The company is basically saying "we don't do a very good job on this product."  

So, guestimating, you're now back to the ROI that most solar folks estimate.  Using your numbers with [this calculator](http://solarsimplified.org/solar-resources/calculate-your-solar-savings) gave me a little over 30 years on a 39k (3.9KW equivalent to your link) system so your ~20k system (after labor but not including multiple new inverters plus paying someone to install them) should be ~15 years.  Add 2-4 years for every inverter replacement.  

Yes, solar makes sense but not for the average French family.  The average French family has [$29,322 in disposable income annually](https://www.google.com/search?q=average+family+income+in+france&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8).  They're likely going to take out a loan to afford solar.  In the US, there are a bunch of incentives to get loans (offered by the installers usually) so you can get a $0 down loan.  However, once you do that your monthly payment outstrips your energy savings.  You're probably STILL paying some to the electric company since many companies will give you credit towards future bills if you overgenerate but not actually give you cash.  Than means, most people install systems that provide most of their energy needs but they try not to overshoot because then they're paying for a system that gives the power company extra energy that they never pay you back for.  Anyway, say the unthinkable happens and you manage to break even on the power bill.  You still have a net increase in your monthly "power bill" due to the loan for the system.  For folks with money to throw around, sure solar makes a lot of sense.  For people who are concerned about making mortgage payments/car/food, the $100/month power bill with it's 0% ROI is just fine.  That money is being spent on staying alive.  That's where incentives come in (and all the bad stuff incentives bring).  Incentives can tip the math so that more people can make the long term investment. Since that system comes with no batteries, hope you don't want electricity all the time. So you add a battery bank and the system pays itself off in 10 or 12 years instead of 8, and you still get to enjoy 10-12+ more years of basically free energy.  Then, since most of the infrastructure is already in place, the only thing that would need to be replaced is the panels as they start to lose efficiency, but you're still left with a system that will continue to pay for itself over time, which is impossible on standard energy.

The point is, PV systems are by no means a "money sink" and discouraging people from using any alternative source of energy that is available to them is counter-productive to the whole "dependance on fossil fuel" thing we're trying to get away from. I am not arguing that solar is a bad idea, I am arguing that your numbers are very misleading.

You are calculating that you will get 100% of the rated output of that panel 100% of the time which is never going to happen.

The common batteries for solar have a 5-6 year lifetime as far as I can tell and cost 60-85% as much as the panels themselves.  So the batteries will end up being a larger cost over the lifetime of the installation.


 How big is the difference between both?  Well, that was a helpful comment. You say soon as if you'll be around to see the sun go... You say that like you read the complete opposite of what I said... Aha I'm not being serious, I was also half asleep when I read your comment  OK, that's fair. I didn't downvote you or anything but I was wondering lol Good to know! aha no it costs money to buy solar panels and maintain them

plants are cheaper

if the people funding the building have to meet the requirement they will probably go for plants

now imagine if they don't take care of the plants (since they had no need for them in the first place), sounds like a fire hazard waiting to happen Can you please point me to the cost analysis you are likely basing that argument on? uh is it that hard to imagine a solar panel costs more than a plant... Please tell me you're being deliberately obtuse. you're deliberately being obtuse Obtuse in asking how a solar panel costs less than an entire coal plant? I don't think you know what "obtuse" means....

I never said it wouldn't cost money to start; it would be infinitely cheaper one the infrastructure is built, though. At least until the sun explodes, anyway. Sometime between building and the end of solar output, considering solar output comes from a "plant" we don't have to pay for and eliminate drilling, taking, mining, etc... .it will absolutely eclipse coal or oil as it will eventually pay for itself.

Unless you're talking "plant" like....."rhododendron ". Because then youd be right. Probably. yes, plant as in plant with leaves, that is what this whole thread is about "France decrees new rooftops must be covered in plants or solar panels..." :) Ah, OK then! :0)  I can admit when I misread a comment lol

I think it's a great idea. If you can't afford one, you can probably afford the other (especially once you get going since you could be growing food). But both options are helpful to the environment and that's what matters. Every little bit helps, etc...

Edit: have you seen [this](http://www.gizmag.com/lilypad-floating-city-concept/17697) cool idea? To be fair, solar panels are a costly investment with a nonzero maintenance requirement (which requires specialist labor), a long-term return on investment, and a short enough history to be an unsure move for most of the public.

And depending on where you live, they can be kinda pointless. It's probably a lot easier to sell them in San Diego than in Seattle. But I am a little happy about the latest wave of environmental news. Even though it's shit news hopefully more and more people will become aware of the issue. oil lobby Some places actually care about freedom. Being able to make choices for yourself is such a far out idea, huh? Well it's not like you have your own earth that you can ruin only for yourself. That's the problem with environment, when you ruin it you ruin it for everyone. So everyone has a word to say for the preservation of our common habitat. I'm amazed people leave primary school without knowing when to use capital letters.  FORCING BUILDINGS TO WEAR HEAD COVERINGS IS AGAINST THE FRENCH WAY! The idea that environmental action goes against jobs or the economy is the biggest, most dangerous lie ever told. Utter bullshit. Think of all the jobs and innovation this will drive forward. These are cool news, but I hope it's backed up with solid safety regulations. In case of a (daytime) fire, a wall or roof covered with photovoltaics can be a hazard for fire crews trying to get past. It's a large area that might be producing and conducting power, even when disconnected from the building grid. I've been reading about this issue in Norwegian technical journals, and it's something you just don't think about before you hear it. So.. firetrucks will soon have auxiliary black paint tanks? I've been saying that this is the easiest and best way to grow renewable energy and can be done by local building ordinances. If it's built into the price of a new home/business then eventually everyone will just have it in the same way all homes are now wired for electricity and have indoor plumbing.   Can't afford a new home with it? No problem, buy used. This will also drive the panel prices lower as more companies want a share of the market.  It's really the best of free business and governments working together.  US should do this since they have more business buildings. People who invested in oil companies will hurt tho.. We've got thousands of acres of walmart rooftops Ironically, [Walmart has a lot of solar installations on their roofs.](http://corporate.walmart.com/global-responsibility/environment-sustainability/energy)  I say ironically, because [the Walton family contributes to ALEC, which is trying to stop the spread of solar on private home rooftops.](http://cleantechnica.com/2014/10/15/walmart-owners-investing-millions-anti-solar-activities/) Solar is for electricity.  Oil is generally for gasoline.  We rarely burn oil for electricity.  We make kerosene, butane, petroleum jelly, diesel, gasoline, asphalt, bitumen etc.,. out of oil.  But turning on your lights is not something that comes from oil.

Natural gas on the other hand... good point. What are you smoking?

Oil isnt used for electricity.  Man, France has been in the news a lot the past few weeks. Being all progressive and shit.  Being progressive and stuff, all on other peoples dime. or Franc. Or whatever it is they use over there.  France is getting cool :) I was made to put 30m2 of hot water solar panels on my roof in 2009 when I built my house in Switzerland. Cost an extra 30k or so. I save about 1k in heating fuel costs per annum. So we are talking a 30 year breakeven assuming the panels last that long. 

Point is - this technology needs to be cheaper otherwise it's a serious financial burden to satisfy the collective's greenlust. Also assuming energy costs don't go up.  That too!

This was legislated by the way, I had no choice... Right, if energy costs on the market double, you hit break even twice as fast. Kind of. It is probably not quite neatly linear as I still use around 1000 litres of fuel oil, and that would obviously double in cost too.

Point is nobody subsidised my panels as is the case elsewhere, so I took a whopping personal hit to the wallet to be green-ish, when there are many, many, many ecological issues that still need to be addressed around me that nobody is doing squat about.  30m2 for hot water? Do you live in a bathhouse or something? Mine is around 2m2 and cost me around $2000 and provides enough hot water for 6 people
 No, I live in the Alps. ;)

The panels do the entire underfloor heating system too. Cuts fuel consumption in half, the boiler itself rarely fires in the summer the solar does everything.  Ah, heating + hot water. That makes more sense. Hot water alone, even in the Alps, you'd only need a few meters. Heating/cooling takes a whole roof, sometimes more. It works very well, I have to say. I'm at 800m on granite so a ground heat exchanger was not an option and an air version was borderline - that would have been my preferred system.  We require........A shrubbery!!!.. Or solar panel.. [deleted] Building a small reservoir to capture water that you don't own is illegal for perfectly good reasons.

Edit: In America, you are allowed to collect rainwater from roofs and the like in every state; only a few even regulate this activity. I'm referring to actually *diverting the course of water in the form of streams, rivers, and aquifers*, which is the source of the overblown stories about people getting in legal trouble for collecting water that have been in the news over the last few years. It sounds absurd on the surface but it's also stopping Nestl from making a rainwater catching net over the United States That and catching water with a net doesn't work. ^^I ^^was ^^gonna ^^make ^^a ^^joke ^^but ^^haven't ^^we ^^heard ^^enough? ^^so ^^maybe ^^I ^^will ^^be ^^helpful:

Net: "an entrapping device or situation" Yeah, I remember when this started happening. Everyone was talking about how the poor little guy who just wanted to collect some drinking water was being shut down by the evil government.

Cut to the guy being a commercial rancher or something, and his small pool of water was an enormous reservoir.  How do you remember your username? http://cdn.makeuseof.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/google-chrome-save-password-offer.png?b5d383 No capturing water without the express consent of Nestl S.A. And the reason they can get away with that nonsense is because they're not subject to the very laws I'm referring to. Circlejerk? Nestle gets permits and has government oversight to extract water. It makes complete sense that any regular citizen can't divert stream or lake water. They could inadvertently destroy ecosystems.  But if a company intentionally destroys one it's ok because they have a permit! "Government oversight". Do you have any examples of what you stated actually happening?  Nestle bottles water from multiple drought stricken areas.

http://www.desertsun.com/story/news/environment/2014/07/12/nestle-arrowhead-tapping-water/12589267/

http://action.sumofus.org/a/nestle-water-ontario/4/2/?sub=homepage

Nestle has already shown they have no issues with killing thousands of people to make a profit.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nestl_boycott It was mostly a joke about Nestl literally owning all the water.  &gt;literally Someday.  I'm sure you could find a good reason to make just about anything illegal. money is a good reason for most things. Between the lines, you read there. Out of genuine curiosity - what reasons? I own land near the source of a river. I dam the river, and use all of the water for myself. All of the farmland downriver now has no access to water. I'm not paying for the water, merely capturing it. That would be considered a small reservoir? Seems like a damming a river is a reasonable offense. Thanks. I mean, extrapolate that down to creeks - many farmers use creeks for their irrigation, so even damming a tiny creek could be denying water to your neighbor. it is a damnable offense.  capturing fallen rain on my propperty seems very different than damming a river on the ground. Do you just collect the rain falling on your property, or do you collect rain falling on your property, your neighbor's property, and your neighbor's neighbor's property as it all flows onto your property?

That is pretty much the difference between legal and illegal. ah. thats fair then! but i sahould be allowed to collect falling rain water over my land. but def not ground water But you don't get in legal trouble for that in America (unless your property is very large and you're breaking limits on the order of 100,000 gallons, in a few states.) You should stop doing that  Exactly. ;-) Dude nobody should 'own' water. Think about it. The edit wasn't there earlier - I agree with you, nobody should own any body of water, but the original comment made it sound like collecting rainwater would be illegal too.
 Is that true, in America rain belongs to someone?

When you get wet in the rain and run home to get dry, are you stealing water?

Thanks a lot for all the informative replies/edits. I think this whole thing is now clear enough to everyone? Rainwater collection is not only legal but encouraged, *on small scales.* Home rain barrels are strongly encouraged in precisely the same states which have had high-profile water diversion cases in the news lately.

Diverting a watershed to keep large quantities of water for yourself is illegal. Imagine if someone were to dam a river that feeds a few hundred miles of farmland. This is why weed growers in my area (Humboldt, CA) get such a bad rap. We have all sorts of (relatively) responsible growers who keep to themselves, then we have the assholes who divert rivers and streams and completely drain them dry to water their illegal outdoor grows on backwoods land. Those eco-destroyers are making our harmless industry into something dirty, and it's just so sad.  tl;dr: If you capture large amounts of rainwater, the ecosystem is affected. Ok that makes sense. That doesn't make any sense. The house you just built there has already destroyed the eco system there, and the water that isn't catched would go down a storm drain somewhere anyway. And the amount of water you can catch won't count that much anyway. I'm not talking a rain barrel here, I'm talking someone capturing water for industrial or farming purposes.

the point is that rainwater is supposed to be an equal resource, and is an important part of the ecosystem, not to be used for profit where someone like Nestl can set up giant raincatchers, get free water, and sell it for US$3 a liter. but we arent talking about Nestle. Also the $3/liter is mainly a charge for shipping, storing, manufacturing, and convenience. The water sells for a lot less in bulk (like how they buy water) Actually, if we wanted to be fair we're talking about solar panels, not rain water. Well if tons of people start catching rain water, it adds up.  And that rain water needs to go down storm drains and such so it turns to the rivers. Refreshing groundwater is the much more important function of rain. Not like that.  But if the guy upriver from you diverts the river or creek then suddenly you don't have any water.  Water is treated a semi-public thing where you have the right to reasonable use of the water on your land, and that right ends when your neighbors start losing their water. No, but if you download water they'll be all over your ass. Pretty soon everyone is just going to be printing all the water they need with 3D printers. "Honey, can you print me a glass of water?"

"We're out of Hydrogen ink!"

"Damn it, Carl. That shit is expensive and I am thirsty." According to Oregon water laws, all water is publicly owned. Therefore, anyone who wants to store any type of water on their property must first obtain a permit from state water managers. http://cnsnews.com/news/article/oregon-man-sentenced-30-days-jail-collecting-rainwater-his-property The rain belongs to no one, but public waterways that run through private property cannot be dammed or diverted without special permissions. Rain barrel capture from rooftops is legal everywhere. I cant help but wonder where in the world such rumors are spread? &gt;Building a small reservoir to capture water that you don't own is illegal for perfectly good reasons.

I didn't know how small "small" is, I assumed the smallest that made sense to me, which is a rain barrel. That you're not allowed to divert water from public resources, like ground water or rivers or something like that makes perfect sense to me. America somehow not allowing to collect rainwater and selling the right is in the grey zone of being crazy but possible. In America something belongs to someone. Apparently privately owned healthcare and business lobbying is good for your "freedom". But you can built a small solar collector to capture the suns rays?  Why can't we own water, but can own the sun. Catching sun on your property doesn't take sun away from other people. capturing rain on my property doesnt take it from others anymore than me growing tomatoes on my property using the rain fall to feed them. And you can catch rain on your property in America. You cannot build reservoirs/ponds/lakes/dams that divert the watershed. It takes away water from people downstream of you who rely on it to survive California cough.  Wrong.  You are stopping the reflecting of the rays off your rooftop.  These rays would otherwise be reflected off into the surrounding areas. How steep is your roof? about 45 degree angle I'd say. Surely you see the difference between damming a creek and reflecting 2% less sunlight into the air above your neighbors' property... I'm talking about collecting rainwater that fell from the sky and lands on your rooftop. Which is illegal precisely nowhere in the U.S.

Rainfall collection is only illegal when you're diverting massive amounts of rainfall which would normally flow on and create community water resources.  You can collect the water falling from your roof and nobody will care.  When you start collecting all of the rainfall from several dozen small streams that form every time it rains, then you're liable to get in trouble. no body is talking about damming a creek. We are talking about collecting rainfall in a bucket.  The original comment was talking about America, where legal problems resulting from water collection are about watershed diversion. It's already perfectly legal to collect rainfall in a bucket. Like what? Damming a watercourse to prevent anyone else from using the water appropriates a natural resource which you do not own? Oh, yeah, I thought we were discussing the building of a rooftop reservoir to capture raid water which you do not own... Rain barrels are illegal in Colorado, so not every state It's heavily restricted, but can be done with a permit, [found here.](http://water.state.co.us/DWRIPub/Documents/gws-78.pdf)

However, they are considering a change to the law, as can be seen in [this document.](http://cwcbweblink.state.co.us/WebLink/ElectronicFile.aspx?docid=142162&amp;searchid=c25573eb-f1b7-4b8c-9810-6dd02adee4e2&amp;&amp;&amp;dbid=0) &gt; you are allowed to collect rainwater from roofs and the like in every state;

um, no no your not, almost every state in the Colorado River basin restricts rooftop water collection, and thats pretty much the entire american west It's allowed with a permit, and that law is likely to be changed soon, with a pilot project underway to demonstrate the feasibility of allowing it in general.  lol, considering the Colorado river basin supply's water to the entire american west and west coast, that is not in anyway likely. &gt; In America, you are allowed to collect rainwater from roofs and the like in every state

Wrong. [Rainbarrels are generally illegal in Colorado](http://water.state.co.us/SURFACEWATER/SWRIGHTS/Pages/RainwaterGraywater.aspx). [Here is the permit form.](http://water.state.co.us/DWRIPub/Documents/gws-78.pdf) It's heavily regulated, but not illegal. They are also in a pilot program right now to change the law. Fair enough!

I'd add that your statement above applies to residential, but I'm not sure that it applies to commercial and industrial facilities (in all states). Generally speaking, southwestern states have water rights laws very dissimilar from east coasters. Dont quote me on this, but if I recall correctly from my days in Arizona, it was illegal to collect rainwater in your property. can you elaborate a bit on this please? I don't really know enough to make an opinion on it, but I don't see what's wrong with capturing rain water.

*Edit: don't quite get why I'm being downvoted for asking a question. Imagine that you're a farmer who irrigates from a stream and one day, your stream stops flowing. Then you find out a guy a mile north of you has dammed it and is keeping all of the water for himself. Okay I get that example, but I thought we were referring to capturing rain water on the roof a building. Is it technically the same thing? Yes. The rains in cities make their way back to rivers. These rivers are used for irrigation, transportation, power production, etc.. Additionally, most of these river ecosystems are very fragile and just small changes can have huge impacts. There are good reasons that there are laws on the books about water rights. Of course, that is not to say that there is never a time and a place for it. We just have to be very careful of unintended consequences. The comment I was replying to was referring to a case where a guy was diverting water and people were like OMG WATER SHUD B FREE. But he was diverting a ton of water into a reservoir. Uh. Capitalism?  This has nothing to do with his question.  It's an example explaining why watershed diversion is illegal... watershed is one thing, he's asking about a case where everyone can acces the same amount of water without "blocking" it from someone else  I agree that it *sounds* ridiculous, but when you think about it, (excluding natural springs) all streams are just rainwater flowing from one place to another and you don't have an automatic right to change the natural water cycle in your area just because you own land somewhere. [deleted] You don't own the land your house is on either.  You may think you do, but you don't.  Try not paying those property taxes and see how long you end up on that land? You do own the land. Taxes have little to do with ownership. It is your responsibility to pay for the services provided to your land. You didn't pay for the road leading up to it or the public service infrastructure when you bought the land. 

That's like saying you don't have freedom because you can get arrested for not paying income taxes.  Profit-driven?  Not hardly, it's an environmental issue.

"Harvest" all the water at the beginning of a river and the people at the end of the river don't have any water. Can someone link the article everyone has been referencing? This one?

http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/mar/20/france-decrees-new-rooftops-must-be-covered-in-plants-or-solar-panels No, the one about the guy harvesting water from a river or something.   Wouldn't it be typical American profit-driven bullshit if every landowner sold the water from his/her property? Don't you see the problem with that situation too? Someone, somewhere, owns all land. Not everyone has rainfall or systems to collect it. Where would city water come from? Where would the water in rivers come from?

Neither situation is great. I don't think you'd ever get in trouble for collecting a barrel or two from your gutters for personal use. But if you buy up acres of land and try to sell the water to everyone else, how could you not see that as unfair? That is what would happen if the process was totally legal. Rivers would run dry because huge corporations would be selling "their water" back to us.

Imagine a future where rain water of normal people evaporates and is redistributed via clouds, as water hoarders stockpiled all of their rain, including that which evaporated from the property of the people not collecting it.

I used to criticize this rainwater collecting ban too, but I get it now. And again, the government isn't going to raid your house because they see a barrel under your gutters that you use to water your flowers. You should read the laws before you spout this nonsense. You clearly have no idea what they say. Are you claiming that the government owns the weather?  Oh my god, the incredibly stupid questions this comment has generated.

If you buy some land around the Mississippi river, should you be allowed to dam it? [Not in Chicago](http://newsarchive.medill.northwestern.edu/chicago/news.aspx?id=209104) [deleted] Wut?  I only skimmed through the linked article, but as an architect in Chicago, I don't know what you're talking about.  The city's Energy Efficiency code applies to corporate headquarters buildings (which are more likely than other to be LEED certified) and single family homes.

Big picture, yes, you're right, but on this point, I have no idea what you're talking about. Some jurisdictions in the US have similar mandates, they've had them for a while. Probably started in California. https://law.resource.org/pub/us/code/bsc.ca.gov/gov.ca.bsc.2013.11.pdf

All government buildings have to put them in. Most large businesses where I live have solar installed, and all the schools have solar topped canopies in the parking lots. [Everyone gets shaded parking.](http://i.imgur.com/IjZ6h.jpg) Guy in our neighborhood added solar panels to his house, some people in the neighborhood started complaining about it "ruining their view" even though his house is right down by the woods and you can see the mountain range and valley clear over it. It's not like he was blocking the view, they just thought it was kind of ugly. Luckily the HOA isn't terrible and told them basically to fuck off, he can have as many solar panels as he wants. You are not alone, in Spain you got a decree where if you install solar panels in your property, you can be fined up to  60million Euros if you havent paid the so called "backup toll " to the electric company.

So Spain and the US are not so unlike afterall. Depends where. The new (2013) California Energy Code has a lot of provisions that are basically creating solar-ready buildings (e.g. mandating installation of conduit to the roof for solar panels, allocation of space for the requisite equipment, etc.). It seems like a small step but I wouldn't be surprised if, within a couple code cycles (2016 or 2019) they began mandating installation of a minimum number of panels.  Climate makes a big difference. Climate change is going to make some areas more arid and increase precipitation in others. (not to say that's what is going on here its just a general observation)

What works in one place is counter productive in another.  [deleted] The examples listed in [this story](http://green.blogs.nytimes.com//2009/05/15/homeowners-associationsthe-enemy-of-solar/) occurred in Minnesota, New Jersey, California, and Arizona. While Arizona is a red state, the others generally aren't considered that.

It's all about the suburbs, regardless of what state they're in. Homeowners Associations are terrible.

They are essentially an extra layer of (unelected) government.... I must live in upside-down land, because my HOA is fucking excellent. You pick your HOA by moving somewhere. Don't like it?  Don't move there.  Great link.  and is it the blue states that try to stop rainwater collection?  I know of at least Colorado that bans the collection of rainwater for ecological reasons to protect their rivers which is a pretty good reason. Water conservation in the US is almost ignored until they're already in a drought.  Not really ecological reasons, but purchased water rights of people downhill. It is also legal for some people (water well owners I think) to collect rain water now. It's the states where rainwater collection would cause tributaries to run dry. Colorado, for example, because their rivers supply water to a fuck of a lot of places. No it happens everywhere that the zoning regulations are setup in a way that would consider this to be mixed use spaces or something similar.  Not really? U.S. companies have been making photovoltaic shingles (Dow, Energy Conversion Devices, CertainTeed) for a long time and photovoltaic glass is becoming more widely adopted into buildings. Plants are not always a good idea because the roots can cause problems for the structure. Not in Chicago, this sort of stuff is encouraged city wide As we say in Germany: Stupidity must be punished.                                   Apparently, sometimes, by court order. Across the pond we say "You can't fix stupid".  I think I like the german attitude better.  we also have a somewhat related saying:

"Leichte Schlge auf den Hinterkopf erhhn das Denkvermgen"

"Slight hits to the back of the head raise mental accuity".

sooo, we think weve found a way to "fix" stupid. Not *erhoehen? Just asking. [deleted] I didn't know, thanks. I don't know the language as well as I'd like, and colloquial everyday usage is a big part of that . . . ;) colloquial is highly local in germany, so if youre learning, you have a big task ahead of you.

e.g. "freilich" is a word you almost exclusively see in bavaria (or thats where its used a lot more).

---

the principle in this case is that an "en" can on occasion be shortened to " 'n " for verbs

 e.g.: gehen-&gt; geh'n; sehen -&gt; seh'n; erhhen -&gt; erhh'n; drehen -&gt; dreh'n; spielen -&gt; spiel'n;...

and afaik, this isnt local.

but NOT(!) filmen -&gt; film'n; (though i struggle to come up with other examples) Please tell me that's a real German saying. Because I love it.  Yes it is.

"Dummheit muss bestraft werden" - Stupidity has to be punished. The first part is, not the part about the court... Reminds me of my favorite thing I've ever read about Satanists, from their Nine Satanic Sins (which are pretty great): "[Its too bad that stupidity isnt painful.](http://churchofsatan.com/nine-satanic-sins.php)" It pains others, so.. I much prefer. "I'm not saying we should kill all the stupid people, I'm just saying we should remove all the warning labels and let the problem sort itself out" Ignorance is not the same thing as stupidity. You would be punishing innocent  people.  &gt; As we say in Germany: Stupidity must be punished.

...we do? Dummheit muss bestraft werden We do! Who controls the British crown? Who keeps the metric system down? [WIIIII-HIEEEER](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y0nzPakBYOM) I love how the extra syllables make it impossible to keep an even meter in the verses. I have no idea what the guy before you said, but this made me laugh.

Edit: After exhaustive research, it appears that it literally translates to, "stupidity must be punished."

I was sort of hoping for more of a euphanism or metaphor. &gt;I was sort of hoping for more of a euphanism or metaphor.

It's German, so no. It says what it means. Yeah, my grandfather and my mother use an even longer version: Guessing is not knowing, not knowing is stupidity and stupidity must be punished.

In german: Glauben ist nicht wissen, nicht wissen is Dummheit und Dummheit muss bestraft werden. Not knowing isn't stupidity though. 

Seems a lot like a old school school teaching to me. I really wish we had that saying in America.  Actually, you know what, I'm gonna make it one. The german saying isn't used in a self-justice way.

People say it when someone does something stupid that then comes to bite them later. So similar to "karma is a bitch" for us. I've been saying it for the better part of 30 years, and I know I picked it up from someone else.  So its been around here for awhile.  It is a great saying though. ""It is a psychosomatic illness. People become ill after traumatic separations."


I'm speechless. I would have just sent him a live sample of the virus and told him to rub it in his eyes and mouth. 1. The guy probably still wouldn't buy it. He'd convince himself that the stress of the publicity got him sick, or that there were toxins in the vial and not a virus.

2. I think there are laws and international treaties regarding knowingly infecting people with pathogens... Maybe it falls under biological warfare, I don't know, but if you can't mail anthrax and you  CAN get arrested for knowingly infecting somebody with HIV (by not disclosing your status), I think instructing somebody to rub the measles virus in their eyes might fall under the same laws and regulations.

3. At the very least, it's unethical. \\\_()_/ 

 &gt;or that there were toxins in the vial and not a virus.

what's crazy is that these people are incapable of identifying a virus as a type of "toxin" that can be prevented with vaccine injection. But if we just told these people we were injecting them with Vitamin B12, they wouldn't bat an eye at the miracle powers it had to prevent disease. Did you know putting Borax in your drinking water will help decalcify your pineal gland? It will help reverse the damage caused by flouride. Also, be sure to drink your silver and I have some filters for sale. I made Gak with borax once.  Im 45 and still make gak with borox.  works really well as an ant poison too.

 &gt;I have some filters for sale.

That's what I don't understand about anti-vaccers. They ignore doctors who just want to "increase profit," but have no problem shelling out money to some lunatic. Vaccines are a ploy for profit!

*But the guy selling tinctures he brewed in his shed is doing it out of altruism* Your filters don't block dihydrogen monoxide from getting in my water, which has caused me to grow bigger breasts!  I want my money back, pervert! psssst...I heard you, uh, had some...some *breasts*? I'd also guess 

4)  The guys parents weren't as dumb as he is and he was vaccinated as a child.  So at worst he'd get a mild case and brush it off. Maybe that's his exhibit A - vaccination does cause mental problems. &gt; At the very least, it's unethical.

Well you didnt do anything. He got sick because of his bad karma

Edit :[Stop it you](http://i.imgur.com/IoxFi.jpg)  Maybe if you worded the letter in the right way you might be able to get away with it. Your second point is good, but if you gave him a vial and said "this vial contains the measles virus" it isn't like you are misleading him.  You might go on to say "since you don't believe in measles, if you were really convincdd it was a hoax, you wouldn't have a problem drinking whatever is in there."  Now you haven't *told* him to do anything, but you have created a situation where he is informed of the risk and if he chooses to drink the vial anyway he has made the decision to infect *himself*.  It is like saying "yes, i know you have HIV but i still will have unprotected sex with you".  The person with HIV can't possibly be held responsible in such a case, and the only way this is different is that this dude doesn't "believe" it exists. that boy needs therapy. Lie down on the couch. 

*But what does that mean?* [YOU'RE A NUT! YOU'RE CRAZY IN DE COCONUT!](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U8BWBn26bX0&amp;t=1m1s) But what does that mean?  That boy needs therapy I'm gonna kill you That boy needs therapy How does that make you feel? Play the kazoo, let's have it tune, Now when I count three... YOU'RE A NUT! You're crazy in the coconut. I am so happy every time I remember this song exists. Can't more music be like this? Anyone got any similar recommendations?

Edit: Thanks for all the suggestions! I'm going to check them all out, it's about time I found some new music! One place to start would be the full album that song is from, Since I Left You.  It's really solid.   The fact that he's continuing to argue this after he's received the evidence he asked for is incredible.  and he's a biologist! That is the real clincher. A biologist who just doesn't understand. Or just wont.  There's no way someone with a biology degree can be that scientifically illiterate about basic biology without getting their degree from a cereal box. You sir have obviously never graduated with a degree before.

Everyone who graduates knows at least one, if not a lot of peers who shouldn't have been allowed to graduate. 

Programmers who can't program. Psychologists who don't believe in feelings. Scientists who don't believe in the scientific method. Engineers who don't know how to solve problems. Artists who think poop in a toilet is art. Accountants who dislike keeping numbers. Medical Doctors who people trust with their lives despite how they cheated their way through school.

Every degree has them. It doesn't matter the school or program, doesn't matter where or when. If you were never aware of them, then you very well might be one of them. Soooo many "programmers" who can't program.

One guy in my SWE class, instead of doing his work (which was a substantial portion of our project) decided to ask his friend to do it, without telling anyone. His friend copied and pasted code from the internet that

1. Didn't work
2. Would have gotten us an honor code violation

Our group leader was a big Israeli BJJ fighter/body builder and stood outside with me chewing him out in the pouring rain after we discovered it (the day before the project was due). Rather than turn him in, we made him present on a huge portion that he didn't write.

You could hear it in his voice the whole time he was presenting lol. Doctor: "But we can literally show you the virus under an electron microscope and sequence its RNA"

'Biologist': "LIES! ITS NOT REAL, IT'S ALL IN YOUR HEAD!!" If it's anything like HIV denialism then they don't believe that the virus causes the disease.  Considering the 100,000 Euros at stake, not really.

"It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends upon his not understanding it!" - Upton Sinclair in *I, Candidate for Governor: And How I Got Licked* But he was already a biologist when he put up the 100,000 Euro. His salary, one would expect, would actually depend on him understanding basic high school level biology. A lot of people have crazy ideas, but the fact that someone who works as a biologist and presumably has the appropriate education and training could hold such a view is somewhat surprising. The ability to complete classwork well can be totally separate from actually having the slightest comprehension of the topic.

I remember in high school I was in a genetics class.  We had just completed the chapter of reproduction and chromosomes. Then this girl, who was on the honor roll, tells the teacher how the gender of the kid is determined by the speed of the sperm.  If it's fast and the egg is close it's a boy, if it's slow but has better stamina and the egg is far away, it's a girl.

I was just dumbfounded.  That girl had several incidents like that.  She couldn't comprehend that dry ice wasn't water, for example.  Didn't know we nuked the Japanese in WW2.  She was a true moron but managed to be an honor roll student. &gt;Then this girl, who was on the honor roll, tells the teacher how the gender of the kid is determined by the speed of the sperm. If it's fast and the egg is close it's a boy, if it's slow but has better stamina and the egg is far away, it's a girl.

Sounds to me like she has a simplified view on an otherwise real  (albeit far from fully understood) process. Example:

"[...]female sperm cells seem to be more resilient than their male counterparts to the acidic environment of the cervix. However, the pH of the cervix changes and becomes less acidic just before and during ovulation. For this reason, male sperm cells may have a better chance of surviving and fertilizing the egg cell. The egg cell, on the other hand, can only be fertilized for around 24 hours after ovulation. So, depending on when exactly fertilization occurs, any one of these factors may play a role in determining the gender of the offspring. Not surprisingly, were faced with what seems like more questions than answers when it comes to the role of male versus female sperm cells during fertilization in humans!"

http://www.nature.com/scitable/popular-discussion/679

So the female reproduction system changes and the X and Y sperm cells react to this environment differently, which does in fact play a considerable role in the likelihood of the gender of the child. This. I have a MS in biotechnology and one of my classmates in my program didn't believe in evolution. I'm pretty sure his GPA was higher than mine =/ I know at least one person with a PhD in *genetics* who does not believe in evolution.  Now that this man has been separated from his 100,00 euro's I wonder what illness he will contact.  butthurtacitis It's psychosomatic. It's contracted after traumatic separations between fools and their money.  It's also contracted from shoving ones head up ones own ass publicly which he did a rather good job of haha Probably not affluenza. [deleted] According to what the guy says on his Wikipedia page, you might wanna get checked for Ebola though...  Has someone checked this guy's credentials? He's apparently a virologist with a PhD. He also claims HIV and Ebola are a fraud. Wtf? It's not uncommon for really intelligent people to be a bit mental. Not saying this lad is super smart, just that perhaps he's on the ball academically then goes home to wrap himself in tinfoil  Intelligence doesn't always coincide with rational thinking unfortunately. Intelligence also doesn't coincide with degrees. Mostly work ethic. Or, he is making money.

The Young Earth Creationist crowd has a few token Geologist and Biologist graduate degree holders... I am convinced they are in it for the money. It's a niche market, you write a couple of books and sell them to a few hundreds of thousands of crazy YEC'ers (because they CRAVE scientific support for their lunacy and you're the only game in town) and you're set for life. Science doesn't pay well. Maybe the guy decided he'd rather be a rich con than  honest and poor? So science pays less than -100k? If you're rich enough to drop a 100k wager, then you're richer than 99% of the people in this world. I don't imagine he ever intended to pay up.  Depending on the position yes. Average post doc salary is in the 45k range.

edit: just saw the minus sign. Dun goofed! The spanish wikipedia page says its a virologist but also says his experience is limited because he's only published 3 papers about viruses in brown algae.

Draw your own conclussions.

 The fool was supposedly a biologist.  That's the most disturbing part of the news.  Where did he get his degree? "Hollywood Upstairs Medical College" [Hi Everybody!](http://i.imgur.com/wJHs9kJ.jpg) Call 1-800-DOCTORB

The B is for Bargain! Hi Dr. Nick!  The kneebone's connected to the... something. The something's connected to the... red thing. The red thing's connected to my wrist watch... Uh oh.  Well, if it isn't my old friend, Mr.McGreg... with a leg for an arm and an arm for a leg! Interestingly enough my wife is an SLP and last night I heard her jokingly singing, "You're swallow pipe's connected to your don't die".

She's a real-life cartoon character sometimes. Inflammable means flammable? What a country!  Sadly he died during the Simpsons movie.  Don't worry, it says *IN*fectious ...hey actually, that sounds like a sweet deal. "surgery? just let me watch this instructional video first" HI DOCTOR NICK!  When I grow up, I'm going to Bovine University! Hey the US gets enough flack for its nuts.  This guy's German - I hope he didn't get his degree in the US. Don't worry, we have our fair share of crazies over here. Maybe its just not so internationally broadcast, usually. Language barrier plays in our favour.
 He's a known idiot making a lot of money from other idiots. He owns a  publishing company which he uses to infect the world with his virulent anti-vax and AIDS denial theories. He also gives speeches denouncing modern medicine that cost 90 to attend...  I think that speaks even more poorly of the people that attend those speeches than this nutjob,if that's even possible! It's amazing how easy some people are to manipulate.

I was colleagues with a German researcher working on developing,of all things,a drug to prevent measles. Like,before it even developed into full blown measles. This was a few years ago,in the US. If he reads this news,I'm sure he'll be crying into his pillow tonight:(

**Edit**: I was in a hurry this morning and didn't have time to proof read my post,so I just wanted to clear things up a little bit. This was a drug to abort/ reduce the severity of measles if given at the first sign/symptom of the detection of a case of measles.

Unfortunately,in many third world countries it is often difficult to assess the vaccination status of a child(specially in the rural areas). Also,although the MMR vaccine does not need to be maintained in a strict 'cold chain',it still needs to be kept in a freezer/ refrigerated. Something as simple as this is sometimes hard to achieve in poor countries. For example,the power may go out for extended periods of time,leaving the vaccine unviable.

This would be a niche drug,that would help quell the severity of measles in a population while catch up vaccination is done.

I haven't kept up with him,so I'm not sure exactly how much progress he's made,but the initial signs a few years ago were positive. If he's making money from that nonsense, it seems to raise the likelihood that he knows it's a lie.  That makes the judgment more fitting. His [German Wikipedia entry](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_Lanka) doesn't say, but if I read the [Spanish one](http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_Lanka) correctly, he got it in Koblenz. Actually, it's Universitt Konstanz, not Koblenz.

Here is the research paper he wrote for graduation:  
http://agenda-leben.de/Lanka_Diplomarbeit_1989_kompr.pdf

Scarily enough, it deals with viruses.

This person got a degree in biology, wrote research on viruses himself, and denies the existence of the measles virus. That's how crazy this guy is.  

This person even tries to deny the existence of HIV:   
http://www.whale.to/a/lanka4.html   


Edit: Just to make this absolutely clear - this guy makes money by telling gullible people that dangerous viruses don't exist. **Yet he literally wrote a paper that is proving the existence of a certain virus, including being the first to isolate 15 viral proteins of a certain marine virus!** He isn't stupid, I doubt the guy really believes in that crap, he just profits from those who do. It's a charade. But that doesn't explain him making the wager. He's definitely got a screw loose.

Don't forget that plenty of brilliant minds go insane the guy who invented PCR (and got a Nobel for it) thinks aids isn't real and believes there is good evidence in favour of astrology. He also discovered PCR while under the influence of LSD...  Source? I used to work in stem cell research and we actually had Kary Mullis come in and do a guest lecture at our lab. Very personable and intelligent man. He didn't strike me as the type to go running down main street in dirty underwear screaming about Aries making a bid for control of Earth.

Edit: Damn you Kary Mullis for making a fool of me with your nonsensical flabbergastery! http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kary_Mullis

"In his 1998 autobiography, Mullis expressed disagreement with the scientific evidence supporting climate change and ozone depletion, the evidence that HIV causes AIDS, and asserted his belief in astrology. "

"Mullis reported an encounter with a glowing green raccoon at his cabin in the woods of northern California around midnight one night in 1985. He denies the involvement of LSD in this encounter" Im sorry, but the glowing green raccoon always cracks me up. Still gotta appreciate the PCR. That shit is important :( damn http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/28/weekinreview/28johnson.html?_r=4&amp;adxnnl=1&amp;oref=slogin&amp;ref=science&amp;adxnnlx=1193583001-IE12EKQeJt1sjwCUOYPVWg&amp;oref=slogin

Kary Mullis, after grabbing a piece of the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, dove head first off the platform, expounding on the virtues of LSD and astrology and expressing his doubts aboutglobal warming, the ozone hole, and H.I.V. as the cause of AIDS.  He obviously didn't think he'd have to pay.  "I'm so confident in my assertion I'll bet 100 000 smackers that I'm right!"  That sounds good and people are going to believe you if you say it.  All he had to do afterwards is reject any proof that's sent to him, or so he thought. At Acme Looniversity. Nice end to the article:

&gt; Measles is a highly contagious infectious disease characterised by a high fever, a rash and generally feeling unwell.

Nice of the BBC to not entertain this guy's bullshit in the slightest.  Those are some vague damn symptoms, I must say. Well it's a very characteristic rash and time pattern of fever and rash. And a high fever so the time period is pretty obvious. You can make anything sound vague!   &gt; You can make anything sound vague!

That's a pretty vague statement. A gunshot wound to the face is characterized by:

* headaches

* bleeding

* bruising

You're right! I think a gunshot wound would also leave you feeling generally unwell. Pregnancy is characterized by

* Swelling of abdomen

* Internal parasitism for ~9 months, external parasitism for ~18 years 

* Increased hunger

* Hormonal imbalance Well the rash alone is pretty characteristic I would say. I know the Doctor who sued, if there is interest in an AMA I might ask him? He's highly active in the anti-antivaccer fight so I'm sure he has some interesting things to say. That would be cool. Yeah, do it. Just did a little research and that man is really full of shit. In an interview when asked about his background he starts by answering :
"I started studying molecular biology in 1984, and I soon got bored because I learned that all that you have to learn in order to pass the exams is already old, out-of-date dogmatic thinking. "

Oh, so everything you need to learn to become a biologist is bullshit? How he calls himself a biologist baffles me then.

In the interview he denies the existence of the VIH and also of infectious hepatitis (he doesn't deny it's a virus, he denies the disease even exist). Apparently he says that "so called proof" are fabricated by corrupt members of the WHO.
That man is a conspirationist, not a scientist. And he is quite dangerous.

Here's a link to said interview which I would advise against reading : http://www.virusmyth.com/aids/hiv/mcinterviewsl.htm &gt;"I started studying molecular biology in 1984, and I soon got bored because I learned that all that you have to learn in order to pass the exams is already old, out-of-date dogmatic thinking. "

Sounds like classic /r/iamverysmart thinking.

"I took a freshman class and it was easy so I didn't bother to study the subject deeper because I am a genius". Man ask any serious graduate student, as time goes on you don't feel as if your completely learning a field of study. Au contraire, you progressively get the feeling of knowing less and less ... a comment like his really reflects how absent his scientific curiosity is. Get your PhD: "I probably know a very small fact about one specific thing! Success!" Yep. My wife has one in political science. 

Want to know how the food safety modernization act alters principles of market self governance in domestic processed food manufacturing? She's your girl. 

Want to know how a microphone works? Not so much.  &gt; Want to know how the food safety modernization act alters principles of market self governance in domestic processed food manufacturing? She's your girl.

Explanation (from her) or GTFO [Available in Kindle or Hardcover.](http://www.amazon.com/In-Food-We-Trust-Regulation/dp/0803254814)  

Edit: Woo! Thanks for the Gold! The book is worth a read if you're so inclined. http://i.imgur.com/gfGIszP.gif You just dropped the mic so hard I fell off my dinosaur. Enjoy the first gold I've ever given. #rekt Somebody ordered delivery? I got my associates in general studies: I know a reasonable bit about a lot of things.  Same thing happened with a Holocaust denial agency in the US.  The Institute of Historical Review (a Holocaust denial group based in Southern California) put out a $50,000 challenge for someone to "prove that Jews were gassed at Auschwitz."  A Holocaust survivor, Mel Mermelstein took them to court where the court stated,

This court does take judicial notice of the fact that Jews were gassed to death at Auschwitz Concentration Camp in Poland during the summer of 1944.  It is not reasonably subject to dispute.  And it is capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  It is simply a fact.

Needless to say he won the $50,000 dollars plus an additional $40,000.  Can read more about it here if you are interested:

http://www.history.ucsb.edu/faculty/marcuse/classes/33d/projects/survivors/mermelsteinbread.htm
 Hey I saw you on the front page too! 
http://i.imgur.com/Ergj324.png People like him are a danger to the society especially with a degree he can wave around. Im starting to wonder if degrees can be revoked In Germany they can be revoked if the bearer has proven him/herself "unworthy" of the degree.

This rule is *very* rarely applied and evokes bad memories (under national socialism emigrants and convicts commonly had their degrees stripped because of "unworthiness") but there was a [recent case](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schn_scandal) in which a doctoral degree was revoked because a researcher had fabricated results in his later career (but not in his PhD thesis). 

As a German the idea that a doctoral degree is a mark of moral fiber as much as of academic competence and can therefore be revoked because of unworthy conduct even though it was earned legitimately has always struck me as something stereotypically German. Interesting to see this idea being brought up by an Australian(?) :p Yes in Germany they can under specific circumstances Surely this should be one of them.  And the same exact thing would happen with James Randi of the Randi Foundation if someone could actually prove they had ESP, or some connection to a super natural power. In civil court, Randi would be ordered to pay up on his [1,000,000 dollar wager](http://i.imgur.com/BbnolZs.gif).  That would be cool though. I actually feel like they might be happy about paying it out too. I mean, worst case scenario is humanity developing new senses.  I think about it more like this, worst case scenario someone DOESN'T have ESP or PSP and they are now $1 Mil. richer.  With a million dollars, in sure you can afford to buy yourself a PSP. Maybe even a vita. [Somewhat relevant xkcd.](http://xkcd.com/955/) It's insured. He really is prepared to pay.  I wonder what the premium on that is Very low, because there's no such thing as psychic powers. Insurance premiums are based on risk.  very low, because James Randi has highly-developed ESP which he uses to surpress the ability of others and make them look silly. Well, I now have a new favorite conspiracy theory. Thanks. Plus, the insurance company would make a fucking KILLING if they could get their hands on an honest-to-god psychic. If I were an insurer then I would cover the damn thing for free on the off chance that someone comes forward and can be hired on. Surely, anyone who actually has ESP is living in Las Vegas and has no need to work for anybody, or tell anybody. You fool! Have you never heard of the great [Alakazam](https://38.media.tumblr.com/ae822da42e7ecd9842bd7326d9561f24/tumblr_mv5gvywjHY1qhd8sao1_500.gif)?!!!!!! Whoa, put that away before Uri sees it! Don't want a pissy fraud after us.  Small price to pay in exchange for hard evidence of honest-to-God real-life magic, though. That would be awesome. If I had ESP, I'd use it to make a lot more than 1M.  They find out you have it, and all of a sudden you become the subject of 100s of experiments?  No thanks.   If I had ESP, I wouldn't trade the secrecy for 1m.

Not that I have ESP.  &gt; if someone could actually prove they had ESP, or some connection to a super natural power

It's only been running since 1964. 51 years to build up enough psychic energy is not so easy! [deleted] A very punchable face or "Ohrfeigengesicht" as we say in Germany... Germans have a name for everything. That's so great.
  Even better, we have multiple words for it. In Bavaria it's called a "Bockfotzngsicht".

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RwGSjv30-BA I'd go with Hackfresse. Gesichtsmofa. "Backpfeifafress(e/')" in swabia. German has some of the most useful words other languages lack. I love it.

Also, guy looks exactly like my ex. Quite the punchable face indeed. [deleted] &gt; "Ohrfeigengesicht"

I fucking love the Germans... Malicious spreading of ignorance. This guy actually makes money out of publishing his dangerous superstition. Maybe he understands now when he does not phychosomatically attain measles through the traumatic separation from his money? I would have infected him ..  If I were the researcher, My first thought before considering the possible legal ramifications would be to send him a measles culture with a sticky note that says, "Lick This". No, see, that would prove nothing. He'd just say he licked it and nothing happened. Now, kidnapping him and videotaping him being injected with the measles virus, that would convince him.

Then again, being kidnapped and forcefully injected with a virus would be a traumatic experience... Maybe inject it while he's asleep and record the whole thing.
You may then use the 100000 to pay for your lawyer. His parents probably vaccinated him.  You mean you would have made your psychosomatic disease rub off on him?  *judge stands, clears his throat* 

"... Rekt"

 Rektsprechung indeed. *"Ei-nig-keit und Rekt und Frei-heit...."* So ist's rekt! It's unsettling how far people will go in denying reality in order to make it fit to their own beliefs. That fact that he still claims it's bogus shows how stubbornly idiotic these people are. In his defense, how can measles be real if our eyes aren't real? &gt; How Can Measles Be Real If Our Eyes Aren't Real?

FTFY  [deleted] Funny, I just had to fire an employee 2 hours ago who refused to go home with what clearly a very contagious virus last week after 3 other staff members got sick. The employee argued that doctors are not experts, just regular human beings making educated guesses. He also said that there was no proof viruses exist. Until I'd met this man, and read this article, I never knew these people existed. No proof viruses exist?  We can fucking see them! I knew a guy who thought that microscopes were part of a government conspiracy designed to perpetuate germ theory and thus convince people to give money to the pharmaceutical industry. Some people are so dumb that it borders on insane.  &gt; Some people are so dumb that it borders on insane.

I would say that qualifies as actually not sane. and what did he learn? not to offer a $100,000 reward for proving something so easy. &gt; and what did he learn?

Nothing. He learned nothing at all. It reaffirmed his belief that there is widespread conspiracy in favor of vaccinations.  It may be only money but feels like small Nobel prize. Why doesn't his university revoke his Biology degree? Because he legally obtained it and that would be unconstitutional? Just because someone is an asshole doesn't mean his rights are forfeited. Are you an expert on German constitutional law? I wouldn't call myself an expert, but I'm a student of German law.  Works for me. I'm actually curious, what rights do Germans have in this regard? Basically once a degree is conveyed, they can't take it away? What if someone was later found to have cheated somehow, etc? He's wrong. Academic degrees can be revoked if the person has been found to have cheated or if the person behaves in a way unworthy of their title. The latter case is extremely hard to see through, though, and therefore very rare.

[Source in German.](https://www.bundesverfassungsgericht.de/pressemitteilungen/bvg14-085.html) Well they can get revoked under special circumstances. We had a case with our former "Verteidigungsminister" (Secretary of Defense) Karl-Theodor Maria Nikolaus Johann Jacob Philipp Franz Joseph Sylvester Freiherr von und zu Guttenberg (I love to write his whole name). He plagiarized his dissertation and the university spoke him off all his titles (including all his titles acclaimed before his PHD). If you're convicted of plagiarism, you're degree gets revoked. There were two prolific cases of high-ranking politicians having their degree revoked and career ended in the last few years because they plagiarized their theses. 

As far as the exact rights go, I don't know. All I meant was since universities are an institution of the state, they would be infringing on the constitution if they revoke your degree just because you spread lies (which is constitutionally protected through free speech). BUT there might be a conventional law that allows unis to take away degrees if there is grossly unscientific conduct or something. rekt Not sure about that...honorary degrees have been revoked, so can job titles, prizes, gifts...pretty much anything that is conferred. He is effectively using the accreditation of X university degree to persuade people to indirectly cause the deaths of their or others children. Thats pretty unconstitutional to me [deleted] As I'm not familiar with the constitution in question, which parts of it protect a person from having college accreditation removed from them? It sounds oddly specific. Nothing.

There's nothing in the Constitution that protects you from being stripped of an accreditation.  Even if it were *wrongly* stripped or revoked, there's nothing in the Constitution that protects you from that.

This isn't a Constitutional matter at all.  Maybe a lawful matter, but not a Constitutional law matter.

(assuming "Constitution" means the United States Constitution) Well, this is Germany, which could be different. As someone also from the US, my intuition was that it would be similar to here, where - as you note - nothing in the constitution prevents colleges revoking accreditation. If there is no conventional law about university degrees (I don't know if there is) then this would be a constitutional matter, as universities are institutions of the state. You could sue for an infringement on your freedom of speech.  [The German constitutional court disagrees with you.](https://www.bundesverfassungsgericht.de/pressemitteilungen/bvg14-085.html) What do you mean? This proves my point...? It says that doctor titles can *only* be revoked if there is "gross infringement on the principles of scientific practice, especially falsifying research".

According to Wikipedia, Lanka did no such thing. He only formulates scientifically untenable hypotheses and writes unscientific books. He does no research, as far as I can tell he isn't scientifically active whatsoever.  Your post sounded like you were saying academic degrees can't be revoked at all for later actions. That's what I was going off on. Oh I see. No I just meant that you can't just revoke someone's degree because he's being an idiot.  Oh, in that case we agree. &gt; "gross infringement on the principles of scientific practice

That argument could be made though. He's clearly not being scientific and "malpracticing" with his degree. The article would be hilarious if it weren't for this line: "An 18-month-old boy in Berlin died last month of the disease."

That child's death is the result of anti-vaccers misplaced skepticism. I wouldn't call it skeptisism. I was being generous. They aren't worth your generosity. Measles kills roughly 145 000 children per year, sadly. Of course, most of them die due to not having access to a vaccine, rather than anti-vaccinationists, but that number should still say a whole lot about how effective the vaccine is.    
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs286/en/  

The US had a period of 10 years with **zero** measles deaths, though there are a couple of years now again, e.g. [2 in 2010 (PDF link)](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr61/nvsr61_04.pdf). Germany does not have an antivaxer problem, they have periodic outbreaks because immigrants and refugees from other countries, Eastern Europe, turkey, Africa etc are not always immunized. It's a problem is other Western countries too... in America we just are trying to make it worse voluntarily... A fool and his money are soon parted.   I once had a woman in the health shop I worked in tell me that, and I quote:

"Viruses don't exist, they're a scam created by the western medical community *because you can't take a picture of one with a handheld camera*." 

How do you even respond to that kind of logic?  Search for a picture of a virus on Google images, then pretend you took the picture.

You need to take a few tactics  from used car salesmen as well. Sadly at that job, they didn't have a computer. Wouldn't even let us use the wifi for the store, as "What if you spend all day looking at porn?" 

What if I want to study the products we sell, and see what works and what is bullshit? Oh, no, cause I guess the internet is for porn. 

Believe you me, showing her a picture of a virus was one of my first thoughts. ;)  The logical response would to force her to be sterilized &gt; I once had a woman in the health shop I worked in tell me that

It's kinda disturbing she works in a health shop... I should have specified - she was a customer. Nice lady, no logical thought whatsoever though. Damnit. I thought you guys didn't have these people across the pond. Oh, we do. Anti-vaxers, people afraid of chemtrails, not believing in the moon landing, 9/11 conspirations... You name it. 

Globalization? The worst are the rabidly anti-nuclear jackasses in Austria and the like. If they could just go on with their lives like normal people, the EU might actually have functioning Gen IV nuclear plants and not be forced to rely on Russian and Norwegian oil for all their energy needs. Yeah, we have a bunch of those too, and they are actually in leading positions of the government now again, last time they forbid upgrades of reactors... And now they are talking about closing the rest of them down and ignoring the scientists that want to get funding for researching gen 4. Fucking internet. Crazy knows no bounds We have them. They are not as loud as yours, but we got people like him and also the old hippie "grain eater" women who won't use something unnatural for her kid.
Our biggest problem with measles is, that we became pretty lazy about vaccinations in the last years, because "nobody gets it anyway."
That sucks, because at the moment the virus is brought into the country by asylseekers who never had any vaccination and then it is spread in the kindergarden. Because of our laziness we aren't really prepared in our *safe bubble.*
We really have to start taking this serious again. I wish I wish i only knew about us germans having "force every single person to get vaccinated" people Hahaha. Oh, wait, you were being serious. Let me laugh harder! HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! German here. I, too, thought they were an exclusively American thing. I've heard some stupid fucking shit from anti-vaxers, but this guy has gone full retard. I didn't see anything about the guy being an "Anti-Vaccer" in the article. He just sounded crazy. Probably "Anti-Vaccer" was just added to appeal to Reddit's hate of that group and get thread hits. Ok, well "virus denier"? I didn't even know that was a thing, but here we are. I guess he can then say he was vaccinated and that's why he's gone full retard.  "A general feeling of unwell"

"An 18-month-old boy in Berlin died last month of the disease."

Well, which is it man? They're not mutually exclusive. A lot of people generally feel unwell when they're dying. Well, shit. I feel unwell right now. 

Damnit, I'm dying... Well you're closer to your death since you got up this morning regardless of how you die if it makes you feel any better :) Fallacy of the converse Well, he generally felt unwell, then he died.  Measels isn't always a deadly virus. It's the possible complications that can prove deadly. When no complications emerge (and there's a possibility for that), then measels isn't that much of taxing disease. Problem is, it's pretty much a russian roulette. The British are an infuriatingly understated people. &gt;Measles is a highly contagious infectious disease characterized by a high fever, a rash and generally feeling unwell

Don't miss the high fever part So if you're feeling generally unwell, you probably want to leave your shoes on, just in case. You have a terrible understanding of disease.  Not as bad as the guy in this article who is being ordered to pay up, but pretty shitty nonetheless. 
 Whats missing in this thread is that his ideas come from a view called "germanic new medicine"

http://www.newmedicine.ca/

Read more here http://www.newmedicine.ca/german-new-medicine.php I think it's always important to note that there are some parents who do not want to vaccinate their children because the kids have been proven to be allergic to some component of the vaccine.  This is a separate circumstance from the nutballs who believe that vaccines are being used to control the population, but it's still worth noting that not all people who refuse vaccinations are refusing them on the grounds of some conspiracy. We should stop calling them anti-vaccine and instead call them pro-disease. No. That's like calling people who are pro-choice names like pro-death or anti-life. Insulting  people doesn't get you anywhere, it actually makes them less receptive. Because people who avoid decades of proven science are reasonable? Is it even possible for an 18 month old baby to suffer from a psychosomatic illness?  In mice, but after reading it seems like this is a quite novel treatment The fact that this study was done in mice is very important because the induction of the Alzheimer pathology in mice is different than that in humans. For example, we used to think that the accumulation of amyloid plaque resulted in Alzheimer's, but no amount of over-expression of amyloid plaque in the mice brain will lead to symptoms of Alzheimer's. Different transgenic mouse lines will have different aspects of Alzheimer's, but not the complete package. Such as the lack of neurofibrillary tangles or significant neuronal loss in APP or APP/PS1 mice (key elements of human Alzheimer's)- even though they have some behavioral defects. 

In addition, the concept of 'restoring' memory function depends largely on the extent/progression of the disease. Just removing the plaque won't fix or replace the damaged/missing neurons in the hippocampus or prefrontal cortex. 

Source: a neuroscientist

:edit: If you are interested in a general review, this is a decent paper. If I find a better one, I will post it. http://learnmem.cshlp.org/content/8/6/301.full

:edit 2: I've received some questions regarding the validity of mice research in general. I would like to point out that disease research with mice is still incredibly valuable and important for the vast majority of diseases. Mice share 95% of our genome, which combined with sophisticated genetic tools, makes them a powerful tool to figure out what is happening on the cellular and molecular level. No other organism allows us that degree of flexibility with the immediate physiological 'relevance' to humans. The human nervous system is simply orders of magnitude more complex than a mouse's; as such, it is natural that disease pathologies in the brain may not map one-to-one between mice and humans. Even if that is the case, there is still no better tool to discovering eventual cures than mice. 

:edit 3: Thank you for the reddit gold mysterious stranger! This. beta-amyloid plaques are most certainly a hallmark of Alzheimer's, but are not the exclusive causative factor. There are plenty of individuals that live long, cognitively intact lives and at autopsy have their brains riddled with aB plaques. The reverse is also true. 

The solution for Alzheimer's will likely not be a cure for the pathology once it has set in, it will be a prevention (likely gene therapy) to stop it from ever beginning. Once those neurons are gone, they are gone. Period. Even though the hippocampus has the greatest potential for new neurogenesis, those new neurons will not just fit snuggly into those previous pathways. You'd be starting with a blank neuronal canvas.

Source: I'm an Alzheimer's researcher.

 I thought the title was clear in that it said it "restores memory *function*" rather than "restores memories". To me that sounds like you're now able to form memories normally. The inability to do this seems like the most debilitating aspect of the disease. For example, when we visit my wife's grandma, I have to introduce myself and my kids like once an hour. I read it as this treatment won't make her suddenly realize who I am until I introduce myself again, but that I'll only have to do it once like normal.
 My mother suffers from Alzheimer's and I can tell you that long term memory isn't the issue.  If you sit her down with an old high school friend they will talk about stuff that happened 40 years ago like it was yesterday, but ask her what she did the day before or what she has planned for the weekend and she needs help.  So the idea that her memory function could be restored is exciting to say the least, I'm sure she would love to be able to learn how to write and drive again. Same here. I'm sorry about your mom, I know how difficult it is to see someone you love suffer from this disease. I would do anything for my mom to have a functioning memory again, unfortunately this treatment will probably come too late for her if human trials don't begin until 2017. Aye.  I remember when my grandfather was getting up there in years and Alzheimer's was really starting to take it's toll, and I really got to see it.  He was in the hospital a couple of years before he passed, and my father had stepped out to ask the nurses about him.  I was maybe 10 years old and keeping him company.

He asked me about a woman, I don't remember her name.  I had no idea who she was, so I kind of tried to change the topic.  I had no idea how to handle the situation. He kept on referring to her as his wife.  Turns out he was his wife, before he got divorced and met my grandmother.  He asked about his kids...I only knew of one (my father).  He forgot about his estranged wife of 50 years (he and my grandmother separated about a year or two earlier because he was becoming abusive) and his own son, and in turn me, in the 5 minutes since he left the room.

Scary stuff. That's what gets me, everyone is going to die, even my mother and I accept that, but the idea she may not know who I am one day breaks my heart.  It's morbid but I almost wish it was something else, something that would take her life but let her live it right up to the end. It haunts me constantly to think that my husband has resigned to the real possibility of taking care of me for a decade or something-  with me not knowing or caring who he is and constantly burdening him and making him emotionally suffer. 

We've discussed it because it really scares me. Makes me think I should be saving up way more than the normal person does for retirement due to this possibility. Just years and years with an inability to take care of myself. I just lost my mother who suffered for 15 years with dementia.  I felt the same way as you.  I came to view it as a terminal illness and went through the grief process in a different way, before she actually died.  There day came when she didn't recognize me but I felt that she still viewed me as someone who cared about her.  Then another day she would know me.  Slowly the times she knew me dwindled away but I was OK with it by then.  It will be hard for you but just as with everything else, it will become your new reality and you will be OK with it because you have to be. My wife's grandfather was in the early stages of Alzheimer's, and we *all* knew where he was headed. The very real possibility of watching him forget all of us, yet vividly remember memories of the Holocaust was something that we were dreading. It made his death via heart attack a year later somewhat easier to accept. Fuck cancer, but fuck Alzheimer's too.

And now I'm crying at my desk. Well, I'll be damned.  Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind - a redo of your life, starting in the Sr. Division.     Maybe for the general case.

But imagine being in your thirties, and diagnosed with early onset alzheimers.  Now imagine that they can't cure it - per se, or restore lost memories, but they can periodically treat it so that you can continue to learn.  That would turn a death sentence into a (hopefully) minor disability. And more fundamentally, the presence of beta amyloid plaque is *associated* with Alzheimer disease in humans.  That doesn't mean it *causes* Alzheimer's.   Oh. Ok. It's nice to see someone knows what they're talking about.  I wish there was a Unidan for brains so we could help him rise to fame and then discard him like a used condom. I can't believe how serious reddit took that whole ordeal. I wasn't around for that whole thing, and neither do I care, but it seemed like Unidan was the "model citizen" of Reddit. Intelligent, cheerful when presenting information so that it didn't come off in a pretentious manner, etc.

I guess that incident just shattered Reddit's expectations of him. And isn't cracking mice jokes about a seriously awful subject. I heard a researcher the other day say the mouse model is a scientific idea that needs to be retired. Apparently we waste massive amounts of time and resources that could be better spent elsewhere. 

EDIT: It was Azra Raza, from Columbia University. Depends on the disease. Mice are a very good model for early stage research, and there's one huge reason we use mice as a model for basic science studies in biology. There isn't a better model that is cost-effective. At some stage in the research, *in vitro* studies aren't sufficient any more and it's necessary to study the effects of your drug or technique in a complex organism. Pigs are arguably a moderately better model than mice, but are orders of magnitude more expensive which limits the number of studies you can do (can you get statistical significance out of 2-3 pigs when you could study hundreds or thousands of mice for the same cost?). Primates make an even better model, but they're even more expensive than pigs and studies on primates require a significantly longer period to get approved by an Ethics Review Board. It can take literally years to get a primate study approved by an ERB. 

So until you can come up with a better model that allows scientists to acquire many, many data points very cheaply (but still in an ethical manner), mouse models are here to stay.

Source: biophysics grad student As a layman can you ELI5 Ethics Review Boards? What benefit do they provide to the researcher?  i.e If I wanted to find out if mice liked the color green or yellow more, surely I could just catch/buy a hundred mice and set them up in a lab in my garage and experiment right? At what point is an ERB required? They're usually run by the research institution (they're more frequently called Institutional Review Boards, IRBs) and their procedures vary by institution. Basically they're a committee of your collegaue who you submit your proposed research to. You outline all of the experiements you plan to run, how you run them, how the animals are purchased, housed &amp; sacrificed, etc. The board reviews all the material you give them and tells you what changes you need to make to your procedure before you get approval. 

Basically the purpose is to make sure that you're following all FDA regulations for humane treatment of animal/human test subjects as well as all institutional policies on ethical research practices. I'm only a graduate student and haven't personally submitted any proposals to an IRB before, so I don't know all of the details about the point at which you need to submit a proposal to an IRB (the procedures also vary from institution to institution as well). 

The general principle, afaik, is that: if you plan to do studies on animals, you need to have your protocol approved by an IRB. The scale of that board and how long the approval process takes depends on your protocol and the scale of the experiments you propose. All true - just to add to your comments, I'm not aware of any funding organizations these days that will even release the funds to the researcher's institution until they've been provided with copies of the ethics certifications for the study in question.  No money flows in any direction until the ethics (human and animal) as well as some other certifications (radiation, biological safety etc) are all in place.

To answer edacalf's question - if you tried to buy a hundred mice and just start messing with them in your lab these days without certification and approval, in most places you would have the Research Ethics Board down on your ass in a matter of days, possibly hours.  They have teeth and can shut you down.  At home obviously you can do what you want (although a university researcher might still get in trouble for this).

Outside of the first world, standards are more relaxed however. Ethics review boards are a direct result of the outcry over animal testing and the people who protest against animal testing. Any credible institution which has researchers who do animal based testing will have established rules to make sure that testing which takes place is done with the minimum of suffering. 

Generally the rules are

1. Is the experiment scientifically useful.

2. Can the testing be done without using animals - eg using in vitro grown cells or a mathamathical model.

3. What is the smallest number of test animals which can be used which will provide a statistically valid answer to the experiment.

4. What mitigation can be put in place which will prevent suffering for the experimental animals - anesthesia, good living conditions etc.

 This is the best and most concise answer. You're mostly right, with one exception. IRBs deal with Human research, while animal research is approved by [IACUC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutional_Animal_Care_and_Use_Committee) boards.  True, but the premise is that mice are different from humans in so many factors that the results are too frequently meaningless. If using, for example, pigs (even at greater expense) gave more accurate results, and you counted false-positives with all studies into the cost of that animal model, what comes out ahead? The answer to the question will turn explicitly on how similar or dissimilar an animal model is on perhaps a disease-specific basis, but you can see my point if you imagine an extreme value - mice studies are useful (made up number) 5% of the time, pig studies useful (another made up number) 70% of the time, as determined by follow-up studies in humans. Obviously if mice and pigs were even, you would simply go with the cheaper animal and there'd be no debate.

I don't know the answer, but there seems to be missing a full accounting.

This reminds me of epidemiology. A popular technique, but a researcher examined all epidemiological studies that had a follow-up clinical study and showed that some 80-85% of epidemiological results could not be clinically demonstrated. &gt;mice studies are useful (made up number) 5% of the time, pig studies useful (another made up number) 70% of the time, as determined by follow-up studies in humans.

While your point stands in the case of drugs or research that make it to follow up studies in humans, the value of mouse (or fruitfly) studies is actually more concentrated in the drugs/research that *don't* make it to human studies, because the observed effects in mice are severely negative. Every time we rule out a drug because it kills $10,000 worth of lab mice, we've just saved ourselves $90,000 worth of pigs, or $490,000 worth of chimps. (numbers similarly made up)

What we're doing when we study mice isn't so much going, "okay, let's see if this treatment harms/helps mice, and then we can move up to chimps/humans" as going, "okay, let's see if this treatment *harms* ***mammals***," by using the cheapest mammal.

The reason this works is because, even though mice and humans are different in a whole lot of important ways, the ways that humans and mice are the same are *even more important*, because those are the basic systems that all mammalian life depends on in order to survive. If a drugs disrupts those shared systems in one mammal, chances are very good that it will disrupt them in all mammals.

tl;dr: Mice are much better for ruling out drugs based on toxicity/severe side-effects than they are for determining the actual therapeutic value of said drugs in humans. Nematodes and fruit flies and zeebrafish are extremely different from humans but have been used to discover many fundamental aspects of biology which apply to us. Models can be great for some questions and less ideal or inappropriate for others. It's the job of the researcher to make that judgement.  She was talking more specifically about cancer drug development, which is much different than Alzheimer's research. And her main piece of evidence was how frequently cancer drugs fail in clinical trials. Frankly, I disagree with her assertion - I think the reason so many cancer drugs fail in humans is not that mice fail to recapitulate or model oncogenesis, but that cancer is an incredibly heterogeneous disease, and we've only recently developed the genomic and epigenomic tools to appreciate and characterize the molecular diversity of the entities we used to just call "breast cancer" or "lung cancer." You're already seeing a rising tide of targeted therapies aimed at mutational signatures in cancer, many with incredibly dramatic effects. The delay in those therapies arriving in the clinic has much more to do with approval and safety protocols put in place by the FDA, not researchers using the wrong tools. Also there is the confounding problem of a widespread lack of reproducibility in early-stage research, so a false positive in a mouse model will not translate to a human simply because there was no real effect in the mouse to begin with. The current mice models are particularly bad for Alzheimers disease, but really not shabby for most other things.  You sure she wasn't speaking about Alzheimers specifically? There's some good mouse models, some awful ones. A couple of posts from Derek Lowe: 

http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/2008/04/03/whose_guess_is_better.php

http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/2011/11/22/the_mouse_trap.php

In addition to the ones listed by Lowe, I personally don't trust animal immunology models overmuch, partly because they don't seem to work that well and partly because the immune system is extremely rapidly evolving, due to the constant back and forth between host and pathogen. &gt; but no amount of over-expression of amyloid plaque in the mice brain will lead to symptoms of Alzheimer's

I'm not sure why this is relevant, since we have two pieces of information that are so much more relevant: amyloid plaque contributes to the disease in humans, and the technique clears the plaque.

 Well that's the thing- the idea that amyloid plaque contributes to the disease in humans is sort of vague. Particularly when you are asking the specific question of: what is the cure. 

For example, is amyloid plaque accumulation sufficient to induce Alzheimer's? Of course, we can't inject these plaques into humans ethically, so we have to try in another model organism. In this case, we used mice. However, since that doesn't seem to cause the disease in mice, it's hard to say if the plaque is really indeed causing the disease in humans. Of course, it very likely has a significant role, but is it a symptom? Or is it a causative agent?  I don't know a lot about the science of this, but just to apply some basic rationale, researchers into Alzheimer's must be aware of these same things as you're describing, and yet these researchers are still confident enough to move on to human trials in the next couple of years. While human trials may yield no results, they're hypothesizing that it will - a guess, but an educated one. Alzheimer's researcher here. /u/Totoro_101 is pretty much spot on.

AB plaques are necessary but not sufficient to diagnose AD. The etiology of AD is basically not understood, at all. The disease pathology is basically a circle: Plaques lead to inflammation leads cell dysfunction leads to cell death leads to plaques. That's a very general overview and leaves a lot out, but it's the bare skeleton of the disease. Since the whole thing is a feedback loop, it's all but impossible to say what starts the disease off in non-familial AD. (Familial AD is almost assuredly caused by a lack of AB clearance, due to a deficient ApoE gene, and other similar strongly-linked genetic problems. Familial AD accounts for only 13% of Early Onset AD, before the age of 65, however, and so is not thought to be typical).

We really just don't know what causes AD at all. There are plenty of people that are cognitively perfectly healthy who die and have brains chock full of AB plaques. On the flip side, someone can progress rapidly into AD and dementia, only to die and have plenty of brain atrophy and almost no plaques.

In my opinion, this research is very interesting but it needs to be replicated before I get any kind of faith in it. Additionally, replication in mice is no assurance of success in humans for the reasons outlined above.  Thanks for your input. While I'm not discounting or disagreeing with you or /u/Totoro_101, I'll reiterate what I said above: I'm sure that these researchers are also aware of the same things you're describing, and I highly doubt that they would plan human trials if they were just throwing darts in a dark room. There's some basis for thinking that this treatment may work. Hope is warranted, if not faith. I'm sure they're aware of it. I just know that they're trying to get published one way or the other, and it's important to understand the same procedural constraints that they are working with. It helps limiting generalizability, as opposed to the popular press which likes to blow things way out of proportion. It's relevant because it's not as simple as that. We've actually cleared plaques before in people using vaccinations against amyloid-beta (the protein making up the plaques) and cognitive decline continued. Additionally, A-beta plaques are known to occur in cognitively intact individuals and don't actually correlate well with cognitive impairment. There's a school of thought that the plaques may actually be a sort of protection, and that it's the oligomers (smaller collections of A-beta) that cause the damage. [This](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19304802) is one of at least several papers that supports your argument that oligomers may be the cause. &gt; amyloid plaque contributes to the disease in humans

That's known? last I heard I thought this was just a guess based off of histology. I'm certainly not up to date on the disease though. We *don't* know that amyloid plaques contribute to the disease in humans though.

Yes, they are a marker for AD, but there's little consensus on what actually causes the neurodegeneration at the moment, and old theories about amyloid plaques and tau tangles being the direct cause are being questioned more and more. It indicates that the simple presence of amyloid plaque does not account for all the symptoms of the disease, and that therefore this treatment may only help marginally. In a parallel universe, scientist mice are able to find the cure for aids and cancer every week in laboratory humans.  Implying laboratory mice aren't studying us in this universe. Oh hey, Douglas Adams.  Best laid plans of mice...
 If only we could collaborate with those parallel universe mouse scientists... Parallel Universe Mouse Scientist here. Ban mouse traps and the unethical treatment of mice and we can talk. Let my people go! Stop putting an intergalactic highway through my neighborhood, I'll stop dying your fellow micemen blue.  There's no point in acting all surprised about it. All the planning charts and demolition orders have been on display at your local planning department in Alpha Centauri for fifty of your Earth years so you've had plenty of time to lodge any formal complaints and its far too late to start making a fuss about it now. 

...

What do you mean you've never been to Alpha Centauri? Oh for heaven sake mankind it's only four light years away you know! I'm sorry but if you can't be bothered to take an interest in local affairs that's your own regard. Energise the demolition beams! God I don't knowapathetic bloody planet, I've no sympathy at all  I'm sorry, but your plans to demolish the Earth are in direct violation of Article 57 of the Shadow Proclamation. I will have to insist that you reroute your highway around Earth, or answer to the full force of the Proclamation in defense of this planet. A Towel is just about the most massively useful thing any interstellar Hitchhiker can carry. Partly it has great practical value. You can wrap it around you for warmth as you bound across the cold moons of Jaglan Beta; you can lie on it on the brilliant marble-sanded beaches of Santraginus V, inhaling the heady sea vapours; you can sleep under it beneath the stars which shine so redly on the desert world of Kakrafoon; use it to sail a miniraft down the slow heavy River Moth; wet it for use in hand-to-hand combat; wrap it round your head to ward off noxious fumes or avoid the gaze of the Ravenous Bugblatter Beast of Traal (a mind-bogglingly stupid animal, it assumes that if you can't see it, it can't see you  daft as a brush, but very very ravenous); you can wave your towel in emergencies as a distress signal, and of course you can dry yourself off with it if it still seems to be clean enough. Parallel Universe Activist Mouse here. Why do you keep touching us when using computers? Stop it! Yeah but it's not like we're not also touching ourselves. Touching meeeeee. *touching* ***YOUUUUUU*** SWEEEEeeeet CAAAROLIIIIIINE!!  I can almost taste the beer just by hearing that song.  \*BOM BOM BOM\* I believe in a thing called love! [No deal.](http://i.imgur.com/upxjSII.jpg) Oh, like you don't inject your lab humans with HIV and test cosmetics on them in cages?

Give us one good reason not to dCon y'all's asses. Not to mention their "field experiments" aka bubonic plague. [deleted] algernon as the head scientest.. only for a little bit Pinky and the brain are on it. FRINGE! Well, mice are hyper-intelligent pan-dimensional beings. Makes you wonder how quickly we could cure these diseases if researchers had no qualms about experimenting on humans. Not quite as fast, since humans don't breed and age as fast as mice. Surely unequivocally faster, as he didn't say we'd also stop experimenting on other species.  You are technically correct. Odds are we would still experiment on other species. Lab mice are specifically bred to be a decent analog to a human. They aren't exact, but if it shows promise in mice, odds are they can get a grant to start human trials.  Researchers are experimenting on Humans.

Experimental treatments are tested on volunteers all the time. Those experimental treatments have already been tested for safety in primates. Or volunteer terminally ill patients (only if it a proposed treatment for them). yep. the last treatment that worked well on mice (a kind of vaccine) caused brain hemorrhages in humans...  That's basically a cure. After you have a massive brain haemorage you probably won't have to worry about Alzheimers anymore. As someone who's grandad has alzheimer's I was really hoping this was for people, but I suppose that was having too high hopes :/ That's my problem with these sensationalist headlines. There are so many families whose loved ones are suffering from these disorders and are hoping every day for a cure. Then headlines like this give false hope and pull the rug out from under them. "Your loved one is gonna get better soon! ... Psyche!" Fucking mice, always getting the best treatment. If you live in the U.S., don't get sick.

If you get sick, be a mouse. Seriously hate misleading titles...It's like "Researchers find cures to all STD's!" then on the inside "except for all of them!" I really  hope this or some other treatment makes headway in curing or preventing Alzheimer's.  Not only is it incredibly traumatic for everyone involved, it's also incredibly costly. 

Alzheimer's cases become more and more common as life expectancy increases across the globe, the associated costs are set to swamp a lot of healthcare budgets. Also, as standard of living rises, the rate of diabetes also rises. Alzheimer's has been called "Type 3 Diabetes".

http://r.duckduckgo.com/l/?kh=-1&amp;uddg=http%3A%2F%2Fopinionator.blogs.nytimes.com%2F2012%2F09%2F25%2Fbittman-is-alzheimers-type-3-diabetes%2F

hat tip /u/kooksies for the direct link: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2769828/pdf/dst-02-1101.pdf

ETA: There's people asking me why diabetes interacts with the brain. I read the NYT article because I'm a simpleton, and it's barely a page down. Insulin resistance is a product of too much garbage food. Brain cells also react this way. So "when the cells in your brain become insulin-resistant, you start to lose memory and become disoriented. You even might lose aspects of your personality." That's the non scientific explanation for all the idiots like me.  Holy fuck. I have horrible eating habits and Alzheimer's terrifies me... Time to make a change.  Good luck! I wouldn't wish Alzheimer's on my worst enemy. Start reading your food labels and making that healthy change (: Seriously, best wishes! Here is a [direct link](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2769828/pdf/dst-02-1101.pdf)  Thanks, I'll edit my post Its still amazing news if it can be cured once it comes about.

 Most importantly, this is one of the worst diseases you can get and people wouldn't have to fear this happening in their (or their parent's) old age if it could be cured. That would be an amazing breakthrough.  If I'm a mouse, that's one less thing to worry about. Seriously though, I've worked in a nursing home where a number of patients had Alzheimers. If this treatment can be made to work for people, maybe an Alzheimers diagnosis will just mean one visit a year for plaque reversal. Algernon is relieved. Good...good. Let's get him some flowers to celebrate.  You would think that if you had a pet mouse/rat, it would have access to an incredibly high standard of medical care.  Mouserat. Sounds like a great name for a band.  Scarecrow boat!
God hates figs! I prefer jet black pope How bout puppy pendulum? New band name! I call it!  [deleted] It'll be on /r/showerthoughts within a day. I have 2 pet rats. I once let them out and fells asleep and they ate 2 adderall pills my wife had left out for the morning... I initially thought they were going to die for sure, but it took about 10 minutes on google to find to LD50 per KG for rats for the exact medication they had taken. Turns out that rats can eat A LOT of adderall before they die, and my 2 trouble makers were totally fine.  ...with a very high "malpractice rate"

Not every one of these experimental treatments works the first time Just don't try this on Apes...especially named Caesar  Actually Caesar wasn't treated with the Alzheimer's cure, his mother was while she was pregnant with him, and he was born with its effects. Great movie btw.

 Focused ultrasound (especially MRI-guided) is already approved for use in humans to treat uterine fibroids and is already used in human experimental brain applications (for instance, in place of DBS for Parkinson's).


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-intensity_focused_ultrasound Please fund this or do whatever they need... Even though this is in mice, it's probably the best progress they could make. As someone who is familiar with a lot of people around me, and my grandmother, who are having dementia/alzheimer it fucking hurts to see them like that every day we visit her. I understand exactly where you are coming from. I recently had to move into my grandmother's apartment after she took a fall (had socks on and forgot to put on slippers) in her kitchen. She had dementia but later was diagnosed as Alzheimer's, final stage). I watch her in my mother's apartment downstairs get progressively worse and I read this news yesterday and thought, "Wow, some progress!" I'm happy that although this treatment may not work on humans, the are gaining ideas and incite into the disease and correction of it. Also, I found it a little weird that the mice were genetically bred to be this way (from what I recall. Sorry, I'm commuting to work now so it's difficult to reexamine the articles). Incite is for violence. Insight is the one you meant  At 39, I found myself turning into a horrible beast when it comes to grammar and spelling (let's just spell it incorrectly and wait for the red line to offer the correct spelling). Thank you /u/Jaurl because I've been working on it after this realization! Just being there for them is the best thing you can do. My grandfather progressed over the course of two years and then extremely rapidly within the last three months of his life. The only moments that the nurses said that he showed any signs of life were when we held his hands and he would just hold on for dear life or feel at the designs on our nails. His last last words to me were as I was leaving telling him I was leaving,  "okay, I love you, be careful". He wasn't supposed to be vocal at that point and it shocked everyone. So you never know what will register with them but I felt like just being there made a difference. Even in the earlier stages when he would whisper things from another time he seems comforted that someone was listening and interacting instead of ignoring or shushing him like my grandmother would. It's a scary disease but you hold onto the those moments where you see a glimpse of the person underneath. 

A lot of people are saying that this kind of thing is nothing to be too excited about but it's progress that could lead to countless families never having to go through the painful ordeal of Alzheimer's or dementia. Yeah, it's had a pretty devastating effect on my family, and is probably lurking in the background of my genes somewhere. So um, pretty please researcher man, get this shit sorted. It runs in my family as well. I've sworn to myself that if I am diagnosed with it and there are no effective forms of treatment developed for it by that time, I'm not going to let it destroy me slowly. I'll go out on my own terms. Try seeing it happen to your 64 year old dad. Reddit! Explain to me why this won't work. I have worked with this technology, and I think it can make the leap to humans (it is already used for some things, so FDA approval, etc., is not necessarily a huge barrier).  There are a few issues though, the first major one being that this sort of focused ultrasound tends to heat bone really rapidly.  You could easily cause a lot of damage targeting the brain with something like this.  To avoid this when it is used in mice, the typically shave down the skull a bit to reduce thickness/heating (obviously this is not an option in humans).

I know folks are working on getting past the heating thing.  One promising approach that I have heard of uses an array of ultrasound probes around the head. If you have a high quality scan of the skull itself, you can model how waves will be reflected by the skull, and use that information to come up with a beam sequence that uses the skull itself as an acoustic "lens" to focus beam/amplify beam intensity in the desired location.  If you want to learn more about how this works, [Elisa Konofagou](http://orion.bme.columbia.edu/ueil/research.php?id=bbb) in Columbia's BME dept. is one of the leading researchers in this particular area, and would be a good place to start. &gt;  you have a high quality scan of the skull itself, you can model how waves will be reflected by the skull, and use that information to come up with a beam sequence that uses the skull itself as an acoustic "lens" to focus beam/amplify beam intensity in the desired location. 

Just realized how stupid I am.  Not stupid, just not educated in this particular subject. The researches and scientists inventing this kind of technology are standing on the shoulders of giants and have *years* of highly specialized education and training under their belts.  But it's safe to assume they're also pretty damn clever &gt;The researches and scientists inventing this kind of technology are standing on the shoulders of giants and have years of highly specialized education and training under their belts.

they also tend to be pretty intelligent. Its a trend, not really a rule though. Lots of really stupid people are educated. This is the most polite thing I've ever read on reddit. Congrats on being a gentleman/woman.  So exactly how stupid? Sorry what? Please rate your stupid from 1 to 10. potato SO EXACTLY HOW STUPID? That you'd even think that makes you smarter than a good chunk of people &gt;the typically shave down the skull a bit to reduce thickness/heating

Why not just cut a piece of bone out of the person's skull first and aim it through there?  Serious question. Just becomes a more invasive surgery, and since this isn't a permanent fix, just clearing out the buildup, it'd need to be done repeatedly. And on top of it there'd be plates to cover the hole(s). If I had severe Alzheimer's Id still go for it, if it meant being lucid Could you make the plate easily removable so you could get easy access once a year?  It doesn't need to have a hinge but why not? Your brain does not like to be exposed. Opening the skull is one thing, then you have three layers of meninges and fluid cushioning the skull. Exposing it once a year would cause the microglia to enter an activated state and your brain could become inflammed. In addition, huge risk for infection because there are no immune cells, only microglia to fight off an accidental contaminants. Let's install an mp3 player too. And blinky lights! Blinky lights make everything cooler.

What? It's about time we started doing case mods on humans. If it would cure Alzheimer's, you could avoid bone heating with a craniotomy. Big-ish operation, but removing a hunk of skull isn't as big a deal as it sounds like. Soft spots in my skull never grew in. I'm already there :) Good for you Mush Head. ;) &gt; To avoid this when it is used in mice, the typically shave down the skull a bit to reduce thickness/heating (obviously this is not an option in humans).

Why? I mean sure it would be better to find a way around it, but a thin skull is much better than having Alzheimers. Is this technology that experimental treatment Pratchett tried? Im just seeing this posted the day after he dies and weeping.  &gt; If you have a high quality scan of the skull itself, you can model how waves will be reflected by the skull, and use that information to come up with a beam sequence that uses the skull itself as an acoustic "lens" to focus beam/amplify beam intensity in the desired location.

So basically, it's like the Death Star, except with your skull. I think it's interesting stuff, but a couple of points to consider before everyone gets too excited. The plaques referred to are made up of aymloid beta, a small peptide generated from the larger protein APP. This isn't the first research to clear amyloid plaques from the brain; AD patients were treated with an A-beta vaccine, which resulted in plaque clearance but no real effect on cognitive decline.

Second is that these are mouse models. We don't really have any spot-on models on AD in mice. Most of the models represent version of familial AD rather than the sporadic form and none completely give the full picture. For instance, some mouse models feature plaques but with no accompanying neurofibrillary tangles (problematic given how much of the damage may be due to tau). And of course the biggest risk factor for AD is age, which is something not simulated in the lab mice.

All in all, I'd say this research is promising. The memory improvement in the mice is certainly interesting, but it's important to bear in mind that the mice likely don't have the exact same condition as people. I should also mention I haven't read the paper, on the abstract and press release, but these are my first thoughts. I'll try and have a look when I get in from work. The biggest reason is that this only treats the amyloid plaques. It does nothing for the tau tangles within the neuron that disrupt cellular transport. Some camps argue that tau accumulation is a bigger problem than amyloid accumulation. These news coming one week after Terry Pratchett's death... :( He would've liked the irony... Thanks for the laugh. :) Every time I see articles on possible Alzheimer cures, I think 'I hope it succeeds in time to save Terry Pratchett'. When I read the title, I had same thought again, before realizing that it's actually too late and now I'm sad. 


I never actually thought that they'd manage this in time, but it was always nice to hope. Also, I understand that it's kind of selfish to hope for the cure to be in time to save one person only because I enjoy his work (I still hope the cure is found in time to save everone else suffering from it though).  Pterry's disease was a very rare and particular form of Alzheimers. H didn't have memory loss, so not sure if this cure could help him :( GNU Terry Pratchett  An article similar, if not the same one, was at the top of this sub the day of his death. Yep. Saddest part was the top comment was "Does Terry Pratchett know about this?"

At the time it was posted, I think he was even still alive. This reminds me of that scene in Star Trek V with McCoy's father: "A few weeks later, they found a cure!"
 Mmm I'd be skeptical. First of all, we are still not 100% sure that plaques and tangles are what CAUSES the memory deficits in Alzheimer's. 

Second of all, when microglia become activated in the brain it puts the  brain in a neuroinflammatory state. Neuroinflammation isn't good. It's been related to a whole slew of negative outcomes, from worse moods, depression, cognitive deficits and yes, even Alzheimer's. Finally, once the brain is in this neuroinflammatory state...it doesn't usually go back to normal anytime soon. I don't think this treatment would be viable in humans given the actual method of treatment.


Also as a sidenote in the article (not the actual journal paper) it says the ultrasound lets the microglia through the blood brain barrier...microglia are already IN the brain in huge quantities. They don't need to cross the blood brain barrier.  Please yes. My grandmother is the youngest of nine. 6 of them had Alzheimer's at the time of death. I fear for her but also for my mom and eventually even myself. 

I've seen it so much and it's so horrible. If I ever get the diagnosis I only hope to be able to find the proper balance of "get as much as I can out of life" and "end it before I forget I want to". 

It's not just the memory loss or the confusion or the slow drop into helplessness, it's the fear. All of them end up so afraid all the time. Where am I, who am I, where is everything I can remember and why is there so much I can't. Who are you and why are you near me? How do I put on my clothes. They get scared and it's horrible for them and horrible for you and horrible for the people who care for them and god help you and them if you can't afford good care. 

Please cure this.  This actually isn't very new - there was a paper a few years ago that did the very same thing, but on a molecular level. You disrupt the Unfolded Protein Response, because the reason cells die due to buildup is basically "I have too much protein, I'm not making more." However, all the protein is misfolded and not useful, so this is bad. So this paper (don't have the link or author, on mobile) disrupted the UPR and mice lived longer, because they made the proteins they need to survive. 

However, this is the biggest issue with these treatments, is that they're just that. Treatments. None of these actually deal with WHY proteins are misfolding. The endpoints for both of these studies is the same - protein rebuild up. In fact, the UPR paper found that accumulations occurred quicker after disrupting the UPR, and was impossible to tell if this was due to UPR disruption or if the cause of the misfolding simply speeds up overtime, which unfortunately would make treatments like this even less useful. If we're talking yearly treatments then who cares more frequently than every 6 months could be a problem though. When most people get this disease they're approaching end of life already so 5 treatments over 5 years would be well worth it to have more time with family.  There's 2 issues with this, one confirmed and one very likely. First, with this treatment the underlying issue is still there - ie they still have Alzheimer's. Secondly, and this is much harder to confirm but has been shown in mice, the disease seems to progress much quicker when buildup is removed. So this means after 1 treatment you'll get memory back for x years, after the second it'll be an amount less than x, and so on. So a non-science point, would you want to see someone develop early stages of Alzheimer's multiple times? Brazilian voters need this so badly. Hey, that's not true! You should, um, wow, you saw these two lesbians kissing in the soap opera last night? ...sorry, what were we talking about again? Shameless plug: I volunteer at the Alzheimer's Association, and I encourage all of you to visit the website alz.org or stop by your local chapter and become an advocate. 

Public awareness is the foundation for any progress!  Alzheimer's is literally my one true fear in life. After watching my grandmother wither away into a shell of a human being, I just can't imagine being able to handle that. I strongly define myself through my intelligence, independence, and ability to spin a good tale. Taking those things away from me... 

I really hope that these researchers are on the right track.  Watched my grandmother wither away as well. What an undignified way to die. If this ever becomes a human treatment, I will be forever saying it should have came around many years ago so I and others never would have had to watch our loved ones slowly deteriorate before our eyes. 

I do hope that something happens soon because it is heartbreaking to see people go through this and other forms of dementia.  If we cure Alzheimer's like a week after Terry Pratchett died I am going to be really pissed at whoever didn't hand in their work on time.  Just to clarify one aspect of this study; if this could be successfully applied to humans, it would theoretically halt the progression of the disease, but it will not erase the damage already done.

If the progression is halted and the existing plaques removed, there is a good chance that the brain may recover somewhat given that brains are amazingly good at recovering from damage (even recovering lost "data"), but this would be fairly hindered in elderly patients due to the fact that these neuroregenerative capabilities tend to decline significantly with age (due to reduced cell division, programmed downregulation of certain key genes with age, accumulated gene damage, etc).

After some thought, my best guess at a next step once the problematic plaques have been countered would be as following:

**A) Administer agents that increase the production of neurotrophic factors** (Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor, Nerve Growth Factor, Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, etc). It will require further research, but if intentional age-related downregulation of their associated genes is the main reason for the reduced levels in elderly individuals (and not actual damage to their associated genes), there are already agents that could serve this purpose. Russian-developed *N-phenylacetyl-L-prolylglycine ethyl ester* also known as "Noopept" is associated with increased production of BDNF and NGF in the rat brain (and has successfully been used to increase cognitive capabilities in a human pilot study using brain-trauma patients).

**B) Administer agents that increase neurovascular supply** (increase both blood flow and venous tissue penetration). Piracetam is a novel agent capable of increasing blood flow without impairing clotting (important for elderly individuals who are more vulnerable to developing bleeds), by increasing blood cell flexibility (essentially making it easier for blood cells to be squeezed past occlusions or into smaller spaces). It additionally exerts a direct neurochemical influence (albeit subtle) on the brain's signalling, which has been observed to be slightly beneficial for underperforming brains (though it does not exert an observable benefit in healthy brains).

Additionally, increasing angiogenesis (though carefully and with verification of an absence of cancerous tumours that may be fed by increased blood supply) is a goal to ensure that new neurons can be supported, as microcirculation may have been compromised by the plaque accumulation (or through normal age related means). Various active compounds derived from the plant Centella asiatica have been found to moderately promote increased microcirculation.

**C) Administer agents that increase the resilience of existing tissue to promote an ideal environment for regeneration to occur.** These would include the administration of acetylcysteine to ensure Glutathione (an important antioxidant, particularly for the brain and the liver) stores are optimal. Additionally, a combination of supplemental Coenzyme Q10 and Pyrroloquinoline quinone would provide increased mitochondrial support (with PQQ being particularly advantageous in that it increases mitochondrial proliferation; which may have been particularly impacted by the protein plaques characteristic of the disease).

Antioxidants are relevant (though not particularly useful for the untreated condition) to Alzheimers in that the cell death caused by the protein plaques causes the release of stored neurotransmitters, one of which called "Glutamate", serves to "excite" neurons. When released in significant quantities (such as when a cell "bursts") however they can cause the overexcitation of surrounding neurons. Aside from possibly damaging surrounding neurons, this causes increased metabolic demand as it occurs all over the brain. Increased metabolic activity increases production of "reactive oxygen species" which can cause secondary damage to tissue. This is what ensuring proper antioxidant support serves to protect against.

**D) Ensuring proper nutritional support for optimal neuroregeneration.** Neuroregeneration may be hindered by slight deficiencies in various important nutrients. Ensuring a proper diet would be crucial to success, and if required, the addition of supplementary forms of various nutrients (B-Vitamins and protein in particular).

I have followed both the current Alzheimer's research, and the various compounds I have described here. Do note that many have been tested in isolation and are very (or at all) effective at actually treating the cause of dementia, or reducing symptoms if it is still progressing. No amount of antioxidants or neurotrophic agents are going to override the extensive damage caused by the accumulation of misfolded proteins, so until that base cause is stopped, they can only provide little benefit.

However, based on what I've read of the literature, I highly suspect that a cocktail combination of these in concert would be extremely beneficial to a post-Alzheimer's patient should our ability to treat the root cause of the disease advance. Alone, each may only provide a small benefit, because there are several factors required for increased brain tissue damage recovery. Increasing antioxidants alone, or increasing neurovascular supply will exert only a small benefit, because each are only one part of the puzzle. But together, there very well could be a profound positive reaction.

I look forward to seeing where this new research takes us.  Hmmm...

IF the secret is to punch holes in the blood brain barrier to let the cleanup crew in, then there are dodgy ways to do this today. 

A moderate dose of Methamphetamine should create some nice holes in the BBB. For only $20 you can cure grandma*!

^^^^*Grandma ^^^^may ^^^^have ^^^^a ^^^^heart ^^^^attack. &gt;**Grandma may have a heart attack.** As someone who lost his grandma last week to Alzheimers, all I see is studies and more studies about how well the research is going, but science is yet to save the people that need it.

rest in peace grandma. My mother is going through it now. Fortunately for her she has no idea and is in no physical or emotional discomfort. I feel worse for my father. It's exhausting to be around for long periods.  I was under the impression that amyloid beta oligomers (small polymers) and not plaques were more likely to be the cause behind ALzheimer's:
Dodart, J.C., et al., Immunization reverses memory deficits without reducing brain Abeta burden in Alzheimer's disease model. Nat Neurosci, 2002. 5(5): p. 452-7.
Still pretty cool results though. My dad has it.... I really hope this could work but human trials in 2017.. It's already been a few years so bummer- hopefully people in the future don't have to go through this "We'll upgrade to monkeys in two years! Humans in maybe 5ish". Sorry to the million or so people whose lives could be saved between now and then..:/

That's an exaggeration, but I hope they do experimental treatment much sooner on the humans who are out of time and options  Though exciting, one thing to keep in mind is that a mouse's brain is tiny compared to a human's so while an ultrasound would penetrate the entirety of a 1 1/2cm diameter brain (or whatever a mouse's is), would only penetrate the outer 1cm or so of a human's. Therefore there are significant questions about effectiveness in humans around things like the frequency needed to break up the plaques vs. the need for greater depth etc. We need something like this! http://imgur.com/Ym1Q34A This is not the reason mouse models are poor Alzheimer's models, see the comment above regarding plaque development in mouse brains.  &gt;see the comment above regarding

The comment "above" is currently about Terry Pratchett. So that might not be the best way to go about referencing another comment on reddit since they change position all the time and people sort comments differently. What if they made a really big ultrasound thingy? Would that work? [deleted] Can anyone with knowledge of this kind of thing ELI5 whether this is going to be another one of those things in ten or twenty years that we say "Hey, remember that thing that was supposed to cure Alzheimers? What ever happened to that?" or if this actually has a chance to turn into something real?

I would like for this to be real... I don't have much knowledge of this stuff, but we don't know at this point. It hasn't been tested in humans, and there are some things that might get in the way of it being helpful to humans, but it's a step. Even if it isn't a successful treatment, we've found one more way not to cure Alzheimer's. It's a necessary step. We can't find what works without figuring out what *doesn't* work. If there were some alternate universe where we had to invent cures for mice, can you imagine how fucking healthy those mice would be? Last I heard, plaques weren't conclusively linked to Alzheimer's; they're present in a lot of people who don't have dementia.  Still, a good start! Once again, i know my dad would happily volunteer as a human, something like this couldn't happen fast enough. I hate lawyers and rules on this crap. If this is another one of those "we just discovered something extraordinary, give us another 20 years and then we'll test it on humans" then fuck it! I can't remember the last time I heard news this good. My mom had early onset Alzheimer's, late stage now...she can barely walk or speak. Only recognizes us randomly, I do anything to have a conversation with her again. Has no one seen planet of the apes? One week too late, science.

One week too late. more like 20 years too late, if you're talking about Terry Pratchett, no he is not a mouse. It will be at least 20 years before this can be successfully done in humans. Not to be cynical but there are dozens of mice models that never quite make it to the human stage, and even then it will be quite a while before clinical trials will be approved, and even longer before it is available for the general public Didn't they recently discover that one main function of sleep is to clear this stuff from your brain?  Could a side effect of this Alzheimer's cure be some sort of halo device you could wear for a short time and not have to sleep?  99% of these hyped-up "breakthrough" medical treatments never end up being implemented. So, I'd caution anyone from getting their hopes up. Is Science Translational Medicine a institution that doctors/researchers rely on for breakthrough news? I'm calling shenanigans and here is why:

The neurofibrillary tangles aren't quite like a hair tangle. You don't have these long fibrous neurons just getting wound and glued together. Tangles can break the connections between neurons and cause parts of the brain to die off, this is why there are so many bad issues with Alzheimer's in humans.  
  
Its one thing to say you can cure a mouse and get it to find a peanut again, it's a completely different thing to apply that to a person and say "Hey Grandma remembers who you are". Neurons, once broken apart, aren't really guaranteed to grow back together.
  
Now, as a preventative treatment- this *could* be amazing. Hey hurry the fuck up plz; my grandma is in the early stages.  Doing a presentation to my peers and profs today on Alzheimer's. Thank you for this, OP! Now I have some really new, cutting edge research to add to my presentation. Man, mice get the best medical treatment. It's so speciesist! As a neuro/psych nerd, this is unbelievably cool and exciting.

As someone who has seen her grandmother fall into dementia and worries about it being genetic.... this gives me a lot of hope that we'll see a cure for Alzheimers and forms of Dementia in my lifetime. And this will magically disappear just like every other promising treatment for disease.  I swear mice must be the most invincible, immortal living beings on this planet with all the cures we create for the fucking rodents.  I'm curious. With a treatment like this, for a disease that can be equated to a complete degradation of a person's quality of life, why wait to have human trials. Why don't we just test it on humans. I'm sure you'd have tons of alzheimer's patients lining up to be part of the trials, and even if it didn't work, or there was a negative consequence, it's like the last chance. If a person has a life threatening disease, only months to live, and there's an experimental medical procedure that has even a small chance of saving them, isn't it worth trying for both their health and science? Just curious why this sort of treatment still has to go through the regular process.  whats up with Australians and science lately, they seem to be finding new things It probably has something to do with treatment being more profitable than cures in the EU and North America. They are good at looking at stuff from a different angle (down under.) Always have been. You just haven't heard about it. I've lost a grandparent to alzheimer's, another to a different form of dementia and my aunt is suffering from it now. It's a really, really awful way to go and anything we can do to cure or prevent this fucked up disease can't come soon enough. These headlines are incorrect, misleading, and probably hurts a lot of redditors who are affected by whatever aliment is said to be cured that week. Great news for us rats. MICE Mice now, rats soon to follow!  Why do we put up with shitty journalism like this?

It should be mandatory that 'in mice' is part of the title. Stupid clickbait. There's also a penis in the banner image.  Maybe people should stop posting articles from pop science websites. I scrolled a bit to the bottom and saw this featured article :

&gt; The longer you're breastfed, the higher your IQ and adult earnings, study suggests

I've been breastfed for 27 years and I'm far from being a genius. 27 years?


wat **In Mice** While the title should've mentioned that, It's still a step in the right direction. [deleted] OT slightly, but the reason mice are used isn't simply because they are inexpensive and small. It turns out that mice have very similar immune systems to humans. In fact, you can remove a mouse's immune system and replace it with that of a human's. In doing so they can have the mouse produce human antibodies that can be harvested from their blood and injected into humans. There were a few companies in the process of developing this technology in the late 90s. One was acquired and the other stopped development. I'm unsure of why, but it may have simply been too costly. 

[Sciency explanation.](http://www.iitd.pan.wroc.pl/files/AITEFullText/49z303.pdf) Well actually, the best part of using a mice is with Tg-mice, you can get AD pathologies in the span of 20-24 weeks (from birth), that is equivalent to 60 years of age and fully developed AD in humans.  Because the article purposefully make it sound like it's more impressive than it is to generate more clicks.  Are most people familiar with normal research progression and procedure? A lot of folks get their news exclusively from the headlines. i guess that depends on whether most people think we jump straight to human trials for every new idea and have never heard of animal testing.   &gt; It's still a step in the right direction.

A *tiny* step.

____
^^^I'm ^^^here ^^^all ^^^week. ^^^Please ^^^tip ^^^your ^^^waitress. Shit - someone had better warn the researchers! This is using a mechanical rather than a chemical/biological process though, the leap to humans isn't so difficult.

Other comments in the thread mention bone heating and penetration limits for ultrasound,  but these are engineering problems, rather than biology differences.

If we know breaking up the plaques halts it, its just a matter of time before we find a safe and effective way to do that, be it ultrasound or inner-space-esque nanos :D At this pace, mice won't need to fear a god damn thing. Cancer cured! Alzheimer's cured! MS cured!

Meanwhile people are still afraid of measles. and of Mice!
 Well we are creating super-unkillable-mice, shouldn't we be afraid? People shouldn't be afraid of measles, because modern medicine has made it so no one actually has to get measles. Some people are just dumb. I wonder if this would work for CTE?  Ah shit. Here comes the smart monkeys. My wife's grandma had Alzheimer's. Horrible disease, I wouldn't wish it on anyone. I hope this treatment is further developed and leads to a breakthrough in ridding the world of AD.  News like this shows why the Australian government needs to continue funding scientific research in this country. It's almost scientifically irresponsible to use a term like 'fully' restores... It's seems more clickbait with that title, but promising nonetheless If this ends in a cure for humans it means we get to keep millions of man-hours of helpful thought from the elderly and therefore the most experienced humans. It will accelerate progress in every way. &gt; The World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared that Pakistan is responsible for nearly 80 per cent of polio cases reported globally.  
  
Yea they need it  
  
EDIT: Woah this really blew up, damn. If anyone was wondering why they couldn't find the quote from the article, [its from a linked article from the same newspaper](http://indianexpress.com/article/world/neighbours/pakistan-10-arrested-160-booked-for-refusing-polio-vaccination/) They recognize this as an important issue, which is more than what some developed countries can say. It's easy to assume it's all BS when you have never lived around people or in a time where polio destroys many people. So here, it's not seen so it must not be an issue anymore!  My grandma had polio when she was a kid in Saskatchewan, and she's had to walk with crutches and a leg brace ever since.

Treatment was crazy expensive at the time, so her dad and a bunch of other people would go door to door (in a small town where everyone knows everyone else by name) collecting money to help pay for the treatment that all of the polio victims needed.

He later went into politics, and was one of the people who helped Canada get the awesome healthcare service we have today!

Edit: Spelling The funny thing is the number of people that talk about the side effects of vaccines. One of them for polio is potential paralysis. However, the chance of paralysis is less than the chance of being paralyzed with polio. When I was in 6th grade (when you get your shots in school) I was terrified of needles. I still am, but to a lesser extent. For them to give me my shots, they had to have two people hold me down and give me the vaccine.

When my grandma found out, she was upset. She asked if I knew what the shots were protecting me from.

&gt; Nothing

#
&gt; No, not nothing. You know how much that needle hurt? Imagine thousands of them stabbing all over your arms and legs every day for over a year. That's what polio feels like, and that one little shot is stopping you from getting polio. &gt; My grandma had polio when she was a kid in Saskatchewan, and she's had to walk with crutches and a leg brace ever since.

Look on the bright side -- she didn't get the autism from vaccines She's gotten all of her shots since then and is now completely vaccinated against pretty much everything. That was a requirement for her when she was a teacher-librarian at an elementary school. All teachers had to be vaccinated at that school.

As far as I know, none of the teachers there magically became autistic though! Pretty sure that was a joke, only a fool believes in a link between vaccines and autism. It's worrying that people are downvoting you for that opinion. It is worrying that you consider it an opinion and not the fact that it is. God, I wish that were true. My one in-laws side of the family are firm anti-vaxxers and their mother has polio. Morons. How ironic, blind after years of seeing.  Holy shit really?!?! I thought all the anti-vaxxers were just conveniently ignoring all this "polio exists"-nonsense, but they've actually seen it up close, and *aren't fucking vaccinating?!?!?*

Well I guess that just proves that the stupidity is endless, it just keeps on going forever and ever, holy shit. Just like that global warming the hippies keep talking about.  Why look outside, nothing but snow and ice. Exactly! It was 25 degrees today in MARCH! Reporting from Russia, last 2 or 3 winters barely any snow. Who stole it motherfuckers ??? GIVE IT BACK The west and nato stole it (((((( Does that mean Russia can now annex any country where it snows? Celcius or fahrenheit? Kelvin. D: I know, right? What kind of animal says *DEGREES* Kelvin? Rankine master race. Shit, where do you live? The South Pole of the universe? &gt; The South Pole of the universe?

how does that work? Start from the universe's equator. Go South until you can't go South anymore. You're now at the South pole of the universe. Temperature is roughly 25K in March. /r/shittyaskscience The important questions. I don't know enough about the subject, but [if the universe is spinning](http://news.discovery.com/space/do-we-live-in-a-spinning-universe-110708.htm), does that imply there are poles where the axis of rotation go through? Even when it's a 4D rotation and/or the universe is open/closed? Jesus... RIP /u/Just_like_my_wife To shreds you say... Kelvin doesn't have degrees ;) &gt; 25 Kelvin.

Hello Kevin. Come on, what kind of primitive backwater would still use Farenheit? America, Burma and Sierra Leone. All three are who i think of as having their shit together  Nope, Burma has abandoned the true way and gone over to the devils metric system.  They changed the country name too. it's all "Myanmar" now. Fucking traitors.  Isn't it Liberia, not Sierra Leone? Fuck. I messed that up. I had one task to do and i did it wrong. Sheesh, it's Myanmar. Get your shit together. Burma for one, is definitely not legit. They allow genocide in their country &gt; primitive backwater

Those the strangest ways to spell 'liberty' and 'freedomland' that I've ever heard of! Must be a Euro-socialist Yes!

(Insert Ohio joke here, because rapid weather changes and stuff) And also important: Northern or Southern Hemisphere, and in what local geographic and climatic conditions? First one, then the other. I recently watched vice on history channel, about Maldives.. And it opened my eyes on how rising sea level is destroying all life there and engulfing islands. And while even president of Maldives is working and lobbying to bring attention of the world to this serious threat, giant US petroleum corporations are actively lobbying against global warming. And the U.S. is the only major coun to not sign the koyoto protocol..   
Tl;Dr US is destroying atmosphere the most.. and doesn't acknowledge the negative impacts publicly. I always think it's strange to not care about destroying the planet. I mean,we have nowhere else to go. If we destroy it we're fucked. The human race will go extinct. Why be so selfish? Then I hear people say "sure,we'll be long dead before it happens so who cares?". What about our children and their children? What's the point in having families if you aren't going to try give them some security in their future? The best thing we can do for the next generation is to teach them to respect the earth. It shouldn't be about money! It should be about our future generations. We should want to be the generation to start saving our precious planet.  I've always thought that the fuckers running the rock must have some reason to have a solid belief that the technology will be present for them to up sticks and move to another planet when the time comes.  I don't expect the non-ultra-wealthy to be invited to the emergency escape hatch though. In this context I absolutely loved this quote:  
Plan B in case of climate change is none because we have no Planet B! I don't believe we can destroy the planet.  I think it will keep on adapting and evolving, at least for a very long time.  What we can destroy is us by making it into an inhospitable environment for humans.  Which isn't a good idea obviously, speaking as a human. Not the most! The most per capita... [deleted] It shouldn't be, the grandparents of the young generation still remember the time before the vaccine. It's way too early for people to forget. What are these mom's gonna do? They got peanut butter banned from schools. They're out of ideas.  And it's hilarious that there was just a study released that said you may be able to prevent peanut allergies by just giving your kids peanuts as babies. Wait, where was this? Fun fact! This Polio outbreak is the direct result of a failed CIA ploy to send vaccination workers to the Osama Bin Laden compound to collect information and DNA samples. Polio was almost eradicated in Pakistan, but as soon as this incident hit the public, vaccination workers were outcast as potential US military spies. The CIA has since apologized and said they would never again use vaccination programs as a cover for spy programs, but the damage is hard to undo. The kicker is that this ploy played no part in confirming or ruling out the presence of bin Laden at the compound. None of the residents ~~came out~~ acceded to vaccaination.

EDIT: Also, for the record: the actual cover involved a *hepatitis B* program by a physician who had previously run legitimate vaccination programs. The polio vaccination programs getting shut out was collateral damage. After all, you've got all these Westerners crawling around, ostensibly spending time and money doing things that don't have any apparent benefit to them. Kind of suspicious, wouldn't you think? So in their (both the government and militants) eyes, all of it had to go. They did come out. Said FU and then went back in. Well, sure, *someone* had to say "Thanks, but no thanks", but I mean that they all declined the vaccinations, and they certainly didn't let anyone inside. This is not entirely true.  While some aversion to vaccines can be attributed to the CIA's massive fuckup, vaccine aversion has been part of Pakistani culture long before the raid on Bin Laden.  It was and still is commonly believed that vaccines are an attempt by the west and zionists to exterminate Muslims, and the Pakistani Taliban has long been infamous for [killing vaccine aid workers](http://www.nytimes.com/2011/02/01/health/01polio.html?_r=0), even before the CIA's involvement.
 &gt; vaccine aversion has been part of Pakistani culture long before the raid on Bin Laden

Not Pakistani culture as a whole, but Pashtun culture. The Pushtuns stradle the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and were able to freely move from one country to another because the border was not effectively policed. The military operations in the Pak-Afghan border region led to massive displacement of the local population. These displaced people migrated to larger cities of the country which are mostly located in the east and south of the country. They not only brought the polio virus with them, but also the idea that polio vaccines were a ploy to sterilize Muslim children. This misconception has now gone from the fringes to become a widely held belief and now health professionals who go out into distant towns and villages to vaccinate children have been beaten up, kidnapped or even killed. This only further supports the case against the CIA's plot. How can you justify doing something like this when you *know* the country is already struggling to eliminate polio in the face of hostility and mistrust? Just your standard CIA / US operation, maybe something can be gained, but I'll be damned if we're not guaranteed to get some good collateral damage! This has been a problem LONG before the CIA got involved. The CIA incident didn't help, but it'll be revisionist to say that this wasn't a major problem prior to that incident. As a Pakistani, I can tell you it was a problem before, just not that major one. But the CIA incident increased its magnitude manifold How did the Pakistani's find out that they were CIA? Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency discovered the doctor that led the fake program and arrested him for working with foreign secret agents. Pakistan did not officially give a reason why, but the CIA publicly confirmed what the doctor did in order to convince them to let him go. Basically, there was a rumor. Vaccination programs have always been held in suspicion: why would someone from a completely different country spend the time and money to improve their lives?

The doctorwho actually was previously running genuine vaccination programswas given money and a bus ticket to escape the investigators, but he declined. Of course he was picked up shortly thereafter. Reminds me of that black african kid meme looking suspiciously to a white woman  They apparently found out when Bin Laden was killed. [The Guardian](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/jul/11/cia-fake-vaccinations-osama-bin-ladens-dna) Wow, that was a fun fact! Well this fun fact is Misleading. Both Pakistan and India have suffered from misinformation among the masses about Polio vaccination since if not earlier then 60s. My grandmother a pediatrician who worked in Khyber Paktunkha / NWFP (The troubled area bordering Afghanistan) in the 60s mentioned how people said that vacines were medicines to sterilize their children. The same story was narrated to me by an Indian doctor friend in his country.

Though the CIA operation did give the poor and uneducated another reason to see the vacination program with suspicion. I went to medical school in India and have never heard of people saying that the vaccine was a sterilization program. In fact,the polio vaccination program in India has been a huge success,by any measuring yardstick:

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse_Polio

It's the primitive militants in rural Pakistan and Afghanistan that are ensuring the disease remains endemic in those areas by slaughtering the vaccination program volunteers. And you are right,this has been going on over there from well before the Bin Laden fiasco.

 Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse_Polio](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse_Polio)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. Wouldn't be the first time people were sterilized against their knowledge and/or will... &gt;The same story was narrated to me by an Indian doctor friend in his country.

LoL what ? Indian vaccination programs have been a good success. Polio virus has been eradicated. But Indian govt is still running vaccination programs because Pakistan lies in neighbourhood.

Even if what you said is true, this kind of paranoia is limited to muslim populations only which depend upon their local mullah for everything. here you go. It says what you said that misconception was predominantly among muslims but also among Hindus. and there were rumors about sterilization.   
http://medind.nic.in/ibl/t10/i1/iblt10i1p28.pdf Are you from the region OP is talking about? If not, try not to disregard it.  The letter from a Taliban leader to Malala pretty much gives you an insight of why That area doesnt vaccinate. 

http://www.documentcloud.org/documents/727684-adnan-rasheed-s-letter-to-malala-yousafzai.html "Find me a carrot that'll get them to move, otherwise it's gonna have to be all stick."  

-some guy from Avatar, can't remember who. "The world is full of men with levers using them as sticks." - somebody probably Give me a rock, and a stick long enough, or I kill a hostage every hour. - Plato, I think It was Archimedes.  "MY CABBAGES!"

-Some other guy from Avatar "A man has the right to blow up his own building"- that other guy from avatar  Secret tunnel Did anybody else note that all the people are from one community? Is there a sizeable tribal area in Pakistan? Yes. 

Also they are fiercely independent people and hold on to traditions very strongly. Pakistan only has nominal control over those areas.  I'd never heard the word nominal used in that way, so I googled it.

Turns out the word nominal has a bunch of different definitions, but even more interesting is the fact that it saw a [steady rise in popularity](https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?year_start=1800&amp;year_end=2008&amp;corpus=15&amp;smoothing=7&amp;case_insensitive=on&amp;content=nominal&amp;direct_url=t4%3B%2Cnominal%3B%2Cc0%3B%2Cs0%3B%3Bnominal%3B%2Cc0%3B%3BNominal%3B%2Cc0) from the 50's to the 80's, a sharp peak in 1987, and has been declining in use ever since. 

Anyone have any theories on this trend? You could /r/asklinguistics. They might know the answer.  You sir, have just created a monster! I didn't know this existed!
 Step one: create a monster 
~~Step two: ????????????????~~
 Step two: RULE THE WORLD!!!!

Step three: find a good potato salad recipe. Seriously, some of them are just terrible. When you find a good one, hang on to it. My godfather makes the best potato salad... wont tell me the recipe tho. Man wouldve taken resposibility over  me if my parents had died but wont trust me with his potato salad recipe... is that fucked up? Im not sure I thought it was normal to use nominal like that o.o There was an [interesting debate](http://www.automags.org/forums/printthread.php?t=74426&amp;pp=30&amp;page=1) about this in a paintball forum back in 2003. I think it saw a sharp rise due to the popularity of Hal in Arthur Clarke's space odyssey films, but then it kinda petered out thanks to MechWarrior nerds being dorks online and ruining it for everyone. All conjecture of course, but it seems to be closely related to the computing/AI/cybernetic industry.

*Edit:* Throughout this time frame there was wide expression of similar tales, and though the particular memes may not have been delivered throughout, we were riding the zeitgeist. Catastrophic decay of the virtual infrastructure remains somewhat in vogue today, though lately folks have been drifting more toward the zombie apocalypse genre. We still retain that fear of mindless automata, but we seem to be becoming more comfortable with the notion that our downfall will not likely be the result of alien predators or a pertinaceous thingamabob gone awry, but rather it will be through the entropy of our own beastly nature. The universe wants us dead, and so dead we shall all become. All systems nominal. Reactor online. Weapons online. All systems nominal.  Yes. The entire north west is tribal and pretty much lawless. 

West Punjab is more feudal in nature, with large landowners acting above the law. Don't know much about Sindh and Balochistan but I know that the latter hate the Punjabis who make up most of the army.  There is nothing feudal about West Punjab, it's the least tribal province of Pakistan. Neither is the northwest like you are saying.
Baluchistan, FATA and interior Sindh are the more feudal regions, Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunwa are a bit more modern.  Punjabis make up most of the population. And there are plenty of Pashtun officers in the Pakistan army.

The Baloch and Sindhis get the truly short end of the stick in the armed forces(actually no stick at all)

 Lol what are you on about. Each ethnic group is represented proportionately in the army. 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Mar4d/Demographics_of_the_Pakistan_Armed_Forces

Sindhis are the second largest group after punjabis. 
 Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Mar4d/Demographics_of_the_Pakistan_Armed_Forces](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Mar4d/Demographics_of_the_Pakistan_Armed_Forces)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. This guy; bot of the week, right here.

I miss the bots. So much better than the vast majority of the users. You're kinda like a botnet yourself. Wouldn't be reddit without at least 1 person praising bots. Because they're awesome. 

Counter-comments, ad infinitum; just another thing you don't get from bots... A Bot that praise Bots? Would it praise itself? "Kanye-bot 5000" activated The tribal area is the only reason the Taliban hold any power in this Pakistan. It's a whole different world out there Is the vaccine free? yes. the most important question is: does it come with a free tshirt? Chia Pakistan. Just like regular Pakistan, but with vaccines and a free t-shirt. well, if they throw in a chia pet as well, i'm all game. Yes Pakistan uses OPV. Oral Polio Vaccine, Its not injected, Its a few sugary water droplets.

PIC:

http://www.polioeradication.org/portals/0/Image/PolioPrevention/polio-prevention-vaccines-opv-01.jpg OPV also has a very small chance of giving you polio, but it's much easier to transport and administer than the injected vaccine. We have ways to deal with Polio today, but they are not without problems. &gt;&gt; 2011 CIA plot that set up a fake hepatitis-C vaccination campaign in an attempt to locate Osama bin Laden

That certainly did not help the situation. I am really, really fucking sick of this shit from our intelligence agencies. Yeah, it's important to get bin Laden, but you know what else is important? Not undermining peoples' faith in fucking humanitarian aid. Gotta use the children and the invalids.  That's how you gain the moral high ground and put yourself above scrutiny, at least for a while.  But, by then, the damage is done, and you don't need permission at that point, just forgiveness.  Sooooo, you frame it as protecting OUR children, and we'll sleep just fine. Not to mention having side-effects like this : http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2nhi6z/gunmen_kill_three_female_polio_workers_in_pakistan/ **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* Ayesha Raza Farooq, the officialin the prime minister's office charged with combating Pakistan's polio crisis, condemned the most recent attack that killed two polio workers earlier this month.

&gt;* The violence has also made it difficult for health workers to access remote villages to administer the vaccine.

&gt;* Last year, there were 306 cases of polio in Pakistan, according to the New York Times, a significant increase from previous years.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](https://news.vice.com/article/pakistan-is-arresting-people-who-refuse-to-vaccinate-their-kids-against-polio?utm_source=vicenewstwitter)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** I thought polio was pretty much eradicated. It is. Pakistan is one of the last remaining holdouts If anyone wonders why the hostility towards polio vaccinations it is blowback from the hunt to kill Bin Laden. The CIA recruited a Dr. to try and get inside the Bin Laden compound. The excuse used was to vaccinate any children for polio. It never worked and the Dr. never got inside. 

After this came out many in Pakistan (and other Muslim countries) have come to believe these health care workers to be CIA spies. Many Dr's in the US have petitioned the CIA to never again use a vaccination program as a ruse for spying.

Before condemning those in Pakistan some of the blame goes to the CIA who destroyed the trust of the local population.  While the CIA episode exacerbated the problem and gave some people a legitimate reason to be suspicious of such efforts, there's been resistance to Polio and other vaccinations in the area for far longer than this. No shit. Do people believe that polio was nearly eradicated before the CIA tried to kill Bin Laden? These people don't have access to information and data like we do with the internet. Most of these people are so poor they will never own a PC or ever know about the true power of the internet. To them the statistics for polio cases are just out of the 2000 children in the village how many they heard have polio.   Honestly, in modern information-age nations we still have tons of problems with vaccinations. Polio was nearly eradicated. We are still very very close to doing it, if not for the reverses in Pakistan in the last few years. I think they more see it as a contributing factor. No one is entirely blaming the CIA, put down the pitchfork.  /u/-banana
&gt;Fun fact! This Polio outbreak is the direct result of a failed CIA ploy to send vaccination workers to the Osama Bin Laden compound to collect information and DNA samples.

This is reddit, there is always someone reducing the issue to a single statement. Luckily there is always someone pointing that out too, so I feel it balances itself. Except his comment is higher up and has far more upvotes. But what fun would reddit be without simplifications and hyperbole taken literally? It would be more fun than anything that has ever happened ever. "**This Polio outbreak** is the direct result of a failed CIA ploy to send vaccination workers to the Osama Bin Laden compound to collect information and DNA samples."

The CIA's actions have had two consequences: 

(1) The Taliban now openly targets health care workers that go door to door administering vaccinations.

(2) The public, who were suspicious that vaccinations were a ploy by the West after 9/11, now have some facts to support these suspicions. 

Last year saw the largest number of new cases of Polio in Pakistan in more than 14 years. Incidence of Polio doubled from 2012 to 2013. This *most recent* outbreak is largely due to actions taken by the CIA and the Taliban's response. &gt; there's been resistance to Polio and other vaccinations in the area for far longer than this.

That is b/c uneducated people people in the backcountry have long had suspicions about the whole vaccination program way before the Bin Laden news came out. I think it is likely that there has been at least 1 covert vaccination operation in the past, but the only one we know about involved Bin Laden.  &gt; That is b/c uneducated people people in the backcountry have long had suspicions about the whole vaccination program

Same could be said in the west, even among what should be otherwise "highly educated" populations. Some humans are just hellbent on taking themselves out of the gene pool, no matter where you go. Yeah, I'm calling horseshit too. I don't think the entirety of Pakistan was all waving pom-poms for Bin Laden anyway.  There are also some who believe that vaccines are part of a big conspiracy to sterilise Muslims and wipe them out.  &gt; If anyone wonders why the hostility towards polio vaccinations it is blowback from the hunt to kill Bin Laden.

Not true. Lots of people were opposed to vaccination much before even  9/11.

Source: grew up in Pakistan in '80s. Correct me if I am wrong but isn't that a war crime? Posing as a humanitarian organization to attact an enemy Of course it is. But US isn't prosecuted for war crimes. Only losers commit war crimes. Pakistan has historically been vaccine-scared for a while before that. You're mostly correct. The CIA commissioned a fake hepatitis-C vaccination campaign to try to obtain DNA from Osama's relatives and locate him that way. And yes, it didn't work, and healthcare workers are finding it hard to operate their polio vaccination campaigns in a few Taliban-controlled regions of Pakistan because of it.  This needs to be up voted higher, they weren't trying to get into his compound, they were trying to obtain DNA that would prove Bin Laden was there. Still very wrong, but makes more sense than using vaccination to "break in" to a compound. Bullshit. This started way before bin Laden was killed. 

As I recall it, it was a bunch of nutters from Nigeria who came up with this idea and the geniuses in Pakistan adopted it. 

Edit: this article, written in 2007, refers to rumours going back to 2003. Bin Laden and the CIA shenanigans were much later than that. 

http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.0040073

 Why can't it be the CIA fucking up the trust in doctors *and* a previous aversion to vaccinations? This existed way before the Bin Laden operation. That time the conspiracy theory was that the west/usa/israel/india was going to sterilize muslims. This conspiracy theory also existed among poor muslims in India, which is why muslim ghettos in India had polio long after other parts of India were polio free. The CIA does not help a lot of charitable organizations because it does indeed infiltrate these organizations or recruit people in them as agents. People complain about Hamas soldiers disguising themselves as civilians, but I think that the CIA disguising themselves as doctors is possibly worse.
 Does anybody know if Pakistan have any protections in place to protect people (from the law) who suffer allergies to the vaccine? Shit. Looking at the comments on any thread about Pakistan, it's always just about how "Pakistan sucks". Most of you people have never been there. Goddamn, it makes me so upset every time. If you paid any attention to the country's politics, you'd know how much the educated people in the country are trying to change it. And if you had any knowledge of its history, you'd understand its problems. Instead of just making sweeping statments painting the country and all of its inhabitants as ignorant backwards people try to read up on it to understand why shit that happens there happens. This shit just pisses me off. I understand how you feel. I was born and raised in Canada, the same cannot be said for the rest of my family though. The amount of shit they get because of their heritage alone is mind boggling.  People there want change, hell even the military do. We sadly have a few bad apples who are in power and are extremely corrupt though.  It doesn't help that the media never gives the clear picture either. Welcome to mass psychology.  Push a fear button with lack of understanding, and people will run like a herd to whatever simple solution you offer them.

 It's interesting how people can see Pakistan as this really backward country and they get surprised when I talk about what it's like. I remember a friend being surprised that women work and drive there. And can even show skin! Do people really confuse it as an Arab state? It's really bizarre! Especially considering how high a profile Bhutto had. My parents are both from Pakistan but they moved to the UK when they were teenagers so I'm talking as someone who has Pakistani roots but wasn't brought up there. Yes, this happens all the time to most country lacking redditors. I get you completely. Similar thing happens with China. The only thing you could do is to comment patiently and consistently to tone down the ignorance a little bit every time. The worst case is when there is absolutely nobody speaking out. Was curious so I looked it up: Polio was declared eradicated in the United States in 1979.

My grandpa's brother died from Polio when he was little. :/ Yeah because it would be some crazy conspiracy theory to think that there is a doctors in Pakistan on the CIA's payroll giving fake vaccines filled with a mystery fluid.  /s This topic is becoming a giant circlejerk.  We get it.  Vaccinate your kids.   Thanks for contributing.. ::cough::

#circlejerkforkarma2015 to capture bin Laden,  there was a fake vaccination campaign in Afghanistan. doctors should be more careful about their owth. these people are not known for their critical thinking skills. trust in science is at a premium these days. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Those comments are fucking cancer I find it kind of alarming how quick people are to get behind this. Since when is being misinformed grounds for being put in jail? The anti-vaxers need to be reeducated not imprisoned.

Reddit is quick to yell 'POLICE STATE' every time we find out about how much control our government has over us, yet still manage to rationalize them having this kind of power? 

I'm absolutely pro-vaccination but damn, where do you start to draw the line when the government can jail you for something like this? PAKISTAN ZINDABAD Maybe if the CIA didn't disguise themselves as Polio vaccine workers, the people in Pakistan wouldn't be so averse to them.

http://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/10/health/cia-vaccine-ruse-in-pakistan-may-have-harmed-polio-fight.html?pagewanted=all Nothing encourages acceptance and trust of authority like arresting those that don't comply. I agree that vaccination is important and that the world as a whole needs to take steps to make sure it happens, but arresting those that don't comply is only going to galvanize those that already distrust vaccinations or western medicine in general.  I'm glad they recognize that this is a very important issue, maybe arresting might be too much, but then again, they are putting their children at risk.  won't somebody think of the children!  Really? yeah Fuck everyone of you that want US cops to arrest anti Vaxxers. How many times have I seen someone say, "US Cops are bad", too many to count. We can't trust a cop to handle a situation without using deadly force, and you suddenly think, "Hey lets FORCE people to vaccinate their kids, and if they don't comply lets send these aggressive cops to their door." I'm sure nothing could go wrong. Child endangerment is a valid basis for arrest in my opinion. Watch all the comments from people who dont give 2 cents for the people of Pakistan become incredibly upset for the vaccine dissemination in Pakistan.  If Snowden is a terrorist because his leaks could have endangered intelligence sources of the CIA / NSA / ECT....

What does that make the peorson in the CIA who made the conditions to kill 65 healthcare workers possible by ok'ing the use of a vaccination doctor?

Just saying, the moment snowden is found, and hgas his day in court, we should sidh out the exact same punishment to the CIA man who ok'ed the usage of the vaccine doctor.  Coming to the united states soon  So is that what's going to happen in America when people don't vaccinate their kids in general? Well, I can finally say Pakistan is doing something right. First time for everything I guess What this highlights is the first-world problem nature of the anti-vaxxer attitudes.  Pakistan is *not* forcing vaccination because they don't care about individual rights.  They are forcing it because it is a poor country which does not have the resources to effectively deal with epidemics.  They don't have good hospitals across their country where they can send sick kids.  They don't have a lot of resources to help kids who contract polio.  This is done out of necessity.   OMG do they know how much AUTISM this can cause!!!?!!!!?! I'm actually okay with that... And I'm not okay with that. 

*ding*

But seriously, this might actually be necessary. If a large enough number of people don't vaccinate their children, they're putting their entire nation at risk. They're actively causing a threat to national security. It's almost a miracle the US isn't sending anti-vaccers to Gitmo. The US has sent plenty of innocents to that concentration camp, so a few actual threats to national security shouldn't be a big deal.  [deleted] Isn't the polio vaccine actually dangerous though? I heard from my immunology professor that the polio virus does come with a risk for paralysis. According to Wikipedia yeah, the oral one can rarely (1 in 750000 vaccine recipients) cause a strain of polio but it still protects against that so it won't spread if enough people get the vaccine. In this situation getting the vaccine vs not getting it is still an easy choice. You're looking at thousands of cases of polio without the vaccine and single digits of cases with it. The rate of vaccine-associated paralytic poliomyelitis (VAPP) varies by region but is generally about 1 case per 750,000 vaccine recipients. VAPP is more likely to occur in adults than in children.

Your odds of getting sick from the oral vaccine is literally just over 1 in a million.  So about 182 people? That's why we don't give the live attenuated vaccine in the US anymore. Your risk of contracting polio naturally is actually less than if you were given the vaccine. But the same can not be said in Pakistan where there are still outbreaks. To all the people saying "good": Yes, vaccines have been proven to be effective, but what happened to bodily autonomy? We shouldn't be arresting people who refuse any given medical treatment.

Shun them, sure. Arresting them is crossing a line.


EDIT: Having read some replies, I do acknowledge there's a debate to be had. One could argue that in walking around unvaccinated, a person threatens everyone else's bodily autonomy (by potentially infecting others without their consent). I don't know, though -- "the greater good" is a very slippery slope to base an argument on, especially when removing one's basic rights. Huffington Post subscribers are applauding this action, and demanding Obama follow their lead. I'm expecting a similar reaction if this gets posted in /r/politics Reddit doesn't seem too against it either.

I don't have a problem with mandatory vaccination. I do have a problem with arresting people for refusing it. That's a massive over reaction and will only serve to convince them and others that they've made the right choice because the government is against them and trying to hurt them. 

Plus jailing people for being ignorant and paranoid isn't the top of a slippery slope, it's a ridge about 3/4 of the way down the slippery slope. Another question is where do we draw the line? Polio vaccinations are one thing, GPS tracking chips, thought implant chips... all in the name of "social order and well being".  I'm all for individual well-being, but that's where my society above all participation ends.  My point is, like yours, once we start down that slope... Freaky, isn't it? Polio is spread through fecal-oral transmission.  Polio is a clean water issue, not a vaccine issue. 

Civil infrastructure, not Jonas Salk (awesome as he was and yes, the vaccine DOES WORK) eradicated polio worldwide.  

Polio goes away when people stop drinking other people's poop.
 No. It is both a clean water issue and a vaccine issue. Until modern infrastructure reaches isolated people, we can prevent death and disease with vaccines. Even in the USA people still spread infections because they do not wash their hand properly, or at all. We have plenty of clean water, just not clean practices used universally. I'm sure if they had clean water they'd still have isolated infections that can spread from handshakes and other body contact. So, clean water is not enough.  We eliminated polio from the USA via vaccines *not* via clean tap water. You are echoing a standard line from the anti-vaxxers the "vaccines didn't save us" baloney! You put in a caveat that says that the polio vaccines work, but caveats won't save you. Crypto-anti-vaxxer here!  "I'm sure if they had clean water they'd still have isolated infections."

I'm sure?  That's the extent of your knowledge of this issue?  Just "I'm sure".  I'll bet you had no idea how polio spread before I told you.  But that doesn't matter, because when we're talking about vaccines, the facts don't matter to either side.

Yeah, that's not how it works.  I know in medieval times they thought disease could just pop up out of nowhere, but today we know they are caused by things called viruses that cannot live for very long outside a host.  That means that without an active mode of transmission (i.e. the vast majority of the people are not ingesting each other's poop on a given day), the disease cannot spread and is eradicated within the virus's lifetime.

The only thing that makes me more upset than anti-vax bullshit is pro-vax bullshit.  And there's a TON of it. This goes against free will. If you want to vaccinate people, convince them through education, not through guns and caging. It becomes problematic when people harass and murder anti polio workers in Pakistan. Or even better...offer additive-free vaccines then most people will take them. There are lots of safe ways to sterilize vaccines and the German Chancellor and military are using additive-free vaccines. "It's my free will to risk the lives and health of my children!" Incorrect. I did not say that. I argue that the "Arresting" in the title is immoral. Now, in regards to your "risk the lives and health" argument, humanity has been physically fit for millennia without the use of vaccines. We will survive without it too. So will your children. Letting a group vaccinate any individual and the modifying your body with no knowledge of its effects is a bad precedent. It leads to you experiencing negative side-effects. For example,  consider the fact that MMR vaccine leads to autism (http://www.thelibertybeacon.com/2013/06/21/new-published-study-verifies-andrew-wakefields-research-on-autism-again-mmr-vaccine-causes-autism/). You would "risk the lives and health" of your children as a result of negative side-effects of several vaccines. In the past, hundreds of thousands of people died from diseases we can now avoid with vaccines every year. People who caught these diseases and survived often had terrible complications and lifelong damage. How do you know you wouldn't have been one of them? Or your children? How do you know if it happens again it won't include you or your children? Especially since the death rates for children with these diseases were a lot higher than for adults.

As for vaccines causing autism, that has been [disproved](http://www.healthcare-management-degree.net/autism-vaccines/) again and again. Andrew Wakefield was a fraud and lost his medical license. If you still wish to promote bad science, find another source for it besides biased conservative sites.  Pakistani here: Nearly every day there are reports of people trying to stop the disease through door-to-door vaccination being shot and killed. The ~~murderous hatred~~ aversion towards polio vaccination was embedded in our population's mindset long before the OBL fake-vaccination campaign by the CIA.

Along with an average of one polio health worker being killed daily, one or two kids are contracting the disease per day.

I fully and completely support the policy of forcing vaccinations, with the caveat that the government should give the option of the IPV instead of OPV to parents, with perhaps the cost of the injection being paid by the parents.

I am a liberal at heart, and have a strong dislike of religious tyranny and mumbo-jumbo, but damn it my liberalism does not mean not defending human life and liberty from the forces of darkness. If forcing vaccinations is what it will take to end this disease and protect the children, then I all for it. i don't think vaccinating is a bad thing but I can't help but to remind the book 1984 by George Orwell.. I'd argue the United States is far closer to that. That's not how books work. Hey Book, remember 1984 by George Orwell?

Book: Oh yeah... [deleted] because someone should give consent before being arrested [Unethical human experimentation in the United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unethical_human_experimentation_in_the_United_States)

Science is only as good as the scientists that use the method.  Government is only as good as the people running it.  Power attracts all sorts of crazy agendas, as proof, simply look to what the Nazi scientists did.  Do we really want to mix government power with the ability to inject shit into people's bodies, or do we want to rebuild trust. LOL. As if the Pakistani state is strong enough to become an Orwelian state.

The problem in Pakistan is not government oppression, its general lawlessness. Its the people that opress each other and the state just stands by and watches. Vaccines are definitely a bad thing, it's all about control and chipping away at our rights. Lately, I've actually seen plenty of vaccine supporters state that children who are un-vaccinated should not be allowed in public or in school. Well I'm sorry, but I have far better health alternatives and am not stupid enough to put trust in vaccines. If they work so well, why do they depends on the unvaccinated to keep you safe? Because it's bullshit propaganda.

Bill Gates said (not the exact words) that the world is headed to a population of 9 billion, and that if a good job is done on health care and vaccines, it should be lowered by 10%. Now, don't tell me something with the result of slowing down or lowering population is good for me, because their intention is not to save lives and prolong then, but to lower population as a whole rather than allow it to keep growing. There are plenty of quotes about population control from the 1% and you would have to be an idiot to think vaccines are good for you with that in mind. Am I the only who's getting tired of all these vaccine posts coming on reddit front page Reddit has a boner for feeling superior to others, so don't expect this to stop until a new flavor of the month target makes an appearance  The top comment and it's top-voted children are all passive-aggressive jabs at one group or another. Whether it be those horrible 3 letters, the anti vaccors, etc it's a pretty common theme. &gt;those horrible 3 letters,

Do you mean 3 letter agencies? mmhhmm [deleted] My money is on SJW. TIL is the shit [deleted] Did you know the Cold War was a simple, easy affair, but the US was too stupid to see that Russian Communism was actually a brilliant idea, and the CIA was being evil for kicks?


blegh. Whenever I see the Cold War here, I hit the bottle. The cold war was simple imperialism, we've never had cause for any sort of of enhanced interrogation, never had a legal basis to seal with Saddam, etc.

Life must be simple behind rose tinted glasses. You're forgetting MAD.

"WW2 was simple imperialism. We never had cause for bombing, nuclear weaponry, or a total war. Life must be simple behind Zionist-controlled glasses."

See? I can reduce something to make it sound absurd, too. Not sure if were both using intentional sarcasm to lament the apparent lack of critical thinking concerning the grayer areas of American history, or what. I think we are! I thought "rose-colored glasses" was a reference to me thinking the USSR was a credible threat or something.

But yes. When I see the Cold War here, I get sad. Progressives have the boner, they're everywhere. In this case I don't mind reddit feeling superior.

It's still a real problem, with life or death consequences, and with aggravating idiotic cause.  No. It's a non-issue in the western world, but important for countries like this. I like this kind of post. What I can't stand is posts about brick-for-brain Americans refusing to vaccinate their kids.  Most people who get involved in the reddit side of politics support fascism and dictatorship oppression.

Just see the responses to this thread Pretty much this.  Any article about gov't imposition has redditors in a euphoric daze.  It's safe to say the culture here is bootlicking. What I don't get is reddit fucking hates cops, there's one or two front page stories shitting on them every day but then they all cheer for shit like this

people are fucking stupid Reddit wants an omnipresent, highly efficient government, but they don't want all the bad sides that come with it. I'm seeing a lot of people discussing the structure of Pakistan's politics and the repeating of the fact that the CIA increased the distrust of vaccinations when they used them in an operation.

Where is the support of fascism you are referring to? Most people on Reddit support locking up people who do something they don't like.

There was literally someone on Reddit that said Singapore had the "right idea" because it executed people for drug possession.

Almost everyone on reddit is a statist. And I'm not talking about someone who believes we should have government. I'm talking people who fucking worship the government like a deity.

There are people on Reddit who literally think it's cool to put people in jail for not paying taxes or for saying certain things they don't like. Right. There are definitely people like that.

I was wondering if you actually had an example in this thread.

And do you think victimless drug users should be let out of prisons then? Just curious. &gt;Yes, drug use should be legal
 Okay, just curious. Sweeping generalizations. That's all you've made. Can't take you seriously when your main complaint is that people don't agree with you.

For the record I don't agree with what Singapore is doing either. As for tax evasion, yes or no issue. I mostly see absurdly rich people take part in that, which pisses me off because it's such a stupid decision on their part. &gt;There was literally someone on Reddit that said Singapore had the "right idea" because it executed people for drug possession.

Wow. This one guy on reddit... 

Euhm reddit is generally against capital punishment and very pro-drug. Seriously I've never seen the side of reddit that believes drug-possession is a sin as long as it aren't date-rape drugs. 

&gt;I'm talking people who fucking worship the government like a deity.

The fuck? What reddit have you been browsing?

&gt;There are people on Reddit who literally think it's cool to put people in jail for not paying taxes or for saying certain things they don't like.

Yes. Reddit is well known to be generally anti-free speech. /s

And yeah they are pro putting people in jail for not paying taxes. Is that really such a controversial opinion? 

Stop pretending to be part of the underdog side. You're not.

 &gt;Euhm reddit is generally against capital punishment and very pro-drug. Seriously I've never seen the side of reddit that believes drug-possession is a sin as long as it aren't date-rape drugs.

I find the opposite

&gt;The fuck? What reddit have you been browsing?

r/politics

&gt;Yes. Reddit is well known to be generally anti-free speech. /s

Again r/politics

&gt;And yeah they are pro putting people in jail for not paying taxes. Is that really such a controversial opinion?

Absolutely. I thought it was 2015, not 1715

 OK. Let's ignore for a second you believe reddit isn't pro-drugs. Which is astounding. 

Let's also ignore for a second you claim /r/politics is anti-free speech.

So 3 million out of the 70 million redditors, about 0.4% is, is enough to hold true your opinion of reddit as a whole? Yeah I don't think that's rational. 

&gt;Absolutely. I thought it was 2015, not 1715

It is 2015. The year where people live in governed countries, benefit from the services and structures the government provides, and where people should get punished by the DOJ for their crimes. Seriously explain the controversy here.  Because the government demanding money under threats of death or imprisonment is dark age bullshit and has no place in this fucking century

You can fund services and structures without pointing guns at people or locking them in cages I haven't seen those "threats of death" in the western nation. 

In order to make people comply by the rules set out by the government they elected and live under we absolutely do need a threat of punishment. 

Paying taxes is a law people must abide to. Not complying with that
Is a crime. Some need to incentived to not commit these crimes under treath of some form of punishment. The crime of not paying taxes can be answers by reasonable period of jail time 

Honestly it sounds like you're ok with people not paying taxes. What do you want the government to do when people aren't paying taxes and is unable to seize property to make up for the unpaid taxes and the punishment of the crime? 

Allowing this behavior is unmaintainable in a modern civilization. 

I honestly don't see the controversy here. 

Paying taxes is not just "demanding money". It's demanding money for the services the citizen is already receiving and using. Not paying taxes is essentially theft and punishment with jail time really isn't "dark age bullshit" &gt;I haven't seen those "threats of death" in the western nation.

So if I don't pay my taxes, nothing will happen to me? That's interesting

&gt;In order to make people comply by the rules set out by the government they elected and live under we absolutely do need a threat of punishment.

Why do statists have such a hard-on for MAKING people do things? Can't you just leave people alone? Why do you have to dictate and control people and force them to abide by your stupid 15th century rules?

&gt;Paying taxes is a law people must abide to. Not complying with that Is a crime. Some need to incentived to not commit these crimes under treath of some form of punishment. The crime of not paying taxes can be answers by reasonable period of jail time

Just because it's a law doesn't mean it's right, and just because government says something is "illegal" doesn't make it so.

Robbery and extortion is illegal. This has long been established in human society for a very long time

&gt;Honestly it sounds like you're ok with people not paying taxes. What do you want the government to do when people aren't paying taxes and is unable to seize property to make up for the unpaid taxes and the punishment of the crime?

Uh, nothing? I don't agree with punishing someone for something that hurts no one

&gt;It's demanding money for the services the citizen is already receiving and using.

No it isn't. I don't WANT to use those services. I don't want social security, I don't want food stamps, I don't want medicare. I shouldn't have to pay for them. If YOU or John Q. Public wants them, then cool, you pay for them. It makes no sense for me to pay for something I don't want and don't use.

&gt;Not paying taxes is essentially theft

If I don't pay for something, and therefore do no utilize it, then who am I stealing from? I wouldn't say something bold like "most" but I definitely understand what you are saying.  There is tons of propaganda and plenty of people just waiting to eat it up.   Propaganda Reddit's seen by hundreds of thousands of people each day.  You bet your ass that people with money and an agenda are capitalizing on it.

Not to sound like a nut or anything; it's just common sense. OK. I believe that. But no organization is able to buy this kind of traction on reddit. 

Before the FCC voted on net neutrality the US telecom industry was clearly trying to "take part" in the conversation here with blatantly obvious comments that read like a press statement. 

Besides, the issue here doesn't need propaganda on reddit. The public is on the pro-vaccination side. So are the facts and outside organizations like the WHO.

Who the hell is going to spend money on changing the mind of reddit to pro-vaccination when 95% of redditors already are.  This isn't new. The vaccine fanatics have been here a long time. I'm pro-vaccine, but it's still propaganda. Do you know what propaganda is? Do you honestly think the government is controlling the media directly to start a media campaign here? 

The reason why this is gaining traction now more than ever is because the anti-vaccine movement is gaining traction and is tying itself politically.  I don't think you know what propaganda is. Propaganda doesn't necessarily have to originate from government sources.

propaganda
prpand/
noun
information, especially of a biased or misleading nature, used to promote or publicize a particular political cause or point of view. So you think that the pro-vaccers response is caused by propaganda? I believe there are concerted efforts to push several agendas here on Reddit. Whether it be by external forces, mods, or user factions, through use of comment downvotes, submission downvotes, or submission removal. Why wouldn't there be? Reddit is one of the top 100 most visited sites on the internet. 

It's naive to think the upvotes/downvotes you see on front page submissions are purely organic. Propaganda for what and by how exactly?  Allowing people to think that vaccines are dangerous causes the deaths of children, so I really hope you are. Because that's what reddit is for, teaching backlands Peshawar vaccination holdouts how safe and useful those vaccinations really are.  Reddit does have some ability to influence culture. Not necessarily in rural Pakistan but maybe in the developed world. People who refuse to vaccinate need to have culture and society against them.  Absolutely. 

Not vaccinating children can't become a "thing" that's clearly wrong but somehow socially ignored.  No.  They get old. Don't worry bro, it's just the result of an on-going social media campaign to vilify anyone who is interested in improving the vaccination research and conflicts of interest inherit in the system in the U.S. Yeah, current events bug me too.  Nah. I am not tired of them though Shut up, Jim. You stuck your dick in crazy. Deal with the consequences. It's not really widely known, but public health organizations heavily astroturf reddit.  That's why there's so much talk about vaccination, so much encouragement of safe sex and getting tested, etc.  It's impressive how just a few dozen social media professionals can affect discourse so much.   Why the fuck would astrosurfers spend resources astroturfing reddit to influence the opinion here when 95% of reddit is already vocally in favor of vaccinations. 

Seriously care to explain that? 

Also don't overestimate the ability of astroturfing. The US telecom industry was pretty seriously astroturfing here on reddit before the FCC vote and it managed to change public opinion by jack shit.  Do you think that interest in vaccinations just happened in a vacuum?  Vaccinations are great, but isn't it interesting that reddit is apparently so interested in it? Interesting? No I think it's only logical.

We have a modern invention that saves lives but people are unwilling to use it because they are uneducated, are ignorant, and because they tie these believes to political ideologies that have nothing to do with the issue at hand. 

And this practice is becoming so common that it's becoming a movement of the ignorant that endanger not only the lives of their children but the people in their society. 

So yeah I don't think it's "interesting" and I fully understand where the intrest comes from.  Stupid real world and its stupid real dangers, amirite Yeah I ve literaly never seen anyone refusing to vaccinate their kids Watching reddit support incarceration for refusing a government-mandated injection is pretty surreal. Then again Apple has become what they hated and people love them, so, yeah, who knows anymore. Not getting vaccinated affects more then just yourself. Have you heard of concepts like herd immunity? 

Also, it's a personal belief that not vaccinating your children is tantamount to child abuse and should be punished accordingly.  That's not the point, mr. herd mentality. The point is incarcerating someone for a government mandated-injection. However you want to think of or justify past that in your mind, by all means. But it is incarcerating people for not complying to a government-forced injection. That is surreal, regardless of vaccination stance.

And why is no one bringing up the fact that it's not the vaccinations, clearly I would think 100+ years of science shows the efficacy. It's more the flooding a tiny baby brain with tons of mercury preservatives all at once and over a few weeks. surely everyone remembers how dangerous mercury is. For adolescents and adults, it's no big deal at all, obviously. But tiny babies that they give 3 rounds of loaded shots to using mercury preservatives (which they increased the amount 3-fold in the past few years) just because it gives them a longer shelf life? C'mon. be smart about it.

Then there are different kinds of vaccines. basically all-dead cells, partially-inactive cells, and fully live virus. the first 2 have the lowest risk, being virtually nil. but the third, you are injecting someone with a fully live virus, and their immune system may not win and just create antibodies. those people may then have the disease. so it becomes a question of risk-to-reward. we see this with the HPV vaccine. the numbers of people affected each year rather low, then the number of vaccinations of the live virus, then how many MORE girls contracted full-blown HPV as a direct result. that becomes a question of risk. you start government mandating it, as a Texas governor attempted to do, and that's some seriously dangerous territory. Let us not forget that the government has attempted forced sterilization in the past.

Just saying. Scientific advancements are great and all, and absolutely, what works should be used. But certain things have other risks, and that is a decision. And other people's herd mentality and lack of knowledge on the subject, whether for or against vaccines, does not help anyone. And this is our body. If you get vaccinated and are protected, what do you care anyways! Pakistani here:

1. Polio vaccines in Pakistan are administered orally, not intravenously.

2. It matters because polio is endemic in Pakistan. You see it all the time here, polio victims begging in the streets with deformed limbs crawling around. Its a strain on our society and our fragile healthcare system.

3. People arent refusing to have their children vaccinated because of mercury or weak immune systems or whatever. Its because people think that the polio vaccine is a conspiracy by western governments to sterilize Muslim children. If the government can administer enough vaccines to eradicate polio, and our population keeps increasing(180 million now... estimated to be 210 million by 2020) then perhaps this stupid paranoia will go away.

4. Do you know of any confirmed dangers associated with the polio vaccine?



 &gt; It's more the flooding a tiny baby brain with tons of mercury preservatives all at once and over a few weeks. surely everyone remembers how dangerous mercury is. For adolescents and adults, it's no big deal at all, obviously. But tiny babies that they give 3 rounds of loaded shots to using mercury preservatives (which they increased the amount 3-fold in the past few years) just because it gives them a longer shelf life? C'mon. be smart about it.

There is *no mercury* in OPVs! Most of the pediatric vaccines are mercury-free. The mercury in the old vaccines was eliminated very quickly from the body and has much less reactivity in our bodies anyway. 

&gt;Then there are different kinds of vaccines. basically all-dead cells, partially-inactive cells, and fully live virus.

No, no, no. The live vaccines we have are not "fully live" they are attenuated and molecularly unable to start an infection of the disease being vaccinated against. This include the HPV vaccine. The exception is the OPV. There is a discussion about why using it in areas with no refrigeration makes sense up-thread. You are spouting anti-vaccine non-sense! 


You are embarrassing the libertarians that understand the science of vaccines with your non-sense ideas about vaccines.  Mercury hasn't been used in vaccines for year, never mind that they used a harmless form of it. Could you source your information? Thank you. Downvote me all you want,  but you're  in the wrong.  People who don't  vaccinate their kids hurt everyone else and diminish herd immunity.  It's outright criminal and superstitious to not get it done in today's world and people that legitimately can't get vaccines die because  of it.    The number of people applauding this decision is seriously disturbing I feel like you'd change your mind about this pretty quickly if that disease were still a serious issue in your country. We in the west have the luxury of being able to have a few nutjobs preventing the eradication of measles and the like but the fun ends with something as serious as fucking polio. Have you forgotten that the US and the rest of the West eradicated polio without forced vaccinations? Education is a beautiful thing. You mean how the US and the rest of the West actually **took** the vaccinations? Education is a beautiful thing. The argument is about **forced** vaccinations. yes, and you're trying to argue, "well we eradicated polio in the west without forced vaccinations" while COMPLETELY ignoring that this is a different culture/situation who are fighting against vaccinations hence they won't "erdicate polio"

you're comparing apples to oranges, just because you can peel an orange perfectly with your hands doesn't mean you can do the same to an apple &gt; Education is a beautiful thing.

This line fails when talking about Pakistan? So violating basic human rights and using excessive force is the answer?  In such a clear cut case, yes. Some stupid individual doesn't stand above the wellbeing of everyone around them. If those people were choosing only for themselves, sure let them. But they aren't. And who gets to decide when it's okay to illegally arrest people? Who decides when it's okay to cross that line? Sorry, but no. Giving any person or group of people that kind of power is dangerous and stupid. The same people who decide murder is illegal, why should I be detained for my actions? Don't be an idiot  The same type of people who, when given enough power, historically use it to [murder everybody they can?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_killings_under_Communist_regimes) But yeah, I'm the idiot. You're right. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straw_man

 Non-mobile: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straw_man](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straw_man)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. How is that any more of a straw man than your comment? You used "making murder illegal" as a justification for trusting people to be allowed to arbitrarily break the law.

When a government is allowed to act as it pleases with no regard for its own law, or international law, bad things happen. Would you really dispute that? No, I'm saying laws are man made, you kill people indirectly or directly it should be punished. Your liberties stop where others saftey begins. You obviously have no clue what polio does, it isn't like being arrested for having the common cold.

You are comparing it to an authoritarian regime desgised as communism. They are looking at keeping themselves in power, here they are protecting the people from their own stupidity. This is why I don't like mandating seatbelts. Kill yourself if you like... however speed limits are great because they stop you from harming others. being projected out of your car going 80 miles per hour and potentially killing somebody with your flying body... that's why mandating seatbelts also stops you from harming others If that is a concern then I guess mandating seatbelts seems reasonable. How likely is this though? Also it's a lot easier to recover/maintain control of your vehicle if you can't leave the driver's seat during an accident.  People can die on a golf course. What if a ball is mishit, and strikes somebody in the head? Might as well just outlaw golf. Stabbing people can kill them. Might as well outlaw stabbing...

seriously, your analogy is poor and fallacious One of these things is not like the other.

Thing 1: accident.

Thing 2: accident.

Thing 3: fucking *murder.* I'm right there with you man. These people like pretending they're "logical" and "progressive", yet they support fascist laws and actions carried out by power-hungry Governments. A little too much 'The ends justify the means' bullshit going on here. As a Pakistani, this news makes me happy. Freedom and limiting government control and all that libertarian bullshit make me feel all warm and fuzzy inside, but at the end of the day, from a purely utilitarian perspective, we have country of several billion inhabitants where many have no access to education and abundant access to misinformation. 

Children stricken with polio in Pakistan are stigmatized and in the rural areas where the disease is common, it destroys the victim's socioeconomic prospects. Personal choice is all well and good, but not when your personal choice infringes upon the ability of others to live without fear of harm. Several billion inhabitants? You guys have been busy! 182 million, when said in Urdu is billions. Sometimes when translating we forget and say billion by mistake. Yeah, sorry, got that mixed up with a million. We have this different numeral system where we roll over to a new term, "lakh", at 100,000 instead of 1,000,000, which means every term after is off by a factor of 10. Haha wow I never knew that. Interesting. I think that is still consistent with the libertarian 'non-aggression principle'. You have freedom choice up to a point. Once your choice impacts someone else, such as your kid running around infecting people with Polio, you're violating that principle and it is justifiable to take your freedom of choice away. Not to mention kids getting Polio themselves... &gt; we have country of several billion inhabitants

0.o  Guess the poll workers haven't knocking on enough doors.  Either the post or the data is bs, or both. As long as it supports their beliefs, they are fine with it. The ends always justify the means. Agreed, I actually find this kind of scary. I hate the anti-vaxxers as much as the next guy, but you sort of go against everything this country (and western society in general) stands for by this approach.  The minute that we allow the government decide proper medical procedure is when we have really lost control. Your doctor should suggest the best course of action and you should decide. ... for yourself. Is it fair for the children to have their (potentially dumb) parents decide not to be vaccinated? The children have no way to comprehend the issue or speak for themselves. It is not the liberty of the parents to not allow their children have all possible protection against life threatening diseases.  You alternate option is for the government to decide what happens to these children .  That doesn't make me feel any better than potentially dumb parents. But then you have a government controlling the medical treatments of children in direct contradiction to what their parents want. Which is an equally terrifying idea.  I understand and I'm very liberal myself, but I strongly feel that this is the lesser of two evils. It is objectively and scientifically wrong not to vaccinate, this is not a matter of ideals.  It's a matter of ethics. There's no science of ethics. It's scientifically *harmful* not to vaccinate your children, in most cases. But that's not the same statement as that it's wrong. (Or at least it's not obviously the same statement.)  I suppose you don't mind a little bit of child genital mutilation as long as it's the parents wishes then do you? That's a bit dramatic, don't you think?  Not really. In both cases, it's the parent's ignorance that causes harm. With genital mutilation it's harm of only their child, with vaccination, it's harm of their child as well as others (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herd_immunity) so in some sense it's even worse not to vaccinate as it affects not only the parent's children. The parent has authority over the child. Not the government. Does the parent have the right beat up their kids then? Not vaccinating is causing harm in a very similar (physical) manner. The parent has the right to reasonable physical punishment. Abuse is not the same situation and not vaccinating is not on the level of abuse. When the child catches a life-threatening disease because they didn't get the vaccination (for no rational reason other than the parent bought into the completely unscientific and bullshit claims about vaccinations), what "level of abuse" would you consider that? Holy shit, I hope you never have children, for their sake. What claims do you have over my future children? You don't even realize that I am personally for vaccinations. so if your doctor follows government procedures and vaccinates, how on earth is that any different, vaccination works, and if you dont vaccinate you put others at risk, exactly the sort of thing governments should be involved in And if your doctor has to follow orders on drug testing you? yes, lets take every argument and take it to it's n'th degree of possible options, that helps.... I think not doing that is foolish and ultimately creates issues further on. If you can't see how the concept of the government controlling health decisions can go bad quickly then I wouldn't be safe with you deciding what to do over my body. Can you imagine if this was at all related to women's health care? Women not having control over their bodies?  People would be going insane, but the other direction. Its child endangerment, go to your local courtroom and you'll see dozens of cases like this. Parents are frequently charged for not taking good enough care of their kids.  Educated minds should be dictating people's decisions not jail and other consequences from the government.  Obviously this is idealistic, but at no point should we be going backwards.  Polio kills and infects. By your logic you should be able to commit murders as well, since not being able to kill means you are limited in your freedom. If it's a danger to the general populace, it should be illegal.  It's a a danger to yourself, not others. You should have the right to be an idiot, especially when it comes to your healthcare. I think we can draw a pretty big line in the sand here between willingly killing another and a stupid decision that has a low chance of coming back to bite you in the ass. 

Obesity kills more people annually than polio ever could in a decade. Should we have the government kicking down doors and arresting people for not putting down the fork and refusing to exercise? No. Should cancer patients be forced to suffer through life prolonging treatments if they don't wish to? No. People should have freedom over their own healthcare even if that includes being an idiot.  To yourself? No. The kids don't choose whether they are vaccinated or not, the parents do. So it isn't a danger to yourself, but someone else. Furthermore, polio is highly infectious. If one gets infected by Polio, a lot of other people can as well. This isn't only a danger to yourself but also to others. "This country". 

Which country do you speak of? This is a forum with many international contributors.

In addition, Pakistan is not exactly a champion of "western values". Speaking as a Canadian currently living in China, I have had my fair share of realizations that what works for Canada does not and cannot work in China. And vice versa. Western values are not a hard and fast epitome of the way to live. They are merely a version of the best way to live.  Don't be fatuous, you're on an American site discussing anti-vaxxers and talking about freedom, you know exactly which country I'm referring to here.  The sub-reddit is called world news and the thread is discussing Pakistan, on a website that is internationally followed. I don't think it's a stretch to ask what you mean by "this country". Don't assume America is the default around here. Unfortunately, this very approach is the one taken by liberals and vaxers. If you have so much faith in your vaccine, why do you give a shit if someone else gets vaccinated or not? Clearly your vaccines don't work. Well, for one reason, babies under a certain age are unable to be vaccinated.  Additionally, immunocompromised children and adults, who are unable to receive certain vaccines, are also at risk of contracting diseases from those who are unvaccinated.  So that's why I give a shit. Well... not really. Vaccines aren't 100%. They don't really make you completely immune. Yeah so let's have more big government. This is exactly what they want. And people are too stupid to realize it. I mean I never said that. Just correcting your statement. Do yourself a big favor and see what the 1%/corporations think should be done about the population and then come back and remind me how much they desire us to have good health and live long lives.  How about you provide a single source instead of having someone else do your work for you? I don't need anyone to do the work for me, I did it for myself. If they really care to know, they can do it themselves. [deleted] No sir, I believe Freedom is good for everyone, and not the "Republican/right-wing" bullshit joke word either. I don't believe in ruining a/both parent's life over the small chance their child may or may not even contract whatever disease is going around. Now, if you were to have the child talk to someone at their school or have a case worker stop by their house and talk to the child, and offer to give them the vaccination free, well then there you go. You've managed to do something good without resorting to being a hysterical barbarian. In their mind, governments are run by benevolent genius masterminds and giving them as much power as possible is the only way to solve any problem. Until they're telling women about their bodies.  Well duh. That would just be stupid for the government to regulate. Why can't you see that you sexist pig? A lot of armchair political experts here.  I disagree, parents that harm their children should be locked up. Parents that refuse to vaccinate their kids, putting their kids, and other people's kids at risk, are no different. Fuck all this libertarian bullshit.

Freedom extends to yourself, when your freedom harms other people you're no longer in the right. These people are contributing to the infection of other people and they deserve punishment. I don't think you understand what the word fascist means.  Spoken like a person who hasn't stepped outside the American bubble let alone been to Pakistan or India. Spoken like a person who denies the atrocities committed by governments with too much power. I've spent copious amounts of time in the developing world, and I've seen the harm such diseases can inflict, but I'm still never going to sign off on governments claiming ownership over peoples' bodies. That's a dark path. &gt;never going to sign off on governments claiming ownership over peoples' bodies.

So I take it you're against quarantines for highly infectious, deadly diseases?  It's not ideal, but if a quarantine had to occur it is at least temporary and doesn't make a permanent change to a citizen's body.  I agree with you, they should not be applauded, but there is a fine line between refusing to protect your child and actively endangering them. No one would think twice about locking up parents that actively gave their unvaccinated child polio in the US, right? How is that morally any different from actively choosing to not get their child vaccinated against polio in a place where it is rampant? What they are doing is not good, but they have only arrested 10 people so far, I think they are just trying to set an example. If fear of being arrested causes more people to vaccinate their kids, then I think the ends go some way to justify the means. You said it yourself. There is a line between not protecting your child and actively endangering them. The line is so significant, in fact, that the laws of most countries actively distinguish between the two.

&gt;If fear of being arrested causes more people to vaccinate their kids, then I think the ends go some way to justify the means.

And this is how dictators rise to power. &gt; that the laws of most countries actively distinguish between the two.

Except it's illegal to drive with your children not belted up, so choosing not to protect children and actively endangering them are not always distinguished between. Fail to protect your kids and you're sure to get a visit from CPS, you might not be arrested but you might have your kids taken from you. I doubt Pakistan has anything resembling CPS so their only way of combating this is arresting the parents. Like I said, they have only arrested 10, we don't know if this is going to get bigger, we don't know how long these people will be locked up for, and I feel like it is probably just a scare tactic. &gt;so choosing not to protect children and actively endangering them are not always distinguished between.

What? That argument doesn't follow at all. The law absolutely distinguishes between the two. At no point did I ever say one was legal and the other wasn't. They are classified as two completely different offenses. Read and understand rather than downvoting like a child.

Failing to protect your child would be negligence, and you would not go to jail. Actively endangering them would be something along the lines of reckless endangerment, and you may go to jail. *The law clearly distinguishes.* That is a fact. It's not an opinion. It's not a theory. It's not a vague idea up for debate. It is a fact.

&gt;No one would think twice about locking up parents that actively gave their unvaccinated child polio in the US, right? How is that morally any different from actively choosing to not get their child vaccinated against polio in a place where it is rampant?

Morally it is *wildly* different. I think the word you were looking for was "effectively." Morally, and legally, the two incredibly different. That's like saying manslaughter and murder 1 are the same thing. Or that not saving a person's life is the same as ending it. Nonsense. &gt;rather than downvoting like a child.

I did not downvote you, if you were downvoted that was someone else.

&gt;Failing to protect your child would be negligence, and you would not go to jail. Actively endangering them would be something along the lines of reckless endangerment, and you may go to jail. The law clearly distinguishes. That is a fact. It's not an opinion. It's not a theory. It's not a vague idea up for debate. It is a fact.

Pakistan is different, not vaccinating your child when there is a real possibility of your child getting a crippling disease is negligence, I guess in Pakistan negligence is grounds for being sent to jail. And that's assuming that Pakistan's laws make the distinction between negligence and endangerment. are either of us experts on Pakistani law? I am not so I can only guess, but you seem to be assuming that their laws are the same as the laws in the west.

&gt;Morally it is wildly different. I think the word you were looking for was "effectively." Morally, and legally, the two incredibly different. That's like saying manslaughter and murder 1 are the same thing. Nonsense.

Manslaughter and murder are different, however they both have the same outcome, try telling the family of a manslaughtered person that the person that intentionally failed to protect their loved one is morally superior than if that person actively killed them. Legally there is a distinction, but that does not mean there is a moral distinction. You're seriously telling me, with no irony whatsoever, that accidentally killing somebody is not morally different than premeditating, and then carrying out, a plan to murder somebody? Are you out of your fucking mind? I'm saying from the perspective of the victims it makes no difference. Then that's not a question of morals. It's a question of essence or effectiveness. Polio is a real possibility in pakistan, we arrest people for child endangerment in "the west" all the time, this is no different.  Do you have any idea how fucking devastating polio can be on individuals, families, and communities?

The only thing disturbing is idiots like you, who have never experienced the disease close-up, and think the rights of an individual trumps the rights of the community as a whole. Why not address the root of the problem, then? Deal with the Taliban, whom has been allowed to reside and operate within Pakistan's borders for years. They're the reason medical care can't get to these people. They're the ones pushing the anti-vax agenda. Punish *them.* Arresting people for something that isn't a crime is *illegal,* and the fact that you're okay with a government arbitrarily deciding which laws to follow and which to ignore defies reason.

Your inability to see the bigger picture is severely inhibiting your ability to form a logical opinion, let alone articulate an actual argument, rather than "hurr durr you're an idiot because you disagree with me." Then again, what did I expect from someone who frequents /r/politics and /r/atheism? You didn't even bother to *read* the headline did you?

Pakistan is Arresting People Who **Refuse** to Vaccinate Their Kids Against Polio

Emphasis mine. They aren't arresting people who are prevented from getting the vaccine because of the Taliban. And if they live in Taliban controlled areas, they'll simply have to make a choice which is more important to them. Tribal loyalty or the health of their kids and community. 

Therefore the rest of your post is composed of non-related diatribe and ad-hominem, and can safely be ignored. Huh, so let me get this straight. You don't think the Taliban's anti-vax message, that, according to the article, is often backed up with violence, has anything at all to do with people refusing to get vaccinated? Nothing at all? No possible chance? Interesting.

You also blatantly failed to address the point that arresting someone for something that is not a crime is not legal. But you're probably going to continue to ignore that since you clearly haven't thought this through enough to come up with a reasonable response.

Congratulations on reading the headline. Perhaps you should read the article as well. Or is that just something that you deem can be "safely ignored?" I edited my post accordingly to clarify their choice. If they knowingly live in a Taliban controlled area, and don't agree with the policies, then fucking move. If they *do* agree, then they are just as much to blame as those that enforce the message. &gt;then fucking move.

I'm sure it's that easy to pick up their entire lives and simply journey to a different part of the country. And I'm sure there's no chance they could ever find you ever again and you would be totally and completely safe for the rest of your life...

&gt;Tribal loyalty or the health of their kids and community.

Yeah, except not exhibiting tribal loyalty can end up with the *death of your kids and community* at the hands of the Taliban. If a dude tells you he'll murder your whole family if you vaccinate your children, what are you going to do? Move, and hope they don't find you, and live the rest of your life in fear that they will kill your children? Or just not vaccinate your kids and take the chance with disease? &gt; I'm sure it's that easy to pick up their entire lives and simply journey to a different part of the country.

*Peshawar: In the last three decades, there has been a significant increase in urban population, in part due to internal migration of people in search of better employment opportunities, education, and services, and in part because of the influx of Afghans and other people internally displaced due to military operations and civil unrest in neighboring regions.*

But yeah, whatever you say, absolutely impossible.
 1. Fantastic job ignoring everything else. Way to go.

2. Where did I say impossible? Did I say impossible? No. I did not. But keep moving those goalposts, buddy. Okay, let's be clear:
 
This is not about the CIA or a lack of vaccine, this is about a government which incarcerates people who don't give it to their kids. Is that a good government? One which puts you in jail if you don't inject your kids with their stuff? No matter what good a Vaccine may do I won't EVER support forcing someone to take it.  I agree with you. I don't take flu shots, but I did have my daughter get the standard battery of vaccines when she was a child, and if the HPV vaccine had been around back then, I would probably have given her that.

For myself, I would usually choose the vaccine. 

The issue I have is about state coercion and sovereignty over one's body. What happened to "my body, my choice" when reddit started talking about vaccines? What if they want to go to school? there's a little something called online schooling. You really do live in your own little bubble don't you? Much of rural Pakistan doesn't have access to clean water, but yeah, let's hop onto our fucking broadband connection and register our kids for online schooling. And that's why diseases like polio are killing and paralyzing kids still when they should be extinct. and apparently the way your kind thinks is why we got militarized police, and a bunch of idiots in office. tell you what you want to force others to take a vaccine. then go apply to be a cop; I'm sure you'll pass the IQ test with flying colors. go to someone's home and tell them they have to take a vaccine. Lets see what happens. Vaccination is a complicated matter that has been reduced to talking points, vaccines are 100% safe all the time stfu.


Obviously we're stuck in hyperbolic circle jerk. The problem is that a vaccine is a genetic hack and various people have different genetics.


Citing study before I go on:


"Led by Gregory Poland, M.D., researchers in Mayo's Vaccine Research Group are publishing results of two genetic studies that identify mutations linked to immune response to the measles vaccine. They appear in the journal Vaccine.


"We are trying to understand, to the maximum extent possible, how a person's individual genetic makeup affects response to vaccination," says Dr. Poland.


These and similar studies will likely allow physicians to prescribe appropriate doses and timing of vaccines based on routine genetic screening blood tests in the near future."


http://www.itec-sde.net/en/articles/decoding-vaccination-researchers-reveal-genetic-underpinnings-of-response-to-measles-vaccine


Right now, we don't take anyone's genetics into consideration before vaccination and this leads to vaccine injury, which is real, and the CDC tracks here:


https://vaers.hhs.gov/index


It doesn't do any good to pretend that all vaccines are 100% safe all the time. Nor does it do us good to ignore all vaccines because some are unsafe to some genetics.

I've got a little yellow book full of vaccines too. Smallpox was one of them. Anthrax too. Smallpox vaccine kills between 1 and 2 people per million people that take the vaccine. I personally saw vaccine injuries that caused cardiac arrest within 5 minutes of an antrhax vaccine and ICU infections with loss of vision caused by smallpox. I dare anyone that wants to say 

vaccines have no risk and are always worth it for herd immunity to take the anthrax and smallpox vaccines and contribute to the strength of the herd. I'll pay for their vaccines even with video proof they took them at their doctors.


Maybe you haven't realized that you can't have it both ways, you can't have freedom and eugenics. If your will is that people who don't want the freedom to refuse vaccines should be forced then you are a socialist that hasn't any understanding of personal freedom, personal responsibility and anarchy. Varied genetic makeups have everything to do with evolution and work in our favor in the long run. Standardization of genetics is eugenics.


A vaccine is a genetic hack. A change to your personal, evolutionary genetics that got you this far, that you wish to hand over to the state so that a power outside of your control is now responsible for your genetics. Let them make any change they want for any reason! Safety first!


oh yes for the good of the motherland, red, green, blue, purple, pink, and black triangles but only for those that are a danger to the rest of us! What's it like to live in constant fear? To slowly insist that you and everyone else give every single freedom over to the state?


In a hundred years because of foolish, selfish, scared little people like you every baby will be genetically engineered in a test tube complete with the genetic hacks that vaccines now provide. In another hundred years every 'disorder' will be screened out, every disease cured by the mother god science who delivered us from a brutal world. No one will live in fear of anything at all. No one will be born naturally. No one will know joy as no one will truly suffer. We will all be products of a god damned assembly line thank Ford. No one will have joy because no one will suffer. Soma will be taken every day to end the meaningless of it all and no dangerous live foods will be consumed by anyone. All food will be a white paste soylent engineered specifically for your exact needs based on your genetic caste.


Thanks for your forced, ridiculous, fear porn nanny state idealism, safety first, freedoms kill nonsense this country will die in a whimper like a dog that's been beat too much. Having the vaccine police will just force them underground, the same reason the WHO decided not to quarantine an entire country to stop ebola.  That's a capricious thing to say, if there was some sort of aerosolized Ebola or something , I'm venturing to guess everyone's gonna want some.

 correct let the person get the vaccine. I would get it also if that were the case. but only until after a few others beta test it. The article doesn't say that they're forcing anyone to take it. The title says that they're arresting people who refuse. Right, the article does *not* say they're vaccinating people who refuse against their will. Correct. They are just rounding them up and putting them in jail.  Whereas forcing them to take it would be rounding them up (all ten of them!) and vaccinating them. It's interesting that everyone opposing the forced administration of the vaccine describes it as being "injected". Pakistan uses OPV, which is administered orally as few drops of sugary water. Fine, but not the point. It's about ppl's right to choose what goes into their bodies, by any route. Yay. Now we just need to get Nawaz Sharif to actually try and arrest Maulana Abdulaziz and real progress will begin. Please, go on... I'd love to hear some thoughts on the current political situation in Pakistan
Abdul Aziz(mullah Burqah) is just a figurehead for a deep-rooted sentiment amongst Pakistanis, I thought. Many people sympathize with him, even Pakistani Westerners who live stateside.  Pakistani here, Those Pakistani westerners should be strictly monitored by authorities in whichever country they live. If they support extremists then they or their children can become terrorists. 

 Well, I've alienated myself from most of the main news over the course of the past 6 months. Ever since Imran Khan and Tahir-Ul Qadri had that failed series of rallies my hope for a competent non-military government went down the drain. Basically the man running the whole show is Raheel Sharif, the Army Chief. The government has some power, but when push comes to shove then he will no doubt emerge as the victor. There's also a massive anti-taliban sentiment growing in Pakistan, even in the tribal areas, so people who try and talk peace with them or do anything involving discussion are looked down upon. The current mentality (in my family at least) is that the Taliban need a dose of their own medicine and some were advocating for more executions after the Peshawar attack. Anything else you want to know? After the school children Peshawar attack there was a huge outpouring of Anti-Taliban sentiment, BUT I couldnt tell if thats a vocal minority, or just a temporary feeling Its the majority of the country finally getting the courage to speak. You see, religious schools where kids are indoctrinated into a Wahhabi/Salafist version of Islam are unfortunately common and people are becoming more aware of the issue. Many minority groups in Pakistan like Shia and Ahmedi Muslims were talking about it for years but the mainstream Sunni Muslims are only waking up to the threat now, after the Peshawar attack proved that they aren't safe if they happen to be moderate in their beliefs. The Taliban have powerful friends in the government though, and one of them happens to be the Prime Minister. He does everything he can to help them out, and screws over the country almost singlehandedly. At this point a military coup is the best case scenario, or somehow getting Musharraf back in power. I don't know what to think anymore. I realize it is idealistic to say that education should be influencing our decisions, not consequences from the government.  However, to go in the opposite way shouldn't be happening at all.  

 They should. Because in economic sector Pakistan is 26th largest in the world and 45th largest in terms of nominal GDP (Source : Wikipedia). Such a shame they don't want to take the vaccine if because of economic reason while so many polio cases out there. Other than that I didn't see any other reason to reject against polio vaccine. Parents should give the best attention in this matter. There is a pollution event in all northern europe, which combined with local polution creates the spike. 

Banning half the cars has been done twice in the past, and it was effective*.


***
Edit: 
Since many people asked what I called "northern europe", here is the map I found: [last week map](http://www.lefigaro.fr/assets/infographie/print/1fixe/201411_pollution_europe_france.png)

It would have been more accurate to say:  the northern half of "europe without nordic countries". 

France is currently getting the pollution from its NE neighbours. [Friday map](http://open-time.net/public/screenshots/2015/europe-pollution-pm10-2015-03-20.jpg) If they have to do it three times is it anything but a stopgap? If they banned all the cars they wanted to all at once, it would be too much change for people too fast. Have to implement it incrementally.  This is a great way to get electric and hybrid cars on the road, since they are still permitted to be on the roads. And that's incentive for car companies to keep perfecting electric, so all in all this seems like a pretty good deal.  Or actually find more efficient means of transportation, 1 person driving a 4000lb car is incredibly inefficient for transportation, that's the heart of the problem. Also they are generally only using that large car for only tiny portions of the day, and it takes up vast space.  That's where the electric motorcycle comes in! Vroomvroom Well until public transportation stops smelling like hobos and piss, I'll still be driving my car.  And it's faster, depending on your start and destination... And it runs entirely on your schedule... and you get to listen to your own music however loud you want... and you can transport groceries and hardware...  &gt; And it's faster, depending on your start and destination... And it runs entirely on your schedule

In a large, relatively high density city public transport will be faster and/or cheaper than the car, because of the extent of the congestion. You have bus lanes, and/or subways, which allow people to avoid it, and you tend to also have to limit congestion using charging schemes. In a city like that, there are simply too many people to even store the cars necessary to get them around, let alone space for them to get from point A to point B, from 6-9 in the morning.

Try comparing public transport to cars in London at rush hour, on Google Maps. Anywhere vaguely in the centre will be equivalent or faster, and that's not a particularly high density city. That's why 40% of households in London don't own a car.

Food/Hardware - people buy food regularly and within walking distance, and/or order in bulk over the internet. Internet or just store delivery for hardware (the sort of things that most people need - i.e. fridges, ovens etc. Obviously if you are a professional builder or very into DIY you'll need to have somewhere to store a van).

Music - just buy some good headphones or earbuds.

Also, I would point out, if you drive point to point all the time, it's really difficult to walk enough to be healthy. It's a hell of a lot easier if it's built into your routine. A lot of the places where people in Western countries live effectively have unhealthiness built into the infrastructure. Anybody who believes that all hardware and building materials can be obtained by "store delivery" has never built anything

While I agree that public transit makes sense for moving people, anybody who builds stuff will need a cargo vehicle Still haven't solved the hobo piss and puke problem... Bus in my town takes an hour to get to school for what takes me 10 minutes in my own car. Plus it doesn't run to my area between 9:30am and 4:30pm, or after 6:30 pm so its basically unusable. Fair enough. Doesn't sound like your town is Paris though. So what you're saying is you have shitty public transit. In Tokyo the fastest way to get around is train/subway, because they do it right. My friends in Paris leave the car at home when they go into the city, because the Metro is just plain easier. I don't know if it's faster, but it sure keeps them slim. In fact, even if they don't do it right it's faster to get around via train and/or subway in any big city. I live in Buenos Aires, our train and subway network in kinda shitty, but it's still definitely faster to use trains/subways than cars (the problem is that since the network is shitty, many people are not close to a train station or subway station) In many places in Europe, you can just cycle. To be frank, that only happens because the city is badly run. There's nothing inherent about that in public transport. Once in 1997, the other last year. On both occurences it was only for a single day. It's only aimed at taming the peak of emissions, not as a permanent solution. There are more long term plans including a projected ban of most polluting means of transportation inside the city by 2022. Fun fact - In places like Beijing that actually use similar schemes permanently it has almost no effect because people buy second number plates for their car, or cheap clunkers to use on days they otherwise couldn't drive.

In Mexico the pollution rate even went [up](http://instructional1.calstatela.edu/mfinney/Courses/433/articles/mexico_program.pdf) during the schemes timespan. The important bit:

&gt; Whereas it was hoped that the
driving restrictions would cause drivers to substitute to low-emissions
forms of transportation, there is no evidence of increased ridership of
the subway, public bus system, or private bus system. Instead, evidence
from vehicle registrations and automobile sales indicates that the program
led to an increase in the total number of vehicles in circulation
as well as a change in the composition of vehicles toward used, and thus
higher-emitting, vehicles.

It could never be anything more than a short-term stopgap anyway. You can't get second plates for the same car in France. And parking is so expensive a second car would cost a lot more than replacing your current one with an hybrid that can circulate everyday.  
It's not really the same situation.  Never underestimate the general populations ability to bypass laws they don't agree with or don't see the point in. Especially if it's difficult to get caught. &gt;Never underestimate the general populations ability to bypass laws they don't agree with or don't see the point in. Especially if it's difficult to get caught.

That is the point, isn't it? Maybe the people do agree, actually, and don't want to breath the most polluted air in the world. Maybe the problem is not that the people want to get stuck in a traffic jam everyday in Elysium Camps. Maybe the problem is that the public transport is not good enough to fulfill the needs.

So, maybe, if you solve the problem of the public transport (making it free is a way to go) people will actually be happy with the change. It's a lot easier with centralized and most non corrupt government than corrupt ones though, to be fair.  It wouldn't be a stopgap if they made it permanent. Odd plates monday wednesday, even plates tuesday thursday, alternate fridays. Honestly, just doing it mon-thurs would probably make a big difference. Let people enjoy fri-sun.  But don't let them go to work? Huh, most people could go fine without a car on weekends but not on workdays. My father works in Montreuil and would have to either leave Paris or quit his work if that happened. The RER sucks.

I guess workdays make a bigger impact on pollution but it makes a way bigger impact on people's lives as well...

EDIT: In my dad's specific case, the metro goes there. So I guess you could deliver case-specific permits for people who actually have no alternative... I wouldn't call driving to work on Friday through horrible Paris traffic fun. Saturday and Sunday aren't relevant because there aren't tons of commuters driving in to the city. They do something like this in Costa Rica. It really opens up the roadways, especially considering how dense San Jose is. I was in Paris last year when the exact same thing happened and I remember reporters only talking about how many fines they had to give out because people weren't following the license plate rule and still using their cars. It could just be classic news reports only partially telling the truth, but it didn't seem that efficient to me If you have 1million car and 10% of the people don't listen to the ban you have 50.000 fines to give but you still reduce the number of cars by 45% which is important. Plus, fine money! How do they decide which half? In some countries they use a system where on certain days only a  certain range of license plates is allowed. I remember doing that during the gas shortage in the US That has generally ended up poorly. Mexico City tried that, so people went out and bought cheap cars with the opposite number plate to get to work. It turns out that cheap cars pollute more than new ones.

London's system of outright tolling access to the center of the city seems to work for them when accompanied by transit improvements. I can see something similar working in Paris. That is when they do it long term.  This is just for the one day or for a few days so people don't have the time and it wouldn't be worth the money to go buy the second car with the opposite license number.  That's the trick, they just cut the cars physically in half Without tailpipes there is no pollution! /r/shittyaskscience Only noise pollution! Which isn't rock'n'roll! Yeah, obviously the driver's side is intact, otherwise it would just be a ban on all cars. ...so really they just turned all the cars into really fucked up motorcycles. Only cars with even number license plates  Did you even read the article? It literally says how it was decided. Reddit comments?
Read the article?
Hahaha Half today, other half tomorrow. The article notes that Paris briefly had the "world's dirtiest air", according to Plume Labs.

[Given that Plume Labs also monitors New Delhi, Beijing, Shanghai and Chongqing](http://www.plumelabs.com/#air-report), that's pretty impressive... What's going on in Paris that this is such an issue there? Persistent meteorological conditions lead to subsidence inversions that trap any emitted pollution in the boundary layer, while extremely weak surface winds do not transport any pollution away. [extremely poorly cited source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_%28meteorology%29#Subsidence_inversion) and [here's the blocking pattern](http://i.imgur.com/aDyFosc.gif) that's been in place for a while. So basically...stagnant air? France. I was thinking to myself "nothing is worse than China"

I'll be damned It peaked, for a brief moment, and it barely went over Chinese levels - which you see multiple times a month. Actually, it's time to update your model. India is now routinely dirtier than China. Paris under a nice weather for a few days can be higher than Beijing just after heavy rains. Briefly. This happened last year, literally this week last year, when I visited Paris. The metro was free and only half of the cars were able to drive. I thought it was just foggy, but apparently it was smoggy. I went to china last week and the ex pats that lived there tried to convince me that the smog was just haze because it was rainy.  
It was not. I was in Beijing last week, that certainly was not haze. I saw the sky maybe one day out of the 16 I was there. I was in Beijing the week before and I had bright blue skies! I got some amazing photos. I think I hit the jackpot.  
The pollution in Guangdong and Hong Kong was terrible though. guangdong HAS to be one of the worst, im not basing that on ever being there personally but I would say 75% of the factories I deal with are there! I imagine it as just block after block of smog creating manufacturing! Is that kinda what its like?? shit I should make my way out there eventually.
 The Beijing metropolitan area is generally the worst. Guangzhou may have a lot of factories, but various contributions to Beijing make it a hell for pollution. First off, its much further inland than Guangzhou so there is no sea breeze. Actually, there's very little wind at all. All pollution just hangs around. Second, Beijing is surrounded by industry as well. But all that industry is also surrounded by mountains, so the pollution has even less chance of dispersing. the Gobi dessert brings dust from the north into the air (the Chinese government blame bad air quality on this a lot too).

Another important factor is coal/wood heating. Many houses in Beijing don't have central heating and burn stuff for their heat, hence why record breaking pollution levels are often in winter. Guangzhou doesn't get as cold, and so this has less of an effect. I was there for three days last week and it was pretty much blue skies the whole time. Must've been really lucky. Here is a cheesy jumping picture to prove it: http://imgur.com/a/jwYmZ it is haze, but then the smog mixes with it to create an even denser, more deadly gas.  it's like when you fart in the shower, it's so much more potent. That Chinese businessman who was selling cans of fresh air in Beijing should open franchises in Paris... Nah, just steal the air from Druidia. Usually Paris is [exporting its air](http://golem13.fr/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/canned-air-from-paris.jpg). Pollution in Paris: "Protest the use of cars!"

Two weeks into car ban in Paris: "Protest the car ban!"

It's just the Parisian way In both cases, over 100 cars will be overturned and set on fire. Well that won't help the pollution. But hey, at least we're getting 200 cars off the road! No. They're still on the road.

Upside down.  On fire.  C'mon guys at least try to get them onto the sidewalk. We demand more sidewalk cars! protest the lack of sidewalk space! Too much sidewalk! Stop paving over our environment! Too much environment! Stop environmenting over our pavement! Sidewalk is now upside down and on fire Protest sidewalk cars [NOW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPaMsqTrngM)! Wow, that last witch! Seriously, i'm boiling over with anger. Some people think they have the right to do whatever they want. But it will help reduce cars on the road Plot twist, they are electric cars. There is nothing I hate more than the right wing propaganda that protesting for your opinions by striking is somehow harmful to society and lazy (or at least more than tax avoidance loopholes and tax evasion). As a Parisian I can't understand the lack of protests in the US with all the shit that's happening there. Eh my life is pretty good, and it's hot out, and I really can't take the time off work, and you know I still haven't caught up on the latest season of House of Cards, and jeez are we going to be *marching*? I hate marching. Maybe we should just organize a mass letter writing campaign. But then I'd have to go get paper and ink and you know how expensive THAT is. Let's just email them. Oh wow I have to type in my *password*? That's too much effort, I'm going to go jack off.  Was part of the pre Iraq war protests. Millions of people marching on the streets of every major city in the country. Largest protest in the history of America. 

What did it do? Absolutely nothing. Was barely acknowledged as even happening by the government.  It didn't help that no major media outlets covered anti-war protests for fear of seeming "anti-American" in the wake of 9/11. How the fuck is not wanting your country to go to war anti- your country?  There were Iraq war protests? Exactly &gt;What did it do? Absolutely nothing.

Not entirely true.  It got the people opposed to invading Iraq labeled as traitors and un-American by non-insignificant portions of the media and public.   &gt; non-insignificant 

aka "significant" non insignificant doesn't mean significant. Something can be neither significant nor insignificant. Today a plane landed safely in London Heathrow. Is that significant? Not really. Is it insignificant? no.  Like saying "no small amount" of something. That's why you strike. They notice that.  Yeah, losing your job is *awesome* No company will sack the majority of it's workforce, that's the point. Applies equally the same to government jobs e.g. teaching. If every teacher walked out on Monday there is no way they could be all fired. You just make it clear that if any one is fired then the result is another strike until they are reinstated. Believe it or not they need us far more than we need them. Striking garbage workers brought down a failing UK government in the 70s.

Problem is that the US government had many highly successful political purges  in the early 20th century. That's when the rest of us won all of our labour rights but unfortunately in the USA the government managed to pretty much entirely eradicate it via billy clubs &amp; mass deportation programs. So much so that standing up for your rights today has been equated as "evil" in the US. But no company is made up of people who follow politics, and also agree 100% on every issue. So organizing a strike is very difficult. &gt;Striking garbage workers brought down a failing UK government in the 70s.

And in the 80's Thatcher's pal (Reagan) fired 11000 air traffic controllers two days after they went on strike. 

&gt;No company will sack the majority of it's workforce, that's the point. 

Actually, they will. If the company was already considering outsourcing, they might as well get it all done at once. Or it's Walmart: if the store unionizes they shut the whole thing down to make a point.  Did the wal-mart thing actually happen? Thats nuts.  what Iraq war protests?  &gt;I really can't take the time off work

I think this is the big thing. It sometimes feels like using my PTO will get me fired. 21 guaranteed, fully paid days off in the EU(and unlimited sick leave)and if you don't take them then the company has to pay you in full for them,so generally not taking them is frowned upon. It's not a requirement by law for them to pay you for any untaken holidays in the EU.  Most employers do, but it's not s requirement. 

and in the UK at least anything longer than a couple of days you need doctors certificate for you to be signed off work sick for extended periods of time.  As an American I feel the same way. Did you try protesting? Protests in the US get about as much media attention as a traffic accident. Protests occur every day that most people don't even realize occurred.  Media gives attention to what they feel that people care about. It's how they make money. It's a feedback loop. They determine what people care about. [deleted] There are protests, all the time, non stop.

Thing is that the US is a very, very large place.  The protests are widespread, and typically not on the same issues.  They also typically don't have any crazy happenstances, since they're pretty civil.

The times you hear about them either it's a *really* large movement, like Occupy(which had it's leadership cut off by the government, btw), or something that has some shock/media generation value like Westboro protests(which really don't get press anymore). There are protests, but we just don't tend to riot and burn shit, so the media doesn't cover it all that much.  Interesting. Did you join in blasting the Tea Party protests and the 9/12 project here on Reddit? They were universally panned with most redditors calling for their arrest or banning. 

Reddit only supports protesting when it's something they agree with. If they don't agree, they want the government to break it up.  I might have insulted them but I can't even fathom saying they should be arrested?! Who was calling for that?! Freedom to protest/speech doesn't mean other people can't say bad things about you. But it shouldn't mean the government gets to shut you down. As a french living in the country side, i'm so glad you said parisien and not "french people". In behalf of my people i thank you. I find the level of your protest disturbing, I'm gonna have to protest against that.  **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* PARIS (AP)  Paris will cut the number of cars on the road in half beginning Monday and is making public transit free to combat a spike in pollution that has obscured even the Eiffel Tower under a smoggy haze.

&gt;* The mayor's office announced Saturday that only cars with odd-numbered plates will be permitted to drive Monday, as well as any electric or hybrid vehicles and any vehicles with more than three people.

&gt;* Public transit will be free, as will the electric car-sharing and bike sharing-programs

Pollution has spiked in the Paris region since Wednesday, when the city briefly had the world's dirtiest air, according to a monitoring company called Plume Labs.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://bigstory.ap.org/article/0884b5d12e234afe9d5c87fb010ba079/paris-hit-air-pollution-spike-halves-cars-roads)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** I did this in Cities: Skylines last night and doubled my population and my weekly income!  Bulldoze the complainers, that's what I say. That's what I used to do in the beginning, too! Fuck these guys and their sewage problems! "Oh my house has no electricity!"

"Well, why did you build it there then, you idiot?!" I don't know why, but this comment just convinced me to buy the game. It sucks you in and won't let go. It's seriously fun. Honestly haven't had this much fun with a strategy building game since Age of Empires II. Bonus points for me though, because I only sold some duplicate Dota 2 cosmetics over night and got 40 from that, and the game was only 38 in the special edition. :) I'm an oilman between jobs.  Neither time nor money is an issue, although drinking way too much Mountain Dew, ordering delivery instead of cooking, and melding with my chair may be. Free public transit would be nice on a global scale. It also has to be viable in that there has to be enough buses to serve people. The tube in London is already crazy overcrowded during peak hours even though trains come every 2 mins, i can't imagine what would happen if it was suddenly free. London Underground opened in 1863 and never had plans to expand as much as it eventually did. Paris's Metro was opened nearly 40 years later in 1900 and they already had plans for 9 lines. 

London's has a lot of reasons it's so crowded. Paris has accordion players, so I figure it's an even call between which would be worse to take on a hot summer's day when it's busy.  The accordion players tend to be pretty good.

What you dread finding as you walk down the stairs are the terrible violin players. I want public transportation so I can work on the other side of the state I live in, or maybe cross the country in a day.   I'm so depressed everytime I ride on the highway, and construction workers are expanding the road, so in ten years they can expand it again.   Build a fucking rail.  California finally broke ground on the high speed rail but want a decade to finish. 

We can do better. My mom works for HSR. A lot of the higher-ups can apparently be incompetent or nuts at times, which doesn't help.

Which is sad, really I just want to see something as cool as the train come to California.

Though apparently they're trying to negotiate with China to try and get Japan or Germany to get into the negotiations, or something like that. Cheers to your fam for participating! It's a project that *needs* to happen and the will is there. Obstruction by top level local/state government is a Californian tradition. Assembly bills get ruined in the Senate and vice versa. Jesus Christ this is true. 

I'm from Southern California. The only rail we've got sucks and the nice rail is being built from LA to San Francisco. How about using that all of that money to connect all of LA county? There's so much more utility in that.

Build rail from LA to SF so all the pretentious kids can have a nice vacation? Fuck that noise! I want to get to work! if the can make it a &lt;2 hour trip one way people could live in LA and commute to the bay and vice versa Or live somewhere adorable in between and commute to either.

Edit: Affordable not adorable. I've always thought SLO was cute as a button. I'm guessing he meant affordable, and got autocorrected to a word he uses more often. I guess his SO isn't affordable then. Ha good point I actually thought adorable fit there too since you could live in some quaint place with a lot of surrounding nature.  I want to live somewhere adorable, affordable and with good internet. Ooh and I want a little garden out the back even though I hate gardening I want one. The fact that you accept a 2-hour commute is just depressing.  I work and live in London, and have a pretty good commute of about half an hour. But at my company one guy lives in Birmingham and catches an hour and a half train everyday. However, with Internet on trains, he negotiated so that two hours of his workday are actually on the train, as he is able to work while commuting. Can't do that while driving in. Hadn't thought of that. That would be pretty sweet. As a teacher, I have about a 105-minute bus commute to work every day.  I often use that time to grade papers.  I'm not technically paid for it, but I'd be doing the unpaid grading at home anyway.  Plus I get to congratulate myself for using public transit. Since you wouldn't be paid for it doing it at home (I'm assuming), you're putting "dead time" to use AND you don't waste as much as your "home time."  

I think you're great for doing this.   Smart guy.  I ride the commutes here in L.A. I wouldn't say they suck. The real issue is that L.A. is so massive that an expansive network of connecting bus lines and trains is always ALWAYS being improved but looks pointless. Well it's not perfect but it doesn't suck. It's quite satisfactory. 

I wish they ran more frequent in the 2am to 5am hours so that I can get home from work faster but ridership is down at that hour. A twenty minute car ride at that hour turns into a three and a half hour commute of four bus lines or more (No trains).
That's just how it is... right now.
L.A. is so massive that any efforts by Metro may seem impossibly inadequate. But for me it is as good as it can be... for now.
 [So you don't live near one of these stops?](http://media.metro.net/riding_metro/maps/images/rail_map.gif) I live in West Covina, which is about 5 minutes east of El Monte. I have to take a 2 1/2 hour bus ride to get to the Pasadena line and about an hour ride to get to the El Monte.

They're building a train that is going to go from Azusa (north of West Covina, WAAAAY east of Pasadena) to Pasadena, but I'd still have to bus it (25 minutes) from West Covina to Azusa. 

If I want to train to LA, the bus ride to the closest train station (Covina, north of West Covina but south of Azusa) it's about 20 minutes. 

Driving, I could get to Pasadena or Downtown LA in about 25-30.

The map makes things look pretty close together, but they're actually relatively far apart. LA county is connected together very poorly.

I imagine that connecting it would create more economic stimulus than going from LA to SF would, traffic would become less congested, saving money on highway repair and individual gas expenses... 

Connecting LA county is the way to go. Connecting LA with OC and San Bernandino would be even better. Much more practical. 


Imagine if we didn't have highways and the California said that they were going to build one from LA to SF. Wouldn't it be better to connect all of LA county first and to other places Angelinos visit more regularly?
 LA Metro is currently building four extensions/new Metro lines and would be building more if one of their sales tax proposals passed the 2/3 majority needed to raise taxes. So, there is a process to build an LA subway system right now and they seem to be doing rather well.

The California High Speed Rail train system is meant to solve a different problem; regional transportation. It is hard to address each problem individually, especially as both of them become major issues at the same time. If anything, the high speed rail might help the LA Metro system as it feeds visitors into its transit network rather than to a rental car place. Preach it, friend. When I graduated college I landed a job in LA, but couldn't afford to live anywhere but home (San Bernardino). 3 hour drive during commute hours or 3.5 hours with Amtrak + buses. It was the worst 3 months of my life. If they made busses not suck and actually got me to my destination at the times I wanted in no more than 150% of the time it takes by car I'd be happy to use them. In my city it's faster to bike, you're just much more likely to get run over.  The transit in my city is so bad it's often faster to walk than bus. A 5 minute drive becomes an hour long ordeal. I'm not even exaggerating. Buying groceries was an event I'd have to take an entire afternoon off for. Exactly. It took me 26 minutes to bike to work, 18 minutes to drive, and it would've been over an hour by bus and I'd have to walk home because the bus stops running early.  &gt; In my city it's faster to bike, you're just much more likely to get run over.

If they took half the cars off the road and added bike lanes to all the major routes, you would not be run over *and* the buses would be more efficient. We have some great bike lines between my home and work in Southern California. However the cars like to use them illegally to save 5 seconds on their commute, which suddenly makes them really dangerous.  That's terrible.  Driving in a bike lane, sidewalk, or shoulder should fall under public endangerment if it doesn't already.
 In Europe, we usually add a bike lane to the side walk  Meanwhile in Sweden they make it more and more expensive to use public transit. In my city they've pushed the price to the point where it's much more expensive to take the bus than your car. In the UK, it's considerably cheaper to fly to Sweden than many rail fares. What the fuck is wrong with UK and that? 80 pounds from Manchester to London. Amazing.  Damn, if they offered that same deal for Dallas to Pittsburgh America might actually become fit. Can confirm. I save money by driving my kids to school, and gas ain't cheap here. It's wierd. I visited Malmo and had to pay a small fortune for a month of bus use, and that was the cheapest way to do it.  [deleted] As soon as the eiffel tower comes back into view it will be business as usual They discussed banning diesel cars too for a while.. Personally I'd want all-electric for the future. But I have my disability and no personal car, so I'm very biased.  Diesel engine tech has come a long way...they're not nearly as bad for the environment as they used to be. Unless you modify then to roll coal on hybrids. Electric cars will need incentives to offset the cost at first. It would be worth it. Being the only cars that are legal is a pretty good incentive. Well it's going to have to go all electric eventually, there's only so much oil in the ground. What you probably don't know is that the government caused this pollution, by incentivizing people to buy diesel cars for years:

- we have a bonus/malus system when you buy a car that only takes into account CO2 emissions (and not the diesel particle emissions which are horribly carcinogenic and cause asthma, allergies and leave a black residue on buildings)
- diesel is way cheaper than gas because it isn't taxed as much, even though there's more energy in a liter of diesel than in a liter of gas.

They WANTED everyone to drive diesels. They pushed and pushed and now after 20 years of this, almost everyone drives a diesel car. Our big cities stink of diesel particles and the air gives you a headache on hot days. And now they want to tax diesel and diesel cars because they suddenly "discovered" that diesel is extremely bad for public health. i've seen this coming for years. 

so you understand if "hey we're fixing what we intentionally fucked up, while taking your money as an added benefit" doesn't make me very happy with my "government" and i HATE seeing people praise them on here without having a full understanding of what really happened &gt;so you understand if "hey we're fixing what we intentionally fucked up, while taking your money as an added benefit" doesn't make me very happy with my "government" and i HATE seeing people praise them on here without having a full understanding of what really happened

It's not the SAME government that pushed for diesel, though.(unless France happens to be an autocracy without my knowing it?)
A new administration not following the old bullshit is a good thing. New York is going to increase fare by 25 cents. Which is infuriating for someone who lives in Manhattan. Buses are still late, trains are almost always late and subways are really dirty. We get stuck paying more money for shittier and shittier service. I thought of buying a car cause i hate the mta but where would i even park it? I wish i can just get out and move. Sorry for my rant. Living in Florence, Italy. Car congestion and driveability (not to mention parking spaces) are a real problem.

There are those nifty little electric buses going around "beep beep" that should absolutely, positively, be quadrupled in quantity and free for all residents.
 While the link fit the basic criteria of it being an article.  In that there was a title and words.  There was almost no information and the video was something about Brazil.  This has gotten much much worse recently.  Do people even know how to make news anymore?  It seems like every article is a title, then a half paragraph saying the title in a more wordy way.  example..

"President calls for climate change hearing with senate"

Today The US President Barrack Obama called on the senate to work on the growing issue of climate change.  They will be having a hearing so that the senate can voice their concerns to the President soon in Washington.


Seriously, I don't think thats an exaggeration of the kind of shit I've been seeing lately passing as news.  Come on guys, lets get this shit together. As someone who recently traveled to Paris, I have to say I didn't really notice a smoggy haze there, except for the ones created at intervals by basically every third person smoking a cigarette. Every third, they must be cutting back. It's pretty common in summer, but definitely not colder weather. I thought it was humidity, some regular fog, until I read this news article...  Mexico tried this. People kept their old cars instead of getting rid of them, increasing the number of old cars (with worse emissions and fuel efficiency) on the road and not decreasing number of cars driving at all. :(  

http://www.rff.org/Publications/WPC/Pages/08_15_08_Driving%20Restrictions%20and%20Air%20Quality%20in%20Mexico%20City.aspx Free public transit is a dynamic social good: Avoids DUI, access to more distant job markets, connects neighborhoods, provides time to think/reflect, reduces overhead in taking a job with commute, etc. Yeah, but unless you invest tens of billions all at once it's never "good enough" for enough people, and no one wants to pay that much. They don't want to rely on it for the majority of their transit unless it comes every 10 minutes or less to within 1 block of their house 20+ hours a day. But they don't want to spend more money on it, either, so fares stay too high or too subsidized, the service generally has terrible range and frequency (except for areas so population dense excellent public transit is logistically mandatory), etc. And the trip cost stays so high people look at it and say "Jesus, it would be cheaper if we just *gave* everyone a car. Fucking liberals laddling money onto pet projects and hopeless social engineering!" 

It's a catch-22, and it's made worse by the number of people who don't realize how much we're *under* paying for roads and bridges right now (we're trillions behind, and adding at least a hundred billion every year). They view what they pay now for their cars and their roads as barely acceptable, and don't realize they're not even meeting their share of direct costs. Much less any environmental costs. They don't realize, either, how much less they could pay for insurance, gas, maintenance, tolls, car taxes, and new vehicle purchases if they drove significantly less.

Few people see the point in spending hundreds of billions in tax money on *anything* except military or maybe education and medicine. Almost no one gets any traction whatsoever for spending hundreds of billions on projects with no sex appeal, like transportation.  I am in Paris now. The smog is 20 times worse than Atlanta. It actually caught me by surprise and I had to ask the cab driver if there was a fire or something.  Breaking: Paris' City planning group has been playing Cities: Skylines. This is becoming a routine. You mean fries with gravy and cheese curds? You're thinking of a libertine. I'm thinking of something that chops heads off French nobility. Went up the Eiffel Tower today, the top was closed due to poor visibility. The pollution here was really heavy this morning, as bad as london. Horrible  Parisian air is actually [more polluted on average](https://air.plumelabs.com/Paris) than [London's,](https://air.plumelabs.com/London) according to Plume Labs. Surprisingly enough, both are less polluted than average for the cities that they monitor.

EDIT: It could be that the "below average" rating applies only to today, not to the yearly average. Kind of difficult to interpret that part of their reports. all those trees on their rooftops will most certainly fix this problem American - I was there this week.  No wonder my sinuses were acting up a bit.  I thought it was fog in the morning.  (we have smog in Houston too)

Paris was an eye-popping city.  Highly recommend.  London was great; mostly what I expected.  But Paris?  Wow!

Edit: Like Montreal, graffiti all over the place in Paris.  Sad. Wait, so from Monday onwards, anybody with an even numbered plate can just never drive their cars again? Am I misunderstanding this? Or is this a one day only thing? In most cases it alternates. Even one day, odd the next. This system is called "alternate circulation".  It's a temporary measure implemented during pollution peaks.  The principle is that cars with odd-numbered licence plates can only drive on odd days and even-numbered plates can only drive on even days.

It was decided to implement alternate circulation this Monday, which is an odd day so only odd-numbered plates can drive.  On Monday they will decide if they do it again the next day depending on the evolution of pollution. Tried this in Cities: Skylines; those fucks just insist on driving everywhere. Skylines citizens are the most ungrateful shits, enjoy your trash everywhere I'm done with this city. Build walkways through your city.  Those fucks will walk miles to work daily if they have a clean path Someone link the city where the guy built elevated walkways throughout the entire city and got it nearly car free. We have the same level of polution here in Warsaw and it's not even in the newspaper.  Gotta love winter and diesel engines! In Mexico City, all older cars have a colour on their license plate that corresponds to a day of the week. So to make up an example, if you have a Blue sticker then that car can't drive on Tuesdays. I believe they may have moved to it being 2 days of the week now, or there's talk of it, can't remember. 

They say it's to combat pollution. But of course it was just a genius idea by someone at Ford or GM or Volkswagen who convinced the politicians... What it does is put pressure on the working class to get a new car that doesn't have this restriction. 

The politicians get paid, and the car companies sell waaay more new cars than they did before. 

For the rich, they don't care, they just have multiple cars anyway.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hoy_No_Circula (English article)

 Did anyone else get the wrong video?  Article was about smog in Paris but the video was about pollution in Rio de Janeiro. (Though at least it's not entirely unrelated.) Do cars in France get emissions (smog ) tested like in California? When I was there I noticed tons of small cars belching fumes (mainly diesels of all sizes)  They should make exceptions for vehicles with very high MPG ratings.  The Eiffel Tower is covered by smog.
Cars start the smog.
1903 was a big year in the auto industry.
1 + 9 + 0 + 3 = 12
12 is divisible by 3
3 is how many sides a triangle has
The Eiffel Tower looks triangular
ILLUMINATI CONFIRMED
 Everyone where I work in central London seems to have been coughing for weeks now. I wish we had such decisive leadership - rather than the fat blonde fucker we have now. So how does this work in practice? Unless 100% of Paris is accessible through public transportation, it seems like there will be lots of people who won't be able to go to work every other day.  I just now realized that 100 percent of a city being accessible by public transport is an alien concept to some people. When I ride the bus to wherever I need to go later today I'm going to appreciate it a little more. It's very, very, alien to us in the US. Fuck, there aren't even sidewalks where I live. That is the most alien thing I have read. I can't imagine a place with no side walks. How about the moon? Or Mars? Almost as strange, I just don't understand how getting around works without sidewalks. They drive monster trucks and pick-up trucks everywhere since the gas is cheap as a dirty whore. There's no sidewalks in Britain. Lots of pavements though. Chortle chortle, tee hee. Isn't it true that lack of sidewalks is one of the factors correlating with high rates of obesity? No sidewalks, no busses, no street lights except around stores.  Only somebody that has never left a large city would think everyone can walk or ride a bike or bus to work, not to mention heat stroke.  Suburbs and rural towns just aren't setup that way. Thanks to suburbia, it won't happen. Think of how far it is just from the road to the front entrance of a store these days. Jesus we're going to need shuttle buses to get us from the street bus to the entrance of walmart. My rascal will run out of power before it could even reach the doors.  I don't know if I'd say "very, very alien", because some US cities have excellent public transportation. Not all of us. Nyc has a pretty good PT system, As far as accessibility goes. Personally I'd rather a 40 minute drive w/ traffic than 2 buses and a subway sitting next to the creepy dude who keeps touching himself &gt;sitting next to the creepy dude who keeps touching himself

That's a mirror. I'm not some kind of freeloading hobo. I only public transturbate on the weekends and holidays. I have a job damnit.  New York City resident, you w0t m8? Figures you're from the U.S (sorry ha ha). People here get very angry if there's no public transportation to everywhere. freedom Honestly , even parts of Manhattan  are a 15 minute walk to a subway.  San fran was the best city for public transport. The electric cable busses are everywhere(seriously like , every other block) and you never have to wait longer then 10 minutes for one to show up.  Literally the farthest you can get from a stop is 15 minutes, there are half a dozen bus lines that go through that area every &lt;10 minutes, and they're building a subway line there that's opening in 2016 that'll service most of that area. Oohh. Where are they putting it? It's supposed to eventually run at 2nd ave 125th to 14th I think, the first segment opening is 96th to 59th I think (that part of the UES is definitely the farthest you can get from a Subway in Manhattan) There is a pretty big area without any stops in the LES too isnt there? My favorite restaurant is at 12th and 1st ave and there never a good way to get there. 15 minutes walk!!!? Whatever will they do!  Spend much time in Manhattan and you would know why that's a BFD. [deleted] I actually don't drive and pretty much walk everywhere, but OK. [deleted] My mom lives in a different town and I see how every few months. Carried shopping through a few cities, it's not a hassle. I bussed to work for 3 years but then I moved closer and now walk. Nice try though. I don't think New York's public transit is perfect, but have you seriously ever used San Francisco's public transit? It's pretty bad. Maybe accessible, but the fact that it takes you three times longer than driving without traffic to get to many places with public transit makes it terrible. Manhattan has a bus system that's just as extensive, more so even than San Francisco's, but you're probably only familiar with the subway if you've been there for a short visit and for good reason; generally buses just take longer. The other thing that NYC has over most of the country is that the subway is 24/7. I live in Switzerland and recently had to call off going to an event with former colleagues on the day before. I had assumed I'd just get to the ski resort by public transportation.

Turned out that they chose a location in nearby France and so the Google "public transport" option itinerary read "get a taxi or drive". Stupid France.

Urban areas of France are all accessible by public transport, though. In Switzerland, so are almost 100% of rural areas. Out of curiosity, what kinds of public transport serve the rural areas of Switzerland? Buses run by our local Post Office company. It's a rudimentary service but it can get you to pretty much any village. 100% of Paris *is* accessible through public transportation. It is a little over 100km^2 and it has around 300 metro stops. You can bike from one end to the other in under an hour.  No way is Paris really that small? Yeah it's not a huge city, but once you get outside the priph it's bloody massive and nothing like the romantic image you have of Paris. What? I grew up in the West of Paris near St-Germain-en-Laye, plenty  of areas outside of Paris are really nice. Yeah I said that elsewhere that there's some dreaming beautiful parts of suburban Paris. ...And yet said the exact opposite right above. [You mean Paris isn't like this?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=siW-wd3HeIs) What kind of savage drinks wine with croissants? I'd say that's the most unrealistic detail :D
 Sadly ce vido n'est pas accessible.  I'm assuming it's region locked.

Is it like the romantic image of Paris, or all like banlieue, ghetto, islam is everywhere? [This is how the video opens](http://i.imgur.com/vKge9G4.jpg). It's a highly highly romanticized version of Paris from the point of view of Elizabeth from the game Bioshock Infinite. The scene has La Vie En Rose playing in the background while you tour the area, painters say Bonjour, little children dance around with baguettes...  It's a romantic version of early-20th-century Paris from a video game. I had to go outside the Periph to a bike shop once, ran the whole way to avoid getting mugged. You can laugh if you like but I visited the shop (rene herse/alex singer?) and didn't get mugged. Lifehack. Parts of suburban Paris are actually stunningly beautiful. Yep! It is one of the smallest (geographically) capitals. When I lived there, I would regularly ride my bike or walk everywhere. When you ride a bike, you can really get a feel for how small it is and how short the distances between metro stops are. I would never want or need a car in Paris. 
 Paris is like Chicago or Newyork. The 'city' is relatively small, but the urban sprawl just goes on and on. Paris Intra Muros is small even compared to other towns.

[Chicago is 5x larger](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=area+of+Paris+vs+Area+of+chicago)  
[New York City is 7x larger](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=area+of+Paris+vs+Area+of+New+York+city)  
[Berlin is 8x larger](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=area%20of%20Paris%20vs%20Area%20of%20Berlin)  
[London is 10x larger](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=area+of+Paris+vs+Area+of+London)  
 It is small. I would have say 2hours on bike if you take your time.  Paris is small. Even 30 km from downtown Paris you have farms and forrests. Paris is about the same size as Oklahoma city Related: San Francisco is only 121km2 Plus the TGV. I've always liked the idea of living in Tours and commuting.  The metro network is among the most complex in the world. When I visited, I was able to go just about everywhere on the metro, or the RER, the regional railway network. I read once that within city limits, one is never more than 500 meters from a train station. Furthermore, I don't think this is a long-term solution, just an temporary effort to reduce pollution. 500 meters!??!?! Is that like 5 football fields? Depends which side of the football field you're talking about. It is, in fact There must be edge cases, though.  I know if they enacted this where I live (very public transit friendly city) then I would be hooped - mainly due to living a good way away from work and working odd hours. Well let's just keep talking about your city and not Paris, which the article is about.  Will do, the public transportation is way too friendly in his city, there are llamas on the subway. Llamas take up a lot of room on a subway car. People don't realize that making public transportation free causes more problems than it solves. &gt; People don't realize that making public transportation free causes more problems than it solves.

Mainly because your statement is full of shit. /s Dude, chill out, that was a joke. Llama is very seldom used in a serious context. This llama [disagrees](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/1JOQG2mXkKo/hqdefault.jpg) You seem strangely hostile.  I'm not really sure why.  I used the example as it's within my experience and people often point to my city as an example of good public transit.

My point was, does Paris really have 100% area coverage, 24 hours a day?  (It might do - I genuinely don't know.)  And if not, what happens to the people caught by the edge case? It ends around 1am and starts again around 5:30. Thank you - I guess I'm glad I don't live in Paris as I would, indeed, be screwed. (I finish work after 1am sometimes.) What kind of work ?

No stores are open after 22 here.

It looks like it's more like 2am for the metro. Theatre.  But I imagine people who work bars, clubs, hotels, hospitals and so on would have the same issues. Night bus, taxi. There is a decent night buses network but people with early/late shifts use their car most of the time. have you read any other comments confirming that YES they do have 100% coverage within city limits? It was literally every other comment in this thread. 

edge cases would call a cab or have someone drive them wherever necessary. Just like in any other city or town in the world. 

stupid questions that take minutes to find out.  everywhere in paris is 10 min walk away from a metro/RER station, if you add the tramway and buses then it's closer to 5 min 24 hour service?  (Seriously, I don't actually know.) from 5:30 am to 01:00 am for the mtro, tram and RER, 24/24 for the buses In fact what? &gt;Unless 100% of Paris is accessible through public transportation, it seems like there will be lots of people who won't be able to go to work every other day.

This is pretty much the case. The Paris metro is fantastic, you're never more than 5-10 minutes away from a metro stop anywhere within the city. That has to do with the fact that French towns are built for pedestrians, not drivers. Even in the Paris suburbs you can buy your groceries on foot: you are at walking distance of open markets and foodshops, in large numbers too if you're close enough from Paris. I have 2 open markets half a mile from my place, 5-ish if I stretch the range to two miles (for a walking exercise or a short bike jump). I couldn't count the food shops: they're so many. And of course that's just groceries but this works also for the other businesses and the public services too. Bank, mail, mayor hall, medicine, drugstores, insurances, real estate, home improvement, whatever: you have almost everything at walking distance.

I know several commercial streets hubs I never exploit for my shopping, that are yet quite close to me. I just don't have the mind space to think about them as I'm already focusing on 2 or 3 other hubs. It's an amazing richness of urban fabric. Murrikans have no idea what they're missing. Add to that the quality of the food and it's paradise for food nuts.

And yeah I can hop on a cheap train and shop in a prestigious Parisian open market less than an hour away from my place, although it's in the far side of Paris from where I stand. I have 3 train stations under 1km from my place. I have two bus lines less than 500m away.

People all over the world would kill to have such a convenient and rich urban network. The Paris metro was one if my favorite things. Could go anywhere. Easy to understand too and I don't speak any French. guitar guy is right.. max five minute walk between metro stops plus busses all over if you know the system well not only 100% of Paris is accesible through public transportation, it is also faster than car. 

Most of the traffic consist of people living outsite Paris and working inside. 

Instead of going into Paris by car, they can instead use their car to go the the nearest station. 

But the most practical solution is to go to work by car with somone who is authrorized to take his car the days you can't and alternate.  it is They have decent infrastructure, like most modern cities. it is! This is just the track network of the metro and trains in the inner city: http://www.residences-paris.com/img/infos-pratiques/metro/plan.jpg. It's usually never more than 500m from one station to the next and trains go like every five minutes or so.

I've just been there and I can't think of a reason to go by car there, especially if you have [a look at the traffic](http://media1.faz.net/ppmedia/video/173887287/1.1082571/article_multimedia_overview/der-ewige-stau-taeuscht-nur-42.jpg).

It's safe, it's fast and you can get everywhere. &gt;  Unless 100% of Paris is accessible through public transportation

Shit, son. In what part of the world do you live that makes you question this possibility? 'Murica &gt;~~Kongo~~

Okay, I understand. also, carpooling or use a hybrid Or bike-hire. This things were awesome and available 24/7 (first in first served though). We biked across Paris at 4am and there was barely any traffic. It was incredible.  https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Paris,+France/@48.853607,2.3431117,14z/data=!4m2!3m1!1s0x47e66e1f06e2b70f:0x40b82c3688c9460!5m1!1e2

Check it out, every "M" on that Google Maps page is a subway station.  Paris' transit system is pretty glorious.

http://subway.umka.org/maps/paris.gif Here is some of the chronological backstory, via Reddit threads:

* 2014-07-13 [Tory child abuse whistleblower: 'I supplied underage rent boys for Margaret Thatcher's cabinet ministers'](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2akxls/tory_child_abuse_whistleblower_i_supplied/)
* 2014-11-09 [One of the VIPs who sexually abused boys at an apartment complex near Parliament has been identified as a former deputy director of MI6](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2lsmdk/one_of_the_vips_who_sexually_abused_boys_at_an/)
* 2014-11-18 [I saw MP kill boy at paedophile party, says alleged victim](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2mne73/i_saw_mp_kill_boy_at_paedophile_party_says/)
* 2014-11-22 [Media gagged over bid to report MP child sex cases](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2n2qww/media_gagged_over_bid_to_report_mp_child_sex_cases/)
* 2014-12-18 [Claims that boys were murdered by VIP sex ring are credible and true - British Police](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2preds/claims_that_boys_were_murdered_by_vip_sex_ring/)
* 2014-12-28 [Reopen investigation into Westminster pedophile whistleblower deaths  MP](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2qo3i2/reopen_investigation_into_westminster_pedophile/)
* 2015-02-01 [Westminster child abuse scandal: KGB and CIA kept secret dossiers on Britain's VIP paedophiles; Both Russian and US intelligence knew about a group of powerful paedophiles operating in Britain and the KGB hoped to blackmail them in exchange for information](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2ugomx/westminster_child_abuse_scandal_kgb_and_cia_kept/)
* 2015-03-14 [British Home Secretary Theresa May warns the public still do not grasp the scale of child sex abuse in Britain, saying it is 'woven into the fabric of our society'](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2z0gh4/british_home_secretary_theresa_may_warns_the/)
* 2015-03-14 [UK VIP Pedophilia Scandal: Police pinpoint 'dungeon' flat linked to abuse parties and child murder](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2z33df/uk_vip_pedophilia_scandal_police_pinpoint_dungeon/)
* 2015-03-18 [Britain's Shame: Evidence Mounts of Child-Abuse Cover-Up](http://np.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2zgjap/britains_shame_evidence_mounts_of_childabuse/)

These related links were recommended by my related stories engine. I hope you find them informative. HOW THE FUCK DID THEY KEEP THIS QUIET FOR SO LONG. it baffles me how people can be this sick


Edit: yes, I realize there has and probably still are disgusting secrets in high places that we never knew or will know about. I'm aware, but I'm still horrified by the accusations and the degree in which they go to. It wasn't all that quiet. I happen to be reading a compilation of Jon Ronson's journalism at the moment. One chapter is on the 2001 conviction of [Jonathan King](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_King) for child sex offences. Lines like "everyone was doing that sort of thing in the 70s," keep coming up, along with accusations that they only went after King because he was gay and his offences were against boys (given that his offences were contemporaneous with Savile's, that's looking pretty accurate in hindsight).

And before King, it was the [manager](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tam_Paton) of the Bay City Rollers - also gay.

Accusations of politicians also being involved date back decades, but you'll only find them in Private Eye, because no one else had the balls to publish. &gt; it baffles me how people can be this sick

That is the weirdest thing to me. At the upper echelons of power, you expect lots of drug use, maybe lots of adult prostitutes, that kind of thing. Gay pedophile child murder rings are just like, pretty fucking *out there* man. Forget how they kept it quiet, how did this many pedophile child murderers even end up in the same office together? It's just statistically improbable. Statistically improbable? Not if there's a positive correlation between the kinds of people who would do things like this and the kinds of people who run for and are elected/appointed to positions of power and authority (in the public or private sector) I suppose, I just mean that you just don't expect there to be that many people who can only get off to murdering children in general. You figure those kinds of people are exceedingly rare and not enough to fill a goddamn cabinet. Lots of other sorts of psychopaths, sure, but I am just surprised to learn there are so many gay pedophile child murderers at all. I've heard some theorize that men with this "inclination" (don't know what to call it, disgusting cunts) might have been purposely selected for positions of power so that they could be controlled. If a person in office knew that his party leaders or biggest donators or what have you held evidence of his pedophilia that could be made public in an instant, he's certainly going to toe the party line, vote the way his sponsors want him to, or otherwise be controlled and dominated. 

Fucking insane how much sense it makes. I don't know what to make of this whole thing, it might be the craziest story I've ever heard, and more and more it's coming out that it's true and even wilder than previously thought.  Bingo.  Mutually assured destruction and there is no doubt in my mind that you don't reach upper echelons of power without a skeleton or two in the closet. It's the same game with dirty cops not trusting and removing honest ones, ie Serpico.   Just the idea of this makes me feel sick. At this point I'm not sure if I'm dismissing this because I think it's crazy, or if it's because I don't want the world to be that fucked up. The people that want it did what they had to do to get it. 

Paying off people, threatening others, hiding behind the shield of office, or outright murdering children to put a point across.

Chilling effect is real. I actually got some perspective on this from my mum who is from Ireland but has lived in the UK for 40 odd years and this is what she told me. Backstory - she's fluent in Turkish and had a lot of friends in the London Turkish community 


About 5 years before I was born she got a phone call from her friend at midnight absolutely distraught.  Her two kids had been taken away fir their safety.  Her husband was physically abusive but was currently in custody. Allegedly though now was the time to take them away.  Just as the restraining order was going through and he was away anyway. 

My mam marched up to the wherever they were being kept screaming bloody murder. This woman had poor English so they thought they could take advantage of her but my mam has sailors English.  She roared and screamed demanding them back and if a hair in fheir head was touched she'd have their balls on a plate.  They told her to calm down or they'd ring the police. 

At this point she lost.  She told then call. Whoever the fuck they want she'll call journalists and. Politicians too right now for all she fucking cares.  

They panicked and released the kids but. They were originally meant to be sent to Liverpool to be fostered or something. 

My mam reckons thats what they did.  They moved the kids in foster homes to areas of. The country where they know no one and anything could happen. To them like they 'ran away' 

My mam fed this story to the evening standard as she knew the editor and they ran with it.  The place the kids had originally been taken to was run by a man who resigned from a foster centre elsewhere in the country just before it was investigated for child trafficking.  My mam got death threats and legal threats but nothing came off it.  She was an Irish person in the 80s who's boyfriend was killed not too long ago by British army/uvf so she got on with he r life. 

That's what it allegedly was like back then and that's how they did it This is so disgusting. Wtf is wrong with these people.  Holy hell man!  This is a lot thicker than I thought, thanks for posting!
 Time to just leak it.  Where is anonymous, wikileaks and the likes when you need them? Well, Britain have the wikileaks founder essentially under house arrest...  This could very well have been his insurance. This is so frustrating. That the vote went down party lines shows this was a whipped vote. That shows more than anything that this issue is being used in a party politic fashion, which is unforgivable.

I wrote to my conservative MP, Kieth Simpson, a long email explaining the severity of this issue, and the threat it has on our very political system, urging him to do all he can to facilitate the investigation. Three weeks later, he voted against this amendment and after three more follow up emails I still dont have anything more than a one line cursory "let me know how I can help" reply. Thank you for all your efforts. You can help by spreading this on social media. As well the other story about [Scotland Yard coverup](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2zzvqm/scotland_yard_investigated_for_protecting/) &amp; the [cover-up about a Royal](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2zwyk3/excop_claims_a_royal_was_in_paedophile_ring_but/)

IDK what else to tell ya... Well even if we share it and gain awareness what else can we do it? It's not really doing anything active :( [This is a mirror of the page, before it went down](http://i.imgur.com/2i3xBLa.jpg) 

If you have any comments or suggestions, please send me a PM. Thank you! [2nd mirror image (just in case....)](https://archive.is/nPQyB/768cb67c4fffdf2c6f72e21f28d0444f0484f9cb.jpg)

EDIT: Also archived page here: https://archive.today/m94ux

If the media isn't doing its job, then you can do it by spreading this... [3rd mirror, you never know!!](http://i.imgur.com/hoOvKYn.jpg) It's curious that the front page of that site is still linking to the story but the server isn't resolving it and isn't giving any error messages.  The site is in the Republic of Ireland, so not directly under UK government control and even trying to access it using a continental European connection doesn't get it to work.  

It doesn't rule out a D-Notice but makes it less likely.

A D-Notice is a ruling which prevents the press in the UK from reporting stories that could be detrimental to the UK's national security.  There also doesn't appear to be anything that is libellous in the article.  Lord Brittan is dead so he can't sue and if everything else is factually correct, which it looks like it is, then that's not an issue.  I doubt Exaro would comply with a d-notice in these circumstances. Most likely just the massive amount of traffic from being at the top of Reddit's front page. But usually this takes the whole site with it. He's saying only this page is not responding, and there's no error message that usually accompanies the hug of death. It's unusual.  No. The server admins just didn't make an 503 error page. If you check the headers with which the server responds it says "HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable: Back-end server is at capacity".  
It's not unusual. (Well, the only thing unusual about this is the high traffic for their servers) Good on your for pointing out what is going on for the people who do not know how to check these things! Or, you know, the server couldn't handle the load. 

Edit; the server returns an empty page but the page headers say "HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable: Back-end server is at capacity". The server is down, it's not a conspiracy. 

Edit 2; server is still janky, sometimes loads the page, other times it doesn't. Those poor sysadmins :( Hm, it looks like it's just `www.exaronews.com`. Plain `exaronews.com` works just fine.

http://exaronews.com/articles/5529/ministers-block-move-to-lift-official-secrets-act-for-csa-scandal The Guardian reported this story on the 17th March:
http://www.theguardian.com/politics/2015/mar/17/police-told-drop-child-abuse-case-against-cyril-smith-whistleblower A DA-Notice is a request, not a command. The press can still publish even if they received a DA-Notice, as they are not legally binding. "Prevent" is a little too strong a word to use.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DA-Notice

&gt; In the UK the original D-Notice system was introduced in 1912 and run as a voluntary system by a joint committee headed by an Assistant Secretary of the War Office and a representative of the Press Association. Any D-Notices or DA-notices are only advisory requests, and so are not legally enforceable; hence, news editors can choose not to abide by them. However, they are generally complied with by the media.[1]

e: And the response is "503 Service Unavailable: Back-end server is at capacity".. reddit hug-o-death. Tinfoil share prices to fall. What the fuck, literally the other morning when they were doing the budget they were promising that nobody would have to worry about coming out that immunity was guaranteed. Fucking cunts. For those that want a breakdown by party:

Conservatives:

* For - 8
* Against - 254
* Absent - 40

Labour:

* For - 208
* Against - 0
* Absent - 48

Liberal-Democrats:

* For - 3
* Against - 40
* Absent - 13

Green:

* For - 1
* Against - 0
* Absent - 0

UKIP:

* For - 2
* Against - 0
* Absent - 0

SNP:

* For - 4
* Against - 0
* Absent - 2

Plaid Cymru:

* For - 2
* Against - 0
* Absent - 1

DUP:

* For - 4
* Against - 0
* Absent - 4

Sinn Fein:

* For - 0
* Against - 0
* Absent - 5

SDLP:

* For - 2
* Against - 0
* Absent - 1


Respect:

* For - 0
* Against - 0
* Absent - 1

Alliance:

* For - 0
* Against - 0
* Absent - 1

Independent:

* For - 0
* Against - 1 (Portsmouth South)
* Absent - 4 A bit telling. Note that Sinn Fein aren't allowed to vote, which is why they always show absent (because they refuse to take the pledge) The people with the most to lose is obvious, especially with a general election looming. I know who I'm not voting for... Even though it's all whipped votes. It's fucking child abuse, why wouldn't they rebel against the party line. Makes me sick thinking about it. Sorry if this sounds stupid, but just to clarify they voting 'for' giving whistleblowers protection? Yes, the Aye vote was for giving whistle-blowers protection if uncovering information about the child sex abuse case (Although it'd be fantastic for other matters too).

The no vote was against giving them protection.   This may be the only time I've ever agreed with UKIP. I know, it's kinda shocking right?  They could win some more seats with that... "UKIP: at least we're not pedophiles" So only 2.6% of Conservatives voted YES? Wow what a disgrace. By comparison 81% of Labour MPs voted yes.... Gives us a idea of who are part of 'the ring'. 

 As a non-Brit with an outside perspective, I just have to say this whole thing seems surreal as shit. This is the stuff of looney conspiracy theories, and it's *real*, with potentially thousands of victims, whistleblowers terrified to speak up and government actually obstructing justice being served.


Royals involved? Parliament? Mass paedophilia?


What. The. Fuck Paedophilia is *a lot* more common than people think..

For some reason we all seem to have this collective idea of paedophilia being this extremely rare deviant perversion that only sociopaths would be inflicted with. However all modern research into this have shown consistently that it's anything but super rare.
There are no conclusive studies on this (sadly), but most studies give numbers in the range of over 3% and under 5% of the adult population have pedophilic attractions.

So let's go with the low end estimate of 3%, that means over 1.5 million adults in the UK (64 mill population) are attracted to children. Creepy. But obviously we have no reason to think that most pedophiles are bad people, they can't help their attractions more than anyone else. Most pedophiles are normal people. Just like you (assuming a heterosexual man) wont go out and rape women just because you find them attractive.

But we also know that ~1% of the population have anti-social personality disorder, also known as sociopathy. These have zero conscience, so rape/molestation means nothing to them other than the risk of being caught. So 1% of 1.5 million is 15 000 active pedophilic sociopaths who wouldn't think twice of raping a child if given the oppourtunity.

Now we also know that sociopaths are drawn to positions of power and influence (police, teachers, judges, politicians etc.). 

So the likelihood of networks like this emerging is almost inevitable, which has been shown over and over again. Sadly it's just human nature... Pretty much spot on. I'd also like to add that a pedophile doesn't have to be a sociopath to molest a child, nor does a sociopath have to be a pedophile to molest a child. Non-sociopaths can be really good at lying to themselves, often to the point that they're convinced that an obviously immoral act is justified. Sociopaths need very little reason to commit a horrible act, since their lack of empathy means there's not much holding them back. As sick as it is, the idea of doing it for the thrill of it could be enough. Sometimes looney conspiracies can be true. pedophilia happens not just in the dark corners of the internet. Happens everywhere, and there are people that systematically allows it to happen. The guy next door who gets arrested is because he's not important enough. The guy in parliament? Well, if he molests someone, best if it's all hush hushed.  It's kept hush hush because that mp knows about a few other fellows who he attended public school with they also like to fuck young boys, while they know about some rather large backhanders flying around for a new construction project, and how quite a few of the people involved, attended parties where prostitutes and cocaine flowed freely, while they know who other ministers are having affairs with, but have a great friendship with them so would never tell.

It's a big fucking old boys network that is a house of cards and the one main rule is that you don't spill the beans on anyone then no-one spoils the beans on you.

Which is why it all has to go.

The only way you will stop the privileged classes from raping and killing working class children is to get rid of the privileged classes. Seriously. This is the stuff that full on tinfoil hat Satanist conspiracy theories are made of. How is it *actually* happening? &gt;How is it actually happening?

Because those who speak of things like this can't even mention the word "conspiracy" without being ridiculed and ignored? AFAIK the word/term "Conspiracy Theorist" was coined by Richard Nixon. He used it to refer to people that believed he was involved in the Watergate scandal. Which speaks volumes, I think. the fact that you are saying conspiracy theory in a negative tone speaks volumes to how systematically ingrained this stuff is in society. We're trained to immediately disregard something the moment someone says "conspiracy theory".  I look into them all. I don't know what everyone's problem is.

Do you not trust yourself? You think you're going to watch a lizard people video and believe in the shape-shifting reptilian crap? I've watched the best of the best of the Moon landing hoax videos and yet I still don't believe them.

Some of them - like mass child pedophilia - are rampant around the world. Ever heard of [The Franklin Cover Up?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4AFrMpQxbmk)

The whole Jerry Sandusky thing upsets me because the news is throwing _one guy_ under the bus and acting like it was all him. Jerry Sandusky and a bunch of other rich and powerful men were pimping these little boys out to evil asshats around the area. This, too, is my approach. Question **EVERYTHING**. A lot ends up being nonsense. Unfortunatley the worst ones seem to end up being true. Nailing a scapegoat to the wall seems to be the SOP for the massive pedophile ring scandals while the rest get away scott free to rape again.. if anyone gets prosecuted at all.
edit: some words The word conspiracy seems only to have been associated with the tin foil hat wearers for a long time. If a couple of people collude to accomplish something nefarious it's, by definition, a conspiracy. 

It works in the favor of those who would conspire to do evil things that most people associate the word with Bigfoot, UFO's, The Illuminati, The Grassy Knoll, or Tower 7. 

Anything labeled as a conspiracy is immediately written off as something looney by most people. This is definitely used as a tool of manipulation and information control, as we are seeing with the pedophile ring Because people like you swallow the label conspiracy theory too easily. That is why this is happening. It's an incredibly easy way to dismiss an idea that is harmful to you, label it a conspiracy theory and no one will give it credence. 

Have a more open mind. I personally don't find it all that surprising. I'm more surprised that you question how it's actually happening. I believe people in power do a lot worse than fuck children.  I honestly am starting to believe the Satanic pedophile cult conspiracies. There's just too much evidence piling up. I used to laugh at these people. Now I just don't know... Makes you wonder what else could be true, eh? [It's no wonder that truth is stranger than fiction. Fiction has to make sense. --Mark Twain](http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/366795-it-s-no-wonder-that-truth-is-stranger-than-fiction-fiction) [deleted] Sadly this is probably true. Statistically speaking, conspiracies are bound to happen.  "The fellows at the top are likely rapists
But you like "Mellow out man, just relax, it's really not that complicated"
Well pardon me, I guess I'm just as sane as you explain'ed
Or maybe sanctifying the sadistic is derange'd"

El-P (Run the Jewels) I can't believe how relevant this is. RUN THEM JEWELS FAST This makes the Scandal portrayed in Urquhart's House of Cards completely small fucking potatoes.

 &gt;Mann said: My amendment would have given immunity from prosecution only in relation to historical incidences of child abuse. It was very clear, targeted and concise.

Yet, parliament voted it down...

Theresa May, Home Secretary (who's ultimately in charge of overlooking this) herself said that most British dont understand how deep this scandal is. And yet she herself voted to not give whistle blowers in this scandal, any immunity.

So the officials who've seen evidence are scared they will be tried under the "Official Secrets Act", if they come forward... If you live in the UK, [here is how your own MP voted](http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/division.php?date=2015-02-23&amp;number=158&amp;display=allvotes) So it was the coalition vs everyone else.  Yep, Labour, UKIP, SNP etc all voted to protect whistle blowers. Only a handful of Tories and Lib Dems did the honourable thing. Notably Cyril Smith was a Lib Dem so they're probably covering their own.  The lib-dems are a fucking disgrace, I hope there party is destroyed at the next election. At least with the Tories we already knew they would screw us all over but the lib-dems just turned their backs on everyone and shit all over them. Well, I think it fair to assume they're all child molesters. Power does that apparently, it's like they get bored of standard sex and delve into deviancy. All UK voters - Contact your MP if they voted against the clause. 

Really, do it! They have to hear your voice if we are going to get his mess out into the open!

Be brief, concise and polite. Being angry or rude will not get you anywhere.

Here is my letter as an example (or template if you want):

&gt;Dear Mr Hugo Swire MP,

&gt;As a constituent of yours, I am rather upset at the manner in which you voted in regards to the  Serious Crime Bill  New Clause 2  Official Secrets Act 1989  Defence of Disclosure to Historic Child Abuse Inquiry  23 Feb 2015.

&gt;The proposed clause would have enabled authority figures involved in historical child abuse investigations to come forward and give testimony without fear of censure or legal action. 

&gt;Specifically, police officers who were made to sign the OSA subsequent to police operations carried out involving individuals (some still living, some deceased) at the heart of the establishment during the 1980s.

&gt;Worse was the fact that the legislature seemed to vote along party lines, indicating a whip. This gives the impression that the Conservative Party is putting its historical reputation before childrens safety. If I believe this is the case I shall have to reconsider my vote at the next general election.  

&gt;Please could you clarify why you voted to reject the proposed new clause? And what you will be doing, specifically, to ensure a fair hearing of all relevant evidence pertaining to historical child sex abuse investigations currently being carried out by the police?  

&gt;Yours sincerely,

&gt;GSVSleeperService Pretty solidly along party lines. Lab voted aye and LDems and Torys voted No There were a mere 8 rebels within the Conservative party. Interestingly one of those was my own MP. My MP doesn't even appear on the list, which is nice of him. My MP is useless when it comes to these sorts of things, 3 separate times have people written to him en masse about him attending an issue (This included) and he hasn't any of them.

He also once said that it should be ok for Bed n Breakfast owners to kick people out because they're gay. 

He's been our MP for 15 years now.... we're never going to get rid of him.  Living in a safe seat area is the worst.

...well, unless you 100% agree with the party who holds the seat, then it's probably pretty great.  This completely saddens me that we vote for our MPs to represent us all in Parliament. And that's even what the MPs claim they do for us all. Yet, as soon as they are in power, they only represent their party and not the people. 

Wilf Self once said, "This is not a democracy. Once every 4 years, we vote in a new facist government"

I'm sick of this shit in the UK. Fuck Cameron, May, Clegg and any MP who isn't pushing for exposing the truth
 It all comes dowb to Burkean philosophy I guess. They are firmly on the side of being elected to represent our "best interests" So, Labour unanimously voted Aye, while Conservatist voted no (except for 6 or something MPs). LDEM voted no (except for 3 MPs). All the smaller parties~~, except for whilst Ind,~~ voted Aye as well. 

If you are British and anoyed by this result, it seems that you should consider voting Labour, PC, SDLP, SNP, DUP, Green or UKIP next time and avoid voting Conservatives and LDEM ~~and whilst Ind~~. 

**edit** whilst Ind; means whilst independent, or an MP that was independent at the time of the vote. It's not an actual party .. (stupid me, makes sense now). Thanks to /u/baconfaust!

**Disclaimer** This is no actual advice to how, or whether, you should be voting.  Yea lets not vote for the DUP they are trying to force through the 'ban the gays'  clause in N.I Just strengthens the notion that Tories are scumbags, Lib Dems are rent boys and Labour will do the opposite just to gain favour. Cunts the lot of them. Party lines = whipped vote = party politics at play. Disgusting. Oh, my God.

And, I mean this as an honest question and not an indictment, what the hell is happening in Britain that paedophiles can be at the same time so hated and feared and yet, the government won't prosecute or pursue justice regarding it? This seems like such a crazy cognitive dissonance that I can't remotely wrap my mind around it.

EDIT: Am I wrong, or is this the same country whose government has recently been banning all kinds of normal sex acts between consenting adults and pornography... and yet... they won't prosecute this?! Because it's in regards to parliamentary members being paedophiles. They are definitely trying to protect their own. Cyril Smith would be fucking proud.


I'd like to shout out Danczuk a labour MP for Rochdale who has been working his arse off to expose this whole horrifying scandal Danczuk's a top dude, only person that would make me consider voting Labour (if I was still in Rochdale.) He's what we need from an elected official. Working to expose the horrifying double standards that can exist in governance Until they come forward we have to view every parliamentary member as a peadophilia enabler.  If you protect the people hurting these kids, you're no better then the ones commuting the acts.  That's the only logical conclusion. Clearly a lot of skeletons in that particular closet though I'm quite relieved to see all the MP's in my area voted for the amendment even though it didn't pass. 

So I suppose the question is now - what can the public do to express their dissatisfaction in this as I can't imagine the majority of the public will be happy with this situation. Vote against any MP who voted against this amendment. Your edit isn't quite right. The government recently banned the ~~sale~~ production of porn by UK companies depicting various acts. It's fucking dumb, but it's not *as* bad as you said.

More on-topic, though, the main thing that's happening is our election in two months, on the 7th of May. Parliament is going to be dissolved at the end of March, and that will herald the start of campaigning.

This scandal is going to absolutely explode at some point. It's a matter of when, not if. When it does, it's going to severely harm the government's legitimacy. All the big parties are terrified about it, because all of them will almost certainly have a tonne of skeletons in their closets and probably some active members of all of them will end up in prison. If beloved childrens' TV presenters like Jimmy Saville and Rolf Harris can turn into despised figures overnight for their historical paedophilia, just imagine what will happen to people that the public *already* hate. It's going to be fucking insane.

This will hurt the party in power more than the opposition. This election is set to be *very* close, with another coalition a distinct possibility. If the government allowed this to explode *now,* it would become an even bigger election issue than it's already set to be. The Conservatives would almost certainly lose (they in particular have a long and colourful history of scandal), and whoever *did* win would probably have to form a coalition with one of the parties like UKIP or the Greens, who don't have a history in positions of power so have relatively clean hands in this scandal.

EDIT: thanks for the Gold, whoever that was! I don't think the cons have a chance anyway. They have passed too many digital laws for the younger generation (who actually understand them) to ignore.

I wouldn't be surprised in a large spike of younger voters this time round. Theres a big problem with political apathy here. When people hear stuff like this its not "Oh my god! thats terrible!" its "Yeah, probably been doing it for years".

Our ruling class are usually a particular breed of well-off. Privately schooled (or not schooled at all), titled, land and business owning tossers whove never really had to work a day in their lives. Y'see, we've had a running monopoly on class warfare for centuries now. As Reg Hunter put it, we perfected racism against people who are the same colour and faith as you are.

Our tosspot elite have bloodlines that can be traced back to when paper was made out of the Scots, glass was a mystical invention and Wales was a place you set on fire on occasion. Its not like in America, where your ruling elite are mostly business men and heirs running around fucking it up for the little guy. We got guys who are from families who ruled by the sword, by decree, by blood *right*, their families ruled because of the name they carried with them and the only way to oust them was to have a bloody good revolution, hang them from the nearest tree, throw'em into the bog, then deal with the next upstart shit stain with a poncy title and some nonsense about 'right to the throne'. Eventually You get sick of that and decide to elect someone, i can bloody tell you, royalty hate a good old election, usually ends with their head rolling in a basket. They dont like that. Problem is, no one knows how to rule a country, so you end up electing the bastards that were in charge in the first place.

Thats our ancestry, its monty python-esque and bloody, and many people, unfortunately many in power, feel they are still entitled to those privileges and they conduct themselves as such.

No crime has been committed here, in their eyes, only the bloody rabble sticking their noses in rather than ploughing the fields. Problem is us brits are inclined to a good bit of revolting, but we need to be pushed. Kiddy fiddling is just another day in the life for a political hierarchy that does whatever the fuck it wants. THey invaded another country when most of the country were dead against it, and its been years of that kind of bullshit that people now just feel theres nothing we can do about it.

I imagine the yanks know how that feels.

Bloody awful. I hate the apathy. Any time you point something out that people should be disgusted with, I hear more young adults say "So? How does this affect you personally? It's been happening for years so why get upset now?" This defeatist, apathetic and lethargic attitude is the voice of the next generation and it's frightening. People want to put their head in the sand and never discuss politics or corruption. No platform seems like an acceptable space to talk about this shit. Not to mention unempathethic.  To my mind if one of us is suffering from injustice in our society then we all are.  I truly hate the "Well it doesn't effect you so get over it." argument. Only 5-10 years ago you were mocked as a tin-foil conspiracy theorist when complaining about government corruption and overreaching. Now, you're mocked for giving a shit. Controlled media, controlled thought patterns. The byproducts are sprouting up. &gt;  Now, you're mocked for giving a shit. 

Popular entertainment, and many individuals I have seen on Reddit, parrot mocking of the 1960's USA culture movement.

It has some very unique characteristics: Growing of Love and Peace through real peer to peer participation - and not just "one famous person" like MLK Jr.  

Hippies are constantly mocked - for no good reason.  Most of the drug prohibitions that came (later) in the 1970's have proven to be totally stupid, and the USA has also proven itself to be currently incapable of organized peaceful democratic protests.  They also made a point to be nice to all people, even if you weren't freshly showered or had the latest expensive designer clothes. We've become an echo-chamber of only the nice-sounding voices and words - and rather intolerant. We have forgotten and discarded some valuable experience.  I hope we reverse the trend, very soon. They will still call you a conspiracy theorist for saying the media is controlled. Yank here. I'm with you, our rulers come from different backgrounds, but they do the same things. My question to you is, what will we do about it? *Is now on a list* Depends.

Theres a breaking point, for people, when the boundaries of what theyre willing to accept are broken. 

We, thankfully i guess, approach things like this with some trepidation, theres reactionary elements of course, there always is, but theres no hard proof yet even though its purported to exist, so if theres going to be any major outcry, it will happen if that investigation ever sees light.

But will that change anything? ehhh...

The thing is, in Britain, general consensus about our politicians is we treat them as if theyve shit in our dinners *already*. As if theyve already done the worst thing they could, because in all likeliness they probably already have. We know they are a bloody awful bunch and we know deep down they dont have our interests at heart. But desperate people act desperately. There are no good alternatives so many people see either regimented misery or anarchy as the only two options. Our options are the plastic David Cameron, the bumbling Ed Miliband, the clueless Greens or the purple fascists. No good options. Time was socialism was rife here and the worker was represented. The 80's and Thatcher ended that. SO what we're left with is a bunch of white dudes who know shit about what its like on the street who think they know whats best for us. Something you guys also know about too well.

The alternative? concerted action. But we need to break down barriers between ourselves first. As soon as we realise that we are the same people, no government can stop us. Middle class, lower class, white, black, muslim, chrisitan. Doesnt matter, downing street can be taken in a day. They rule with our permission, they arent entitled to it.

Kick em out. they dont represent us anymore. Change will come, its just up to them if they want that change to come with pitchforks and torches. Responding only to a small piece. One of the problems in my opinion here in the US is the fear of Socialism. Somehow it has become a horrifying concept and to even suggest a policy that is partially socialist makes you into a leper. Why though? Who is benefiting in this capitalistic market we have today? Certainly not the layman the middle class is shrinking by the day as money gets shifted further and further up. What you deal with as an issue of "birthright" we deal with as a "financial privilege,"  but as a lower middle class american, my opinion means nothing...  The problem is education i think, or knowledge to a broader extent. America has a great number of socialised services and it benefits greatly from them.

The issue is people have been brainwashed into this idea that everyone must work for something and people who work less than you *must* have less than you as if its some sort of universal, incontrovertible truth. But it isnt and never has been. Unfortunately the only way i can see people's opinions changing is by experiencing it first hand.

Socialism is broadly opposed to the ideas of capitalism, i personally think they can coexist in some fashion. But capitalism is aggressive, extremely so, it protects its interests by reflex to preserve itself. The fear of socialism is a natural response in a society governed by the capitalist markets. Socialism seems more like a natural response to an economy in which the question of "who deserves what" becomes impossible to answer. Do CEO's of McDonald's deserve millions for sharing a hand in the obesity epidemic? Does the guy who invented the selfie stick? Alternatively, does a janitor deserve to earn more than selfie stick guy? He's probably done more good for the world. How can Donald Trump honestly say, in public, that he thinks Obama was born in Kenya? Nobody, in a state of affluence or poverty, really deserves what they have because honestly nobody is concerned with conceptions of "the good life" we just want "the comfortable life" and comfort is stasis and stagnation.

Money is blood and humanity is a vampire. By inciting violence, I would probably be banned; but in the end those who hold some form of power have no real fear of the general populace, nor the judicial system, because whether we admit it or not, they form part of the same intricate group. This may be the crudest and most basic way to put it but everybody knows this, only most of us choose to ignore it.

That being said, if people were really to take to the streets and truly challenge the status quo with nothing holding them back, chaos would ensue. Most of us plebs would not even know what they are fighting exactly and twisted ideologies would soon take over.

This situation puts us in an incredibly sad position. Its the story of every revolution, a spark to start the fire and everything spirals out of control, you just have to pray that whoever comes out the other end with the least burns isnt worse than the people you kicked out. Because it is alleged that former government ministers were involved in the acts and in the cover-up. No government wants to set a precedent of doing the right thing by exposing it, because they'll want to rely on a future government to keep their shit hidden too.

Especially if they're still alive. Look at Saville - no one dared speak out before he died (although lots of people knew or had suspicions), and we're seeing the same for the likes of Leon Brittan (who died recently and then the real allegations started firing up). No one wants to deal with a libel case even if they're right

A bit like how Obama has happily extended protections to Bush-era politicians, hoping that Clinton or whoever the republicans will put up will do the same for him The government ***ARE*** the paedophiles Can you imagine what a fucking cunt Cameron and his cronies are? 

They want to be able to block or monitor the porn (and other stuff) citizens are watching, yet at the same time they fuck kids and do everything to protect themselves from prosecution. 

Unbelievable. If they give immunity, everybody alive will group up, go forward and admit, blaming the dead ones. That would be if it were immunity from prosecution for those crimes, I.e cutting a deal, giving up the 'dealer' to have your possession charges waived.
 This, I believe, refers to immunity over prosecution for 'blowing the whistle' and breaking secrecy, I.e would get charged for crimes admitted to but the act of sharing the information would not itself be a crime.

 Meanwhile governments lambast religious groups for not reporting child sex crimes and self-regulating. Weird. Why the hell is reporting a crime considered a crime Because it endangers national security, as such a whistle-blower could be charged under the secrets act. 

*I don't hold this opinion, this is the justification from parliament, not me. Personally I think it's bullshit* This exactly what they would do. They would start throwing anyone and everyone over to the law. Hell, they would probably all start blaming one another knowing that the others would be doing the same to them. 

They would game the system so that they would all try to get immunity and let the investigators know they wouldn't be able to touch them.

Edit: spelling This amendment was for immunity from prosecution only from the Official Secrets Act. It wouldn't protect them from prosecution for other crimes. Yes, the title is really bad. When I first read it I thought it sounded fairly sensible to not be offering immunity. Thats not how immunity works. It does come with stipulations such as evidence leading to an arrest etc. You can't just make baseless accusations then claim immunity for your past crimes I'm a Brit, and I, along with what I assume to be millions of others like me, have seen/heard little to no coverage of this on TV until I flicked over to RT.

Let that sink in. I had to go to RT to get journalistic integrity and lack of censorship. 

RT.

C'mon UK. Plz. I'm actually surprised there aren't marches and protests at this point. If only of a few hundred people.  UK Government: "We want to be able to continue molesting children and we'll punish anyone who tries to stop it." "We need to ban pornography on the internet. Think of the children! If they look at pornography, they'll know what to call what we've been doing to them in secret all these years." Reality burn &gt; Think of the children!

That's what got them in this mess to begin with. "And use it as justification for censoring the internet." "Protect the children, but not from us." 

Must be their new slogan for that particular campaign. Super adventure club. Holy shit it is the super adventure club. Its hard to get immunity for whistleblowers when the people granting the immunity are the people or friends of the people who would have the whistle blown on them.

In this case (and in a democratic society) wouldnt it make more sense to let the public decide?
 This is blowing up and quickly. The videos of the children talking about it have been posted everywhere. It seems too odd to be real but the pieces are coming together. The charges against that weirdo billionaire and the prince are all over too. They get taken down and reposted on so many sites. Their jig may be up soon. This has been going on for a very long time - Seville et al..... They however couldn't have predicted the internet and the power it wields. It was much easier to keep under wraps before the all mighty interwebs became a thing. Their time to be in the shadows is short.
Edit: grammar The news is so quiet about all this, its so concerning. I watch and read the news every day, its not being reported at anywhere near the scale it should be. I feel like a conspiracy theorist if I post about it on social media, what the fuck is going on here? The revolution will not be televised. *US Redditors Please upvote*

While the UK pedophilia ring is blowing up- this touches our side of the pond too. 

[Recently released flight records](http://gawker.com/flight-logs-put-clinton-dershowitz-on-pedophile-billio-1681039971) from convicted billionaire pedophile Jeffrey Epstein's private jet place Fmr. Pres Bill Clinton &amp; his Secret Service detail, Former Treasury Secretary Alan Dershowitz, Fmr. World Bank Economist, Treasury Secretary, &amp; Harvard Pres Larry Summers, all on multiple private flights, along with co-conspirator 'pimps' Ghislaine Maxwell and Epstein's former assistant Sarah Kellen.

These flights to me do not prove foul play on the part of those listed, but they are highly questionable. There is much overlap, and as Epstein was convicted of running a long-term global pedophilia ring, it's useful to know which high-profile folks were flying on the 'Lolita Express'. The linked info will keep one busy for a while, and when you're done there, check out Anonymous' #OpDeathEaters hashtag- a vigilante anti-pedo campaign.

Oh yeah- as part of Epstein's plea deal, federal prosecutors in Florida have a non-prosecution agreement for other members of the ring, if I understand it correctly.

Edit- forgot the blatant 'official complicity' part. if any of you are from the U.K. you need to be spreading this stuff. There are 1000s of victims who live through this shit today. Some of em eventually taking their lives....

Many cops are afraid to come forward.... Dont let the molesters get away with it. If there are royals involved, so what? The country's safer if the truth is known....

These molesters (i.e. politicians) drove over kids, broke their bones while they molested them.. Sick fcuks! Please dont be indifferent to this.. After his death, a former MI5 chief was known to be a pedo.  Break the Cover-up!! thx. I wrote to my MP as he was one of the one's voting against this amendment, should hear back from his intern soon with a bullshit response about how they must keep in line with their party values "I'm sorry, whilst I personally am not, our party is pro-banging-little-children-against-their-will and one must tow the party line!" "We understand your concerns and will be more careful not to get caught in the future" How did you find out what way your MP voted? Direct link: http://www.publicwhip.org.uk/division.php?date=2015-02-23&amp;number=158&amp;display=allvotes&amp;sort=party http://www.theyworkforyou.com/ is a great resource for this I'm from the UK where I live though no one is talking about it most likely due to feeling ashamed. I for one am angry about this, but part of me is questioning, why are they going forward on this scandal yet almost nothing is done about the grooming gangs like the one in Rotherham.  i was in 'care' in the early/mid '90s, and grooming gangs, exactly like rotherham, have been around even further back than when i was in. it was commonplace, and completely obvious, (13yr old girls getting picked up/dropped off at the fucking front door by middle aged, usually pakistani men in mercedes/other high end cars) and nobody gave a fuck. the authorities have been giving no fucks for a very long time.

i will say that these types do not represent the majority of the british pakistani community, but the problem is very real, widespread, and organised. they don't do this because they are pakistanis, it's similar to the italian mafia in a sense, just being italian doesn't make you a mafioso. this is not about racism, it's a genuine issue. The 1000 or so victims of Rotherham is no doubt tied to this.. It has been part of the (miniscule) media coverage on child abuses, recently.. Miniscule? Its barely out of the news, particularly Rotherham Not from the UK here.

Is there some kind of overview over the whole situation? I see articles popping up on reddit from time to time but I must admit I looked away and I don't know which sources are trustworthy.   The BBC have a summary of the events here: http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-28189858 Tldr; we don't want anyone to come forward. Come forward expect charges in retaliation. **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* Ministers defeated a move to amend the Official Secrets Act to ensure that it bars no one from giving evidence about VIP paedophiles.

&gt;* But Exaro can reveal that May and most of her coalition colleagues in the Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties blocked an attempt in Parliament to change the Official Secrets Act (OSA) to give legal backing to such assurances.

&gt;* Theresa May, home secretary, last week repeated in Parliament assurances that the act should not stop anyone from giving evidence to the overarching inquiry into child sex abuse (CSA).


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://www.exaronews.com/articles/5529/ministers-block-move-to-lift-official-secrets-act-for-csa-scandal)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** BBC has the balls to slam India for sex crimes (17% of the world is Indian so obviously that helps the numbers of sex crimes in India look high) but will avoid raising awareness of **child rapists who rule over us**. I feel sick.  It is not just avoiding raising awareness.. [BBC was trying to debunk it as a conspiracy!!](http://www.exaronews.com/articles/5527/bbc-at-war-over-panorama-on-claims-of-vip-paedophile-network) What the fuck? BBC is often very good, but you shouldn't forget who owns them...  Good point. I think I might try and raise awareness of this myself and maybe start some rallies. Raping children is the most disgusting  crime I can think of.  Murder of children is bad too. just imagine putting both together!



 I wonder what motivation high ranking officials at the BBC could possibly have for trying to cover this up?

Put your thinking hats on people, we might be here a while! A conspiracy *theory*. Perhaps the greatest conspiracy was convincing the proletariat that conspiracies are ludicrous and impossible. A word akin to "miracle" or something.  Which is why I said an Indian news channel must do an expose.  Maybe it's time the Indian equivalent made it's own documentary...on this subject and the "holier than thou" BBC. Utter dogshit. No reason this shouldn't have passed. What does it say about my country when the leaders reject something like this? I wouldn't be surprised if anonymous started digging deeper, hope they do. Kind of fucking shameful we have to have an Internet vigilante group to police the world. Because the people tasked with policing the world/their country vote pro pedo.  Can you imagine if they released every politicians browsing history?

I'd even pay to support an effort like that to expose the corrupt fucks. What did they already dig? so what was "official" reasoning for conservatives to vote no? My question about all this is, if most normal adults aren't pedophiles, why does it seem so rampant in the UK government? I've not really been following these cases closely but I'll offer some speculation anyway.

Politics is a power game that selects for decidedly not normal people. That doesn't necessarily mean there are more people with paedophile tendencies in politics, but perhaps more of them are ruthless enough to act on them. Especially considering the violent nature of the abuse that has been reported on.

So I think the real variable here may be not so much the number of paedophiles, but rather the number of psychopaths. Also, being a powerful political figure gives you the clout/access/money to engage in things like this and get away with it.  Who's going to prosecute you when you and all your buddies run the country? &gt; but perhaps more of them are ruthless enough to act on them.

The number of paedophiles or even those who have engaged in paedophilia in politics is probably only marginally greater than the proportion in wider society. 

The problem is the network of information. It's about mutually assured destruction. Even if you're not a paedo, you do not blow the whistle because the paedo or his friends have something on you that can destroy your career. Maybe you didn't do anything with kids, but what if you're a family man who hires male escorts? Even just an extramarital affair? Ever taken class A drugs in public? That picture of you snorting coke off a hooker's tits won't look very good on the frontpage of the tabloids...

Now couple this knowledge with the fact that politicians by necessity have to be somewhat sociopathic and ruthless just to navigate their way to a seat in Parliament, picture an MP faced with the decision to do the right thing and expose this conspiracy (and perhaps get charged under the Official Secrets Act as we now find), or keep quiet and maintain your political career and public reputation.  Paedophiles are hand selected for positions of power because they are fundamentally compromised from the get-go and can be easily blackmailed/ forced to do the bidding of whoever's pulling the strings. 

There's your Saville connection too - he had links with MI5 and the Paedo community so put him in a room with a bunch of wannabe power brokers and he could pick out the perverts for you. 

I would have dismissed this as conspiracy theory a couple of months ago, but with what we know now? I'm certain this was going on.

The question we should be asking is: What on earth were they doing that required this kind of sick distortion of democracy? That's the truly disturbing bit.   I would guess that, like with serialkillers, a lot of serial child molesters are psycopaths. It is well known that psycopaths most strive for a job where they have power over others, which you can surely say about being in government. There a list [here](http://time.com/32647/which-professions-have-the-most-psychopaths-the-fewest/) but don't hold me to it, I havn't done any real research.  The signature traits of psychopaths are an immense narcissistic ego that does not react well to be being challenged or questioned, compulsive lying, a complete lack of empathy, incapability of taking responsibility for their own actions, and callous disregard for the needs and well being of others. 

As near as it makes no difference, it fits every politician ever. You're welcome.  People that can be leveraged get promoted. Pedos  can be leveraged with a certainty like no other. Something is seriously wrong with my country. When you're trying to work out who to vote for in a few months based on their views on fucking PAEDOPHILIA, then something is seriously wrong.

How the fuck we ever had an empire is beyond me. &gt;How the fuck we ever had an empire is beyond me.

Considering the empire was built on exploiting people in other countries, with great ease. Now they just exploit the people at home instead. Being ruthless is exactly how you develop an empire... Naval prowess doesn't have much to do with how much people at the top diddle I guess Shady shit going on. You don't... wanna fuck with Shady~

Why not? :(

Cause Shady... will have members of the highest levels of national government in one of the world's most influential and respected countries rape, torture, possibly murder your children and cover it up in what's probably not even the biggest scandal of Q1 2015~

I said you don't... wanna fuck with Shady 'Oh look, the Prince had another  baby and the town crier read it just like olden days ', and the whole country will be back to sucking their royal dicks again and forget this crisis ever existed.  Do you think anyone is still gullible enough to believe this is all just conspiracy nonsense?

Edit: Just incase anyone is going to play the "I don't believe it because this is just one piece of evidence" card, this is nowhere near all the evidence that points to a pedophile ring and coverup. This the just the latest in a long list so if you still refuse to acknowledge that a conspiracy is taking place I doubt even video evidence could convince you otherwise.

[Home secterary Theresa May saying the abuse runs far deeper than we know](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/crime/11471282/Theresa-May-Child-abuse-in-the-UK-runs-far-deeper-than-you-know.html)

[Destruction of evidence](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/crime/wanless-report-into-westminster-pedophile-ring-says-key-files-were-destroyed-this-century-9853662.html)

[Numerous victims who would be willing to testify if a trial where ever to occur](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/politics/liberaldemocrats/10775341/Cyril-Smith-the-predatory-paedophile-protected-by-establishment.html)

[Numerous investigations that had to be abandoned after the head investigators where shown to have conflicts of interest](http://www.standard.co.uk/news/uk/baroness-butlersloss-quits-child-sex-abuse-inquiry-9604737.html)

[The numerous deaths surrounding people who threated to expose the crimes](http://news.sky.com/story/1442551/was-man-murdered-for-exposing-paedophile-ring)

You are not going to get signed confessions and HD video showing the culprits, the fact is witness testimony can get people convicted of crimes and there are literally dozens of people who have all came forward with matching stories, locations etc. I just don't understand how anyone at this stage, when faced with all the evidence, could still try to downplay it. Cant they just send the evidence anon style to some wiki or something? and have it shot down as bullshit, then its taken down, then they have a totally non supsicious car accident or are admited to a mental health facility following a 'psychological incident' . welcome to the uk in 2015 - 31 years.  I remember this story from a few years back. Some gangster boss was up in court for snapping a guys jaw. A councilor wrote a glowing letter to the judge about how this guy was such an upstanding citizen. So he was let off with no prison, despite having a record for GBH. Anyway, I recognised the judges name, Nic Parry, he spent years as a high paid solicitor representing a bunch of accused peado's during the Waterhouse investigation. Evidently he did a good job and was promoted to High Court Judge. He is also a TV football comentator for BBC wales.  

"Judge Niclas Parry, then a solicitor, attended the 1996-1999 Waterhouse Inquiry[5] where he represented some of those accused[6]] of horrific child abuse. Following over a decade of criticism that justice was not done and abusers escaped justice in 2012 David Cameron announced another Inquiry into the validity of the Waterhouse Inquiry.[7]"

http://www.dailypost.co.uk/news/local-news/deeside-businessman-hayden-edward-rogers-2672238

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nic_Parry  Absolutely no mention of this on the main BBC news at 6pm - instead Cameron cleverly announced he  would not serve a third term, which was a great smoke screen headline, burying other  news.  I'm so angry I've given myself a headache. Here is a good topic for an Indian film maker to make a documentary about. "England's children"

Edit: its quiet obvious no English person is going to work on this. Doing so will make them criminals. Shameful. **Occupy Parliament.**

The general elections will change nothing. On the **7th of May** we should take to the streets outside parliament in **general protest** of these sickening atrocities.

By ONLY expressing outrage through the medium of the internet we are mere spectators to these atrocities, allowing us to distance ourselves from the reality that people who 'run the country' are literally raping children and facing no repercussions, whilst, by stark contrast if you possess a small amount of cannabis you can spend up to 5 years in jail.

The western system of governance is broken, in nearly every possible way it can be broken. So on the 7th of May, express apathy towards the voting system and the lack of anyone to vote for who truly represents the people. Instead protest the deeply disturbing reality of ['legal peadophiles'](http://www.exaronews.com/articles/5529/ministers-block-move-to-lift-official-secrets-act-for-csa-scandal), protest the [housing estates being taken over by big business](https://www.change.org/p/annington-barnet-homes-stop-the-demolition-of-the-sweets-way-estate-stop-the-evictions-of-current-residents-and-offer-decanted-residents-the-right-to-return-to-their-former-homes-at-truly-affordable-rents), the unholy alliance between the government and [pharmasuetical companies](http://clear-uk.org/the-sativex-scandal-deepens-corruption-and-dishonesty-at-the-home-office/), [big banks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sr9nNzbulGs), [arms manufacturers](http://www.businessinsider.com/the-uk-is-going-to-send-billions-in-arms-exports-to-countries-on-the-human-rights-blacklist-2015-3?IR=T) ... the list goes on.

No change will come if our outrage is contained within the vast network of information that is the internet - a network that will only become more and more regulated as our apathy increases.

If you're as disturbed as I am, then please for the love of humanity, let us do *something* to try to stop these deeply corrupted, power-crazed, gluttonous degenerates from sacrificing the happiness of the common man for monetary gain, on the 7th of May, let us **Occupy Parliament.** This thread is worth reading if you haven't yet. It's from the conspiracy forum but don't let that put you off, it's some really thorough research/evidence and super interesting/scary to delve into.

Funnily enough posted around the time of the Saville thing, before MPs and such were linked to anything, which is what the post itself focuses on.

[The Mountain of Evidence for a Massive International Pedophile Ring Protected by Police and Intelligence Agencies](http://www.reddit.com/r/conspiracy/comments/1cm0t3/original_research_the_mountain_of_evidence_for_a/)

/u/man_with_titties comment makes a lot of sense IMO :

&gt; The motive behind this ring is control. When a high ranking politician is involved in pedophilia and people have the evidence on him or her, they can completely blackmail that person. They will promote his candidacy knowing that he is completely under their control. Prior to the 1960's there were rumours of a homosexual mafia, homosexuals promoting each because of their shared secrets. Spies were also recruited in this manner. Now with so many gay people (and fetish people) proudly out of the closet, that doesn't apply anymore. Pedophilia is so heinous that it has become the new blackmail secret. There are people who would sell their soul to the devil in return for fame, wealth, and power. The devil wants more than a signature, he wants actions. Blood in.. blood out.

 It's at the point where the ruling class can be blatantly raping and torturing children on a large scale, and people just let them. The state of this country is disgusting. This fucking insane.

It's looking more and more like those who are dead and a few scapegoats are all that will be held accountable and the world will go on. they voted it down because they want NO ONE coming forward With all this scandal and shit I gaurentee you we will see some kind of HUGE news come in the next coming weeks.  Some celebrity death...some war...something to make us look the other way.  All UK voters - Contact your MP if they voted against the clause. 

Really, do it! They have to hear your voice if we are going to get his mess out into the open!

Be brief, concise and polite. Being angry or rude will not get you anywhere.

Here is my letter as an example (or template if you want):

&gt;Dear Mr Hugo Swire MP,

&gt;As a constituent of yours, I am rather upset at the manner in which you voted in regards to the  Serious Crime Bill  New Clause 2  Official Secrets Act 1989  Defence of Disclosure to Historic Child Abuse Inquiry  23 Feb 2015.

&gt;The proposed clause would have enabled authority figures involved in historical child abuse investigations to come forward and give testimony without fear of censure or legal action. 

&gt;Specifically, police officers who were made to sign the OSA subsequent to police operations carried out involving individuals (some still living, some deceased) at the heart of the establishment during the 1980s.

&gt;Worse was the fact that the legislature seemed to vote along party lines, indicating a whip. This gives the impression that the Conservative Party is putting its historical reputation before childrens safety. If I believe this is the case I shall have to reconsider my vote at the next general election.  

&gt;Please could you clarify why you voted to reject the proposed new clause? And what you will be doing, specifically, to ensure a fair hearing of all relevant evidence pertaining to historical child sex abuse investigations currently being carried out by the police?  

&gt;Yours sincerely,

&gt;GSVSleeperService
 Corruption at it's finest. This is disgusting, and no one's going to do a thing about it.  Whistle blowers often make huge sacrifices for the public's good. It is our duty to offer what protection we can. Wow, there must be someone really high up involved in this. It really needs to come out,  how could these people support pedophiles. it's incredible that anyone could be against whistleblowing, in a post-snowden era.  they should ask themselves "who the fuck am I helping by punishing the ones willing to step forward?" Well yeah, the ministers are the ones abusing kids. 

Of course they would want to punish anyone who might turn them in. I am ready to grab my pitchfork and go to the UK. Seriously, these stories reek of cover ups. If there is nothing to hide, what are they afraid of? This is a better reason for mass protests than the reasons for most mass protests, please UK, mass protest. Funny how that "if you've got nothing to hide what are you afraid of" attitude has been used to justify all kind of governmental intrusions in the recent past.

Just another thing that only flows downhill, our dearest leadership is so fucking hypocritical and arrogant it's fucking astounding. I'm not arguing but in america the same type of thing happens.  Look up hunter s thompson.  Roman catholics.  We can go deeper but that is a damn start.  I'll go ahead and do it and say PSU when it hurts me so much to say it.  Plenty of examples in the US(assuming you live here). Pitchforks are a bit outdated it's a good thing the citizens of the UK have gu..oh wait maybe that's why they wanted to disarm their own people? This is a global issue and it always has been.  Once again, us "crazy conspiracy theorists" have been saying this forever, but we get shouted down by shills and useful idiots whose logic consists of "conspiracies that big can't exist because someone would talk" (thanks, neil degrasse tyson).

Read the history.  The greeks didn't invent this stuff. Damn right. On reddit especially, it seems that even bringing up a 9/11 conspiracy gets you met with some 'steel beams' answer. Though I don't believe that 9/11 was a controlled demolition (because of the physics of the collapse), the amount of people who think that their government is morally incapable of committing an atrocity against their own citizens (such as a terrorist attack) is fucking astounding or people who think that iraq was some blunder and not a war crime carefully orchestrated by a global power elite. Look up operation Northwoods, cointelpro or operation mockingbird and mk ultra to get an idea of wtf the government is willing to propose/enact in order to attain the means of state power. Most people have historical amnesia and are politically ignorant. Showing them facts won't change their trust in their government because it goes against their "patriotic gut"  &gt;Most people have historical amnesia

This exactly. A good example is someone who claims that there's no evidence of 9/11 being a false flag.... but there is. It's called the 50 previous false flag incidents that the government committed against citizens.

Too bad most people are totally ignorant of basic history, and not only that, refuse to actually read any. Jet fuel can't melt steel beams though mate Jet steel can't melt fuel beams. This makes as much sense as the physics defying official story. 9/11 was a controlled demolition. It has all the charesteristics of one. But the real reason they did it was to create mass trauma. I'm no expert but it certainly looked like a controlled demolition.  Also, how come the contents of the buildings were dust?  Nothing survived intact. Destroyed all the way to the basement. They must have used some military grade explosives. And wtc7, pentagon and PA crashes are even more shady. /r/conspiracy is leaking...and im totally cool with it. These folks in these cults all have secrets on each other that would destroy any of their lives. Ain't nobody gonna talk. That's why they all do something really crazy like sacrifices or rape and murder. Now they all in it together and no one talks. Bc if the world found out we'd kill all of them. Bet most celebrities have either sex tapes or something of them kept on file in case that person decides they want to start talking. They end up forced to push messages and agendas they know are wrong but they do it anyways. This world is evil.  Where have you been getting the evidence to even theorize this? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geoffrey_Dickens#Paedophile_ring_investigation

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_sexual_abuse_cases

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ray_Gricar

http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2015/03/06/britain-s-horrific-vip-pedophile-cover-up.html

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_Ireland_Historical_Institutional_Abuse_Inquiry

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_Wales_child_abuse_scandal

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haut_de_la_Garenne#Child_abuse_investigation

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franklin_child_prostitution_ring_allegations

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pederasty#The_ancient_world Just wondering: has there been a single news about the UK recently that wasn't either bad, stupid or just horrific ? Our last mass shooting was in 2010.  But your last mass diddling was in 2015. It's a bad week if there's no diddling.  That's a fun fact.  If you dig deep enough there probably is something. Good news doesn't sell as much as bad news. Canada and Scandinavia have mostly good news  Canadian national news is currently dominated by Bill C-51 and how Halifax was pretty much shut down by snow.

Provincial news in B.C is pretty much all about the failed LNG plans, pipeline protests and how Crusty Kristy is going to sell off our water supplies for peanuts.

More locally the Vancouver Mayor has pretty much failed (again) to deal with the homelessness problem that plagues the city. Its not a small problem either as its one of the worst cities in Canada when it comes to homelessness.


As for Scandinavia I don't have much of a clue since my Norwegian/Swedish/Finnish/Danish/Icelandic isn't that great. In Ontario we're seeing the liberals pussyfooting about with the liquor monopolies (including the foreign owned Beer Store monopoly.)

Now they're talking about selling off Hydro one. 

I can't believe we haven't learned from selling off the 407... Holy fuck.  Sweden is basically a how long can you go lalalala with your fingers in your ears contest.  In Iceland we have the rich government dickheads buying up the newspapers so they won't publish any investigative things. They are also a corrupt bunch of assholes who are fucking everyone over.  It's crazy to me seeing how even in places as incredibly progressive and politically well-off as Iceland, people are still just as pissed at corruption as we are in America, where we're just as pissed off at corruption as they are in the even-more-corrupt Australia, where they're just as pissed off as the even-more-corrupt, I dunno, South Africa? Brazil?

It's interesting to me because the reason isn't as obvious as it seems. Maybe the anger is calibrated by scale, and it's simply that if you're from somewhere that isn't very corrupt, you won't have a very high tolerance for corruption. However, maybe it's moreso from the other angle - maybe Iceland can't be more corrupt, *because* the people there have less tolerance for corruption. Maybe there's just this equilibrium or threshold, where if the people are more than a certain amount angry, they change things by force, so the whole world is always at the anger level just below that except for split seconds where they inch above and change things.

Anyway, it's real fuckin' neato.  Pirates! Don't talk shit about Canada.  The only news I see about Canada are the anti-terrorism laws trying to be pushed through.

Scandinavia is well known for only receiving praise from most of the world, we're just so bad we make them look amazing \#swedenYes Canadian here. Our news is washed down and partisan, but we still shoot for catchy headlines and drop the important stories here. We just haven't gotten as efficient as the U.S. or the U.K.  