option 3

turn it into a pr nightmare for sony,..

problem solved Its sad we have to resort to public shaming to get companies to do the right thing. I guarantee Sony will follow right up now that this is public and say the whole thing was a misunderstanding, and ask the OP to take down his post in return for fixing the problem. It's actually great that we have the power to do this. With the publicity of the internet we have a lot more power than we used to when it comes to getting companies to do the right thing.  Great that most of us have the option, pathetic that it's the only thing that will get some companies to behave reasonably.  Really? You think that's going to phase them? After ALLLLLL the PR nightmares they've endured in the pas Decade? I'm gonna say this would be [Sony's reaction](https://nofsgiven.files.wordpress.com/2014/02/no-fucks-given_o_131151.jpg) http://imgur.com/bqjIRDZ

I spent a few hours this morning dealing with the same issue. My only PS4 was somehow deactivated as my primary a month ago and I had to go through five different reps to find someone competent enough to help. I have never been blatantly hung up on so many times in such a short time.

One guy on the phone said my account was hacked but the supposed hacker didn't change my password or charge anything, they just deactivated my PS4. It made no sense and it seemed like it was just a problem that could easily be fixed. I asked him if someone were to hack my account and charge $1 million worth of games, the only thing I could do is wait six months and then try to reactivate my PS4? He said YES and pretended to transfer me and hung up. 

When I called the last time, I skipped the PS4 help line and went to the generic help line. The awesome lady on the line saw what the other reps had put into the notes about my account, practically said they were stupid for not fixing the problem, and corrected my account within minutes. Skip the PS4 line and get another help line via the phone. 

The idea that someone actually hacking my account and locking me out of my games for six months because of an arbitrary policy blows my mind. Considering I have a secure password that is only used on my PSN account and the fact that Sony seems to have a problem with hackers/disgruntled employees and not me, the onus falls on them to fix the issue and not punish me.  "We got your money, now fuck off!"  Sadly the attitude of too many companies now days. No interest in the repeat consumer. Well this certainly makes me reconsider buying a ps4.  And why do they have to stick to script based bullshit?  JUST TALK TO ME LIKE A REAL HUMAN BEING!. you just figure this out today?

sony has been a pretty anti consumer company. If they make a buck while screwing the consumer. They will actually do it. In fact, I have no doubt that they were planning to put a dracoian no used game policy if Microsoft have not brought a shit storm onto themselves.

The only reason I avoid consoles is that we are under the mercy of these companies My PS4 was deactivated and the person using my account bought Dragon Age Gold Edition and when I called tech support I had to re call three times, the first lady was clueless in my problem saying she could only give me PSN credit. The second lady kept insisting someone perhaps my  brother was using my PS4 and accidentally bought the game. I had to keep telling her that my brother is currently at school and my PS4 isn't even hooked up. 40 Minutes arguing with this lady and nothing was done. I finally called a third time and the guy was able to refund me completely and make my PS4 the primary one.  
 Honestly life tip don't leave your credit card attached to Sony, it's not in good hands. 

Here's [Proof](http://imgur.com/g0WxINv) Ok...Serious question: How many times has Sony dropped the ball in terms of security? I remember there being a big thing in like 2012, and then I just avoided Sony online games like the plague Too many times for me to count. The most memorable one to me is the time putting paid (music) CDs into your computer had them install rootkits on your device. Though I think that was in 2003. They haven't really changed since then though.

Sony manages great content but their social policies are some of the lowest of the low. They care about profit more than anything. That was the [Sony BMG CD copy protection rootkit scandal of 20052007](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_BMG_copy_protection_rootkit_scandal).

The best part was that the first uninstaller for the rootkits they released copied your email address and added extra security vulnerabilities but did not actually remove the rootkits.

At least in this decade it seems they have switched from trying to punch holes in their consumer's security to leaving gaping holes open in their own security.  I've been on the fence about which next-gen console to buy to replace my 360 which is finally shitting the bed after nine years. I was leaning toward the PS4, but this thread just changed my mind.  I heartily recommend a PC.  There are a number of living-room friendly gaming-focused PCs you can buy these days, and while your upfront cost may be slightly higher than a console, you'll save money in the long run because PC games are cheap. Steam Summer Sales! Agreed. I have a pretty modest PC, so I have trouble running the newest games, but all the amazing sales on steam games that could easily cost three times as much on consoles makes it all worth it. Steam has such a vaast selection of games, and the 60$ you might spend on a console game goes a loooooong way on steam. 

I didn't even by my desktop intending to game on it, but my consoles go completely unused now and I've got 200+ games on steam.  Pretty consistently over the last 2-3 years.

EDIT: So, I wake up this morning and found that $2000 had been charged to my credit card overnight. It wasn't used on PSN, but I only used the card with about 5-10 places in the last year since I've had the card (one of those places is PSN, which had it on file). That is one time gesture of goodwill. They are basically saying that they are doing you a favor and have no intention of ever helping you in this way again.

That "proof" sounds pretty damn offensive.  They are blaming you for the fraud and are making it clear in the future they will make you eat the money lost.  (or like in OPs case suspend your account and take back all your digital items if you do a chargeback) Yep, it was a one time gesture of goodwill annnnnnnnnnnnnnnnd  
the only reason I was offered it was because the game had not been played only downloaded.  

  **EDIT** Additional Info, I got a text message in the middle of class about more than 50$ being charged to my BoA account. I literally walked out of class and handle this right then and there and it was a still a hassle. Sony desperately needs two factor authentication.  And they desperately need to force you to reconfirm/readd payment info when switching consoles.

It wouldn't be a big deal for a person to have to revalidate payment info when they are already switching out their console.  And that validation would prevent a fraudster from doing this crap.  They could deauth your console and auth their console, but then they have no access to your payment info. Thanks for posting this. I'm having the exact same issue. We just noticed a couple days ago that my (only) PS4 had been deactivated. Called support who said it had been done a month ago and there is nothing they can do so we'll just need to wait six months.  
I never attach my CC to my account because I don't trust them, just buy cards whenever I want a new game so they weren't able to actually buy anything thankfully...   
I'll have to try calling back and using their general support number instead of the PS4 line.

EDIT: After calling for a seventh and eighth time, I finally got someone who would fix it. Don't believe them when they straight up lie and say they can't do it even if they wanted to, they definitely can. According to the support reps, my PS4 was deactivated on Feb 12. Any chance yours was, too?

The lady that helped me said all she had to do was deactivate all of my systems (PS3, PS4, and Vita) in her system and that I would just have to spend a couple of minutes activating them again (I actually reactivated the PS4 while on the phone with her to confirm). She said the PS4 tech support could have done it but they were just staying firm with the six month block policy for some reason. Sounds like PS4 tech was interested in doing little else than covering their ass. What magical number did you call? I don't see that you posted the number anywhere. 800-345-7669, 5

That is the number for the general help and not the PS4 help. They can help you, it's just a matter of finding someone who is willing to actually do the work. All the person has to do is deactivate your systems on their end and you activate them on your console. This whole 6 months bullshit is just another one of those drm's that only hurts consumers.  TL;DR - 
You: I need help.
Customer Service: I don't know what to do.
You: I'm paying for this service and you aren't providing it for me.
Customer Service: I don't know what to do. Goodbye.
 Sounds like every ISP ever, too.

Apparently the internet is this magical series of tubes nobody understands but pays a ton of money for.

Except Romania. They apparently have fatty pipes on the cheap. PSN, totally worth paying for... Wow. Posting here in case Sony PR is trolling this, but I'm officially not buying a PS4 even for bloodborne until this issue is fixed. You guys don't deserve to have to jump through hoops because of policy, especially with Sony's security problems.  Was tossing up whether to buy an XBox or a PS for my son in June... mind just got made up for me too. 

Thanks OP, and fuck you Sony! I bought an X-Box One because of an issue I had with my 360.  And here's why:

Someone got into my 360 account and used my credit cards to rack up the max points possible, (back when they had points) and then joined it to a family plan, transferred the points and dropped it.  All within a minute.  I called immediately and told they would freeze my account while they investigated.  That's fine, I could live without playing for a week.

Called the credit cards and got the funds reversed, had my cards changed and changed all passwords on MS/Gmail/Bank

Microsoft returned the call 2 days later and refunded me all credits lost / explained that it happens and the victim is usually that of a hit and run.  They don't get hit twice, but even then, to change my security up.

Microsoft was very courteous and returned my calls like they said they would.

10/10 would buy MS products again from this.  It was almost $1500 in charges, and they were completely honest and cool about it. Yea Microsoft support is great. I bought a broken headset for my Xbox 360, had a live chat with their support, and they offered me immediately a new one. I just chuckled thinking of you trying to [chat with them using the broken headset itself](http://i.imgur.com/mryY5ic.jpg). Blatantly terrible customer service, gather the pitchforks!  Sometimes trying a different support line will work wonders. Not a PS4, but I had an issue with Dell several years ago (printer arrived with parts missing). Their customer support guys wouldn't do anything, so I called tech support as a last ditch effort. Even though it obviously wasn't their job, they got me sorted almost immediately. If you've got Twitter/facebook then post this one there and make it as public as you can. Companies are always more willing to help when it's in the public eye. Twitter has become an unsatisfied customer's best friend. They should be set up to handle something like this better. Accounts get hacked all of the time. These accounts aren't like MMO accounts with authenticators. 

One thing I do for security is change around my passwords on a regular basis. Important accounts don't share passwords with anything. I also use a password generator built into One Password and then modify the password given to me. I would kill for an authenticator for my PSN account. I want one for all of my accounts. I don't know why they aren't standard anymore.  Especially with 3rd party ones like [google authenticator](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2&amp;hl=en). 

Actually, as I started typing this, I remembered that I already know why. Because it is a rare company that has that level of security in mind at least when it comes to gaming. I only know of one gaming company that has their own info sec team. I work for one and even WE don't. Couple that with some of the crazy turn around times that the devs are held to (either through crazy PMs or crazy Game Directors), and sometimes there isn't even time to consider if someone could break key features in your game with something as simple as Charles Tool/ Charles Proxy!

But I digress. tl;dr: most gaming companies don't put much thought into infosec.


  
^^^that ^^^I've ^^^seen, ^^^YMMV In this day and age, they are fools for not doing so. And yes, I understand what you are saying. I have a friend who works in the industry. 

Cyber attacks are one of the most dangerous attacks for businesses and even countries these days. All of our information is on computers, all of our stuff is being controlled by computers. It's time people wake up and start taking the stuff more seriously.

I have a small web business that I've had since 96. We always took it seriously. But we could only do so much because of the servers we use. We try to find the best, but even the best isn't good enough. I'm proud to say we only had one breech. But I think that was more luck.

Right now, I'm stuck on disability because of an autoimmune disorder that they can't figure it out. I'm slowly using the time to prepare myself to go back to work, because I believe I will one day be able to. And I'm planning on switching from web to Cyber Security. Programming use to be my second choice because of dual degrees, but I've got a lot of time to waste. And government clearance that opens the door to some really interesting jobs.

Sony, MS, Nintendo, Steam and others, they all take our information. Some are better about keeping it safe then others. Though they've all had breeches, whether small or large. As part of the agreement of me purchasing from them or giving them my personal information to create an account, I would like to see them take keeping that information safe a little more seriously. But let's face it, it cuts into profits. What? I'm legitimately surprised as I almost HAD to set up two step verification for XBox Live...

Suddenly I will stop complaining about an app on my phone that I have to keep just in case I need to re-authenticate my account on the fly. Thanks Microsuft! Judging by Sony's history of dealing with hacking and known exploits in their security. It seems like they could give a shit about being prepared.  What I find amazing is that this person committing fraud activated their own ps4. You'd think in this day and age this would be the dumbest criminal to ever live, but were sitting here trying to figure out how OP can get his games and money back. Shouldn't they be able to track that and ban that PS4 and its account? YOU'D THINK THAT but here Sony is, grabbing its own nuts Shouldn't they be able to turn over the information to the police? It's $600 in fraudulent charges, that should easily be enough for law enforcement to pull an address from an ISP and actually go after whoever did this. If you decide to go to your bank, ask if the fraud representative will call Sony with you to negotiate. They do this for a living, and a lot of companies will roll over when they're speaking with a fraud representative since they know how to ask the right questions and apply the appropriate pressure. It's in the bank's interest to do this since they will eat the loss if Sony doesn't cough up.

Edit: as someone else has pointed out, this may not help with Sony threatening to shut down OP's account. If I were in OP's position, though, I think that getting a professional negotiator in the mix would be the most likely way of getting the most desirable outcome. YMMV. That's a good idea. I just might do that, thank you! This is really a good idea. My wife and I got all of our money back in a matter of minutes doing this.  Depending on the amount and area that you live, the bank will automatically involve the police. If they do, see if you can get a copy of the police report sent to Sony as well.  OP should be able to get a copy of the police report by going into his local police station and asking for it if one has already been filed.
 Yeah. Last time I needed a copy of the police report, I called ahead. They had it pulled and waiting for me when I got there. I was going to suggest filing a police report, too. Absolutely necessary for things like this. There's a pretty good chance OP is not the only one the criminal has stolen from, and involving the police might help someone else down the line. on top of that, maybe someone else knows, could OP also tell Sony he will go through Small Claims for damages if everything isn't restored? OP would have a chance in Small Claims court, and Sony, like most corporations, hate the SC playing field because it is so even. so even if his account isn't restored, he could collect damages for Sony closing the account, not resolving the situation even after police and OP's bank were involved and causing losses of games. I had  $0.25 fraudulent charge on my card, origin in some backwater town in Brazil.  I've never been to Brazil nor use that card (used the first month for churning points, then cut it up).  I take this very personal, regardless of the amount.  Called Chasez canceled the card, opened a fraud investigation (I wanted to catch the fucker), and had Chase contact the Brazilian authorities to file a criminal report (I *really* wanted to catch the fucker).  I think when they realized it was over a USD quarter they canceled the investigation.  Criminals will often start with small charges like that to see if anyone notices, then make progressively larger purchases Wells Fargo banker here, this is 100 percent correct. They start small to see if the charging the account will work and to see if you actually notice.. Fraudsters make me rage! That or they Max out what they can immediately. Either way it's worth reporting to prevent further charges from applying, and to act as evidence if they get investigated for fraudulent charges against other accounts.  The small charge is to prove it's a live card,  then they sell it with the proof on a carding market.  They get much more for live cards.  I sent my Wii U controller to get fixed after I figured out it wasnt a screen issue. They sent it back but instead of fixing it and charging me 120 they didnt fix it and charged me 100. I told my bank that I would have just bought the controller had I known the policy as I had attempted to fix it. Nintendo wasnt interested saying it was in the terms... the bank fixed the issue for me though with no charge. For future reference, pretty much every electronic device you own has a "we will consider this warranty/guarantee void if you have attempted to do X, Y and Z" 

Best bet is to just contact customer support straight away.  Void the warranty, fine. Don't charge me for not doing anything.  To play devils advocate, they received it, depackaged it, investigated it, repackaged it, shipped it back to you, all man hours and money. $100 is a biiiit much but don't say that you didn't cost them anything. 

edit: not to mention you sent it in for warranty repairs after taking it apart (i'm 99.9% sure there's some warning about voiding the warranty somewhere on the back or exterior of the thing). what did you expect them to do exactly? I used to work in disputes for a credit card company. Sony was one of the companies that would refuse to speak to customers with a 3rd party on the line, so don't be surprised if that happens. 

Someone unlawfully accessed an account with your CC info, and used that info to make purchases, so this wouldn't be a disputes situation anyways (the agents in the disputes department would be the ones with merchant resolution training). This is clear-cut fraud and you should be protected by your bank. This means that the bank will cover the cost of the fraudulent activity. Normally, that wouldn't be a problem. You just call, report the fraud, they will cancel your card, send a new one and cover the charges. This situation is a tricky one, because the bank will still often file a chargeback, in an attempt to get their money back. When Sony receives notification that the charges are being charged back to them, they don't fight it. They simply suspend or terminate the cardholder's account, even though the chargeback is due to fraudulent activity, and not because the cardholder decided that they weren't happy with the service they were receiving. When you report the fraud to your bank, make sure they know that under no circumstances, do you want them to file a chargeback, and make sure they know why. 

I always used to tell people to get a pre-paid debit card, one that you can transfer money to from your bank account and use that for your PSN account. Then you just transfer money over to it as you need it. If someone steals your PSN info again, they will only have access to what little amount of money is left on your prepaid card. 
 This. Corporations will close accounts for chargebacks, as they have to pay a fee on each transaction charged back. Have the bank write in and ask for a reversal of charges, due to them being fraudulent. Sony must prove the transactions either aren't fraud, or refund them.  Do this. I work in credit card fraud for a living. I call companies and get them to issue credits everyday. Your bank should be more than happy to do this for you. If you're using a debit card, you may be liable for up to 50.00 but the bank should cover everything else. See if you can get Sony to send something in writing verifying that your account was hacked and send it to the bank. That liability is *usually* going to be limited to PIN based transactions, at least in my experience from the banks I've worked at. What credentials do you need to get into this field?  I am expert at getting credits wherever they can be gotten and I nearly get a boner from doing it.  This applies to my bank, credit services, cellphone carrier, isp, any subscription service, RockStar most recently, PSN (only $50 there, wish i could help OP)  I am not scamming them, I am pursuing legitimate grief and kicking in doors that slam in most peoples faces. I offer mt services to ky friends and family because I enjoy it so much. Am a bank teller, can confirm. Ask them if they can three way sony in with you two. Usually the bank will eat fraudulent charges, especially if Sony is only willing to refund $150; they make pick up the remaining $300. Your best bet would probably be to report it to the bank and try to get the full $450 though. The bank can't really turn you down because you're reporting it so early (there's usually a 60 day limit on these things) Especially because of how timely you would be with reporting the fraud it's worth a try OP! 

Edit: Math because Mindreaver. And the three way is out of my scope, doesn't mean I don't talk to the reps/managers that deal with it. I work for a smaller bank, so maybe we're more prone to eating charges to keep you around and keep taking your money :)  Yup... and for a merchant to ignore fraud doesn't go over super well either.... they could be further penalized by the card issuers.
 Or dropped by card issuers.  In Sony's case, I doubt they'd drop them, but the percentage Visa/Mastercard/etc get at the next negotiation could go up if Sony is slack on fraud. A three way with a bank and Sony sounds like a good way to get double-fucked. Call up Comcast and EA while you're at it! &gt; Ask them if they can three way sony in with you two.

http://i.imgur.com/2JvHaP6.png

 I would also ask for this to be escalated up the food chain if the bank can do nothing with it. I used to work for XM Radio before Sirius screwed it up. We had a limit, but anything over the limit can be authorized by someone in the next dept. We had to escalate calls up the line in certain cases. Especially if the person threatened to talk to the *cough* **attorney general** *cough cough* for their state.

edit:spelling You should get that bronchitis looked at. Was there a lot of satellite radio fraud? I'm surprised the credit card companies (V/MC/AMEX/Disc/etc) allow a company that accepts their card to "punish" a customer for challenging a charge. Visa cannot interfere with random agreements between you and Sony.

What they CAN do is issue a chargeback for fraudulent, unauthorized charges, and charge the merchant (Sony) an additional $30 fee for the trouble. In other words they fuck over the merchant, that's all.

In this case Sony is probably a bit pissed as well, since it's possible the hack could have been completely your fault (you posted your password on a public computer or some shit). Then they need to institute something like 2 factor authentication for any purchase over $60 or something similar.  If their limit is $150, then I'd certainly expect some sort of protection to kick in at $150.

My Capital One credit card has something very similar.  It denies charges over a certain amount, but all I have to do is click a button in their app or in my email and it gets approved.  It's pretty useful when you get used to it and it's the difference a customer-centric company makes.


edit:  Oh, and I don't think sony get's to be pissed at a consumer for their account getting hacked for a LONG LONG time. &gt;Then they need to institute something like 2 factor authentication for any purchase over $60 or something similar. If their limit is $150, then I'd certainly expect some sort of protection to kick in at $150.

The problem is, as the OP mentioned in his post (unless I read it incorrectly), they were several small charges incurred over a small period of time. Those usually don't get caught by any kind of two-factor authentication.

&gt;edit: Oh, and I don't think sony get's to be pissed at a consumer for their account getting hacked for a LONG LONG time.

Ten bucks says this "refund limit" was added after their first or second hack to try and control it in regards to money loss.

Regardless this doesn't make much sense. They refund the money, they remove the purchases from the account. It doesn't really make sense. Everything is electronic and easily refundable. You simply can't access it anymore. This is the funny thing. How can Sony say they are losing money when this is all digital... the only thing they need to do is remove the purchased games from the person PSN account and call it a day. The $150 refund limit (and only in PSN credit) is total BS and someone should take them to court on it I have two step authentication on my xbox. Before every purchase it asks me to input a button sequence in the controller that I choose. So for any and every purchase I have to input the button sequence. I also have to put in the button sequence if I login on another console. Great because I often go to friend's house. Maybe PSN could do something like this. &gt; Visa cannot interfere with random agreements between you and Sony.

Yes they bloody well can. Visa and Mastercard hold massive sway over online businesses. In their credit card agreement they can put clauses restricting what sony can do to the end user in the result of a charge back.  VISA can terminate the merchant's ability to use VISA cards.

Credit card companies will tell a merchant to stop charging extra fees for credit cards.  They should have no problem contacting a merchant and telling them that harming their customer over fraud caused by sony's lack of security will get their merchant account pulled.  Credit card companies aren't going to let stores retaliate against their customers. Work in financial crimes for a major bank so I have to disagree with this. If I issue a dispute(chargeback) through VISA, I'm going to win 99% of the time. Sony has to PROVE to visa that this was not a fraudulent transaction, and that is a very hard thing to do. When they inevitably fail to do so, the bank gets back 100% of the funds for these online-based transactions. In fact, I wouldn't call them at all as it would be a waste of my time. The calling to negotiate would be for OP to not have his account banned.  Who cares when Sony can't even disable the one activation every 6 months thing. Fuck Sony I guarantee you that they can. It's just not something that they can do regularly. Ask to speak to a manager, and if they can't help you, ask to speak to their manager. Someone up that line of command will be able to click a button and fix it.

Don't try using this method for frivolous shit though, or you'll be asked to fuck off pretty quickly.

Source: Worked in customer service for 8yrs. Slowly made my way up the chain and with higher positions came more options on how to deal with problems. Agreed. If you are 100% sure of your position, always ALWAYS go up the chain. It may be time-consuming, but it gets shit done. The problem is that while he then gets his money back... Sony then bans the account and there's nothing you can do about that. Unless of course you then file a chargeback for the items attatched to his account like the charge that was applied for the games purchased.  
  
Honestly I would be willing to bet that this kind of thing should go to small claims court. Thats a risk of 'always online' services.  Theres just not much you can do since you're not the owner of a game, just a 'licensee' and that license can be revoked at any time. Annnd this is why we need new consumer protection legislation to address avenues of digital distribution not contemplated by current law. We have some in the UK!

Under the Consumer Contracts Regulations 2014 if you purchase anything online, and I mean *anything*, you are entitled to a FULL refund if you request it within 14 days of receiving the item you have purchased.

For example Valve/Steam run the "no refunds" line but that is contrary to UK law, upon threatening to inform Trading Standards and a Small Claims Court action Valve coughed up the cash and the account wasn't affected at all. They **have** to refund you no matter what, nothing allows them to refuse you.

Of course the banning issue isn't solved yet but at the very least you are guaranteed your money back and it's a step forward in the right direction. That's why I keep my card maxed-out. 

NONE OF US CAN USE IT! This actually saved me 500 bucks. I got a call from my bank that my credit card was being used in Vegas when I was in Toronto. Don't know how they got my info but I would have been out 500 had my card not been maxed. 

Yay poor money management skills! Nah, your CC company would be out 500 bucks. That happen to me too. Got a call from the bank telling someone kept trying to buy 400 dollars worth of women's clothes and camping gear. But my card was maxed out. So they couldn't. Lol I sure showed them they can't steal from me because I have no money. Having "worked the phones" I see a phrase I recognize as a cop out. The transcript listed has the rep saying "you'll get the same answer from my supervisor". The best response?  "Ok cool, then send me over to them so I can get their name when they tell me the same thing"

I worked for Satan himself (Comcast) and would spew that line occasionally (not to you in this case since you were very nice and not a condescending asshat. Hell, I'd have recommended escalating to a supervisor) in order to avoid a pointless escalation. You have effective proof, and they aren't stepping up to the plate. They need to blacklist the other PS4, reinstate yours regardless of well intentioned policy,  and get you your money back. They've already effectively admitted culpability by offering the $150 credit, hence them pushing this to your bank. 

Fight! FIGHT MY FRIEND! Never give up! And never surrender!  Worked phones for Charter, noticed that deescalating phrase as well. Sometimes I'd use that phrase myself when I already know that the answer is absolutely no, even if I really want something to be done about it (I'd still ask just in case though)

Times like these I feel terrible for the agents who get caught in situations like this, because a lot of the time people shoot the messenger. OP was very reasonable though. Still, I hate the way big companies set things up in a way that they screw over the customer, then put customer service reps on the front lines as meat shields. You're the second person to complain about this in two days, I'm glad my psn account uses a password I dont use for anything else.  I feel like I've read this kind of thing on reddit a few times before, always with 'Sony told me to go fuck myself.' Seems like some terrible customer service Chances are that the account was phished with a fake website login; obscure, rare passwords fall victim to that kind of scam every day. My PSN password is complex and only used for PSN. I had also never logged into the website before today, nor have I received any email or contact from Sony regarding any problems with my account. Yet, somehow my PS4 was deactivated a month ago without my approval and another PS4 was activated.  Sony has had notoriously poor security which included passwords being stored in plain text. Given their recent breaches it would not surprise me if nearly all Sony accounts are compromised. Hey man. I got a last of us game code if you want it. I was gonna sell it but I'm willing to PM you if you want it. Just let me know!

edit: thank you everyone for the kind words! hopefully OP accepts my offer!  Things are tight atm so [here](http://img.pandawhale.com/post-32893-reddit-bronze-meme-funny-imgur-hXPp.jpeg). Could at least give him reddit silver. what if hes a werewolf?  All he's gunna need is a few details about your account... THIS is why I buy PSN and PS+ cards from amazon and then put the codes into my PSN account. I would suggest calling for a manager, and keeping going up the ladder of supervisors until one of them can make it right.  Exactly this. I have my cc on file for my xbox live account but have heard too many stories of PSN hacks. Prepaid cards only for my PS4. I think you can set up two-factor auth for xbox. If you haven't, do! You can! I have it set up for my Microsoft Account, and it's linked to the Google Authenticator app (easy place to keep all my 2-factor auths - Google, Microsoft, and Facebook). 

I'm thinking about getting a U2F key, but unfortunately only Google supports it really. It'd be awesome to have a physical key though.  Amazon PSN gift cards are the way to go and it is almost just as fast.  Takes just a few extra steps to check my email for the code and type it into my account. Definitely worth it for all the bad rep Sony has been getting with their security.  That is smart, but it is pretty fucking pathetic that people have to resort to that because Sony's security is so terrible.  I do that too, but after seeing all this shit I removed my card from my account just in case. Changed my password too. Up to a certain point you can blame the customer for having a weak password or w/e but this is getting out of hand. I use my credit card if I need to buy stuff on my ps4, and then as soon as I'm done, I remove the card from my account.  Smart. The thing that worries me though is that Sony probably secretly stored my credit card info on a bumper sticker or something for their company cars. I just try not to think about that.  The PS5 will come preloaded with all of their previous customers personal information so you don't have to enter it yourself. "Honk if you love 4516090134580128 Expiry 09/17 CVV 882"  You can remove your credit card from PSN on their website too.  That means you can:

* Use CC for a purchase
* Let purchase complete
* Remove so that other purchases can't be made on  it

It might be more secure to do the PSN/PS+ card thing, but at least that means that your CC info is (in theory) only on their servers for long enough to make the charge. &gt;Absolutely furious. Change your passwords, everyone. Better yet, don't have your credit card on file with Sony - if something were to happen, you won't be taken care of.

I guess the better option would be to buy those PSN cards with a set cash value on it.  

Sorry OP I hope the best for you. You don't even need to buy physical cards. Amazon allows you to buy codes and get them online instantly for redemption on PSN. It sucks that people are having problems but if you're worried I'd definitely recommend doing it this way, you lose maybe a minute at most per purchase and you end up with a bit of odd and difficult to use credit from time to time but it's still really convenient and the peace of mind is a big plus. Yep. I do the same with Microsoft points, iTunes, and the like. Maybe I'm paranoid, but I don't trust most companies to protect or not misuse my bank data. I can not stress enough the importance of not having your primary credit/debit card on any internet service. Most banks (if not all) will allow you to create a virtual card you have to charge with money. Keep in that card a minimum amount there for whatever you may want, but whenever you want to buy something more expensive, just add the credit you need and buy straight away. Save yourself some trouble in case shit happens.

EDIT: In case someone is still a bit lost on this, the idea here is to create a virtual card in your bank. You should be able to do this online without too much trouble, for free, but depending on your bank this may be a bit hidden. Just call and ask if you can not find it in your online control panel. In that card you keep a minimum of around 10 for the ocasional steam, psn or android sale. You can link this card to steam, google play, paypal, ... to all regards it works like a normal card except that it does not have a tangible plastic associated. It will even get renovated automatically when the date expires if you so desire it. It has number, date, CCV, name.. anything you may expect to operate with it. In my case, to charge my card I have to do a two step process with two passwords, one of them is a one time only sent to my phone when I am doing the operation. The money goes instant and most of the time I do the charge when I am at the final checkout phase.
If the card has no money or the amount of money in it is not enough to cover a specific purchase, the operation will simply not work. There is no red numbers here, it will simply cancel the operation (I have seen this more than once in steam...). At any time you can delete that card and create another one, though I do not know the specifics on this and probably each bank will have its own rules. The point is that if for any reason your card gets "stolen" and someone robs you 3, you can delete it with a click. I feel tremendously more safe using this card, and let me tell you, I have avoided some purchases I would have regret later! (beer+steam sales...)

 I will say that even with all the stuff I hate about Microsoft and Xbox, they've always helped me when I've had problems with my account. One time my account was hacked and the hacker used my card to buy a lot of DLC for several games. I contacted Microsoft about the issue, and the hacker had changed ALL my info, making it nearly impossible to get my account back. 

 After several hours on the phone, they gave me my account back AND let me keep all the DLC for free. 

10/10 would get hacked again

Edit: This was years ago back in middle school. Saw one of those "free Microsoft points" websites and my dumbass signed up, freely giving them all my info. I thought I was so smart.  I know you've obviously been trying all normal resolution routes, and you don't seem to be getting anywhere, heres a couple of things that might help:

Tweet this thread to the below people: repeatedly if possible, whoever handles their accounts will pass it down the food chain (which will most likely mean you end up with someone who has more chance of resolving it than the dicks on Chat)

Philip Rosenberg: Senior Vice President, Business Development and Publisher Relations

Twitter account: @philrosenberg

Andrew House: President &amp; Global CEO
Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.

Twitter: @andrewhouse_ps

Also I would try emailing all of the below addresses, CC all into one email so they see you are not letting this go away. I would even try the UK guy as he may send it through to the US side, you never know.

Email for Director of Customer Services in the UK: andy_barker@scee.net

Your probably based in the US so...

Old email for President and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment America: shawn_layden@playstation.sony.com

New guys name is Andrew House so I would try:
andrew_house@playstation.sony.com

I hope OP sees this as this was the only way I was able to get a UK ISP to resolve termination of a business account for me. Good Luck!
 Delete your credit card information from Playstation systems please. Guys, gals, it only takes a minute
Settings &gt; PSN &gt; Account Information &gt; Wallet &gt; Delete. I got out of bed immediately after delving into the comment section here. I love my PS4 but I'm not going to suffer multihundred dollar charges for it Thank you!!! done!! 

 Well this just changed my mind about getting a PS4. If that doesn't put you off, how about the fact that that you can't play ~~media~~ video files from USB drives?

Fuck sony...
 Asus recently removed the ability to write to usb drives from their transformer tablet/netbooks. A device they market as a laptop, which can't open and edit a document on a thumb drive. Enabling it again voids the warranty. The extent to which companies try to lock people in is amazing and makes me want to focus only on cheap knockoffs from china. 

I used to think that Richard Stallman was a crazy hippy. But the more time that goes by the more I see his point about closed environments. Companies grew rich operating company stores for miners and such back in the day. And we're pretty much begging for tech companies to do the same.  Well, shit what's the use of the usb drives then? Only charging the controllers?

That's fucking stupid. Really? I have a $50 Sony dvd player from like 2008 that I use to play all my movies from the usb slot. It's odd a new console couldn't do that.  If Sony cant protect me from Hackers, then maybe Microsofts Xbox one is a better option. Considering you have one Microsoft account and it holds Outlook, Skype, OneDrive, Office, OneNote, Bing + Cortana and many more things on top of Xbox they do indeed care far more about keeping those things secure. Not fanboying here but yes microsoft has keep my information safe these last 7 years, it's unacceptable that sony is treating a costumer like so.  Microsoft is a fucking bro when it comes to helping you out.

Several years ago, I logged on to my 360 and it said it couldn't sign into my account. I already set it to automatically sign in when I turn on the console. I got confused and restarted it. Same thing. I start to panic a little bit because I was only 14 and didn't know what to do so I asked my parents. My dad didn't give a shit but my mom said I should call the Microsoft. I was still a little uneasy about talking to strangers on the phone but I really wanted my account back and said fuck it.

I call the number I saw in their website and start waiting. Within a minute, I'm connected with someone. I start saying how my Xbox couldn't sign into my own account by default and such. The guy was a young adult type of guy and really chill. He simply asked me what my gamertag was and I told him. He looks it up and after a few seconds, he told me my account doesn't exist at the moment.

***WTF?!??!?***

I start freaking out and panicking. The guy just tells me to calm down and says he'll transfer me over to another person and see if they can recover my account. 

I start waiting and getting super anxious. Before long another person is hooked up with me. This guy sounded obese just by his voice. He asks me what my email and password was. So I told him it and such. 

He was quiet for a little bit and start getting worried. Wondering if I'll never get my account back. 

Then at that moment, he said he found it and returned my account along all the information with it to the last Xbox it was signed in on. I start jumping around thanking him with all my heart. But what he said next is something I'll never forget.

*"Dude, don't worry at all about it. It's my job to fix these things. I'm a gamer just like you. If I lost my account I would be devastated so I make sure that'll never happen to someone. I treat your account as if it was mine."*

I have never had another problem since then. My account is still with me after the 6 years I've had it. I wish more people were like this.. Just imagine: banking (I treat your money as if it were my own), construction workers (I treat your house as if it were my own), courier (I treat your package as if it were my own), and so on. It should be the #1 mantra for the service industry.
 I just wish politicians and corporations treated my country like it was their own. I think they do, and that this is our current problem; if you know what i'm saying.  *golf clap* Doctors, "I treat your wife as if she were my own" ;) mike holmes, definitely the construction guy that would treat your home as his home. :) &gt; courier

Real couriers do act this way. I don't really consider random UPS and FedEx drivers to be couriers. They'll throw your box labeled "Fragile" all over the place and blame the ride. I am quite worried the second guy asked for both your email and password.

Asking for passwords is a huge security breach, and people with privileged permissions don't need it to fix that kind of problem, and neither they should be authorized to deal with problems that need them. Seriously, I hope OP is just not remembering it correctly. They made need to verify your identity with DOB or other details but they should never ask you for your password.  I tried to log a bug with Google, a certain phone number would not call from my email correctly. I saw one number, it dialed way different. You know what the top Google answer for "Google customer service" is? Not Google. Dude asked me about the issue, I explained. Guy asked me for my email. I said okay (took a while, apparently my thick American accent was hard on him), then my password.  
"Why?"  "So I can look at the email."  "Umm, you obviously aren't Google, so fuck you."  "How else would I see the issue sir?"  "I could forward it."  "Excuse me?"  "No, you know what, fuck off.  This is a bullshit number, I'm done."  
Twenty minutes later I get a call back asking if I needed tech support.  I dropped a few more f bombs. Microsoft is really good about these sort of things.

3 1/2 years ago I was still living with my parents, I just started working a well paying job (that I'm still at) but I hadn't started making much money yet and I was paying off what little debt I did have, hovering at about $500 in my account with a car payment coming out and $1000 bucks available on my credit card if I needed to use it.

I usually don't check my email on my phone but I just happened to that day and seen $1000 in charges on my card from Microsoft, almost all for games I already own on disk.

Changed my password right away, called Microsoft and the representative locked my account for me right away and told me she can get the investigation underway but to speed up the process I would have to get them my Xboxs serial number.

I was working 3 hours away from home.  Finished my shift and drove home, phoned back with the serial number and had all the charges refunded within 3 hours of getting home.  I was beyond happy with xbox support that day. I spilled a glass of orange juice on my Microsoft wireless keyboard, and I called them up just curious if they had any tips on how to clean it, and they just said sent it back and we'll send you a new one. . . and they did.  That was pretty nice. I had an interesting experience with Microsoft a few years ago. My 360 (one of the original ones) had stopped reading discs, so we called Microsoft and they said they could fi it for $150 or so. I figured that it was better than buying a new console, so we sent it. Or so we thought. It turned out the UPS lost the package. So we call Microsoft, and the actually sent an Xbox for the $150 we had already sent. Awesome, right? The thing was, that Xbox didn't really work either, this time the problem being that controllers constantly and without reason disconnected, even if plugged in by USB cord. While it kinda sucked to have such an annoying problem, I was just grateful to have a 360 for $150, and was afraid of losing it again so we just kept it.

**TL;DR** Microsoft was really cool after UPS lost my broken Xbox, but they sent me another broken one. Up vote for mums "call the Microsoft" line. 

My boss regularly tells me to "ask the Google". Can't tell if he's legit or not yet.  When you said the guy sounded overweight, I convinced myself that this was going to end with Nessie demanding money.  "Well, for your 360, imma need about... tree fiddy" People always mock XBL for having to pay for it, yes it sucks that you have to pay for it but that money does come with some added benefits that PSN won't have. I never had any issues with XBL back when I was a console gamer and I honestly never felt upset about paying what was then a reasonable charge. Don't you have to pay for PSN now though anyway? Can confirm.  I got hacked for a total of $230 in 2011.  Microsoft froze my account, told me to contact my bank, and unfroze it once my funds were replaced and my account number was changed.

Edit: I should also add that my account *was* frozen so for those 3-4 days I didn't have access to any of my games, or even SAVES I had for games that I had on disk.  It sucked but I was happy with the end result. We must stop these costumed menaces.  Microsoft is the only company I've ever given my address to that I didn't get spam mail from.  I give everyone a different middle initial, so I know who is selling my list. It really is. Microsoft support is up there with amazon support in my experience.  Well I mean when I was hacked and someone bought a shit ton of stuff on my account they gave me a full refund *and* let me keep the games. So yeah. Most of it was shit but there was a couple of Arkham City DLC and the Watchmen beat 'em up game. I would walk. Have the bank reverse the charges. Tell Sony to bite me, and walk away. There are too many entertainment options to suffer this type of abuse. I would destroy my Sony equipment, and make it public. I would forever refuse to pay for anything from Sony. I would tell evryone who would listen. Ask me about Kershaw Knives customer service. They suck, and I will make knives before ever buying one of their products. They have some of the best designers, good products, and much of the market cornered, but they blew me off, and I walked. I use knives everyday at work, so people ask for my input. I give it willingly. Tell Sony every time you have the opportunity.
 More people need to do shit like this. I got burned by Samsung with my Galaxy S3 and stopped buying their products all together. Unfortunately, terrible customer service and shitty product quality has become a normal thing, and people are completely fine with getting boned over. What's worse, they'll just keep going back for more when the next cycle of new products come through. With all the security breaches at Sony you would think they would be a little more understanding, especially since it's likely there fault to begin with.   I can see the class action law suits already.  Don't you love no refund policies? Like, seriously, it's just digital data, how hard is it to unlink from your profile?

It's stupid, but your best choice might be to just dispute the charges. If Sony has a way to allow you to change your PSN ID then change it first, so you can re-use it later. Right? So they have no problem taking away "Last of Us" and his PSN games if he disputes the charges with his bank, but they can't take away the games that were fraudulently purchased? Its a financial liability they want to push on customers. By threatening to ban your Sony account, they pit your purchase history and trophy list against your wallet. If you cave, they keep your stolen cash, and profit. If you don't cave, they punish you by taking all your stuff and then profiting if you chose to restore your collection over time. 

TLDR: Software companies are often shits.  Which is why it's almost always better to buy physical media and give them a middle finger. I expect down votes, but a story like this makes me highly unlikely to ever purchase a ps4. Anyone coulda be hacked, this is how they respond? Wow. I'm in the same boat. Was going to get a ps4 later this year. Yeah, not anymore. Highly suggest you take it to social media companies roll over with that shit.

That aside NEVER save your CC info. If it was me, I'd do a charge back with the bank. Then sell my ps4 and never buy another Sony product again for the rest of my life. do us a favour and inform us of the final result. 

have to mention this since reddit is famous for users never following through :) DRM man, hell of a great idea! Great for Sony that is. They don't care because the consumer is basically powerless.

Small claims court as a last resort, but knowing sony you have probably agreed to arbitration and have no real legal recourse.
 PM me your address and I'll mail you my copy of the Last of Us Remastered. This is bullshit.  OP, Sony is defrauding you. By holding your account hostage unless you agree to eat the charges (FOR DIGITAL GOODS THEY AREN'T EVEN OUT ANYTHING FOR) they are actively participating in fraud. If you dispute with the credit card company (and you absolutely should, fuck Sony don't give them a dime) and they ban your account, have the credit card company charge back every PSN purchase you've ever made.  You could go this route. I would go this route. I will tell the rep that I will dispute the fraudulent charges with my bank/CC and that if they ban my account, I will show proof to my bank/CC that services/products provided were "in-effect" refunded. Your Bank/CC cares a lot more about you than Sony does. 

You can also look into CCs that give you virtual CC#'s (like a Citi Forward - PS I do not work for them) and use those more safely. But the PITA would be having to change them when you want a new purchase (I believe). I gave up on the PSN after a similar incident last year. My account was hacked, I had all identifying materials require to prove I'm me. They told me I had to dispute it, sent me a rubbish long document, then told me I wasn't me and banned my account.

Hopeless customer service. Say what you will about Microsoft, but their customer support (in my experience), is loads better than this. Plus /u/majornelson (Xbox Live Director) is very active in the /r/xboxone subreddit, and is known for fixing these nightmares for us. 

Edit: my point exactly!  Was just reading this post. Sorry man, that sucks :( I wish I could help.  This will probably get lost in here now, but Sony customer service is one of the worst I have ever had to contact. I contacted Sony around two years ago to cancel my PS+ subscription as I had no plans to buy a PS4, and didn't really care for the free games (everything I really wanted, I had on disc). The Playstation website back then would not allow you to do it online, the only way was to do it via PS3, or by contacting customer support. I called customer support about a month before my renewal date, who fully assured me the automatic renewal had been turned off. A month later, and lo and behold 40 out my bank and I have a new year of PS+. I immediately contacted Sony again, and was repeatedly told that customer services were not able to cancel auto renewal over the phone, it MUST be done via the website or the console. Now a few years ago, you absolutely COULD NOT do it via the website. I even screenshotted the FAQ page that specified I had to do it via the console or customer services, but then customer services told they couldn't do it and I should use the website (I didn't actually have access to my PS3 online at that time, so I couldn't use that). Even though I'd shown them proof that the website couldn't so it and it directed me to them.

Sony managers were outright rude and arrogant, and refused to believe there was a problem. They refused to refund me, and similar to OP said, if I had my bank reverse the charge they would ban my account. I know a 40 renewal is nothing compared to OP's problem, but the way Sony respond to these things is cartoonishly bad. I had a problem with Microsoft billing, contacted them and I was refunded immediately, they couldn't stop apologising to me when it was a mere misunderstanding, nothing they particularly messed up. It is utterly impossible to escalate any issue you have with Sony, they will not give out contact details for real complaints to anyone but their own services department and the managers there are even more condescending than the regular staff.

That whole episode really damaged my view of Sony as a company, and I now avoid Sony products and services full stop, I will not support any company that thinks it's ok to treat its customers like total shit. From OP's story it seems the US customer service branch is exactly as bad as the UK one. If Sony wants to turn any of it's flailing fortunes around, customer service is a good place to start. why hesitate? just call the bank and get your $600 back, if they ban your account just sell your console and get a PC
stop giving money to these fuckers Blow it up on twitter and all other media outlets, tell people until Sony treats you like a fucking customer and not a money hold to fuck.     *Raises fist* Power to the people
 Wow, I thought Nintendo's Online Account rules were BS! It's mildly infuriating how, in almost all of the examples of the chat transcripts between a person and a Sony agent, they seem to want to dump the chat as fast as they can. No fucks given.

"So you're telling me I have to pay tons of money or lose all the games I've bought"

"Yes. Is there anything else I can help you with?"

"Wait, that's insane, I have concrete proof this was fraud."

"That's outside our policy. Is there anything else I can help you with?"

"I don't understand, why does your policy on fraud punish the person defrauded?"

"Unfortunately, it appears I am not able to assist you with your request today. I will be disconnecting this chat session. Thanks for contacting PlayStation.

*The chat has been ended by the agent.*"

---

Can you imagine if someone was talking to you like this face-to-face? This happened to me in November of last year. I got up that morning and nothing was amiss. I went to class, and my phone was buzzing like crazy for my first class. When I got out, I checked my phone. I got 8 emails from Sony telling me that my PSN account's email address and password had been changed and my wallet had been loaded for about 500 bucks and all of it was spent. I got the exact same runaround that you did. I did the chargeback and was banned. Probably the worst customer service I've ever dealt with. [This guy is having the same problem.](http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2yhqlb/sony_is_holding_my_psn_account_hostage/) I know your pain. I had a similar issue a few weeks back and I ended up with the worst customer service I've ever received in my life. A family member accidentally pre-ordered a copy of 1886. They refused to give me a refund. For a pre-order. I had to fight tooth and nail to get anything out of them.

Best of luck. 


http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2wdlan/til_that_if_you_turn_on_a_ps4_press_up_once_and/ Mate, escalate it,  i had the same issue with my Microsoft account.  I got so pissed i actually emailed Steve Ballmer and he escalated it.  I actually posted that story on /r/talesfromteschsupport.  Find the senior VP for sony customer services and email him direct with all the information you have.  Dont be angry, be courteous and provide coherant information. Contact bank

report $600 in fraud charges

tell Sony to eat shit

sell PS4. Build a pc man. You'll never go back. Good guy sony: your options are "fuck you" or "fuck you" A PR nightmare is just what Sony deserves at this point.  I'm primarily a PC gamer but I own a PS3 for the exclusives and coop games, I've had my eye on getting a PS4 for some time, I'm just waiting for more games.

But here's an open letter to Sony. If this customer doesn't get:
- 100% of the stolen credit renewed back to their bank as cash
- Their PSN account back IMMEDIATELY
- An apology for your customer support being twats

I'm never buying a PS4 ever, I'm not even slightly kidding, this is disgusting behaviour and completely off-putting as a potential future customer. I have 500 games on steam and have ZERO beef with not dropping money on the PS4.

Get your god damn act together. Im primarily a pc gamer too, and  I just bought my ps4 two days ago. Its a shame that sony is acting this way because I would have never bought a ps4 or sony console for a long time due to their customer service and  security.Im a gamer and im loyal to games not consoles, if it wasnt for the fact that Bloodborne and Disgaea 5 were ps4 exclusive I would never have gotten a ps4 and instead get the wii u.

Ill put up with sony to support the games and devs I love, but I sure as hell will be wary of them for awhile now.
 &gt; I don't think Sony is malicious or evil. They're a big company with millions of customers and employees, and sometimes things fall through the cracks. 

I beg to differ. I think they're [completely evil](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_BMG_copy_protection_rootkit_scandal), [mailicious](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Computer_Entertainment_America,_Inc._v._Hotz) and [incompetent to boot](http://www.businessinsider.com/sony-insider-the-security-team-has-no-fing-clue-2014-12). Dispute it with your bank. I'll send you my copy of the Last of Us remastered if you get banned.  This happened to my brother Xbox live account, they refunded the $400 worth of purchases and he still got to keep all the DLC. The only thing they couldn't do is change his gamertag back.

I don't understand why they are so limited to helping you, it's their system that got hacked. Sony needs to grow some balls and get rid of their dumbass policies that just fuck over their customers.  Me too. Microsofts a fucking bro with their digital/online security stuff. Time to switch to PC. Seriously who buys a device that can be terminated remotely for whatever reason by someone other than you. You're saying a steam or origin account isn't  vulnerable to the same problem....? It isn't because steam guard actually works. My "gamer tag" Also is not connected to the name of my login or my Email.  Steam guard works as long as the hackers don't also have access to your email.  Still better than PSN. I would guess that is pretty safe as long as your Email is safe.  
My Steam is linked to my Gmail account. They have separate passwords which are relatively random strings of characters (numbers, symbols, alphabet upper and lower case) at least 15 characters long.  
My Google account has several security features enabled, the most important one being their authenticator.  
So if they want my account they need to take my Google account. And I think that would be pretty hard. At least they can't disable your PC if they hack your steam account. Most (good) email services have two-factor authentication. If they wanted to hijack my google account, they'd also need to steal my phone and crack the PIN to get through two-factor auth before I changed my password. Steam guard is a semi-second factor authentication. It does make it more difficult to hijack an account, but certainly doesn't make it impossible.

Of course, it's better than PSN and XBox live offer since they don't appear to require any secondary verification before account info changes. &gt;but certainly doesn't make it impossible.

Well yea, obviously. Nothing is hack-proof Possibly, but I only buy games or bundles in the $1-10 range during Steam sales, so I'm not out that much money. I keep no credit card on file, and if it gets hacked at most I lose my Steam account (which is unlikely, because cracking my email pw would take longer than the heat death of the universe), but everything else on my computer will still work fine. If that happens , you can just ask the bank for the money back and make another steam account . As for the games lost , you can pirate them and feel no remorse about it since you already paid for it.  People who like to play PS4 games that aren't on PC maybe? knack? Bloodborne, Uncharted 4,  you know, stuff like that i heard both those games are pretty awesome.  how are they to play?
 Till your account's compromised. I bought the PS4 just for the last of us. I really wish they would come out with a PC or XOne version. I honestly like the PS4 better, it really depends on what kind of games you like to play I suppose. PS4 has better RPGs and such- while Xbox seems to have a lot of action/shooters. I use them mostly for Netflix and that said I much prefer the Xbox, I like the controller more and the remote you can get for it.  [deleted] That doesn't lock out every game and the entire pc though The only non-steam game I have is Arma 1 and Operation Flashpoint. And a few Sims 2 CD's around here somewhere.  To be fair it was a decent point. but at least on pc you have options, whereas on console you only have one choice You don't actually have options. EA games will always be on Origin, Valve games will always be on Steam, etc... even in physical form, they require an account and I'm pretty sure that they all have policies to limit at 1 account by person.

The day they decide to close your account for any reason, you are screwed. Your only option is to pirate it (which I don't consider an option).

I hope that it will never happen to me, I hope that we will be able to save OP account and teach them to respect their customer, but I feel like this is way too optimist. Actually, you are right. Valve is known currently for atrociously bad customer service, obviously not comcast level bad, but still bad. 

If you decide you cannot accept their up to date ToS, they will close your account, and you will not be compensated for all your games.

So far, the only DRM free option is GoG.com I always forget GoG, I should really buy more game there, they do an amazing job convincing all they companies that DRM free is a good option. They are making GoG galaxy, but they said that the service would be optional. Yep. Though I don't think many of us have hard disc copies of much. Steam owns my life now. I have a PS4 (lol) and only go pre-paid and paypal online. My card information is saved nowhere, for a reason.

This guy stated his account is the same exact login details all over. He admitted he got phished and his login was probably posted to a forum. If you aren't an idiot, this won't happen. If you read further, someone posted a source saying this has only happened to 3 people. All of whom were probably sold on a phish forum were some hacker tried logging into every card-saving service that exists.

Steam, for example, saves cards. If someone googled how many times someone has had a steam account phished? Lol. This entire thread is 99% (PCMR) circlejerk.

(I'm former PCMR. I just use my console because I'm not paying money for a game I have no time to finish, because college. I like PS4 because I can rent a game for $5 and play on my 2 days free a week, if not month. I PCMR for things like FTL when I have a few minutes here and there and $3.99 to spend. Thank you recent sale. That games the shit. Please distract me more.) Never heard it happening on Steam. Even their VAT (anti-cheating) bans only target the one game. Unless it is a source vac ban. It did already happened. I'm unable to find it right now but I remember a thread where Steam closed an account because someone tried to sell it and it was against the terms. I remember that Steam gave back the account finally. So don't work with Steam/Origin/uPlay.

There is a world of PC gaming out there beyond these distributors.

Furthermore, there is a subtle distinction between distributor and producer lockouts. On a PC, if you get BF4, only EA can lock you out. On a PS whatever, if you get BF4, both Sony *and* EA can lock you out. This doubles your risk. Are you saying this can't be done on PC? If you point is being locked out of your games, then the same thing can happen with steam, right?  [deleted] touche  What's this in reference to? Everyone does. Every device can be remotely disabled by at least a few powerful corporations. You aren't safe. You aren't protected. The longer the current gen has been out, the less motivated I become for either of them. This is what I would do.

&gt; Tell customer service to eat it

&gt; Dispute the charges with my bank

&gt; Sell the PS4 for as much as I could without being dishonest

&gt; Use that money to build a PC

They are in a lose - lose situation. Either eat $450 on a silver platter and not use the console and *service they pay for* or spend it on something that will actually be used. You can build a great computer for $800 ($600 in charges + $200 for console). Steam would do the exact same. Hell, i'd wager it would be worse since Steam support is absolutely trash At least they can't brick a $500 system and there are other places to get games besides steam so we aren't limited to them. You can buy your games on disc and play/buy on another account on a PS4. You can also download a game from steam on multiple computers, and you can share them through steam family sharing. Disc media is dying anyway. Not if your account is blocked. Same as PS4 you can create another account, but you wont have access to your digital library from old account We have other games besides steam games, so if I were to get my account blocked for whatever reason I would still have other games to play where a ps4 would be a brick.  No it wouldn't- you can play games from a disc, or from another account. 

You will even be able to play downloaded (non ps plus) titles on the banned account from another account. You just won't be able to access the accounts online features Still doesn't change the fact that disc media is dying.  [deleted] No it's not because your licences have been revoked Nope, my license is still there, just my account has been banned. Eitherway I would definetly do this if Steam decided to act as asshole as PSN.  Steam is pretty good about it but you just have to tolerate the weeks of waiting... Hate to tell you, but his password was most likley phished or he reuses them often and someone got it from a forum.

Most (not saying all) of these are "hacks" and not actual hacks.

EDIT: Elsewhere in this thread he even says that's probably what happened and that his PSN password was NOT unique (IE, he reuses passwords). Games and Cost, amigo. Games and cost.  Hurr durr PC. I'll fill you in because you probably don't even own a PC..but Steam support is the absolute worst shit of a system. Valve games are great but be prepared to wait 6 months to get a payment dispute resolved.  Um, PCs have problems too. Name em? [deleted] No, but I know almost any problem can be fixed or severely mitigated easily if you know how, so I'd like him to name em. What problems? Steam is exactly the same i dont need to pay 60$ a year to get my credit card hacked ayy lmao You don't need to do that on PSN/XBL either. On PC you only need to download a barrely working DRM with shitty costuner service run by people who are actively trying to scam you with Early Access bullshit. Steam is going to fuck you out of a $500 console if someone steals your information? I'm pretty sure I can still use my computer if someone steals my Steam information. And with steam guard no one can login to your steam without your phone / email I was totally wrong in saying 'exactly' but you do not own steam games and they can sure as he'll ban you for any reason. At least steam has protection software though. Nope, not even close. Inform yourself. This is the most foolish post I have seen in quite some time. I've had steam refund a fucking game after two months without any issues. But they will lock your computer from using steam? Oh wait no they don't do that either. Neither does PSN, they lock your account out of PSN. And guess what? Steam DOES exactly the same and you know it. True, true, which is why I like to keep a list of all the games I purchase on steam.I don't support piracy but if there ever comes a day where I'm locked out of games I paid for, at least I have that option.  Not the case for PS4 users. Piracy? Not yet. But its already possible on PS3, 360 Wii and WiiU.
I imagine soon PS4 and X1 games becomming also torrentable. Not at all.  Valve isn't much better.

EDIT: Aww, look at all the little fanboys getting butthurt because I'm not all "Hail gaben" and shit. Valve wont brick your PC No, but they'll brick your account just as quickly. A date didn't work out, time to go gay. Bad analogy. 

If a date doesn't work out, you go find another person to date. In this case, Sony/PC didn't work out, its time to find another system. Because as we all know, steam and origin have flawless customer service.

Christ, this subreddit and the fanboyism can be pathetic at times. I'd argue that Origin actually has really good customer service, but Steam's is useless. It's /r/gaming, what do you expect? Supposedly Microsoft has great customer service though. They definitely do now, since about a half year before xboxone. Some of the best I've seen. However I remember before that it was an absolute nightmare.

Prepare to be broken circlejerk, but the best customer service I've ever seen was from EA. They spent 4 hours with me trying to fix problems with skate. They're trying to win back goodwill which I respect. They lost me last generation with the Xbone reveal. I remember it being a pain in the ass to cancel Gold years ago. Thank you! It's still a pain in the ass. You can't do it online (easily) anymore. You still have to call and listen to a sales pitch. I used to cancel every time my friends quit for months.

They lost me when they released with under powered specs, saying that "eventually" developers could overpower the specs of the PS4 if they utilized something in the console. As it released, and still stands, it's still very underpowered compared to the PS4. I have no desire to wait until 10 months before next gen for things to max out like last release. Just last week I got a free replacement power brick for my 

2006

Xbox 360

FOR FREE

Delivered within a fortnight. It was plain awesome. I have never seen customer service *this* good. Where the most prevalent distribution, aka Steam, also has a shitty customer service. i have too much self respect. [deleted] Sorry, can't here you over PC's thousands of exclusives. TLOU is old news.  And judging from the last part of your comment you seem to be quite stupid and willingly misinformed. Yeah sure just name a few exclusives like it means anything i'm sure anyone here could do the same. If anything you sound like the fanboy here. You sound like an ignorant twat, how about building $500 and getting games 1/4 the price you pay, or is the math too hard you to figure out console =/= cheaper gaming. [deleted] Like ps4 is full of mature adults? And $10,000 for upgrades? Dude I'm just correcting your bullshit. http://i.imgur.com/R3k9Z6E.gif [deleted] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_PC_exclusive_games [deleted] Most of the 8 and 16 bit era is on pc in some form now.  Not to mention that everything before the 360 gen is readily emulated, the wii too. pc can also emulate nes, atari, ps2, etc. lol

It's ok to like consoles but the fact is that pc has more games &amp; more exclusives + they are [overall better](http://i.imgur.com/O2YptYN.png). 

The golden days of consoles are long gone.

 Or bloodborne  Why you gotta be like that.  But you have a point I guess. Welp. I was getting a PS4. Xbone it is. Funny enough I was just thinking the same thing  Or PC I have one already!  Just don't buy digital games. I think you mean "rent", buying implies you own the product. Same! Both have their pros and cons, so I was never really set as I'm planning on purchasing one with my tax refund when it comes in. But this thread reminded how awesome Microsoft has been to me since I got a Xbox 360 seven years ago.

It also reminded me that PSN was hacked years ago and the entire service was down for a month.

So, Xbone gets my dollars. Xbone is fun. I'm sure PS4 is fun too. And, get this, PC is fun as well! (Also WiiU is fun). You really can't go wrong with the new consoles or a PC. Go to where your friends are and enjoy gaming.

I think this should be on the sidebar of /r/gaming honestly. just, avoid digital games, stick to physical media. Me too. I really wanted to play Last of Us and Uncharted too. I guess I could always get a PS3.  Get neither they are both pieces of shit. It's 2015 and they can't store mp3's. They aren't gaming devices they are just entertainment platforms to sell you shit.  Get a ps4 but buy retail games instead I honestly would, but sony doesn't offer a wired controller option, opting instead for a high latency 10 year old bluetooth standard.

I get that Sony wants to lock out third party manufacturers... but come on, I just want a low latency input device. The imput lag of wireless controllers too much for you breh?

Give me a break, no one can fucking notice any delay.  There's a noticeable delay by comparison. Wireless mice and controllers have always felt "spongy" to me. Sure you were.
 enjoy 720p gaming =) Wow, I remember when my Xbox Live account was hacked. Ms couldnt save my account,  but they gave me the exact amount of credit that equaled all my legit transactions (which  totaled around $600) at that time and gave me a year of Xbox live. Shit like this has me paranoid about keeping this Ps4. Fuck Sony. console gaming at its finest So I was considering buying a console.  This makes me lean heavily towards the XBone... I don't want any trouble here, but this is why I like Steam, Nintendo, &amp; Xbox Customers Services. They actually help you with your problem. It's funny this is not the first time this has happened before with PlayStation, shame on Sony. The best of luck OP &amp; if I were you, I would get a lawyer for this matter. They are suppose to help you refund all the money that was stolen. Steam is hit or miss though. Depending on your problem. Now Blizzard CS was amazing. To me at least. It can take a while to get them on the line but they are always good about handling the issues. I had been hacked once on WOW and they were very professional and timely in their investigation.  Yeah, Microsoft is also a great helper too They have such great customer service. Well you know the saying, bad news travels faster. The majority of the time people don't advertise a good customer service interaction because that's what the customer expects. A bad one on the other hand will spread like wild fire.  Well, you get what you pay for... 2011 was one of the biggest hacks in American history, they just had that huge hack a couple of months ago.  I don't understand why people keep buying this company's product knowing damn well that they don't give a shit about you and your personal data.   They have such great customer service.
/s FTFY Here is a video about it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9eIRP68PQvo How neat. It adds a new dimension knowing that you can use foreign currency if you flew in from somewhere else. Specially when you just arrived from some other country and have leftover change that you'll never convert. Great idea Well shit. I love foreign currency now I have to bring in extra so I can give to the charity box and have some for myself. Good thing I never go anywhere I wonder how much of the worlds currency is just sitting in the bottom drawer in  peoples kitchens never to see the light of day again?
Edit: second drawer from the bottom, the bottom drawer is where mum hordes plastic bags 'Bout tree fiddy I dnt know how much of my Nepalese coin gonna help charity. I'm sure anything is better than nothing. well 1 ruppee = 1 U.S penny sooo actually might hurt factoring in exchange fees Bulk, mixed foreign coins are sometimes sold by the kilogram rather than sorted and counted. TIL.  American redditors be like 

*Foreign ???*

*Kilogram ??* *Charity ??*

^(No, that's unfair, just kidding.)
 Charity is the name of that stripper I met in Las Vegas. It's that thing McDonald's asks us to do every time we buy a Big Mac. All I got is these damn Nepalese coins. Haven't been there in months, I don't even know why I bought the damn place. That should make it pay by blood and the bottom clear part is where the blood is stored. It's okay, everyone, we found the vampire. Good thing I'm Italian, garlic practically flows through my veins. Aw I'm mexican :( worst case is I'll die giving the vampire elevated levels of capsaicin. My Mexican friends cook with tons of garlic, is that not a thing? Am I going to get them in trouble for mentioning this?

Also, never underestimate the power of chili P. 'JamesLEACH'
Name checks out. All empty... :(

I'd play the fuck out of Galaga. It was just set up :) Ahhhh. Gotcha. Are you the guy from warlizard forums? &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; have you at this point just macro'ed that onto your keyboard? [Reddit Enhancement Suite](http://redditenhancementsuite.com/)  &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;

huh, never used that option or really noticed it 

17:26:49 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time)

EDIT: [HOW?](http://i.imgur.com/ZJZ9Anb.png) They created the option just for him. And for everyone else in case they need to respond to vargas &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;18:32:21 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time)[reddiquette](http://www.reddit.com/wiki/reddiquette)  Ayy Lmao confirmed.

10:29:40 GMT+1100 (AUS Eastern Standard Time)


FunFact: I use the time and two keys that my laptop/phone have and my server at home has. Using the time these keys that both sides have can generate a password that works for a minute. 

This is similar to a [one-time-password](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-time_pad) if not the same that I've got going for myself is pretty fun to think about.

The phone and Laptop have part A (half of the key) and the server at home has part B+A because I do what I want. 

Part A does some math on the laptop or phone, then sends that result to the server which does it against it's own clocked, synced times of course to help this actually work.

Network Security is fun Not that this is uninteresting but what the hell did that have to do with anything? &gt;#Network Security is fun

-/u/ForceBlade  How to you do it with RES? I didn't see anything about it in the Features tab..? [&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;](http://i.imgur.com/BenuPhQ.png)  &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;

Edit: it works  Oh cool now I can do this all day

(   )

()

()

.()

..()

()

()

..()

.()

()

.()

..()

()

()

..()

()

()

.* It's just a bunch of resistors... Magnificent. I love the chess option in the new version!

|| A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H
-------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
6 | | | | | | | |
5 | | | | | | | |
4 | | | | | | | |
3 | | | | | | | |
2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
 Coin + Muster for Battle   TWO ARMS MEN!   &gt; Coin + Muster for Battle

"Well Played!" (Go fuck yourself). Your move

| A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H
-------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
6 | | | | | | | |
5 | | | | | | | |
4 | | | | | | | |
3 | | | | | |  | |
2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | |  | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H
-------|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
6 | | | | | | | |
5 | | | | | | | |
4 | | | | | | | |
3 | | | | | |  | |
2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
1 |  |  |  |  |  |  | |  !RemindMe in 12 hours. Hey thanks for posting this link. I knew it was out there but kept forgetting to go install it.
 Are you the guy who gets asked if he's the guy? Yes. Congratz on the 1mil comment karma Thanks. :) I've seen your comments on reddit quite a bit, your name reminds me of these guys from dark souls.

http://i.imgur.com/EWv9JkQ.jpg It's like looking in a mirror. So.. You confirm that you are in fact, a lizard of war?  I wonder if you already have this, but you could probably set up a bot that would automatically reply this for you. Wouldn't be surprised if you did that long ago.  &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; Ugh, I missed it again. Holy shit it is! That site was like my first online community. Fuck you for dismantling it, /u/warlizard! ;[ &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; what ever happened to pasting your clipboard content? Meh. I fear change. You and your lizard brain. Ayup. always fill it up for a little bit, people will be more likely to give if they see that ' other people'  did That's what I hate about people. They won't do something unless someone else goes first. &gt;But why aren't other people using them?


&gt;Maybe something is wrong with them


&gt;Maybe its some kind of trick


&gt;Maybe people would think I'm weird if I'm the only one ever to use them


&gt;What if they aren't supposed to be used and everyone knows about it except me?

--Thoughts of a chronically anxious brain I've been in enough situations where everyone was misinformed that i have a tendency to distrust the consensus and try things for myself. E.g. people standing outside a room assuming the door was locked, but no one actually tried the handle because no one else was trying. When I walk up to those groups, I always ask "I assume someone's tried the door?"

Most of the time the answer is yes, and once in a while everyone looks around nervously and then I sigh and open the door. I like this. I'll have to try it that way sometime. :) Please spend some time at /r/galaga. It's so lonely. I just subscribed. :) Hmmm Galaga seems familiar oh right I read about it on the Warlizard gaming forums I love warlizard, because he's such a good sport. He knows people will say it, but he still shows up so we can all have a little fun. Even at his own expense.  &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; The fact that you still do that every single time is hilarious. I love it  Got my own personalized face. Awesome!  C..can I get one too? Sure.

() Forget about reddit gold! This is where it's at. Hey, aren't you that guy from the Warlizard gaming forums?  Hey, you broke 1,000,000 karma. Congrats? Yeah congrats! Thanks :) Could I ask you something? 

Do you have a macro set up, or do you copy and paste that from a .txt file that you constantly keep open? Or is it the chrome extension? 

Also are you that guy from the warlizard gaming forums? goshdamnit read, son, read! &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;  &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; I worked on Galaxian. Anytime I mention this I get "I loved the bonus round!" :-(

Fucking Galaga. Rofl. Wow. And congrats you old fucker. I personally prefer Galaxian to Galaga. AMA! Please  THAT MAN WANTS TO BE PLAYING GALAGA.  Galaga is the shit. I once got to like lvl 20 on 1 quarter. Was a very long ass time ago though.  Heh, yeah. I should probably get one for my house. Are you...

Available for drinks some time?

;) Of course. Cool! We can discuss the forums. &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; You sir, just got honey dicked. Whatever that means. It's from The Interview. Think honey pot, but with a dick. Are you Warlizard, that guy who gives out free French fries?  No. Are you sure?  Yes. If I asked you if you would give me a French fry, would your answer to that question be the same as the answer to this one?  GODDAMIT NO YOU CAN'T HAVE ANY OF MY FRIES! I DON'T CARE HOW YOU PHRASE IT! I picked my nose and put it in your fries... can I have them now? No. I'll throw them away and buy myself more. Can you buy me some as well? OK, I'll just wait until you aren't paying attention. Oooh look over there.  What about the guy from the Warlizard Gaming Forums? &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; (   ) Aren't you that guy who wrote a really good post a few weeks ago after a dashcam video of a guy getting t-boned in an intersection? You're basically on Reddit law review! You're famous! I did indeed. It was a quality post...that people had to ruin by doing the meme. How's your day going? From now on when I see you in a thread I'm going to ask you innocuous questions because I'm sure you're sick of the damn meme by now.  That's /u/Warlard Are you...[fuck it](http://awesomegifs.com/wp-content/uploads/dead-horse.gif) I wish I had a gif where instead of the horse, the look were being beaten. &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; (   ) I bet you would. You probably really like gaming. You're the kind of guy that would have a whole forum devoted to gaming. &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; For that, I thank you. On this day you have bestowed upon me a high honor. Ha! You're most welcome. Whenever I see a Galaga machine in a bar, I make it my goal to set the high score before leaving. now if they just make Gorf along with that Soon...


|\
|  \
|===D
|\                      
|  \                 /(. Y .)\
|    \             /   \  .  | |
|      \               /   /  )
  .         (_(_____&gt;
                      (Charity) Hey... Wait a minute... Are you the guy from the [Warlizard gaming forums](http://www.warlizardforum.com/)? &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; ...I was told there would be fries? No. I'd play the fuck out of all of those. Same. if they want to at least triple donations they need the following arcades:

-street fighter 2 championship edition
-mortal kombat 2
-killer instinct 
-ninja turtles 4 player
-xmen 4 player
-simpsons 4 player ^^Metal ^^Slug Not even banks have that kind of money. Metal slugs are exactly what I'd pay with. ^3 ^is ^the ^hardest^just^saying Holy shit 1995 Time Crisis.

Those things eat money. RELOAD pac man, galaga and space invaders... It's like they asked their mother* to name arcade games.

\*My mum's favorite *was* Wonder Boy, but since then it's been 20 years of minesweeper.
 Those are the classics, and they are all great games and widely known. They are the obvious choice for some little fun project like this.  I used to love the X-Men/Marvel vs Streetfighter game.  They need that.  Marvel Vs. Capcom is the game you're thinking of. There's been 3 of them and they're available on home consoles. It's a great idea, but if I saw an arcade at an airport I'd be so worried about missing my flight because I got engrossed in a game. It's at the baggage claim. So no worries.  Why would they put it in baggage when everyone is ready to go home. I would think they would put it in the terminal so people waiting around can play. 
 Because sometimes baggage takes 20-30 mins to turn up? Yeah Arlanda sucks at luggage. Is that a big city near where Hank Hill lives?  Arlanda is the major airport in Stockholm Sweden Huh, I thought someone was being cheeky about the pronunciation of "Orlando".  TIL. I thought they mistyped Atlanta. I stand learned.  Also sometimes people are waiting for people to get off the plane.  That's nothing.  You often wait overnight for flights.  So you can get rid of the leftover foreign coins that you won't be needing. It seems to take multiple currencies, I assume from places popular for Swedes to travel to. The idea is that people will spend unwanted foreign change that would otherwise end up lost in a drawer at home, and all for a good cause too. The remake of binding of Isaac came out while I was flying around the country for work. I finally had like an hour to myself so I sat at the terminal and played my first round.

They called my name over the mic because boarding had finished and they were about to close the door. I was like ten feet from the lady calling for me lol.

Fuck, that game is good though. When I went to  Charles de Gaulle they had PS3's (At the time) in the terminals. They have PS4's now. It's to keep people occupied during the continuous layovers. I've waited fucking days in that goddamn airport. What airport is this? Says Stockholm on the wall there. So might be the Arlanda Airport in Stockholm. Can confirm. It also says Stockholm Arlanda Airport on the side of the outer arcade machines. Interestingly enough it says Gteborg Landvetter on the middle one... It's a join initiative by both airports. But yeah, that's Arlanda.  It looks like the baggage claim there... I was there back in july... I really wish these were there at the time The picture is in Stockholm, but two weeks ago I saw they were setting the same kind of arcades up in Gothenburg. The X-Men six player cabinet would net them serious dosh. Think about it, six quarters going in at once and its a fun beat em up The tanks and the crosses made me initially think it was playable via blood donation.

That'd be gross. red cross would do better if they had an app for this. Arcades in general could benefit if I could use an app to pay for them.  That's an interesting idea.  Maybe give all the games an nfc point of sale so you just tap your phone for credit.  You could store e-tickets this way too.....brb patent office Idk, I can always play a free ms pac man on my phone, I think its playing the actual arcade game that would make me donate. At first, I thought the same thing as you but then realized that (I think) they meant an app to pay/donate to play the games. Like NFC tap to pay. That's actually brilliant  I got next game! *lines quarters on the screen* I always hated that when a friend and I finally got a chance to play together. Then an 8th grader comes and lays his money down and dominates the machine.

Goddammit, Tyler!!  "It's perfect, Julian. We come back at night, fuckin' smash the bottom out, and take all the coins. Like taking candle from a baby." Why does a baby have a candle? That sounds pretty dangerous. 10\10 would play  Really? A backslash? There's something I don't see every day. :\ 10 in to 10 would play If I had one of these at my local mall, every time I went there, I'd pay to play it. A good game, a good cause. Why aren't these everywhere? Hotels?  Hospitals? Brothels? They need Turtles in Time there  Well I know what needs to be set up at the next PAX. Oh my god. Yes please. Great idea but they should have better games. Metal slug, king of fighters, capcom vs marvel, that bubble game or the airplane game, mortal kombat.. Those are great games, they should add Street Fighter 2 or Mortal Kombat II and really increase their coinage. Guess it was too soon yesterday

http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2yp8xl/charity_arcade_at_airport_play_for_the_red_cross/ Rather, that's a video. Pictures are easier and faster to click so they get more upvotes faster, which builds up quickly. Check out the fluff article. This is beyond fantastic.  All I can think about is using this somehow in my home town for charity.    This is a brilliant idea. Straight up. I can't believe that hasn't been done or thought of until now. Where can I get one? I want to put this through at work, my company would totally go for it! American though, hopefully it is still supported. I definitely want to play that Galaga, but it depends on how sensitive that fire button is. I need my rapid fire. I think they have different versions of the software, or settings without the rapid fire. Fuck those machines without rapid fire.

 Yeah, I've played on those combo machines that only give you three round bursts. How can you get 100% on the bonus stage with three round bursts? It's possible to do most of the bonus stages on single fire with 2 ships, but it's not even possible to play the later stages without rapid fire. Yeah... that is kind of why he asked... If there were a The King if Fighters version of this,  I'd become a fucking saint  97 or 98 surely you mean From '96 to XIII excluding  XII Someone photoshop these tanks with blood please.  Goddamn they'd make more if it was xmen, ninja turtles, or the simpsons. I think people generally find this style of early retro game very difficult, and fun but only for a very short amount of time. So quick turnover for maximum coin, the player gets a little bit of fun, and it fits in with the ethos because the games aren't violent and [for the most part, not sexualised](http://imgur.com/c6B6nhW). Getting people bored of the game as fast as possible is not the best way to make money on arcade games... But this isn't an arcade, it's a game in an airport...where people are likely to be there only for a couple of minutes...personally, I'd probably stay there for an hour chucking in plenty of coins. My father would single handedly fill the Galaga machine, he loves that game.

I really wish I could find the original for him, joysticks, buttons and all. Not cheap, but here you [are!](http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/RESTORED-GALAGA-Classic-Arcade-Game-FREE-SHIPPING-SUPER-NICE-/251848879110?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&amp;hash=item3aa35cec06) Wow that is absolutely beautiful, sadly I'm not rich enough to buy it for him, but thanks for looking for it for some random stranger on the internet, that was kind of you. You could build a galaga cabinet with a pc in it. And run galaga on MAME. To make it legal just buy a busted galaga board on the cheap.   

http://www.reddit.com/r/DIY/comments/2intbk/my_60in1_galaga_style_arcade_cabinet_restoration/ WHAT DO YOU THINK THAT CONTAINER IS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE MACHINES, A CHARITY CASE? I remember something similar to this was at a local fair and by the end of the day it was mostly filled with candy wrappers and other trash :l I feel like this is a charity saw type game. You get jabbed with a tube to pour blood into the box and the more you lose the more blood gets sucked out until you die or beat the game. These should be done for every video game expo out.

And not just for the Red Cross.

Pax could do it for Child's Play etc... This is still a better idea than the things in the lines at the grocery stores or the ones you win free food at taco bell at, which don't have any water in them. That is a brilliant idea.

Usually you cannot exchange foreign currency unless its in bills. they rarely accept coins.. at least in Denmark.

so all the coins you have left after you've been in Turkey are just basically trash. Are they like every other charity, and give $0.99 per dollar to the "administrators" and divide the remaining penny among "overhead" and "research?" best invention for charity since the black hole coin spiny thingy   A great idea because flying with any change on yourself seems like a complete waste of weight. Empty your pockets of change at the gate, save a little fuel and play some Pacman. *Space Invaders*? That's basically a drug. The Swedish Red Cross are hustlers... I would obliterate that Galaga game. Always reading about some cool new logical public projects in Sweden...might be worth emigrating. That's interesting as hell. Now I wanna know these facts for landmarks on GTA V.  Well GTA V was released 10 years after GTA:SA, so.... multiply everything by 10 perhaps? ONE HUNDRED TEXTURES.

THE MOST DETAILED BRIDGE EVER.

If you look closely, you can actually see texture 78, which is the hobo semen. They copied texture 78 multiple times, lazy bastards can't make a new texture each time a hobo spanks one!

*Edit: Thank you reddit, my top 3 comments now all have to do with jerking off. I mean you see one jizz stain you've seen them all.  Spoken like someone who's never studied hobo cum.

Fucking amateurs. &gt; ~~hobo cum~~ bum cum

FTFY Little Jimmy was just going to ask his mother for another bun and was surprised to witness a bum cum in mum's bum, eating the last bun and waving a gun. "How humdrum" said Tom Thumb slicing a plum (and offering some), "one must  feel quite numb, when one's mum is undone by a bum waving a gun" Wasn't it the bum that waved the gun? Just needs a dash of bum-cum and it'll be perfect. /r/nocontext  /r/evenwithcontext  /r/yourmomscontext Didn't load, severely disappointed _  /r/youmomgoestocontext Yeah, your mom's quite the expert. Wow. Way to cheapen *my* research. Where do you think you learned your research technique from? I had a vision from God. How else would I learn? My dad (   ) That's my response when people ask me if I want to see pictures of their babies. procedurally generated jizz stains. Brb kick starting a beat em and eat em sequel. Of course not. We'd be drowning in human semen if you made that many textures! The artists would spank it, because the art is so awesome. Then the hobos would spank it because they are watching the artists through a window. There is no end! You're kidding, but by looking closely at dark souls 2 textures I found out that one of them was essentially Heineken. https://imgur.com/zgtW2dz If you open the texture for the deer in TES IV you'll see its actually just a photo of a deer in a meadow - they just did a crazy good job with the UVW.

The things you uncover as a modder... Sliiightly relevant ^perhaps but in IL-2 1946, the textures for the Dutch pilots are just [Dutch footballers shopped into a pilot's uniform](http://imgur.com/JtvN4eI,RRbw8sQ#0) You can't just say this and not give a link... In the Making of video of Oblivion there's a portion about a guy who was responsible for the textures. He went into the woods, took random pictures of everything and then did his voodoo UV wrapping magic. Seriously? That's really cool.

How did they map all sides of the texture from a single picture? Bruh, no way. I remember seeing you post this in /r/DarkSouls2, a longgggggggggg time ago. I was going to call you out for not finding this out on your own, but now I see you are indeed the original....that's pretty cool haha. [David Cage approves.](http://blogs-images.forbes.com/erikkain/files/2013/02/ps4_quantic_dream_head_demo.jpg) Jesus christ.

Is that David Cage, leader of Quantic Dream game development...Or fucking Saruman the White Wizard? That's not Cage, its a tech-demo thing his studio was working on ... or Saruman the White after trying the new Gillette Mach 20 : *Become the Istari you were born to be.* /r/shittyaskscience /r/shittyaskcomputerscience  Actually, Moore's law would have it 2^10, or 1300.48MB for the equivalent bridge. PC players have been told GTAV would be ~60GB, which would allow for approximately 46.13 bridges and nothing else.

I think it may be better to look at it as a ratio of item size to total game size, though that's still going to give you a wild ballpark guess. SA for PC apparently required 3.6GB of disk space, so that bridge took up .00035% of the game's space. Going by V's supposed disk size, a bridge of similar complexity in it may take up 21MB. 

All mathematical nonsense to say that we probably haven't proportionally increased digital bridge complexity in GTA. But there seem to be plenty of bridge sims on Steam if that floats your boat. Isn't Moore's law about transistors? Which is different than textures and polygons Moore transistors -&gt; Moore processing power -&gt; Moore polygons

In theory, the correlation should be linear. In practice, memory access is the real limiting factor.

Edit: Puns. Also notable is how more detail is being handled much much more efficiently via texturing techniques. Normal mapping, vertex painting, ambient occlusion and other methods are common use in all engines now. Effectively shifting some of the demand for detail from poly counts.
An easy application of this idea would be the road surface. You could have the same model as 10 years ago and look like it has 100s of millions of polygons worth of detail making up the road surface with these techniques.  If I could, I'd up vote you a million times for actually knowing what you're talking about.


I'd also like to think that if you were to compare it to an identical bridge in real life and for some reason, the game version has more points and polygons than the CAD design for the real world bridge, then you're probably not doing it right. He was talking about Bump Mapping and other Texture improving techniques that allow for great detail without having tons of polygons.

[First example was Doom3.](http://www.shamusyoung.com/twentysidedtale/images/bump_map_full.jpg)

Check the hands and the face. It's the same scene, the same number of polygons but they use a greyscale heightmap for each pixel of the texture to simulate bumps in the surface. This is creating the illusion of depth and structure.

Today we have the next generation of this technique that is using displacement tesselation to really remove/add polygon details based on that texture map informations. Example from Crysis 3:

Same object:

[off](http://hothardware.com/newsimages/Item22191/small_pixeldisplacement-off.jpg)

[on](http://hothardware.com/newsimages/Item22191/small_pixeldisplacement-on.jpg)




 Isn't that also assuming 100% machine efficiency and the process using 100% of the available resources at all times? Moore's law never seemed to be a good approximation of software related predictions, to me.

You also have the improvement (or stagnation) of the engines that process all these in-game elements. You are also pushing a lot more than polygons. advanced shaders, reflections and shadows,are eating up way more of the processing power than just drawing the polys. Did you really just waste that excellent pun opportunity? slightly better ballpark estimate:

10 years / 18 months = (20/3) 'periods of doubling'

1.27 mb * 2^(20/3) = 129 mb.

Despite Moore's law not applying to this, intuition tells me that storage requirements over the years vary in a similarly exponential manner. Also consider advances in compression, and the fact that the bridge is composed of only a few repeating units so a 100 km bridge would probably only require a trivial amount of extra space compared to, say, a 1 km bridge. As a dev, if I received a bridge asset that was 129 mb I would send that right the hell back to the artists.

Edit: If we're talking voxels and volumetrics and destructible terrain, then I take it back. That's a special case though. For a static bridge, 129 MB even 1000 years from now would be unacceptable. What if it had realistic hobo jizz though? Please dev, tell us how important the hobo jizz stains are? I can't believe that I am also wanting that answer!

IS this what coming home from work has turned into?

Me, sitting around patiently, while waiting for a game developers views on realistic hobo semen and he has problems with it being too big. Well, to be fair, the original comment was regarding 'landmarks', just the data Rockstar provided was for the bridge. So the increased polygon count / complexity would still apply for less repeatable landmarks.


And I remember reading something about Rockstar's compression algorithms being pretty boss in GTAIV. I didn't mention those because, again, it would likely be a proportional increase. More polygons + more compression + more overall space might likely compute to a similar relative space requirement. 10/10 

It's OK. Not enough bridges.

-fuckDurMumxx1337 Dr. Moore would like to have a word with you about his Law.  This landmark has yet to appear on the PC version, due to "polishing". Still to this day, my favorite game ever. Do you know how much of my teenage years I've wasted on this game? None. They were all worth it.

Edit: Thanks for my first gold !  Yep, and that's why I was so pissed when I loaned my brother "our" modded xbox (we bought it together, then moved out of the house) and he ended up selling it. All of my saved games, gone forever. Plus, you know, the console too. You could probably play it on most computers today. Pretty old game.  could also have HD mods if your computer is a bit fancier. I play San Andreas on my phone... Yeah i downloaded it for my note 4... can you Bluetooth a ps3 controller to your phone now without rooting it? I know they made like plastic holders that would hold the phone with the controller?  I play it on an old paper telephone directory. Yep. There's a massive modding community for San Andreas and a 3rd party online section It's definitely my favorite game of all time. I've bought it 4 times (PS2, PC, PC again on Steam, Android).

You sir...are not a buster. *busta I've spent at least 4000 hours if not more between Vice City and San Andreas. The onlime mods such as Multi Theft Auto and SA:MP were amazing, I'm getting nostalgic just typing this. So it takes me 5 seconds to download a bridge.

How long does it take to download a car? It depends, do you have the right drivers? This guyyyy Ayy Lmao Limo That's a stretch
 You wouldn't... And then give the helmet with the poop to grieving widow! And then take it back! There's a car available for download on the pirate bay right now... I can't remember who did the joke but basically... Yes you would. I wouldn't steal a Ferrari but if a friend got one and asked if I wanted a copy, fucking oath I would say yes.  5 seconds for 1.7mb? Yup. Guess who isn't excited for the GTA 5 download? I'm currently at 85% on Assassin's Creed Unity (50+ GB) and climbing slowly.

The struggle is real in the next generation. You've been downloading since November? And no one has tried to use the phone this whole time?  To be honest, every time he is about to finish downloading it, they release a new patch for it. So he has to to trace back. Ubisoft patches their games? They patch them.

They don't fix them.

But they patch them. Step 1: Live where Google Fiber is.  
Step 2: Don't live where Google Fiber isn't.   
Step 3: ???????  
Step 4: Profit.  ouch Took me about 17 hours to download Forza Horizon 2, which is about 38GB. That's about 665 KB/s. So about twice the speed it would take for that person to download 1.7MB. No real point to this comment, I just felt like doing some math. 15-20 seconds here.  As someone who used to have 100 kb/s download speeds, my sympathy goes to you. I remember having a 28.8 kbps dialup modem. I still somehow managed to play unreal tournament and tribes over it.  https://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20100408002655AA1ZDYq# [I guess 62.3... kilometres?](http://i.imgur.com/cyGWp8H.png) 1 second...these dang kids and there fancy download speeds back in my day we couldnt download cars! You? Are there any of these Easter eggs in GTA V?  I've seen a few easter eggs in GTA 4 and 5, but everything before was full of them.

San Andreas didn't give a shit. They put signs up saying "there are no easter eggs up here", while they got a tad more serious in the later games. Every single GTA got more serious. The original had bright graphics and looked like a cartoon. It had silly missions, like one where you need to spray paint a stolen car since the owner didn't like the color. Or kill a guy's mom so he didn't have to pay rent anymore.

GTA 2 was a bit more serious, but you still had to kill people for hotdog meat and Buddhists were flamethrower wielding maniacs so it was still stupid as fuck. Hell, there was even a group of clones based on one scientist that was a major gang. He'd have you do experiments such as "What happens when you set 15 Elvis impersonators on fire?" That scientist? Albert Einstein. Seriously it was fucking Einsten.

Both games are *legally* free on the rockstar website. Like Saint's Row in reverse Supposedly Saints Row IV was as ridiculous as they could get it, so they could be done with the trend of getting more and more insane afterwards.

The next one is apparently going to be going back to super seriousness. Saints Row 2 sequel where your character wakes up from a dream of the past two games (and standalone) for 2015 pls. The only thing I want them to hold over is Keith David's role of playing himself. I lost my shit when I heard him talking about that in game. And working on PC. I played the first two Saints Rows on the 360, but when I got the THQ Humble Bundle with 2 and 3 I was really disappointed how SR2 was just terribly optimized. 3 and 4 run beautifully on PC so I hope that stays. I want them to make a Saints Row 6: The Search for Saints Row 5. Speaking of which,  do you think they'll actually make another spaceballs movie? I liked 2 the best. Let me be a British gangster with a bright green mohawk amd take over the city please.  I enjoyed 2 but it didn't age very well, especially because last time I played it it was buggy as hell.

3 is probably my favorite idk why down vote, the game doesn't even run at the right speed if your processor isn't running at exactly 3.22 Ghz I never did the missions on GTA 2, I just drove around and crushed cars in the car crusher. I liked finding a cramped alleyway near a major thoroughfare and packing as many cars into it as I could. Usually got about 20-30 cars before they'd start disappearing from being too far off screen. Then I'd blow one up and watch the fireworks...and the score count.

 Those links for rockstar classics have been down for a while actually. Shame. GOURANGA!! GTA IV did get more serious, but GTA V is definitely back to being that fun goofy game we all loved, even though I like IV too. GTA IV was depressing as hell. I did like how you had to grind out a loving though. It would've been nice to be able to spend money on more stuff, but I loved how Niko defined the American Dream in a different way and grinded his way to the top. Grinding out your love. My favorite love fist song I loved the highly detailed environments in 4. Rock Star nailed the atmosphere.  I really liked GTAIV a lot.  Cops and Crooks.. was... to this day, probably some of the best online experience I've ever had.  I really wish they'd release it for GTAV. Shooting aliens with a heavy machine gun while tripping wasn't serious Sure, the little "mini games" weren't serious at all, but the game was way more serious than any other. Franklin tried so desperately to get out of the gang life and even though he did, he was still stuck in crime.
Michael struggled between the life of crime or spending time with his family. He lost his family in the middle of the game and you could see the effects on his character. After the mission when Jimmy drugs you, you wake up in "darker" clothing and Michael seems to be in a daze when talking to other characters. 
And there's, Trevor.  I don't think Franklin ever had a problem with being a criminal. I saw it more as him wanting to leave the life he had because he wanted something bigger, but not necessarily legal. Here are the most interesting easter eggs in GTA games, from memory:

* In GTA III, there is a parking lot in Bedford Point with an alleyway behind it. The only way to access the alley is to get a big vehicle like an ambulance or Trashmaster and use it to jump over the wall. In the alley, [this is on one of the walls.](http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20130309153321/gtawiki/images/f/f8/644337_420569164692158_1791283427_n.jpg)

* In GTA Vice City, there is a tall building in Downtown right next to another shorter building with a helipad on top which you can access. If you jump off the roof into a certain part of the taller building, you will pass right through as it has intentionally not been made solid. Inside is a small room with a chocolate egg on a pedestal saying "Happy Easter!"

* In San Andreas, there is the OP easter egg, an information sign at a visitor centre in San Fierro. The bridge in reference is the Gant Bridge, based off the Golden Gate.

* On top of one of the orange suspension arches of the Gant Bridge, there is a sign saying "There are no easter eggs up here. Go away."

* In GTA Liberty City Stories, if you go back to the alleyway from GTA III, the sign says "Hello again!" in the PSP version. In the PS2 version, it says "You just can't get enough of this alley, can you?"

* In GTA Vice City Stories, set two years before Vice City, the Easter Egg room is there but it is under construction.

* In GTA IV, you can fly a helicopter over a particular balcony on the side of the Statue of Happiness and jump out onto it. There is a door there which leads inside the statue, with signs saying "No hidden content this way". From there you can go inside the statue and climb up a ladder, where you will find a giant beating heart suspended in the statue by chains.

Here are some more:

* In GTA V in Ludendorff, you pass a bridge during the Prologue. Underneath the bridge is a frozen creek, and there is an alien underneath the ice.

* In GTA III behind the ridge in Shoreside Vale, the set for the intro cutscene can be seen floating about the ocean.

* Not much further north from there is the edge of the gameworld. If you fly there using the Dodo, you will see text on the radar. They are made up place names, named after developers of GTA III.

* In Vice City, there is an apartment building in Ocean Beach, and one of the apartments is accessible. Inside, you can go into the bathroom which has a chainsaw weapon pickup and blood splattered all over the bath. It's a reference to a scene in Scarface, which Rockstar took a lot of inspiration from during the development of GTA III and Vice City. &gt;  "No hidden content this way".  
  
In GTA 5, Mount Chilliad's lookout deck has "Come back when your story is complete" written on the boards. If you're at 100% in SP, and you go there at night, a UFO spawns.  Also a jet pack. I wish.  Wasn't there a subreddit that deluded itself into thinking there is one? One day we'll find the jet pack (if it exists).  I also think that besides (or perhaps a large part of) becoming more serious they developed underlying themes and messages that might weigh on the gamer more. GTA IV is very much a Scarface-esque story that has a lot to say about immigration and the "American Dream" while GTA V is primarily about greed and superficiality in American culture.

Rockstar Games has actually done that a lot lately. Now that I think about it, Red Dead Redemption is pretty much an allegory representing the death of the Wild West.

I think we've reached a point in gaming history where we can seriously examine games as artistic or story telling mediums in the same way we look at novels. Which is interesting. Maybe we'll start seeing Video Game Studies classes in schools now just like Film Studies! Now i want a "The wire" game. I would play the shit out of it.  &gt;Video Game Studies classes

This already exists. The university I study at offers this as a master. I kinda liked the "Don't give a shit" attitude. Brought some more humor to an already funny game.  If you think about it, 1.27 Mb is actually a lot considering all of the assets they have in the game, and the age of the game. Probably late to this party, but here is another little-known fact about that bridge.

It's name is a reference to the critically-bashed Rockstar game State of Emergency.

The fake cable company that had shopfronts in the shopping districts of SoE was named Gant Cable. The bridge is a a cable bridge. It is called the Gant Cable Bridge. I totally forgot the existence of that game...  I remember finding my uncles copy of that game and at 12 enjoyed every single moment. Understandable looking back how it could be shunned pretty easy.  Man, CJ is fucking jacked. Looks like Potato Salad. Hello, you have a collect call fromJOOOOOHHHNN CEEEENNNAA!!would you like to accept the charges? Hey, is Champ there? Who is champ? THAT QUESTION WILL BE ANSWERED THIS SUNDAY NIGHT AT WWE SUUUUUUPER SLAAAAAAAAM!!! JOHN CENAAAAAAAAAA Well a former decorated marine needs your support tonight..... AND HIS NAME IS JOHN CENA  BRRRRRRRRRRAPPLEDOUGH Upvoted for John Cena reference. Who said anything about food? God damn it, I love this joke I like how John Cena actually posted a picture of potato salad on his instagram once.  For those who don't know/lazy, /r/johncena /r/potatosalad Why? &gt;It's because Cena is generally considered to be bland and uninteresting as a character and in-ring talent, and so, he is the wrestling-equivalent of a potato salad.

&gt;http://www.reddit.com/r/OutOfTheLoop/comments/27mne8/why_is_rpotatosalad_pictures_of_john_cena_and/ci2b94a I like potato salad :( I buy it by the tub at Costco  You should try making some yourself. You'll save tons of money and it tastes soooo much better. It's pretty simple, really! Potato Salad - nobody's favourite but you'll find it at every BBQ ever. Thanks for signing up for San Andreas Bridge Facts! You will now receive fun daily facts about San Andreas Bridges! []===[] Subscribe You've been successfully unsubscribed from San Andreas Bridge Facts. NooooooOo!

SUBSCRIBE!!!

/r/SUBSCRIBE  
/u/SUBSCRIBE You are now unsubscribed from everything you like and love. NooOOoOoOoooOOoOOOOoooOOooOOOOooooOoo! How many Mb does it take to follow the damn train? Fuck the train mission. And this one where you had to jump from Dodo to intercept the mafia plane...  Actually that's impressive to and old dude like me - that bridge takes up the size of a 3.5 floppy. Can you imagine what it would be like to install that game from floppies?

    Please insert bridge disk. 
    Please insert city block 423.
 Imagine what it would be like to install GTA V on PC with floppies. You're fucked. Apparently star citizen will be 100gb. Imagine that shit.  100gb?! That'd take a good week, maybe 2 to download Yeah, you just have to imagine that the release date is 2 weeks later and that you pre ordered it 2 weeks earlier.  [I would imagine like this]( https://i.imgur.com/94GFNGX.jpg) &gt; that bridge takes up the size of a 3.5 floppy.

*What is this, a bridge for ants?* Actually even impressive for running on consoles, in very recent times since the 360 only had 512mb memory shared between the GPU and used as system ram.

From someone that has worked in the games industry porting to consoles sucks, going from a computer with dedicated vram of a GB or 2 and prolly 8gb or more ram, to a console with only 512mb shared sucks. 1.27 Millibits? Was wondering if anyone else noticed. mb is millibits. Mb is Megabits. MB is Megabytes. 

Seeing as there's no such thing as 1/1000th of a bit...  It should probably be [mebibits](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mebibit) anyway.
 Thank you. Had to scroll way too far to see this. Not only did he get it wrong, he got the wrong wrong. I remember that the game was 4.7 GB, it was pretty huge back in the days It's about 500 MB before audio.  I love this game so much! Playing it again on my phone now. On your phone? What the fuck I'm in the future the future is now 8/10...Would definitely cross on C.J's bike. Another interesting San Andreas Bridge fact is that despite being set in the USA, the game features the Forth Rail and Road bridges which are just outside of Edinburgh Scotland where Rockstar North are based. That "staggering" sign would have taken up about 0.2% of my entire computer's hard drive about 20 years ago when I had about 500 MB.

And I thought, "how in the hell could I ever fill up 500MB worth of data?" 

Now, my phone has a 128GB capacity and I *still* could use more room. &gt;Now, my phone has a 128GB capacity and I *still* could use more room.

For what? Mine has 16 GB and I've never had to manage disk space.
 What bridge?

Edit: [Gant Bridge](http://imgur.com/a/toxRw) Holy shit, 1.27 mb is more than the size of the game I'm working on right now. That is one goddamn large bridge. What game are you working on? Bridge Simulator 2 &gt; Bridge Simulator 2

Correction: Paint Drying Simulator 2015 How many brushes are we looking at? All of them. I'm working on a 2d procedurally generated shooter called Casualties. There's not a story, you're just a red soldier guy running along rooftops shooting green soldiers and purple guys that throw bombs, trying to get to a helicopter to escape. It goes on forever and is hard as fuck. 

It should be out on Wednesday or possible Tuesday. I've got the Mac version up and running, but porting an Xcode project over to Windows and Linux is a far bigger pain in the ass than I expected it to be. RemindMe! 5 days DAMN CJ HOLY SHIT, that bridge will almost fill up WHOLE FLOPPY DISC!!!

 Rockstar  should really come out with a bum/transient add on, because frankly sometimes it's more fun to just loiter around and see the sights, than have to feel rushed and frenzied.   It was a simpler time... A time full of Bigfoot sightings. Fourth wall, obliterated. valve had this kinda stuff in their games. was like movie commentary, i absolutely loved it.     

you could load the game with commentary enabled and would play the game as normal but through out the maps would be little floating speech bubble icons. you'd walk up and hit "activate" key on them and you'd heard an audio clip with something about the game, some of them would even temporarily take control away to display a short demo of something they did or change in the area to make something work.           

They also did this with portal and Left 4 dead, think they even had it in tf2 for a while (not sure if its still there, probably in the files and accessible via the console some how).        

sadly though with the releases of half life 2 episode 1, 2 and portal.. slowly each game had less, and less and less. When they started back with Lost Coast and Half life 2, there would be tons of them in one area and slowly over the release of other games, you'd start to see one, two.. three in them in one whole map if you were lucky.         

should half life 3 ever come out, I hope they bring this back with abundance, but at this point, i just hope half life 3 even happens. Portal 2 had plenty of them! For some reason when I find little "easter egg" type things like this it makes me have to poop. :/ Sign takes another 45KBytes TIL the bridge is as heavy as a save icon.  I'll try harder /u/j0be Why metric measurements? Rockstar North are Scottish Ah brilliant! I dread to see what Imperial units for Mb would look like. then don't look into things like [mebibytes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mebibyte) vs [megabytes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Megabyte)... well that is more of a HDD companies and programmers

i.e HDD labeled as 512 GB (512,000,000,000 Bytes) but Windows shows it as having 476.8 GB (GiB)

Goes to show that not everyone agrees that 1GB=1024MB It's convenient for HD manufacturers (and irritating for consumers), but the origins of that are fairly sound - there's no real reason for them not to use SI units for it.

 Yes, there is. Metric is base 10 and binary is base 2.  True, but hard drive capacity isn't constrained to base 2, so they'll continue to do what they like, even if it seems a little cheeky.  Yeah. At least solid state drives are coming out labeled in base 2. 128gb or 256gb instead of 250gb.  I originally wrote something to show you how ridiculous it is to say that SI should be used over binary standards for data storage and a system that's designed for base 2 with clear relavance between units in multiples of 10 (as exponent of 2), then I realized your comment was saying HD manufacturers are the ones that should change? The ones who are using SI prefixes rather than binary prefixes? What....

Are you pro GiB or GB? Make it clear so I can show how misinformed you are or simply give you a upvote.  You should probably have posted your rhetorical masterpiece, but bear in mind I never said 'SI should be used over binary standards for data storage'; you did. 

 1GB=1000MB
FTFY 1 GiB = 1024 MiB You got Downvoted for being right... 
1 Gigabyte = 1000 Megabytes,
1 Gibibyte = 1024 Mebibytes Mebi he is, mebi he isn't.  That's punny. We got downvoted for hurting their feelings. The way others are viewing it is, you're not right but you're not wrong.

Mega and giga are SI units after all though.

EDIT: oh but that isn't the point, he might be right that 1GB=1000MB but my statement is still true.  

&gt;not everyone agrees that 1GB=1024MB

so he didn't FTFM "FTFY" I'm pretty sure they mean 1.27MB, not Mb. Nobody measures storage space in bits. Some folks do. During the 16-bit era at least, game cart sizes were discussed in terms of mega-bits. Chrono Trigger, for example, was a 32 MBit game. It's 29 megas and 37 184ths of a bite. 16/38 freedombytes
 [Bloody Brilliant](https://wiki.teamfortress.com/w/images/4/42/Demoman_positivevocalization01.wav?t=20100625221811) I thought this was a really funny joke until I Googled it. Username checks out 1397? Because that's the standard? Sorry you're part of the 3 or 4 countries that decided to shun it. 2 countries.

United States and a tiny little island whose sole trading partner is... the United States.
 Fun fact: the "official" system of measurement in the US is actually metric.

EDIT for clarity: the metric system is "the Preferred system of weights and measures for United States trade and commerce". If you have to use quotation marks then you know there's a problem.

A million American scientists use the metric system. Three hundred million Americans use imperial which is a sizable enough population to make it the unnoficial official. I'm a scientist and I use metric and imperial on a daily basis. My company sells our product all over the world, and with every country we use some metric units and some imperial units. Do they look down on us for it? Maybe. But when you're the world's foremost leader on a particular technology, you can pretty much use whatever units you want.  I imagine that's the United States excuse: "When your the world's foremost leader, full stop, you can pretty much use whatever units you want." &gt;I imagine that's the United States excuse: "When your the world's foremost leader ~~, full stop,~~ you can pretty much use whatever units you want."

FTFY. Americans (generally) don't use "full stop." We're more likely to say "period" at the end of a statement for extra emphasis. Example.

&gt;You're not going out tonight, period.

 &gt;You're not going out tonight, period.

That sounds like a strong independent woman who doesn't let her bodily functions get the better of her. &gt; You're not going out tonight, period.

"Aunt Flo is visiting this week, and so you're not getting any, period. Yup. Which is why even in metric countries where we can't really picture what an inch is we still talk about x-inch size screens. An inch is about the length of a small -but not tiny- caterpillar. I hope this helps. 
 Pretty much. When we use temperature, we talk in Fahrenheit. When we talk about volume, we use Liters. When referring to pressure, we use Pounds per Square Inch (PSI). Funny stuff. Nutrition labels are in metric. But we still use KCal rather than Joules. If you'd like to boil it down to which measurement is used the most, I'd be willing to bet the entire trade and commerce industry might beat out the average number of Americans.  I mean, metric *is* a superior system, but Imperial is American standard, and seeing as San Andreas is (well, would be if it were real) in America, it seems like it would make more sense for it to be in Imperial.

However, the real reason is that Rockstar North is based in Scotland, and therefore chose to use metric. Fun fact though, the bridge in game is based of the Scottish forth road bridge  Huh, that is a fun fact. TIL

I love it when devs put in little things like this. It's a minor detail, but it adds so much. For the record, that's the railroad bridge leading out of San Fierro  the sign posted by OP is about the Golden Gate-esque road bridge leading out of San Fierro. I think it's at most 3 countries now, probably two. Why is your tone so condescending? You do realize this game location was based off cities in California right?? Do you know what country California is in? Do you know what measurement system that country uses? See, I can act like a cunt just like you. And this game is based off a city in what country...? http://www.reddit.com/r/metricmasterrace Everyone should freaking know metric by now. A base 10 system is so much easier, and accurate than the imperial system Because they make sense. Unlike the [unnecessarily complicated and backwards logic of the imperial system](http://cdn.zmescience.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/imperial_vs__metric_by_nekit1234007-d5p0ou5.png). It's the standard in game engines. Because the entire world except the us use the metric system ? Because educated people only work with a unit system that's a base and multiplier of 10. Jesus christ this game is detail . . .hats off to R* Grand-ma's auto would be fantastic.  Whats the cheat code to make my children call me. You can only unlock the child call if you send them a card with money.   Money? I think you've got the Alzheimer's power up. You're supposed to send a check! No convenience allowed. Ungrateful first world problems: My grandma sent me money, but she sent a check. :'( This comment made me sad... You get 50 points if you drive slow enough to get a honk.

The church missions are pretty easy but don't pay very well.

Most of the game is actually played in the hospital, messing with the nurses and other patients. Bingo gambling might be worth it Bingo gambling is DLC. early access means you can see the balls before they come out _ [How do you get an old lady to curse?](/s "Get another old lady to yell bingo") How's voidspace? [deleted] Hey there! I bought Voidspace a while back with some Dogecoin, but back then it just would never start up. I had no idea why, but I could not play, at all. It was really annoying, and I eventually forgot about it.

Since that was maybe a year ago, what's happened since then? Because it looked awesome then, and looks awesome now. Is Voidspace the one that uses crypto for in game currency and has procedurally generated classes and stuff? Or am I thinking of something else?  Will your game have LAN support? At first it looked silly.  But then it looked kinda awesome.

Will check out. Oh God the shuffle board dlc!  I can't wait.  The collectibles in the game can be coupons. My grandma went the other way; she would do 30+ in grocery store parking lots and hit the speed bumps. Scared the bejeesus out of my 10 year old self. Or at the line in the supermarket, 500 points if you use only cash and 1000 points if you combine cash and coupons. Do I win if I write a check?  No, that'd be done by trying to get rid of the change in the bottom of your purse, using coupons, finishing off a gift card, using ebt, something goes wrong with your credit card so you refuse to leave the line as you call the bank, realize a couple items don't match the coupons and make the bagger put it back and get the right stuff and finally, do it all standing in front of the cart so you can hold the line up just a liiiiittle longer because though your stuff is bagged, it couldn't be put back in the cart till you moved. Ah simulators, so lifelike... I got stressed out just reading that I sense one who is experienced in retail among us.  Some how you *lose* money every church mission You lose money, but gain faith power. What through it over the top was the "drive while having a stroke" mission,  can't turn left,  half the screen is melting,  and it's slowly getting dark.  Get to the E.R. in 2 minutes or game over.  Bully:nursing home edition.  Do you lose points for using the blinker? Only if you have the blinker going in the right direction.  Putting the blinker in the opposite direction will give you points. I got my grandmother to play grand theft auto back in the day.  She was brutal, kept slamming on the breaks in front of cop cars and forcing them to run into her.  She was cackling the whole time.  I miss her. :( Grandma had some inner Gangster in her A few times. Before she was grandma.  Are you saying I'm 25% gangster?  Do you shit in the woods or is that just a beareotype?  The Charmin Bears have been working very hard to show the softer side of bear shitting for many years.  My cousin and I got our grandfather to play LA Noire once.  He got mad that he couldn't shoot passersby and found ways to run people over and kill them. All with a smile too * Smacking kids and stealing their pocket money.
* Yelling at inanimate objects.
* Remembering things.
* And the inevitable Lukewarm Tea mod!

So much potential Lukewarm tea.. *shudders* Remembering things &lt;3 [Close enough?](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tNJu3Y7HWSY) You know the ["Rover James"](http://ichef.bbci.co.uk/images/ic/480x270/p015q5f0.jpg)? Official car of the game. What the hell is that abomination and what purpose does the giant box serve? It's a car they built for elderly people on top gear UK as a joke. The box is a foam bumper.  A joke? That was a public service they provided! Just like the [hovervan](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/OvDIzl89CwY/maxresdefault.jpg) Thornberries did it first
 Yeah but the Top Gear one was the best... 

... 

... 

*in the world* Either I've not heard *In the world* recently or I heard it enough times to skip it over mentally. Hmm. I can hear it in my head now at least. *In the world.* [deleted] Don't you mean headlight fluid? 10/10

"It's like Skyrim with walkers" Your character falls asleep just as the sun goes down Or your character gets wildly uncontrollable and forgets everything when the sun goes down. I think you are confusing the elderly for werewolves.  Lets kickstart this someone call Betty White's agent, and get a deal going on voice acting. Ill do it!! Whats the number?? http://famous-relationships.topsynergy.com/betty_white/Contact.asp Is this the way to Country Kitchen Buffet? You drive a red Buick Lesabre and lean forward onto the wheel because you can't see that well. Give it a week. It'll be a steam greenlight game soon enough.  More likely it will be available to purchase for early access by the end of this week.  Beatbox *0.1* 

We're now getting early access consoles? Thanks to Steam, I guess [deleted] Yes. First you have to pay 400$/ and then 50$/ per expansion and they will release at least 5 of them, and you will have to pay for them all if you want to use the console as games will also demand the newest expansions. The Pimps sounds like something I could get in to. Shut up baby I know it I'll make my own game... with blacjkack and hookers! On second though, forget the blackjack! ....ahh forget the whole thing. *Lawsuit Larry's Adventures in Smland* A sim named slick back. Well hello there Mr. Slick Back. Actually that one surprised me.  It went the opposite direction than expected. Finally a Sims where Woohoo-ing someone does not force them to be romantically attached.

One night stands confirmed! I think the "Woohooer Mod" lets you do stuff like this.  I would max out my bottom bitch This is the actual fake console, the BeatBOX

http://i.imgur.com/NIxMR.jpg Ah, BeatBox 0.1, so many good memories. I wish I haven't traded it to buy BeatBox 3.60. Or the Beatbox Zero Point One (not to be confused with the beatbox 0.1) They removed the incredibly unpopular "always off" requirement. that was my favorite feature You mean the BeatBONE? Comes complete with a free copy of Sawnic 0.6 Only available in the US Northeast. Please understand My Ikea has the [wireless controllers](http://i.imgur.com/jLpIEDp.jpg). Your lounge looks nice. I'm a bit jealous :P If people could live in an IKEA, I think most would.  

We'd just have to keep an eye out for any redditors showing up and hanging around Smland... &gt; Sm****land

FTFY Fixed!  Smland. There's a difference. Just a sml one Those assorted height football shaped tables need to be in my life. Can someone explain to me if this is just a prop or a horrible knock off? It's a display; like the cardboard TVs that furniture stores put in the entertainment centers. Thank you. Ikea just takes their prop very seriously. They are plastic and very close replicas to original. They have a keyboard that looks exactly like a keyboard where the buttons are glued in. Just a prop but it does help visualize.  But BeatBox 3.60 is backwards compatible with the BB 0.1. It doesn't play all the same titles that the 0.1 doesn't play.  The BeatBox by Dre Is that a knockoff original Xbox with PS2 controllers that have the sticks ripped off and buttons painted over? that was an actual playstation controller  With NES connectors Wow, they actually changed out the wires for the controllers to match.  I only noticed the cutouts in the system at first. That seems like a huge amount of effort for a non-functioning console. They are not actual controllers. Just prop that looks like them made by ikea. The buttons do not press. 

Like I said before, Ikea takes their prop very seriously lol Damn kids.  Back in my day Playstation controllers didn't come with sticks and that's how we liked it! lol, I still have a few of those controllers laying around, they feel so naked when I pick the up. It's always an insta-boner.

Then I fire up a *Playstation Underground* disc and finish to one of three *playable demos*.   Schwing! That wasn't the disc that had a dinosaur model in 3d that you could only look at, was it? I was so excited, and then so let down. It's was a double-disc "digital magazine" sent to you every month (or 3?) that featured behind-the-scenes videos, playable demos, downloadable game saves and other such content.  I think I had every single "issue" from its inception to discontinuation.  But back then it was mind-blowingly awesome to have a little piece of various PlayStation games you could play for free - a bit before demo discs became increasingly common as part of regular magazines and such.


I most vividly remember the intro video for one issue featured the MST3K crew skewering all the previous intros.  Ah, good times. I love how much fucking effort Ikea go with these things. My local one literally has a whole bookcase per room of books relevant to the theme, in Swedish and English. I remember actually buying a few interesting books I saw. The shelf next to it had these fake DVDs http://imgur.com/gallery/v7z0e/ Someone sat down, opened up MSP and *made these*.  
Someone *made these*. Someone *was paid* to make these. Most likely a graphic designer who got a degree and has some years of experience College degree well spent I work in IKEA (not as an IKEA employee but security) and the Com-In department (who handles visual merchandising and interior design) are spending their entire days making and arranging stuff in the showroom and marked place which is designed to look as aesthetically pleasing and 'wholesome' as possible. 

Seems this local IKEA has a Com-In employee with a lot of humour or spare time!   Why don't they just use the same designs for every Ikea? Probably to appeal for different audiences. For example, OP's picture is clearly appealing to Germans, since "Mutti" is mother in German if I'm not mistaken. A local IKEA in Sweden could potentially have some humour in "fashion" only in the country etc. for better effect. People enjoy when they recognise something that is somewhat of a "inside" joke, if that makes sense. 

Sure, as many people won't recognise it, but those who do, will probably be more impressed/humoured than if it were a universal joke, which leads to them liking IKEA more, which leads them to buying more furniture at IKEA. I made this. You made this?  he made this I made this  You made this? Man, have you seen that last Beaking Bread episode? So awesome! "Yo, peanut butter me bitch." "Don't forget to make me extra jelly." It annoys me that Ba exists but the used Be instead. I'm sure the artist kept asking himself "To Be or not to Be...." yeah it would have been an anagram of Breaking Bad had it said Baking Bread. This just infuriates me more that they haven't done it. I laughed way too hard at "Talking to Dad" &gt;Beaking Bread

&gt;Silence of the Lamps

I am kill. F ***What do mean, fake? these are some of my favorite movies, man!*** Pretty sure Breaking Bread is a TV series. Silence of the lamp   The Bookshelf Thief A real 360 here but a fake xbox on the other display.... what Fishanic. A true classic. Also, is that a lamp in front of the fake Jodie Foster's mouth? Edit: yes. Yes it is. Love the Silence of The Lambs one My local Ikea has real books too! All of them in swedish and surprisingly they don't get stolen.  
  
Edit: I should point out that I live in Spain. So yeah, the chances of a spaniard that knows swedish and goes to Ikea to stole books are less than none. wait, what is *in* them? Cocaine. They don't even have Left for Bread. Disappointing. Damn, forgot to upload the photo of that and Car Fry 3  Did they have Metal Gear Salad? There need to be more food-based video games.  Like *Mario Pt* and *Booger Time*... Fartoads Battlecry ? Far Crysis Far Cry 6 Trash Handycoupe Model Earth: Shadow Of My Door Meinkraft
 I guess that since it's IKEA you have to compile the games yourself :P You'd always have a few textures and assets left over at the end, you're not quite sure of where they would ~~of~~ have went. World -1, here we go again... I like how the other two have been "politically-correctified" but The Sims has been turned into The Pimps. Hey, it's no less accurate...

...assuming I'm playing it right.


^((Redhead lesbian sluts sound pretty right, right?)^) If redhead lesbian sluts is wrong, I don't want to be right Cheers to that. [You](http://i.imgur.com/FGIB9q7.jpg) [can't](http://i.imgur.com/dpMcK0h.png) [go](http://i.imgur.com/JtIWaEu.jpg) [wrong](http://i.imgur.com/I1u5IZn.jpg) [with](http://i.imgur.com/mJ0tW7m.png) [lesbians](http://i.imgur.com/JBWC6z1.jpg). That's mildly NSFW, by the way. what ^^^dangerzone "Call your Mutti" :D
"Mutti" is the german word for "mommy" Yes an IKEA in germany http://i.imgur.com/xT1bYxU.jpg "Senap Mild"

Mild mustard It's the Hotdog-Party-Paket http://i.imgur.com/Z1zNAJC.jpg Cool! It's so funny to read all the Swedish names :D That's German.

Unless I'm missing a joke on which case I'll whoosh myself  The list on the right is indeed printed in German, but all the names on the products are in Swedish.

Pickles  
Toasted onion  
ketchup  
mild mustard The Pimps - lure johns into the pool, remove ladder What do you mean 'fake'? Yeah, please explain someone. I live in a country without Ikea, are these games pirated or something? IKEA is a furniture store. 

They need filler DVDs and video games so that people can envision what their shelves and bookcases will look like completed. 

Instead of going with generic box art, the covers are parodies of famous titles. In ikea they have sections with rooms for different ages, purposes and family's to look around. They can't used licensed media without paying a fee so they make them up just parodying existing games. OH that's pretty cool of them. No IKEA? What is this remote fantasy island you speak of? Fantasy? Not being able to furnish an entire house for twelve cents and some chewed gum sounds like a nightmare island to me! They forgot half life 3 Life on Full 3? A game where pimps have to live together as roommates would get pretty violent quickly. I think we just invented a new Big Brother series.

**Big Brother: Pimp Paradise**. Follow the stories and intrigue of a house full of pimps... Please someone get started on making Grand-ma's auto. I'll help in anyway I can. I hope Call Your Mutti: Say Oops I'm Sorry doesn't have annoying squeakers and campers online. You'll be lucky if it even has online gameplay. "Oops I'm Sorry Mutti, I cannot pause it's online!" I, for one, would like a copy of The Pimps. I can just imagine some Swedish graphic designer sitting at their desk and chuckling to themselves. I wish that was my job to make these fake games. Crack of Dirty: Mexican Welfare 2 Carlos' Duty. Not Blockbuster, Blockblister!  I'll pay you to ship me a copy of tha PIMPS. CHOKLADKROKANTBREDBAR: The Game Gotta get that for my iProp Battlefield offline I thought these were pornos Does the fake IKEA stuff freak out anyone else like it freaks me out?  It's placed to appear as if it's being used, it's recognizable as a common thing... then it's apparent that it's artificial.

I guess I'm afraid I'm in a computer simulation or part of a CIA brainwashing experiment or an alien human-habitat preserve.  I feel like after making that discovery, some sort of agents in suits are going to show up to take me away.  Before I tell the others.  I know too much. The Pimps sound interesting I wonder if there hooker in the game? BONESTORM Buy me bonestorm or go to hell! Where's 2014 FITTA World Cup Brazil? You just said the Swedish word for vagina..  Ingen skit, Sherlock! Vart var du ikvll? [deleted] h They are releasing FITTA Bgball first. Nice. Where do i get a beatbox one? Where do I rent "The Pimps"? Buy some and upload the gameplay footage. &gt;The Pimps

I think someone wanted to play a joke. I'm guessing these are for decorating furniture displays, but then why are these on a rack as if they're for sale? I think that's a shelf. As in furniture that you can buy. Things like this make me happy.  They clearly gave the job to do this to someone who likes gaming, and they had fun with it.  The end result is just fun for people to see. I heard backgammon mode has been pushed back again for Grandmas Auto Online. What really gets me is that someone took the time to make every cover 100% UNCUT The Pimps? Fucking spot on. *The Pimps?!* With the way things are looking, we might get Grandma's Auto before GTA V. I believe that it's in China (possibly Japan?) that there are public transportation credits that can be purchased by recycling cans and bottles.

Really, incorporating this idea into a variety of services would be a great way to promote recycling. Myself, I use public transportation every day. I'd recycle like a maniac for free use of the streetcars and busses. In Germany you get actual money back, which you can exchange for goods and services. Most US citizens can, too.

Edit: I live in Michigan, and we have  a higher than 90% recycling rate. We pay about 10% - 25% of the cost of a beverage as a deposit when we buy a can or bottle of Coke, for example. You can only get it back when you return the bottle or can. It is extremely effective. There's no deposit in Ohio, yet there's still a ton of people willing to gather cans for the scrap value.  In college we used to just throw all our empty cans into the front lawn, and people in pickup trucks would come around at least twice in a night picking them all up.  We called them the "beer fairies" I have Alley Rats...same thing but applies to anything of value...no matter how small. It's $0.10 deposit per bottle/can, $0.10 per bottle/can recycled. Only applies to carbonated beverages, I think. You are correct. It would be nice if it applied to water bottles as well, but they're worried about the effect during emergency situations and for people with compromised immune systems living in situations with poor water quality... They tried to pass a bill in MA last year to put our 5 cent deposit on all bottles, but it didn't pass  The soda/bottled water companies fight these laws tooth and nail. It's crazy considering the impact of the laws on the environment is enormous and extremely well documented, and I have yet to see any evidence that an increase of 5 cents on the price of beverages changes anyone's purchasing decisions.  Did they trot out the health argument? MI had some hearings on it, and that was the killer on water bottle deposits... The man argument was that it would negatively impact small businesses. Or something The argument was more along the lines of "This is unfriendly to consumers and will increase the costs of groceries for everyone", so of course it didn't pass because no one wants to pay more money for soda.

The average voter makes decisions based around how options will personally affect them. For the average voter, it just looked like a bill to make groceries more expensive for no reason. Where i live, we put recyclables in a can designated for such and they are taken away, we don't see any return of our deposit (the city collects it though, I am sure)

I'm under no obligation to recycle, and derive no direct or indirect benefit from doing so, but I do.  I think a lot of people recycle when there's no cost to them doing so.

I don't think the deposit serves to promote recycling much at all, with just a few groups benefiting from the programs (mostly municipalities and those guys that dig through everyone's trash and are technically stealing from the municipalities, as they are the only ones moving enough volume of deposit paid recyclables to redeem anything resembling a useful amount of money.) Really it's limited to beer/soda cans?

In my area (Alberta, Canada - I believe most of Canada is pretty much the same) we pay a deposit on cans, plastic pop bottles (everything from 591ml to 2L), beer bottles, wine bottles, bottled water, most juices (cans, juice boxes, larger tetra packs), milk containers, and probably more crap that I can't remember.  

Then yeah, collect them for awhile and return it bottle depot's for a refund.   In Alberta it's pretty much everything that you buy liquids in.  Canada too, well Ontario! The Beer Store, government run beer stores in Ontario take back all the beer cans/bottles and liquor bottles bought at the LCBO, the government run liquor stores. In the last 85 years, The Beer Store has recovered over 75 Billion beer bottles just in Ontario. 94% of bottles purchased are returned for a refund, and since 2007 all the wine and spirit containers stacked to each other would almost reach the moon. [Pretty awesome!](http://www.thebeerstore.ca/sites/default/files/pages/images/Earth-Day-Infographic.png) 

However, here in Ontario we don't return pop cans/bottles for a refund. We are however, pretty good at recycling them. Doesn't happen in my city. I'd like to be able to get money for cans. So many times I could have used 2 dollars to eat.  Well, guess where that refund comes from... Bottle tax pisses me off when I'm traveling out of state. I'm just paying more for something that I won't get back since I can't just carry around a suitcase of bottles lol.  I have no sympathy for you. It is a market incentive for someone else to recycle it. But I would rather just recycle because it is the right thing to do. I always throw my recyclables in the proper container, I couldn't conceive not wanting to do that.  I was in New Orleans a few years back and they don't even have proper recycling bins. I'm from California and it's been hammered into us since birth that you must recycle. I held onto a bottle while walking around for almost an hour because I didn't see any of the proper bins. And felt a slight tinge of guilt when I had to just throw it in the normal garbage. In California you're taxed five cents for every single can (sixty cents for a 12 pack) and you can only get that money back by taking it to special machines that refund you the taxed five cents but not the value of the aluminum. At oktoberfrest there was a 1 euro refundable surcharge on every plastic bottle.

There was not a single bottle laying on the ground.

Incentives can be really effective. When I was in Germany, there were bottles all over the ground after a night of kids drinking.. But then there were people picking them up to redeem the money people basically wasted. I think a lot of homeless people make a living collecting them up. Walked outside to the dumpster at 2am on a hot summer night to throw away trash.  Started swinging the bag toward the dumpster.  Heard some rustling and a man pops out from inside the dumpster.  Nearly shit my pants and pulled back on the bag, shattering dozens of beer bottles. Half the complex woke up. 

I felt bad for the guy trying to collect trash at 2am with a flashlight so that he doesn't get embarassed when people find him picking through garbage.   The german person showing me around munich said to leave bottles on top of the garbage bins so the homeless people could get cash back for them. EXACTLY most US states passed their deposit laws back in the 1980s with the second wave of American environmentalism. Back then a 5 or 10 cent deposit was basically like finding 1 dollar bills on the ground. The problem here now is that the law havnt been updated in almost 40 years so the incentive has died with it. Here in 916 you can look around for recycling centers that pay you a flat fee for the weight of aluminum you bring in. It was like 2.05$ a pound, so you get like 2 cents back for the 5 cents you originally paid. The recycling here is a joke, its not even worth anything to bring back glass. Yeah those places are really ripping you off. You're supposed to go to the recycling machines. You usually see them in grocery store parking lots. You feed the cans into the machines and it returns the CRV value. I'm sure a can of Coke doesn't have that much aluminum in it. At current market value a single can 12oz has about two and a half cents worth of aluminum. Basically CA has set up a racket. They're forcing you to pay five cents and return it to you only when you give them two cents worth of aluminum they can turn around and sell. So you're losing that potential two cents on every can you buy. Or like most people you just throw your cans in the recycling bin and the state keeps the five cents and still gets your cans to resell. Except for the cost to reprocess all that aluminum...  Wouldn't it cost CA money to recycle the aluminum? If they charged what just the metal was worth that wouldn't help the recycling program very much. when i was little, my dad would give me and my brothers each a garbage bag so we could pick up cans and bottles after soccer tournaments and carnivals that we went to. we would recycle them and then get to go to chuck e cheese or dave and buster's with the money we made. it was fun for us to have an incentive, and our parents got to take us out for much cheaper when they didn't have a lot of disposable income.
 Not sure why, but this image was very sweet :) Yeah, some subway stations in ~~China~~ Beijing will accept empty cans/bottles for credits.


edit: I only saw them in Beijing, don't know about other cities. just putting high tech no surcharge sorting machines into supermarkets (like the ones in germany for example) would probably encourage people to bring their bottles and cans with them as a part of grocery shopping. like carry the empty bottles in your tote bag on the way there.

i think also the redemption rate is a little too low for most people and should be closer to the total value of recycling/reusing that bottle industrially. i think there are several incentive structures but two just occurred to me:

1. charge more for the deposit. if my bottles and cans were redeemed at **25 cents** I would see more value ($3.00) in recycling my 12-pack. and so I would probably start a kind of bottle and can piggy bank.

2. take a lower deposit than the redemption rate. 5 cent deposit/10 cent redemption. or something like that. We have those here in Michigan. It takes about 5 minutes to return 50-60 cans.  Wait, those machines aren't in other states that have a deposit? Those are crazy convenient, they should be everywhere. We have them in supermarkets in Michigan and they are a pain. They are always broke and the little room they stick them is smells like week old stale beer. Oh and the floors are always sticky... well everything in that room is sticky. all to get your 10 cents back... Here in Michigan we get 10 cents a can. Redeemable in grocery stores for either cash or credit. What people fail to remember though is that we pay a 10 cent deposit. Sometimes it's a net loss. People will take a can to go from our house, or I'll put the one I bring for lunch in the bin at work. We're not really getting $5 off our groceries when we get around to returning them as much as we are paying $5 towards our next visit.  I live in a state where we there is no deposit and we got cans and bottles all over the sides of the roads. When you pay that deposit sometimes your paying 10cents for someone to recycle for you. I've drive across a few states and you can see a huge diffence My dad lives in Indiana. So weird going to visit him and watching them throw cans in with the trash.   In Norway, vending machines for cans/bottles have a button for donating to Red Cross, while also entering you into a lottery (top prize is ~250,000USD). Heck, there's even a lottery for recycling milk cartons.  "Toss a can for a free ride!" **PLEASE DRINK VERIFICATION CAN TO CONTINUE** [Mountain Dew is for me and you.](http://i.imgur.com/dgGvgKF.png) I can't wait for the future. The future is NOW. Drink verification can to continue!   Drink verification can to receive above referenced verification can.  No wait. Humanity will prevail! corporations will not take our... Never mind there's nothing we can do.  We can do the Dew.  Let's Dew it! this is 3 hours in the future. GO BACK GO BACK WE FUCKED EVERYTHING UP! Sounds like a Black Mirror episode. okay that's it. Seen this comment too many times. Now I have to drop everything I'm doing and watch this show for the next coupled days.

ARE YOU HAPPY?! The episode "15 Million Merits" is the one you're looking for.  May god have mercy on your soul. The memory one was intense too It's really good but also really draining.  They're really intense. It's a modern day sci-fi Twilight Zone. It's awesome. Yeah, you should just get it over with. The good news is, all you have to do is sit on your couch and watch a fascinating, engaging television show!  God dammit I thought it'd be easier! I still laugh every time I read that.  *WARNING, OUT OF VERIFICATION CANS* an order has been shipped and charged to your credit card. Wish I could give this more upvotes. You could always do a reverse Unidan. i tried that once and i got my dick stuck in a jackdaw http://i.imgur.com/zjqSG64.gif I'm glad somebody had this saved.  1337 http://imgur.com/SHkmacw This is one joke i don't mind recycling. I can see what you mean. Ugh, these puns are garbage A waste of space really. I feel like that has never been more appropriate than now.  I thought it was the joke of the post. Don't think so, it can very easily be taken (as I did) that the future is when entertainment can be provided by recycling, due to the increased need for it in the future, encouraging people to recycle. At the very least, it is by no means immediately obvious it references that post. /r/retiredcopypasta http://i.imgur.com/08VuRCO.gif Exactly  I was going to have a fit if this wasn't top comment in this thread. This made me laugh way harder then it should have ITT: People with dicks the size of a can Tuna cans.  It's only *this* long but it's **this** big around. I can't hit the bottom of the can, but I can sure bore out the sides. Bore at least http://i.imgur.com/Rx8zsQ3.jpg [mines more like this](http://www.nourishnc.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/tuna-can.jpg) [Lots of Borats?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S7vWi8sosg4&amp;t=194) I forgot he did Borat before doing movie.  Dude is brilliant.   [At least it's not a tuna can.](http://www.reddit.com/r/rpg/comments/18d80q/okay_everyone_wanted_more_detail_about_the_fatal/) **CITIZEN, PICK UP THAT CAN.**

So you can enjoy our awesome new low-cost entertainment center!  YAY! :) Half-Life 2: Pick Up the Can Edition Can't wait for the sequel. Half-Life 2: Pick Up the Can Edition: Episode 1? At least you'll never have to pick up a third can. Throws at guard's head

*Achievement unlocked: Defiant* Instructions unclear - Tazered. Instructions unclear. Dick stuck in arcade game.  My dick has now been recycled. Not again... How many times can one dick be recycled? Bond, James Bond So... 7 times? No... 007 oh wait that's 7 20+ I almost bought a penis on second avenue by St. Mark's Place, you know where all those people buy and sell books and stuff? Anyway, this guy wanted $22 for this penis. It was way out of my price range, so I just kept walking. Detachable penis Doesn't it have to be used once to be recycled? This kills the dick  I would totally stick my dick in there, but the hole looks waay too small. You might want a doctor to look at that His son's name is Richard.  You might need a transplant dick.  Checked the comments for this post right here. You know Reddit, always have to beat a joke into oblivion.  Can we beat it into Skyrim instead?  Thanks dad. Same here. Not my fault I can't read Japanese. French. Whatever. *sees hole*  
*scrolls down*  
Fhew. This could lead to some fun 'drinking games'.  Thank God, a comment that had nothing to do with arcade cabinet glory holes. You are a hero. Back sweat, AND recyclable smells? God that would be a rank arcade. Glory hole gaming Why is no one commenting on the fact that this is Metal Slug? I love this game. And a Metal Slug arcade machine with only one stick at that! How are we supposed to get our friends into recycling like this!? TIL Japans word for dick is can. 

...and Japanese have dicks the size of cans. http://i.imgur.com/Ppp6yZq.jpg That's so kawaii That's what she said. Is it even pouring out? Isn't the surface tension too high for that small of a size? It's a normal size can it's just being held by Andre the Giant. Would think so yeah but it depends on the liquid.  Beer is mostly water so the answer is yes. I thought they just had pixels down there You shouldn't believe everything you see on the internet. Oh yeah they do. Blocky bastards At first when I saw this I thought it was some kind of retro VR gloryhole People of this thread:  Unless you are the T1000 and your dick is *actually* made of metal...**Stop trying to recycle your gently-used penises** &gt; gently

You don't know me. Be careful, is not at "Japan Expo" held in July in Paris but in "Japan Expo Sud", a secondary class convention held right now in Marseille. [/misleading alert] I don't see how that's misleading, it's kinda like Pax has Pax East and South, but you're right, it's more specifically Japan Expo Sud in Marseille With the quality of games in arcades these days, throwing a can into one to get a single go on an oversized Doodle Jump for a pittance of tickets might actually be worth it. Someone will be putting their penis in that at some point.  All we need now is a midget who wants the D. We will revolutionize video games, forever! what if... I got the wrong message. I casually glanced at the title and saw japan.  I noticed a waist high hole on a arcade cabinet.  I'm glad my thoughts and reality are not the same. "COME ON BEN, DON'T LET THE TEAM DOWN..."
"BRRP...dude, I gotta pee so bad I'm...URP...tasting it..."
"CHUG it asshole!  We're almost to the end!" And it's all bio-degradable too! I mean look, the decals by the joystick are already coming off. Put...put your dick in it &gt;Insert an empty can Glory hole to play  Joysticks for Joysticks I just want to know why they help the Japan Expo in France. Seems a bit out of the way for me... instructions in French: Dick stuck in machine User manual Warning: !

"Please do not insert erection into center circle". So...Your wiener goes in there right? I hope it accepts beer cans. I would buy a 30 rack and camp out next to it all day long. Or until I can't stand up and play anymore.  holy shit Its metal slug too! hell yea! (I wonder how many cans it holds until it needs to be emptied)  Holy crap, the first penis-controlled video game! When i first saw this, I thought it was something perverted (new sex simulator or something like this), then I read the description and thought I was perverted thinking about something stupid... Thank god for labels. I would not have thought "can" I'm not gonna lie, in the thumbnail I thought this was going to be a Japanese blowjob machine. Instantly sad.  These glory holes are getting better an better. Now I can play a game at the same time  I actually thought of sticking my dick in there. I thought you were supposed to insert your penis... I was wrong.  That's right at penis level.  anybody else thought that this was some kind of sex simulation machine? I totally thought that was some sort or robot glory hole... lol i clicked to see comments just to confirm someone made a gloryhole reference I just thought it was a Japanese arcade machine that had a glory hole... Step 1: cut a hole in the cabinet
Step 2: put your can in the cabinet I saw Japan and automatically assumed this was some weird sex game and you were supposed to stick your dick in there. Finally a sex bot! Not very attractive figure but I'll take what I can get! "Please drink confirmation Mountain Dew to continue." Les franais gagneront toujours ! &lt;3 Bien sr, Cocorico! Potentially two of my favourite things in one wonderful conception: beer and video games. The end of homeless people. I hope that's a low-energy emulator and an energy-efficient screen, and not an electricity-guzzling original arcade machine... Because if it is, it's kind of missing the point. Wow, that's actually pretty cool. Not as convenient as quarters, but still a novel idea. So, does noone else notice that pepsi can sprite art is possibly stolen from the game Hikkomori quest? I grew up in a family recycling business and during my holidays at Torquay (AU) beach I would collect thousands of cans.

My father payed me a higher rate of 1c per can to encourage me.

Anyway, 1c to play an arcade game. That seems like a very good rate unless you happen to be the owner of the machine... I wonder if one of these would need to be paid for via a can or if it would have an insert coin option as well. Yeah I didn't think that hole was for cans at first..... Video games literally fueled by empty mountain dew cans? 

*Tips fedora* I thought this was an arcade hand job station. not gonna lie, saw the word japan, then saw the hole and initially thought your dick went in it.... I used to think recycling(at my home) was pretty shitty. 

I'd have bins full to the brim with cans/bottles/glass, bags piled on one another and when I loaded them in my SUV, it sucked since they were dirty and smelly. Actually getting my money back on those damn CRV is a great feeling though. Every 3 months I go to cash them in and get around $70 or so back. That's not bad at all for such a menial task. My buds on campus don't recycle and question why I do, but money is money. That's an extra $70 I didn't have in my pocket before.

I actually get jealous of the random people that come on by my campus for recyclables. It's genius as you can pretty much leave with big giant bags of cans and stuff a day with thousands of students just tossing recyclables every day. People pity them, but I'm just thinking, "These guys are making bank!"  I can see a homeless man collection tons of cans just to buy food to stay alive while he sees a crying kid on the street next to the machine because his mom needs all the money she can get working 4 jobs he just wanted to play 1 more game and the homeless man walks up and gives the kid a can.

Can someone write this as a story for me? So I could just fill a backback full of empty beer cans and beat Metal Slug?

YES! YES! A THOUSAND TIMES YES!!! This concept is great.  Maybe it'll grow and be used towards other types of vending as well.  ie: used cans to go towards your next soda. &gt;put vending machine next to this, sell
&gt;cans for $1.50. 
&gt;make more money than if you charged for the game itself

fuck recycling this is a genius business idea So how long before these replace glory holes?  Insert cans.....or massive cocks DAE glory hole?!?1

Seriously guys, my inbox is drowning in dick related comments :( I wonder who will be the first person to put their dick in that? Yeah I can't be the only one of us here that thought this was a glory hole arcade machine or something Reminds me of a glory hole.  I didn't know Pepsi is involved with the glory hole scene. Initially mind went to a completely different object that is supposed to be inserted. Then I thought what are the joy sticks meant to control 

Then I looked at the pic a little closer then it all made sense.  So...I just put my penis in here?  I thought this was a glory hole. The Internet has ruined me  Totally assumed it was a dick hole to begin with  You're not the only one
 The future is diabetes.  First thing I thought of too.

"Chug faster! There's 5 seconds left!" Bit too big for bottlecaps. (   ) Here's to having a petite person of preferred gender hiding inside it. Beat the high score while you're... distracted! Yeah, good idea, but not everyone can have a midget. It should dispense Overdrive.

 Is there a co-op option where I can push my younger brother into the fiery death below? DLC for $19.99. With additional animations for $4.99 each. Fuck you gates.  You have to add a few zeros to that if you want the Bill Gates DLC. Sooo... like this 4.99000000? No, like this $000000000000000004.99 Anyone else who got bullied by their older brother (both in video-games and real life) feel as resentful toward this comment as me? As an older brother, what are *you* gonna do, buttface? Tell *maaam*?? I'm telling mom about your magazine collection dickeater Man these tropes make me glad me and my brother were like best friends growing up. But yeah I was always Luigi and the red double dragon.   Heaven help you if you can't keep up in a vertical Contra level I've seen friendships end and families separate over the vertical contra level.   You aren't telling anyone anything! I'll kick your ass! Jokes on us actually, if you're the youngest child then you're the one getting fuckin' spoiled when everyone else leaves home. Yeah it's great! Finish uni, home alone, meant to be getting a job but can't, slowly growing depressed!

Luckily my brother moved back in! I'm an older brother didn't even question this being a feature of the game. do you have the option to toss a pillow to bridge a gap?  [Pillows are for the puny.](http://i.imgur.com/Y2S0qYn.jpg) Was that a lemur? Who has a lemur as a pet? Lawrence (the lemur) is the head of the household.  In fact, Larry has several pets of his own, from projects to rocks [and](http://i.imgur.com/GW1x5N6.jpg) even a few peeves. Urban environments must be rad as fuck for a lemur Someone please turn this into a "Nope" gif with a little "nope" appearing every time he hits a wall It's Zoboomafoo! There's actually a dungeon, Caudecus's Manor, in Guild Wars 2 where you have to throw a pillow so you don't step on the ground which will instantly kill you. So you end up jumping from rug &gt; pillow &gt; bed. First time, i just ran in and upon hearing the screams of my teammates started jumping like a mad man terrified, eventuallt landing on a pillow. Still dont know how we didnt all die You did.  You are still trapped there, reliving that day forever. "I want to get off of Mr.Bones Wild Ride." Lol Wtf it's lava bro, that shit would burn that pillow right up.   Even made up games have some realism you sicko. 

Edit Christ /r/gaming is dense  So you're saying the lava in my suburban living room *isn't* realistic? 

Edit: why's this guy being downvoted? That shit was hilarious.

Oh wow. r/gaming, you may need to see [this.](http://i.imgur.com/F636xiP.gif)

Second edit: /u/internetnickname now has gold. Everyone got the joke, finally. That gif was the longest "fuck you" ever. Awesome. Also kind of pretty. I laughed again everytime it completed another orbit Not gonna lie, I was expecting it to draw Dick Butt. Edit: he has gold now so edit your post again. Edit edit edit

Ninja edit: WE DID IT REDDIT. Seriously though, he was -44 in the hole around when I decided to make the edit only a few mins ago. Yeah.. he's probably shitting his pants right now.  On account of all the lava or the gold?  The lava is actually molten gold. And now he's even higher than the person he's responding to? Some crazy turnaround as well as a great rate of upvoting I was rooting for it, I'm like, "Joke, you're almost there, you almost got it!" But, gravity, man. Sauce on the GIF? How was it made? I want an orbital mechanics / spaceflight thingy because reasons.

Also, did the Joke apply thrust to leave Earth orbit, or was that entirely a consequence of the incoming trajectory and gravity? Inquiring nerds want to know. I'm really sorry to disappoint you, but I actually just searched "space joke.gif"

That's it. I don't know the answer to most of those questions, but that looks like an accurate N-body simulation.

Joke, thus, would most likely have slingshotted from the moon, therefore marginally slowing the moon down while increase Joke's velocity by a lot. [A message to everyone in this thread.](http://i.imgur.com/3R6Nzm5.jpg) Yikes, why are you getting downvoted so hard.  Your comment made me laugh, but your score made me cry.  A martyr to the cause, unfortunately. Just let it be...

Edit: Got dang, that's got to be the fastest Karma reversal I've ever seen. Holy shit.  From - 50 to +330 in 20 min.  Damn impressive.  Fail if when you pause the ground doesn't return to normal. As long as the lava in the underworld levels stays as lava, to show that the lava isn't just in the protagonist's imagination any more. Have the entire underworld shift into something else drab and dull. the basement where uncle touches you.

EDIT: Holy shit my first post that boomed lmao, I went to bed with like 4-5 likes and i woke up with over 351 &lt;3 ty you guys &lt;3 He said drab and dull, not a fun and exciting new adventure!! "Uncle Max's Touchy Basement and the Following Court Proceedings" Uncle Max's Touchy Basement 2: Banged up in the slammer. 

 Uncle touches naked puzzle basement adventure 3d Have the underworld be a metaphor for the dangers of growing up. What if hell is just wall to wall luxurious carpet and something was lost in translation? That's pretty much the best suggestion ever. *sigh*, NatureValley, like anyone could even know that 

Edit: aww shucks  You know what, /u/NatureValley, you can leave. How much you wanna bet I can throw a football over them there mountains??  Hey, you're not uncle Rico. You're just abigfatphoney! *gosh* I don't get it. Napoleon dynamite  Time Trial : Mom calls you for dinner. Must be in kitchen within a minute or your grounded.  "Grounded" is literal. You get stuck in the lava, and it solidifies around your legs. Not only is your flesh burnt off, you can't move from that spot. You're forced to eat your veggies, too. 
 That's even worse :( Innocent fun to wtf in mere seconds :-( FYI The creator of the game posted on the steam greenlight page that he reached out to /u/elenb1cl for permission to use this idea in the game! Pretty cool imo. Very cool! 

I was sitting here thinking this great idea would just disappear like all my childhood dreams! Times like this are why I love the internet  and you have the option then to run to the kitchen real quick to grab an ice cream sandwich but then the game is totally back on after that. I'm having a hard time interpreting what this means. Fill me in?

Edit: Thanks! That makes a lot more sense. I think he's just saying the lava is in your imagination, so when you pause the game everything just returns to normal until you start playing again, much like how your imagination works when you're playing. When your mom calls you in the other room or you have go go to the bathroom you say "timeout!" and go do whatever then as soon as you get back the game is on and the floor is lava again. Just a throw back to rules you'd follow as a kid. I don't get it.  What are you saying, exactly? I like the [waffle blocks.](http://www.littletikes.com/content/ebiz/shop/invt/619137/619137_big-waffle-blocks_xlarge.jpg) Holy shit I haven't seen those in years! Those were absolutely the most fun, especially when you could make tiny rooms or mazes with them. Annnnnnd, it's official. Every last kid will become obese. Every future gamer is so fat, they use cheat codes on Wii fit. Isn't that a yo mama joke..? Yo mama so old, she played "the ground is lava" with her furniture. what a dinosaur No, that's "meteors" Tyrannosaurus Rekt  I hate to be that guy, but nice username. Dirk, why you always say stupid shit?  I didn't say anything!! Yo mama's hair so short, when she get cornrows it looks like she got stitches. 


-Wu Tang Clan ain't nothing to fuck with Yo mamma so old she has a hole just for colored people Yo mama's so fat, last time she fell in love, she broke it. Coming soon: "Playing Outside: The Game!"

Pre-order now to get Swingset and Sandbox DLC! /r/Outside Someone beat you by two minutes, pal. 

Sorry, better luck next time.  Damn. So close. I'll just upvote both of you, that way it's even I upvoted yours instead because you capitalized it.  /r/outside I up voted  you because you are first in an alphabetical order and because capitalizing is very overrated But head injuries and broken furniture rates will drop significantly.

At least until the kids become so obese that the act of sitting starts breaking furniture again. My fat friend broke 3 chairs in one night. It was magical  Did you know that 42 million children under the age of 5 were overweight or obese in 2013? No. This isn't a fun fact. Burn the bot. I want to unsubscribe from Fat Facts. We all do, son. Name does not check out.  I actually assumed this would be a VR game with the omnipad thing, so quite the opposite :D I hope they have a DLC where instead of lava it's the worms from *Tremors*. Growing up I had a friend that was addicted to Tremors,  could recite the entire movie from memory.  I could totally relate to this DLC :-)
 Where, per chance, did this friend live? They uh, they might've been me. Please deliver OP Did you live in a valley surrounded by nature?  If so, you might know him/her/it. Are you talking about ranch dressing? I feel like you're talking about ranch dressing. No, that's *Hidden* Valley. You're thinking of Hidden Valley. Right right right...  
Then is it granola bars? Nature Valley granola bars are a thing. OMG, thank you reddit. Straight from lava on the carpet to hidden valley ranch dressing. I feel like it's 1993 or something There's a level like this in Jedi Academy. Gotta collect parts for a broken ship, but you can't touch the ground. Tremors is my shit! Even have the blu-ray! Dvd attack pack. Get on my level.  https://youtu.be/p3zzGjXWR6o I was thinking of this one:
https://youtu.be/XdJms4A74Nk No no no! This is the one: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdrORwZzlBk Lol that was pretty sweet. The episode of community that was all about the hot lava game was pretty good too ;) Anyone ever wonder where the game "The Floor is Lava" came from?  Almost everyone I've ever asked has played some version of the game and none can remember how the game came about other than maybe saying an older sibling taught them.  So who came up with it and why does every child seem to instinctually know it?  It's just one of the beautiful mysteries of childhood. Like the Berenstain Bears or the man running next to the car.  we learn about lava in school, and use it for a don't touch the floor game, because it provides a reason to not touch the floor, I think the game orginated as don't fall where the ground is an abysss or canyon, when some kids tried  to mimic their parents doing something high up or over a canyon/river.  its probably the oldest game now that I think about it, since you could argue that come animals play versions of this simple game.
 I think it's one of those things that kids eventually make up on their own and then pass is along to their siblings and friends. This would be awesome on Oculus. Childhood fantasy achieved. Would be even better on vive. That laser room beacon shit is what I'm after.  Microsoft hololens. Then you can actually play it on your house furniture
 But... can't you already play it on your house furniture? .....well yea...but now you can see the lava...I guess..

You're no fun. The new Windows Imagination! ^(warning,batteriesnotincluded) Yeah but that way you could play it on your actual furniture **WITH ACTUAL HOLOGRAMS.** What if we just made the floor of actual lava? Checkmate John Carmack. What, and use our imaginations? Please... You're a goddamn fucking genius. Furniture companies will make millions from grown-ass people reliving their childhood memories (in the coolest way possible) jumping from recliner, to couch, to end table, and so on. Better invest now.  Preorder now and they'll cover your hospital bill! at that point wouldn't it be better to just play the game in real life? [deleted] I like to view my floor as a wall to climb up. I start from one wall and try to keep my body as close to the floor as I can without touching anything but my hands &amp; feet. I then "climb up" the wall using furniture corners &amp; rugs as hand holds. Its a fun way to exercise and quite a workout. Just make sure your floor is clean first. Fail.  I just tried this.  My landlord saw me through the window and called the police thinking I was having a seizure.  The police came and found 2 unlicensed marsupials in my basement.  Thanks alot, pal. &gt; alot palMy best friend is an alot Umm, what is voidspace I guess? Do I want to know? [deleted] That's great! Not sure if this advertising is absolutely genius or absolutely obnoxious, though. The video lost me at "real money trades." I thin it's pretty damn genius. It's low key and not in your face [MRW Im playing in The Floor is Lava World Championships and I let an African-American gentleman go ahead of me even though hes on the other team because Im not at all racist. See how not-racist I am, everyone? Would a racist person do that? No.](http://i.imgur.com/VWU7iBj.jpg) Why not just inchworm? Dat core strength  CS: Source surf? Definitely inspired by CS:Surf and Bunny Hop.
 If this game has neither bhop nor surf, I will be sorely disappointed. It's based on a mix of both.  Basically, a standalone bhop and surf experience.

Check a gameplay trailer out on Steam Greenlight: 

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441 Needs a supermarket level where the white floor tiles are safe, but the black floor tiles are hot lava.  I hate to break it to you dude, but you've been stepping on lava your whole life.  Hopefully it has multiplier so everyone at Greendale Community College can play. Chair Walkers vs Defenders of Shirley Island. Give us your food, chairs, and the names of your same sex celebrity crushes, we all have one. Earn your M&amp;M's!  Troy and Abed in a buuubble! By the vapors of Magmarath, we WILL destroy you. Where can this be played? This needs to pass Greenlight before it's released:
http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441
 Maybe I'm getting old, but the music on that trailer almost made me go mad. Absolutely horrific music I didn't mind it too much, but I didn't think it really fit the trailer. Is the Steam Greenlight page just not in English or what?  I thought it might have been just your link but it's still not in English in a new browser window. You might have visited a non-English version of the Steam Store in the past. I see it as Portuguese, because I visited some Portuguese site to secure H0T D34LZ on a piece of DLC in the Steam Store, and at some point it sent me to Portuguese Steam. Now the entire site is always in Portuguese for me. Here you go! This will fix it for you!

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?l=english&amp;id=415563441 click on [languages](http://i.imgur.com/4bbSIGt.png?2) then select English  cubicle* Canadian' creative spelling. I'm Canadian. Nice try. Canadian west coast creative spelling?
 * Cubical: the adjective meaning 'shaped like a cube'
* Cubicle: an enclosed desk that is often cubical in shape.

As far as I know, the distinction is the same everywhere. I would have totally gotten them confused myself if I hadn't looked them up just now, though. Believe it or not, this was already a game, of sorts, in a mod in Counterstrike called the "kz" or "climbing maps". They were these monolithic structures you would climb and, in the early days, that could take hours. Why? Some of them, you fell, you fell from hiiiigh up... so splat. Of course, the servers were then modded to add "save points", but it was always praised when a player used only a few or even no savepoints to get to the top.  Once you got there, your time and savepoints would be displayed in announcement and it would be logged in the rankings of the server.  These maps were everything from the giant egyptian pyramid of Gigablox or a mega tree, thousands of feet tall with paths weaving through the trunk and branches, up past the clouds. One of these maps was literally from hell to heaven.... which is why I was reminded of all of this. 

Fuck that lava, man. [Why not link to the actual steam greenlight?](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441) [Good thing I'm on my bee](http://i.imgur.com/zZn2p.jpg) I feel like this could be a bunnyhop map on counter strike.  That was the first thing I thought of. If it doesn't have movement like counterstrike it would be shitty I remember me &amp; my brothers playing the lava game, but everywhere was quicksand instead.  pussies Hey, at least we still had our legs when we saved each other. In middle school my friend and I were walking home on a hot summer day. I suggested we play the ground is lava game. All shady spots were safe. We're playing it, and I'm following behind her, and I step in the sun and start screaming at the top of my lungs. I scared her so badly that she dropped her binder, threw her hands in the air, and started screaming too. I laughed so hard I almost pissed myself. We received many stares from onlookers who were less than amused at two girls screaming their heads off.  With an oculus rift, this game can be played anywhere!! Grocery store? Surprise lava! Airport? Surprise lava! Daycare? Abandon the crawlers! Surprise lava! Is this an actual game or just images? The game is in production,  it needs to pass Greenlight to be released:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441 With a bit of tweaking, this could easily become a community video game. Fucking sweet, waffle blocks! iiiiiiiiiiiiis the someone you? It appears to be an advertisement for his game so he can get it greenlit on Steam, yes. /r/hailindiedev Poor abed:( Is there a Lava Monster? I remember playing that too when I was a kid That was hot lava monster to spice things up. When on a playground, the monster couldn't go on the playset and players couldn't walk on the woodchips. Is there a level with black and white ceramic tiling where the black spots are safe but the white ones are lava? It seems to get pretty heated *buh dum tss* [Descent...](https://youtu.be/keS0Hts2LpQ?t=98) I've never played this game. But I'm forced to watch a trailer for it every time I install Baldurs Gate. hey that's my living room in Iceland! This is bullshit - everyone knows that there were safe spots on the floor where you had left clothes laying around. As long as you didn't touch the carpet, you were safe. Not enough chairs for the caterpillar, but enough to do the inchworm. [FLOOR IS LAVA](http://i.imgur.com/53fyek0.gifv) Nsfw If you played on CSGO with servers that are called "B-Hop" servers, they are practically the same concept, but I'm surprised no one has made it into this theme. "Why the fuck didn't I think of that" -everyone  That's weird, I don't remember my house having an underworld..  is this an actual game and where can i give it all of my money Needs to pass Greenlight before it goes on sale:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441 Can you pick up pillows and throw them to make platforms? where's the link to the game, OP!?!? information, please! WHAT!
 The game went into Steam Greenlight today, almost no votes for it yet:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441
 Could you ELI5 what steam greenlight is? I tried to understand it by the page but its not fully clear to me. Greenlight allows unknown developers to get their games on steam.  Basically, if you haven't released an awesome game before you need to prove people actually like your games / ideas before you can sell to them.

 How long is the voting to release cycle? I'm so fucking disappointed that this is not a real thing right now. It actually only has a few hundred votes on Greenlight,  give it a push to make it real:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441 This game looks very awesome, voted. I already voted! Take my money. Hot Lava needs your vote before it can take all your money:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=415563441
 Lot of those scenes remind me of Quake. Is the next installment going to be "Rocket Ship Recliner"? One of us used to sit in a chair with a laundry basket over them and a blanket over that and have the other person bump it around and make rocket sounds. Man, being a kid was so fun. Now I just drink alone and watch Seinfeld. Soo is this a mod for a game? Is it released? I'd like to provide a layman's explanation of why this is amazing for all gamers, not just devs.


Unreal engine has been actively developed since 1998. Epic was one of the first few companies to get into licensing 3D engine technology for games, and their product has been one of the top game development packages for more than 15 years. The list of titles that use Unreal is just staggering, at over 600 games: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Unreal_Engine_games 

(tl;dr of that list: Unreal was used for Bioshock &amp; Bioshock Infinite, Gears of War, Borderlands, the Tom Clancy franchise, the Batman: Arkham franchise, the original Deus Ex, etc. etc. etc.)


It gets better: With the release of Unreal Engine 4 (aka UE4, the latest version), Epic has made it very clear that they want to focus on game developers as their customers. The workflow has improved drastically, the engine was expanded to cross-compile to pretty much every platform: Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, IOS, XB1 and PS4.  Yeah. They've added optimizations to run better on mobile devices and began to support 2d games as well. 


Epic used to license Unreal for a 25% royalty on gross revenue, but a few years back they relaxed that to 5% for indie devs. When they released UE4, they offered it for just that royalty plus $20/month per person.


And now, it doesn't even cost $20. Now the whole package is free for you and every indie dev in the world to play with until they can build something that makes money. This means more indy games at higher quality, and more students and amateurs learning the engine which will lead to more talent to make AAA games as well. 

Great move on Epic's part. The future of gaming just got a little bit brigher! what an inspiring post.  TO FUTURE GAME DEVELOPERS! Seriously this is a huge deal for me, just getting out of high school and dreaming of becoming a game developer, I can't wait to load this up tomorrow and just dick around with it for a few hours Don't get discouraged if its your first time using Unreal. There is A LOT of shit involved in game development. It takes a lot of time and dedication to get good at developing. It took me over two days just to figure out how to open a door when you push a button. So keep at it, get better and better, make a small team who are interested in developing and you all can probably make something very cool. Good luck dude! Step 1: put it on paper

    while(game != finished){

    if(sizeof(task) == TINY){

        doIt();

    }

    else{

        breakUp(task)

    }

    }
 Can you do this in VBA? My boss found out I'm good at Excel and wants me to bone up on macros. Hit "record macro." Manually do what you want the macro to do. Stop recording the macro. Press Alt+F11 to look at the code you just made.

Then learn how to loop.

You just learned VBA. While this technically works, I find the code that is generated is very inefficient and not very good at being converted to something more general or variable driven. 

That being said, it's more or less how I started to learn excel macros, and will do it from time to time if I am stuck on something weird. make it a few years and you got yourself a job dude. As someone in the field, and many modders will tell you as well, this isn't how it works. It is vastly more complicated then what it may appear to be, and there is a reason competent schools for our field have a 30% retention rate in it. Yeah, before learning how to make a game, you're going to have to get a solid computer science/programming foundation. &gt;  This means more indy games at higher quality,

I think we will see a mass amount of low quality games hoping to cash out early. Candy of War Crush Kingdom 5: The Flappy Clans  You forgot "zombies" in there somewhere.  That's the sequel. &gt; That's the ~~sequel~~ DLC. *Offers in app purchases  Give us ALL the microtransactions!! :D You have no idea how fucking right you are. It's sad. It is very exciting for other field as well. I been trying it out in regards to architecture. Often during studio we don't have 24 hours to render something, but the use of programs such as unreal is it gives me a good render with models.  This can significantly increase workflow, and since everything is shipped to photoshop now the days of vray and such are numbered. And then you can make lava pour out of the windows and T-Rexs rampage around while you rocket-jump from one studio project to the next in a blinding snowstorm!

 A+++ you get a masters Hahaha basically summed up masters programs at any architecture school.  All great points. Additionally, it means a lot more people and future devs are going to be familiar with their engine and methodology, cementing preference for future Epic development-oriented releases.  I hope this is the right place et ask, and I am not familiar with their legal terms, but what if someone wants to use it to release a free game but accepts donations for that game? Do they still owe a kickback to the company for using the engine? From the EULA:
___

However, no royalty is owed on the following forms of revenue:

7. Revenue from donations for a Product which are not tied to Product access or in-Product benefits;

___

The money you owe is based on gross revenue for each product for each quarter. After customers have paid $3,000 for your game that calendar quarter you owe 5% of what customers pay for that product. This means that if, say, you sell through the Apple App Store and people end up paying $4,500 for your app during a quarter: Apple takes 30% of that leaving you with $3,150, and you owe 5% of the $1,500 over $3,000 customers paid initially. This money comes from your remaining $3,150, leaving you with a grand total of $3,075.  That's super awesome.  It actually makes me want to give them money. You would probably still owe 5% on revenues above $3k per quarter. I wonder how much the competition from Unity had on their decision.  Bing to Google ratios soon I'd imagine. I've been thinking about trying to develop a game, but I have very little knowledge about this kind of stuff. What would I need to know to get started for the first time? they have a shit ton of tutorials right on the site You mainly just need alot of dedication and interest. There is alot you can learn just from messing around and following some tutorials!

 This is incredible.  And you're right, Epic more or less founded the 'engines as middleware' market.  Before that companies might have recycled internally, but at the time letting other people use your *engine* was seen on the same level as Coke giving away their formula. &gt;Epic more or less founded the 'engines as middleware' market

That is incorrect.  iD sold engines as middleware with the Wolfenstein and Doom engines well before Epic were doing any 3D at all.  Build from Ken Silverman was another example which predates Epic's engine.

And moreover, the idea of 'engines as middleware' was nothing new when Epic got into the game.  If you look at gaming magazine EDGE in the early to mid 90s you'll see ads for "middleware developers" and articles about a variety of middleware solutions (from engines, to cross compilers to audio and the like).  Epic innovated in many other ways, definitely, but they did not found the "engines as middleware" market. I stand corrected.

Would it be more accurate to say that they're one of (if not the first) to make said licensing the core of their business? It's more that they were part of a movement where the industry really started to organise and find structure.  The idea of game engines as middleware goes back as far as the Commodore 64 and Amiga - there was even a few game development engines sold at retail : [The Shoot Em Up Construction Kit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shoot-%27Em-Up_Construction_Kit) and [AMOS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMOS_%28programming_language%29) are two good examples, but there were many others.  Another example of middleware which got reasonably extensively licensed was [Incentive Software's "Freescape" engine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freescape#Software_using_the_Freescape_engine.5B3.5D) which powered almost a dozen titles including two retail game development packages - all before 1993!

The thing about Unreal and why it's so recognisable is that it, along with the Quake engine, became heavily licensed in the post 2000 era and so a lot of people just assume it was one of the first to do so.  It wasn't one of the first, but it's certainly one of the most successfully licensed engines ever. Is this true?  I thought id was doing this before Epic / Unreal. Goldsrc (the game engine hl1 and TFC runs on) is a heavily modified Quake engine, originally developed by id software in 1996.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Id_Tech Then it evolved to Source and Source2 engine. Heretic came first, but what makes the distinction for me is that id didn't go into the middleware business...they just didn't turn away a briefcase full of money when Raven offered it to them. So what you're saying is Epic... did something Epic. So is it possible for me to start dabbling around with this and create something of my own?  Yes, but be prepared to be frustrated and disillusioned a lot. Unreal Engine isn't a point-and-click construction kit by any means, it's a set of services and tools. Dabbling is going to mean learning a lot of stuff, but perseverance pays off. Yes.  How does this compare to their competitors like the Unity engine?

edit: never mind found the answer lower:
http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2xoo69/unreal_engine_4_is_now_free/cp20kv4 I love this move so much I may go down the street and thank them personally.... but probably not cause they'd probably think that'd be weird. A little bit? Unreal was looking at losing the choice pick for developers with indie devs focusing on the more top heavy Cryengine and the user friendly Unity Engine.

Epic Games could see development tables stockpile huge numbers with this news. As long as they support this product with DLC, game developers are going to eat this up like a pot head eats Doritos.

When I see stuff like this, I'm floored. This move feels like it could change the flow of the entire industry in North America and seriously threaten eastern markets from licensing to creativity and refocus on quality and quantity more than on copyright and piracy.

I'm so excited I can't even make sense of my own thoughts....SO MUCH DOGE!! Does this translate into immediate pressure for Unity?
 Absolutely. Unity 5 is set to be $75 a month. This already seemed too high with a $19/month price point that UE4 had. Now that UE4 is free, Unity **has** to respond if they want customers. I would expect Unreal to be the better technology. It is more powerful and friendly compared to Unity in a lot of ways. But there's some areas where Unity has slight advantages.  Like their asset store, which, for newcomers like myself decreases the learning curve immensely, through plugins and content.

I'm still using Unity Free, but have spent over $200 in the asset store, which means I am paying for Unity, in a way. Hopefully they can find a way to further capitalize on this system. Epics market place is starting to fill out, a lot of free content, but they have a pretty big barrier to entry and filtering system in the marketplace currently, I'm looking forward to once it becomes automated, but I kinda like having a minimum quality level.  How do you feel UE4 compares to cryEngine? I'm thinking about using either pretty soon, are the advantages enough to pay money for? Unity is better for programmers who don't know C++ and would be more comfortable with the languages supported by Unity. Unity currently has a bigger asset market place, but Epic has released a ton of example content. Unreal Engine in general is more artist and developer friendly. Unity is a bit better for 2D and mobile games, but Unreal is improving those areas. There's some back and forth, but generally I'd recommend for anyone completely new to games to try UE4 first.  &gt; Unity is a bit better for 2D and mobile games,

Maybe if its a fancy looking point and click or not doing anything crazy.

Me and other programmer went to hell and back trying to get Unity 2D to work correctly it still has a lot of bugs.
 The only advantage is slightly better mobile support for super small scale projects, otherwise there are free versions of both, but I would highly recommend Unreal. From personal experience, one of the best things about unity is that you can do pretty much everything in C# and using online libraries. Its not all of the highest quality, but theres a lot of stuff out there, its very useful for someone with average to mediocre programming skills or if you just want to save time/energy. 


The flipside to the above is that the basic toolset across all disciplines in unity is pretty barebones, hell I used imported layouts from maya to prototype levels because the unity equivalent of UE BSP or cryengine designer is super weak. If you start dealing with AI or animations I can pretty much guarante UE4 or Cryengine are going to offer much better options than unity.


If you know how to program or your project/mod is light on programming then UE4 is probably going to shine. Cryengine is super solid as well. 


Some of my info is a little dated, feel free to correct me if I said anything thats not relevant anymore.  I picked up Probuilder (and all associated tools) for 100$ a week~ ago and its completely changed my Unity experience.  Then later I looked and saw they have a free barebones version of Probuilder for everyone.  Highly recommended, even if you just go with the barebones one.  (Though progroups, and progrids basically feel like features that should have been in Unity to begin with) There is some discussion about this [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/Unity3D/comments/2xdycp/unity_vs_ue4_or_why_i_went_with_unity/). The important question is what type of sales royalty does Unity charge?  $75/month is nothing to most developers.
 Pretty sure they don't have any royalties.  $100,000+ earnings they are legally entitled to a certain %.  I forget exactly what.  But there is a ceiling. I thought that was only with the free license? I just looked it up.  Yeah it's free only.  

Doesn't matter, I'll never make anywhere near that kind of money on my stupid games. I just have fun making them. Man, if they released PRO for free i would literally jump from joy lol Yeah, I found this in the startup Program http://i.imgur.com/wEZJKJc.png Pretty much, and that's probably a good thing. Unity, whilst a great learning and development tool for new developers, has a lot of boundaries and overall is a less fleshed out engine than Unreal which can limit projects. It's had a slight monopoly on Indie devs that want to do 3D projects for a while now and it would be nice to see other options flourish in that area to provoke competition. At the end of the day, competition is what breeds the best development. You can do a ton in Unity still. Yup, totally, it's a great engine and absolutely fantastic for new and experienced devs. It's just great that there is now an alternative since it will force both companies to improve their products. &gt;Pay a 5% royalty on games and applications you release. We succeed when you succeed.

Free to play with. Non-free if you release a non-free app. And 5% seems a good price for most devs. "The 5% royalty starts after the first $3,000 of revenue per product per quarter."

So for small-scale stuff it still might be free. Really, if you're making &gt; 1k/month on your product, 5% probably isn't so bad.

 5% is *wonderful* compared to some other markets. I know it's an odd comparison but the amount publishers take from writers (can be 70%) is atrocious, and the music industry is apparently pretty awful as well. At 5%, the gaming industry sounds incredibly reasonable. what if you released your ebook as a non-interactive adventure game Make it in UE4 then. But good luck getting that on the kindle store.  Nail on the head right here. Unreal is an engine, not a distribution. Steam or Xbox Live Marketplace charge about 30% according to second hand accounts. So it's atleast 35% take from the start. Bet there's a bunch more to give away too. Non-interactive? so you can't flip pages? We-choose-your-adventure static text-based adventure game!

Or the textbook:

We-choose-your-curriculum static text-based adventure-less game!  I don't know what Valve's cut is from Steam sales but Apple takes 30% of anything sold on the appstore. Valve's cut is also 30%. Aspiring writer here.

Not expecting to survive on writing alone any time soon. Even if I get published you get almost zero money unless you get famous. Ugh yep, I often joke that my aspiration is one of the only ones in which you choose to be poor by default.

Haha... joke.

^^^I'm ^^^poor ^^^already What's your writing about? I'm a Fantasy pauper here (Though as a student I'd be poor anyway). That's a question I can't really answer right now, I'm slightly all over the place at the moment. I'm typically a fan of writing either sci-fi, gothic or fantasy though! Indeed. It used to be 25% for Unreal Engine + a monthly fee per user of some kind (I think it was $30? not sure).

They dropped it to 5% a while ago, and then just now dropped the additional fee.

I was mostly commenting about how under a certain limit you don't pay at all... but yeah, it seems pretty awesome all around.

I'm tempted to switch from Unity... although I'm a big fan of c# I think the "per product" really needs to be emphasized as well. If you use this to make a handful of semi-successful mobile games then you may still end up earning &gt;$1k/mo and not paying a dime. Yep, 5% for the backbone of your game is more than fair. Especially when compared to how exorbitant the cost is for an arm and a leg. They've got the best engine available for license in the industry, bar none. They spent seven years last gen getting developers to pay through the nose just for the chance to touch it and use it in their games.

Now all you have to do to have someone hand you the solid framework of a game is promise "Hey, I'll give you 5% of my earnings if I make more than $1000 a month of the stuff I make with it!"

This will directly lead to many awesome, creative games being made which people might not have otherwise have made. 5% is a horribly tiny slice for what the engine provides.

Fuck, a 10%-15% cut of the overall profits on a game would have been fair. 5% feels like I'm robbing Epic. &gt;  5% feels like I'm robbing Epic.

If you're feeling real generous, their source code is on Github and it does look like they take Pull Requests Its actually really low. 15-20% is fair. 5% is insane! How does it compare to previous versions for learning? I want to teach it in school but previous versions were too complex for my students.  We were able to do it as an elective after school but I want to do it as a general lesson. Way easier. Even programmers are using the blueprints instead of programming because it works so well. Can you ELI5 blueprints?  Instead of copying chunks of other people's code, or even occasionally writing your own, Epic have put chunks of code in to boxes you can draw instead writing code. So like a node-based system?  Yeah, it's really powerful. You can program too, if you want to. * in visual studio, mainly for whoever is curious. So like LabVIEW? Yes.

https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/images/Resources/ContentExamples/MouseInterface/BlueprintActors/MI_SphereGraph.png I'm having flashbacks to my days of "programming" LEGO NXTs...  It's incredible, in UDK it would take me 3 weeks to understand how to switch a character model and only have it work half decently. In Unreal Engine 4 it took me and a team of 6 people less than four weeks to go from absolutely nothing whatsoever to this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=za3V4o83Ux0 - and we are just a group of students learning mostly by ourselves.  As an experienced programmer who has started taking an interest in game development, my biggest limiting factor I feel would be a lack of assets (character/landscape/etc models). If you don't mind, I'd love to hear a bit about where the assets came from.

For instance, did someone in your group model them in another application or? And if so, what application did they use? How easy was it, etc? Sorry if these questions are a bit generic/broad. Any information/suggestions would be appreciated! Does anybody have a good online tutorial for this? Seems like it's high time to learn how to make a game The official youtube page and "TeslaDev" channel are both pretty nice (there are some others but those I remembered off top of my head) Just check out their youtube channel, there's tons of them. [all official tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZlv_N0_O1gaCL2XjKluO7N2Pmmw9pvhE) I can't wait to download this and then never open it, and then eventually delete it in shame and defeat without ever having really tried to learn it.  Are you me?  No, I am Patrick.  Oh dang. :( Wow.... that's great. I might start learning the Unreal Engine Want to build a shitty game together? I'm up for it! If you really are, send a PM! And hey! Don't forget me!   
Hey~! Hey! Pick me!   
Me me me me me! Pff.. everybody off making their own games...

I'll make my OWN GAME! With blackjack, and hookers! Can I pretend to help and get paid if it ever makes it big? This is unreal Correct No, this is Patrick. That's okay I'll wait for the real one to come out later. Get off the internet dad! Get off redtube son. redtube is like the liveleak of pornsites. I'd say heavy-r takes the cake for that. As an Indie Game Developer, who doesn't have money for licenses, this just gave me a mental orgasm. let me know if need leg work on assets. My only experience is dark engine objects, sfx, brushing, and texturing. Can't confirm since I don't have it personally, but have been told by 2 people who own it that it also includes the pre-alpha for the new Unreal Tournament. :D Nonono.  The Unreal Tournament pre alpha has been publicly available for a while now.  :D

Now you all get compete access to the Unreal Tournament git repository.  You can see developer commits as they happen, and submit pull requests that could make it into the final game.  Plus you can sell custom Unreal Tournament content on the marketplace. &gt; Plus you can sell custom Unreal Tournament content on the marketplace.

Think TF2 hats. But WAY more than just that. Maps, gamemodes, weapons, cutscenes, characters, etc...  
  
And if I'm correct you can sell your items almost immediately, no voting to get them into the game. No? Wait, what? There's a new unreal tournament incoming ?! yeah, they announced it last spring. Development of it is driven by the community and it will be free (free as in free. not f2p) Yes This is a business model I was fantasizing about when I was a young aspiring programmer. It makes so much more sense and yet this is the first time I see anyone else use it. I can only hope that other major industry leaders like Adobe, Autodesk etc. follows suit in the near future.  Don't have any kind of knowledge in programming games or anything but since its free I might as well give it a shot! UE4 also has a system that lets you sort of get by without actually programming (sort of a drag/drop nodes type thing). It may even help teach you a bit about how to program along the way You never know you can be the next Bill Gates.  Or you could have cancer and die in the next year.  That's right. Bring him down a peg or two. I smell a wave of awesome online multiplayer mods and spin-offs. HL1 all over again, please. how hard is it to get into it and learning it for somebody who can programm java and build some easy stuffs in cinema4d and programm some crap games in gamemakerstudios?  You're overqualified. I actually signed up for a subscription yesterday (would ya look at that timing) because I finally decided it was time to start learning how to develop for my Oculus.

I've been kind of worried because the extent of my experience with 3D graphics is trying to get the fucking triangle strips to work properly in DirectX and giving up and flipping tables. Tons of experience with 2D graphics, game logic, programming in general, and just about everything else.

Your comment has given me renewed hope. Oculus is actually quite hard to develop for with UE4, be prepared to spend a lot of time analyzing your frontend logs. It is not entirely optimized for virtual reality just yet, so if you want to make something flashy it just won't work. Everything needs to be extremely optimized to get a stable 70+ fps needed for Oculus, be ready to aim for 250-300 fps before turning on the Oculus if you want to be close to 70+ with it on. But go for it! It will be worth it in the end! Good guy Unreal Engine 4.  OMG ITS FINALLY FREE.  I CAN NOW *do absolutely nothing with it*. I appreciate that they are giving existing subscribers $30 towards the marketplace, but I also got charged for my monthly subscription today since my normal billing day is the 1st of the month. You should be also seeing a refund for your month's billing. Check your account dashboard. thanks for the heads up You betcha. I'm going to go ahead and post the text of the relevant email here, so others can see what the deal is:

If you have paid for a subscription on or after January 30th, you will receive a pro-rated refund for your latest month's payment after March 12th. You'll continue to receive all future updates for free.
And, because you were a paying subscriber, we're also giving you a gift of $30 that you can spend in the Marketplace now or save for a future use.
Happy creating!
-The Team at Epic Games **Royalty Breakdown** (or what 5% really means)

&gt;You agree to pay Epic a royalty equal to 5% of all worldwide gross revenue actually attributable to each Product, regardless of whether that revenue is received by you or any other person or legal entity, as follows:
a. Gross revenue resulting from any and all sales of a Product to end users through any and all media, including but not limited to digital and retail;  

Pay attention, people vending through digital retail platforms. Launch on Steam? Your gross is calculated on Steam's retail price, not your take-home. Launch on iTunes? It's 5% of whatever the iTunes price is, not your 70% cut. 


&gt;b.	Gross revenue resulting from any and all in-app purchases, downloadable content, microtransactions, subscriptions, sale, transfer, or exchange of content created by end users for use with a Product, or redemption of virtual currency, either within a Product or made externally but which directly affect the operation of the Product;  

Any way your product earns money, contribute 5% of the gross. 


&gt;Gross revenue from any Kickstarter or other crowdfunding campaign which is directly associated with Product access or in-Product benefit (e.g., in a multi-tiered campaign, if an amount is established in an early tier solely for Product access, your royalty obligation will apply to that amount for each backer with the same access, but not on additional amounts in higher tiers based on ancillary benefits);  

You offered special content to a backer reward tier, then got 5,000 takers? Awesome! But you owe 5% of whatever the tier-cost was for those 5,000 backers as soon as Kickstarter's check clears. That's income for your project. Remember, it's 5% of the **gross*, meaning the tier reward, not 5% of what you got back from Kickstarter.  

This doesn't apply to money people donated to fund your development. But if your tiered rewards include "receive a copy of the game", *that tier counts*. Any tier where a copy of the game or an in-game benefit are the tier-rewards is subject to the 5% Epic royalty.  

&gt;Your revenue from in-app advertising and affiliate programs;
Revenue from advance payments for a Product (from a publisher or otherwise);   

Did we mention it's 5% of **every** sort of gross income? Yup! 

&gt; and Revenue in any other form actually attributable to a Product (unless excluded below).  


Nearly **every** sort of gross income *for a released game* is applicable. If its code, pay out. 

Exceptions are for that first $3k gross revenue per quarter (considered cumulatively, not per distribution channel), non-game use (academic, architectural, film, etc), or for products related to your game that aren't code (the EULA lists soundtracks, t-shirts, and the like). 

Payments and financial data are due quarterly after release. Epic reserves the right to charge 2% compounding late fees. Epic reserves the right to audit your books, and if you're 5% or more in arrears, you get to pay for the audit.

This may seem like a lot of gotchas and a big heap of financial data being exposed to Epic, but that's because the EULA for this software turns you into a business partner. This is one of those cases where you'll really want to read and fully understand the EULA prior to release, lest you make a mistake in the calculations on a too-thin budget and wind up backing yourself into a tough financial corner.  Great breakdown. I read it over myself before agreeing and it looks like a good deal. 5% gross is not a bad margin to work in, and easy to keep in mind once you know about it. What sort of training would you need to be able to start messing around with this? None really, if all you want to do is mess around. 

You can load some included example projects for various gametypes, like a first person shooter, side scroller, top-downs etc., and then just play around with it. You can instantly test what you are working on and it can be quite fun, even with limited game development experience. 

If the thought of playing around with game development intrigues you, I'd most definitely check it out. Maybe you will find your calling :) I've taken one class on how to use gamemaker.

I'm pretty sure it's time to make a triple a bestseller. Alright, who wants to make a game with me?! You thinking what Im thinking? Cat simulator 2015? I... I'd play it. Seriously. Hunting mice, exploring the neighbourhood, climbing trees, napping in sunny spots for maximum stamina regeneration.  I.. I think y'all are on to something. but the possibilities are endless

Tom and Jerry. First one to get caught or rage quit loses.
Meooow. First one to lose all 9 lives wins.
Ruff. You're the dog next door. Goals: break out, fck everyone's shit up I will gladly help you out if you have any troubles whatsoever! Get your feet wet and PM me any problems you run into when making your first game. I'm by no means an expert, but me and a couple of friends managed to make this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=za3V4o83Ux0 in less than four weeks with very little experience in UE4, which goes to show how easy it is to get into! OK Reddit, tell me what I can do with it. Inspire burgeoning developers. 3 2 1 GO Prison rape simulator 2016 Press A for corn. Do you have any idea what you've done? That poor new fish had no idea what he was in for. With hentai DLC. Press F to rape prospects. Half-Life 3! Halve-Live 3 starring Gordy Freedman! Jar Jar Binks beat up game You can look at it and pretend that you know what it's supposed to do. Big Booty Girls 1
18+ Only  Sweet. Now I just have to learn how to develop games Ubisoft has no idea how to make games and they published four of them last year. Shots fired So much high quality porn will now be released. Will download with intentions to use and then never use. Also got $30 because I was a subscriber. Good people. Wasnt UE3 like this too, and they would only charge if your game sold a certain number of copies? This is awesome. Now I just need to learn how to use it lol. http://i.imgur.com/bQpu5jY.jpg ...Well that's a deal breaker The soldiers of the future will need to know how to pull off a shock rifle combo.  http://myreactiongifs.com/gifs/birdmanhands.gif Sorry if this is a dumb question but by downloading this you get to use the development kit, right? I'm currently doing a project for my final year of university which involves making a game demo and I was planning to use an older UDK version we learnt at uni over the past couple of years. Does anyone have any experience with this newer version? I'm wondering if I should use this now since it may be easier to use? Or maybe they made things more complicated and I'm best sticking to what I know hmm... I'm just downloading it now, but have been looking at tutorial videos and it looks like UE4 is a lot easier to work with than UDK in a lot of different ways.  Not to mention, this is the full Unreal Engine 4, not just the development kit version like UDK was to UE3.  Please correct me if I'm wrong, but I am very excited.  Blueprints look incredibly versatile.  It looks like you can do basically anything you want without having to code. FUCKING AWESOME!

No more unity for me! can i use unreal 4 on a ''average'' laptop? I googled and found some info about their recommended system requirements

&gt; What are Unreal Engine 4's system requirements?
For developing with UE4, we recommend a desktop PC with Windows 7 64-bit or a Mac with Mac OS X 10.9.2 or later, 8 GB RAM and a quad-core Intel or AMD processor, and a DX11 compatible video card. UE4 will run on desktops and laptops below these recommendations, but performance may be limited.

Hope that helps You are fucking awesome. Thanks! So, how difficult would it be for someone with no programming knowledge to learn to use this?  Learning programming isn't difficult, it just requires some dedication and mental flexibility. For UE4 I'd say the most useful language is C++, but starting with a language like Java might be a bit better for someone just starting to learn programming. 

As a note to beginner programmers who are learning as a hobby. It's hard to keep yourself motivated. Especially if you drain yourself out dreaming big. My first mistake when I was learning was I had all these wild ideas for what I wanted to do, and kept imagining how to do them when in reality I had no idea, so I kept frustrating myself getting lost. Avoid dreaming about what you can make when you're learning and just make things that are within your grasps. Once you learn the basics of programming, just make programs that aren't super useful, but test your abilities. Once you start doing that and let go of your big dreams, you'll wander into bigger, and bigger, and bigger projects, and your creativity will skyrocket. Good luck :). This is how you stay loved by the gaming community. By being awesome. It's really bizarre for me. I started learning game development from my design background over the last few Months. About three weeks ago I decided to switch from Unity over to Unreal 4 because coding is not my strong point and the blueprints system appealed to me. Gotta say, I'm loving it! It's hard but I can't wait to make my ideas into reality for you to enjoy.

Next thing. It's free and I have a $30 credit from Epic! Yes, I can be free from Unity! As someone who just programmed and released a crappy little mobile game I was doing to dip my toes into the water with game dev, this got my wee wee a little stiff. What's your game called? It's a Kindle game called Timbiat. It's just a little game where you shoot fireballs at spiders. How hard would it be to create a small first person medieval rpg like Kings Field? Excluding modeling of course. The free included content includes a lot of the basics that can get you started. For example, there's a template that gives you a FPS with physics objects already setup for you and generic 2D and 3D resources. Blueprints can be used to generate mazes or monsters or whatever. How hard it is though depends on the knowledge of the developer though. I remember that being a spooky game.   So could I download this and just dick around with it being as I have no prior experience in game developing and never release anything? And not have to pay a dime? Yes, the download is completely free and you get all of the features. [Here's the link if you'd like it](https://www.unrealengine.com/) sweet thanks. This is simply amazing; it's so refreshing to see some people will choose humanity over hoarding as much as they possibly can for themselves. As fantastic a gesture as it is, there is some business thinking behind it. This is mainly targeted at students (who are genuinely unwilling to pay even $19/month to try out a software they haven't had any experience in). As a result I suspect Epic feared the next generation of developers would have no experience in Unreal 4 and subsequently larger companies (where they do make their money from) hiring this next generation workforce would shy away from Unreal 4 as a result.

It's a fantastic idea, and one that the community is very happy for. But I don't expect they did this out of the kindness of their hearts.  Well, there's the royalty they get, exposure for bugs, and the next version which isn't (?) free. No such thing as a free lunch, eh? Wow. See at my technical school, they paid for the subscription while I worked on a game, and that was why I couldn't work on it at home. Now a week after my project is already done, this happens. Isnt the concept of timing the damnedest thing? Stuff like this really makes me regret my biology degree. how about an interactive application for people to learn biology by themselves? or an educational game about biology? your dreams are where they are and it's better late than never, imo. Hell you might be able to get it considered a consultation and not pay 5% royalties. Is Unreal at all suitable for small/beginner projects, or would that be best left to Unity? 

I'm interested in starting some game development (later in life than I should have, but better late than never I guess), but I've always been paralyzed by the fundamental choices I would say it is far, far better for small/beginner projects than Unity. Unity fits its nieche somewhere in the middle, but I would say all small projects as well as very big triple A projects benefit from being made in UE4 at this point.

For reference, me and a few friends made this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=za3V4o83Ux0 in less than four weeks with very little experience in UE4 at that point, which goes to show how much you can make in that timeframe with very little actual experience. Are kidding me? IMO that looks like a decent game with some budget from an actual studio. I dont know jack shit about game developing, coding, etc.etc. but i will download it anyway.  In all honesty, how can I use this?  Is there a certain set of skills I need before using this kind of technology.   I think you'll need to know C++. EPIC IS LOVE, EPIC IS LIFE. ["Pay a 5% royalty on games and applications you release. We succeed when you succeed."](https://www.unrealengine.com/what-is-unreal-engine-4)

Damn thats a good rate. Way less than I expected. I'll ask the big question here...
CAN MY POTATO RUN IT???? That depends, is it a Russel, yellow, or red potato?  at half a frame, sure. Don't ask me how it does 0.5 FPM, it's Magic! What? Free to anyone... Let's take gaming to the next step boys!  I live in the area of Epic Games and have been taking part in a VR enthusiast group early last year when a rep who was at the meetings told us this was coming. Was just as excited then hearing it as I am now.  Anybody want to form a "studio" and make a crappy multiplayer game? [deleted] Yes! Thank you! I think those comments stem out of care - we all want this to be successful. If ever a gofundme is created, let us know and I know I'd definitely chip in a few bucks. God knows if ever my house burnt down, any kind of support would pick me up. here is the donation [page](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc) Thank you! &gt;$1425

I think he made a bit more money than people are thinking. Wait that was from the gofundme though, not the matches of melee...

Because that would require at least 2,850 games of smash bros (at 100% win rate).  Or 1425 friendly games.  You're welcome!  ...Wait a minute... I saw it too, right next to the microwave ... Maybe that's his workplace? Well, it's not on fire so it's definitely not his house.  ?? Yeah the kid knows the crowd he's working with though.  In high school 50 goes a long way.  If he priced it too high, nobody will take the challenge [deleted] [Correct link](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc) btw you need to put the text before the link for that to work
 Pretty much this. I have a really good friend at Smash who you could probably charge $2+ a game to get your ass handed to you for laughs.

^(I suck at Smash /disclaimer) you should update the post and put their [go fund me link](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc) in it No, Thank you! No, thank me! You're welcome? I gave the thread an upvote. What else do you want from me?! Nothing. What else should we expect from you, your Grace?  Selfless? the kid has obviously bodied all the locals and can't find another chump to accept his dominance. 


This is all just a very clear ploy to incentivize chumps to play him so he can put them in the dumpster. Under the guise of doing a good thing of course. Gotta get your rocks off somehow. Might as well do it for a good cause too. Nothing like bodying someone who thinks they are 'really good. Master of super smash'  i wouldnt be surprised if this evil little psycopath actually burnt that house down. We value good business sense here...and dank memes Naaah fuck him, he's not maximizing profit  $5 minimum buy-in. $1 surcharge to choose fox, $1 surcharge to choose any stage other than final destination... $0.50 per activated item. Sounds like an EA business plan. Because effort isn't everything... Just like Occupy Wallstreet. Because you seriously think that with all that effort and the noble cause people will only pay what the flier says? EEEASSYYYY MONAYYYYY He fucking up tilted oranges *oranges*.  I loved that match YOUR RECONSTRUCTION IS IMMINENT  What match was that? [Salty suite. :)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9QdMmIZCQk) Does this count as having made the front page of reddit? I'LL TAKE IT. Close enough eikelman Bizzaroflame hype Only $.50? I hope he makes enough. Just needs to challenge the whole city, no big deal. Sounds like a good premise for a new rock opera, a spiritual successor to Tommy  Ever since I was a young boy, I've played the Smash Bros Brawl... From Falco down to Samus, I must've played them all... But I Ain't seen nothing like him in any dormitory hall... That deaf, dumb and blind kid, sure plays a mean Smash Bros Brawl He stands like a amibo, becomes part of the machine. Shielding with the triggers, always playing clean. He plays by intuition, his stock numbers never fall. http://i.imgur.com/ly2jglW.jpg That is, until the next Decapathon game comes out. And then after hours of challenging another old dude comes up and asks to play. 

Everyone rolls their eyes.

"Whatever gramps," the champ says. "Let's just get this over with." 

Gramps has never played before. He goes with Peach because she's a pretty lass with a smackable arse. Champ picks Fox. Game starts.

It's a whirlwind. Turnips and butts flying everywhere. Fox is getting knocked around like crazy. Like crazy. Not even the most deft shields can save him from the immaculately timed combos of arse and turnip. Nobody can believe it. One guy's jaw droops all the way to the ground. Nobody has ever seen it droop that far before. Gramps is a natural born smash virtuoso. 

After the carnage the champ drops his Gamecube controller. 

"Who are you?" he asks.

Gramps smirks. "I'm a nobody. I've lived in this town for five centuries. I've banged a lot of babes, ate a lot of salt crackers, played a bit of golf and hunted some deers now and then. But there's one thing I've always wanted to do."

Gramps gets up and presses his blue jean butt to the champ's ear. *Poot.* Tears pour down the champ's eyes as the gas seeps into his ear.

The crowd erupts in raucous cheers. Gramp lifts his controller to the sky. 

"I'm the champ now! Don't you forget that. You play me now. You play me."  I was expecting mew two kings dad. I'll fight all of you! I actually feel bad for him, is he really going to show up and hand the family $37.50? You mean he's going to show up and give the family $37.50 from his actual deal, and $800 from adults seeing a sweet kid trying to help his friend so they donate $20-40.  "Kid, play me 40 times in a row" best of 101  It is $37.50 more than the family has right now. My guess is that they will be grateful for whatever he has. spends $40 printing full color fliers. I made $38.05 last night sucking dick. Know who have me the nickel? 

They all did.  Makes sense.. I heard you once sucked a dick for cab fare and still walked home. The gesture alone from a school kid would be worth much more than $37.50.  I'm sure they are bad off and all that but that sort of gesture could seriously up morale. Enough money to buy everyone in the family a second set of clothes to wear other then what they had on their backs, that will also up morale a hell of a lot.

 Where do you shop where you can buy 4 pairs of socks, 4 pairs of underwear, 4 pairs of pants and 4 shirts for 37.50?  Thrift store. Except for the first two things.  Nope, it's still a [go!]( http://cf.fabulesslyfrugal.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/251777_10150640434160557_706735556_19097468_768306_n.jpg) Hi welcome to Wal mart would you like a sticker?  I wish I grew up lucky enough to be this ignorant Goodwill? If this goes viral, imagine the donations he will rake in. It was top of my Front Page... http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc

Maybe this will help you feel better! I smell a montage! Even Rocky had a montage You're gonna need a montage! If he won 50 cents from every man woman and child in the united states, he'd have over 150 million dollars.

It would also take him sorta a while. So all I need to do is get my message of "send me $.50 please" to go viral and become rich? Some kid already did this to pay his college tuition. He asked a radio station or newspaper to advertise that he would like people to send him one cent in the mail. Of course most people donated more than one cent, so he ended up paying his entire tuition and then some.  That's wise, considering it would cost more than one cent to mail a penny. Makes people go, "Ha, you're not going to trick me into paying more postage than my donation is worth! Here have $20!" That's the idea behind that sub /r/makeamillionaire or whatever it is 3 million hours by my (very) conservative estimate:

300 million * 2 minutes / 3 players / 60 minutes per hour = 3.3 million hours.

So at least 350 years. How can there be 300 million people in the US if there's only 7 million people in the world? What I love about these people is that they've never been to the YouTube comment section or any other section and seen this joke before lol I think $.50 is a good idea. If this was my kid's school I would let my kids play him, give him a $20 and have him keep the change. If he was charging $20 a game he probably wouldn't get too many challengers.  When was the last time *you* were done after **one** match? After the house burnt down Too soon https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-DL0W9AUCuY&amp;t=173 When a family's home burns down, they aren't looking for full payment on a new house. Every cent matters, sometimes even just buying a bag of socks so you can finally peel the ones off you've been wearing for a week since the fire happened can bring some people utter relief, and that's chump-change compared to giving them rent. I know but I would be willing to pay more than fifty cent for this event, especially for charity. To be fair he is looking to fundraise from fellow students so a low minimum is more likely to be appealing and I doubt anyone would be turned away for trying to "overpay" And the low price means kids will keep playing him, instead of "$5? I guess I'll do it once..." Exactly, especially at a charity where its pretty much expected they will take overpayments, having  low minimum payment opens it up to way more people, and repeats probably bringing in more money in the long run. Totally, but this has the added layer of involving an activity, and one that is totally addictive at that. Once you pop, the fun don't stop. That reminds me, I needed to check for a new humble bundle. Kid just wants people to play with!  Win/win i'm sure he wouldn't stop you from donating more Also its .50c per play, chances are people will be looking to play a few rounds. Exactly. If it were say $5 for one round I might do it since it's a good cause. But if it's just $1 I'll definitely do it, plus if it's a fun time I'll probably do several rounds. After each round it's just one more dollar and it's going to a good deal. I really think the .50c price point is very smart especially considering this seems like a middle school opposed to a highschool or college, and asking your parents for .50c is a lot less scary than asking them for multiple dollars, and when they learn why you want the money they may just go and donate extra and send you with a pocket full of quarters like back when arcades were prevalent :D I'm sure he will allow larger donations... I'm sure if you wanted to stuff a fiver in there and only take up one or two games, they certainly wouldn't mind. The Red Cross is very good about stuff like that. For most chapters, house fires are their most common disaster. A friend of mine lost **everything** when her apartment burned down.  The Red Cross REALLY helped her out.  She still tears up a little when she talks about how the ladies gave her a quilt they made.   Red Cross volunteers kept me and my BFF/roommate sane after a fire (and flood!) in our apartment building. Nearly everyone else was put up in a hotel, but those of us with animals spent nearly a week living in the school across from our building until we could make other arrangements (just a dog or a cat was fine, but we um... had a dog, a cat, two guinea pigs, and a bunch of rats...). The city was pretty good with us too luckily (everyone got a disaster relief check, two weeks medical coverage to renew prescriptions, and when we needed to go buy clothes and pick up animal supplies/food they gave us a taxi chit since we didn't drive).

Anyways. Yes. I may hate the grey of those Red Cross blankets, but we both still have one even though we don't live together anymore (we can however yell at each other from the backyards of our new buildings, which are on the same block as the old one). I don't have my refugee shoes anymore, I don't know about her though.

Basically, yes. Red Cross are awesome. And I loved them. I would have probably had a complete mental breakdown were it not for them (... I was close). Maybe he is hoping for larger donation as well. It's like a kid with a 10cent lemonade stand who ends up selling cups for a couple dollars  I used to actually get dimes. Mad a whole 60 cents one day. Rough times brother. I tell you hh'what. See, you old timers never account for inflation and try bring the new generation down. Mercury dimes are worth 5$ each now so you made 30$, had you simply kept them for 70yrs you wouldn't be whining about rough times. /s *sudden death rounds only* That is likely somewhere between $6 and $20 an hour; more than some people with jobs! Yeah, and he gets to do something he loves:  Humiliating chumps. If you have the kinda casual locals and friends you can probably just face everyone at once  It's only one game. Have you played melee? All you have to do is lose one game and you'll want to keep playing until you win haha When you make something like this really cheap, it's more likely that people will donate extra due to the cause of it. When I was in 6th grade, my teacher couldn't have kids so she was adopting, and my friends and I had a lemonade stand to help her fund whatever she could put the money toward. The sign said "free lemonade, donations welcome" then we explained the situation to whoever stopped. People would sometimes pay $20 for a crappy cup of lemonade and I don't think a single person didn't donate. We ended up making like $700 in an afternoon. And I bet if we just charged an amount per cup, very few people would have paid much extra.  Get a link up for people to donate. Add some pictures of Nicolas Cage, Cats and Skyrim. You'l raise money for a new house for those people in no time. The family has not put up a gofundme or donation page of any kind. Our school has raised ~$300, though. He means stream it We don't have streaming equipment. That'd be fun, though! I think the guy below means use the camera/webcam on your smart phone to stream the games on twitch? Idk man I'm Not tech savvy either but I'd love to watch and donate! I don't know either. I've never streamed. Dude you are smart enough to post this to reddit. With risk if coming off as sounding like a dick, get the shit required to stream this or make it Internet famous. 

You are already halfway there. You have a front page post. 

If you follow up on this you have the potential to get this kid thousands of dollars via the Internet. This could be huge. 

News stories and everything else. 

But most importantly, helping a human being in need. 

Do what the rest of us can't, get some way to stream this or make it public in some way. 

I am sure with Google and the resources of you and your friends you will be able to do this.

You won't regret it. This is your chance. Pass it up if you choose, but you may regret not doing something. If you do choose to do something it will change your life and this kid and his family's. 

Thanks and good luck I have a smart phone but I have no clue how to stream.. There's a teacher at our school who would love to stream this! If there is a will there is a way. Seriously. Even just taking a video and uploading it would be good! Give him $5 from an Internet stranger. If you're cool with /u/ChangeTip that is. donate [here](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc)
 [OP says there is no gofundme yet this link is 4 days old? I'm confused.](http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2zmref/kid_at_my_school_is_challenging_people_to_raise/cpkjn5h)

Edit: elsewhere OP says it's legit.  If each match lasts three minutes, then that's 50 hours for $500, an average of $10/hour. I'd try to raise more per battle (maybe $2), because I don't see him playing for that long.

UNLESS there are multiplayer battles where three players can contribute at once. Not sure how it would work, though. 3v1 would lead to a high failure rate. but if its just students then the 50 is probably a good price point for help with replacing some essentials.  1-2 bucks is probably better still IF he retained the same rate of competitors. Gotta look at perceived price/value yo. 

people see 50c? they're like shiiit, give him a dolla play 2 games. 
people see $1 a few are going to be all "man, naw... a little rich for my blood"

etc.  Also, imagine all the people who feel compelled to donate more for a good cause and clever fundraiser This. This is the truth. Even if I beat him I would probably still donate. If it was a great match I'd probably give all I had on me at the time (like 5 bux, I was ballin' in HS) It should (and very well might be) a donation where the minimum is 50 cents.  1$ is ideal here I think Yeah, but even if 25% of potential customers are turned away by doubling the price, you are still making 50% more money, and spending less time. I think people would be just as happy to play for a dollar for charity.


Strictly in terms of gross revenue, it is worth doubling the price unless you think you will turn away more than half of your potential customers.  You can also account for the fact that it will take you less time (in this case, fewer games played) to make the same amount of money, which further sways the equation in favor of price hikes.


Source: New small business owner wrapping my head around pricing for the last 12 months Buisness doesn't quite apply to charity. You're neither selling a good nor a services other than self righteousness in most cases, especially not to highschoolers. Those motherfuckers are psychopaths on a grand scale or have we all forgotten our highschool years of bullying/being bullied? 

No. What you need is great perceived value that attracts masses, alturists will donate anyway, but with the added public interest you'll also get the attention whores money who see this as an oppertunity to do something good and get recognition for it... al la a portion of celebrity charity actions.  Highly elastic demand curve and all. People will probably just donate more anyways This and they probably wouldn't accept the money back if they won. If anything you pay a 5 to play, win and get back .50 since you donated 4.50. It's crazy enough to work  Maybe it's a 1 stock match? The way it is worded "you beat me, you keep your money" means that if it was 3 vs 1, with 1 as the benefactor, 1 would get
$1.50, then if he lost, he'd give back 50 to each person who beat him. Assuming no teaming up, this leaves him at equal chance per person as a normal 1v1. This means multi-player games should theoretically provide the same rate of income.  3v1 is *much* harder than 3 1v1s.  Well, he wouldn't say "get your money back" if he wasn't good at this. "Assuming no teaming up"

... Why would you assume they're not gonna team up against the person they need to beat to keep their money? Because hopefully the people playing aren't really dying to get their 0.50 back. I would assume it's more likely that people see $.50 to play, give $1 and don't ask for change or their money back even if they win. The small price draws people in, and the feeling of helping someone keeps people from caring if they win the money back.  4 player free for all. Assuming no body gangs up on him (since this is for charity and all and that'd be a dick move) that'd be $20/hr if he comes in second every time.
 people are forgetting that most of the people who plays this kid will ended up saying "keep up the 50c" or give even more money - he's just raising awareness  This.  Any person who actually wants their 50 cents back is a douche.  Are you kidding? You take the 50 cents, that's your winnings. Leave a $5 in the jar Serious question, try not to downvote to oblivion...

Why do people go all donation happy with things that are covered by insurance? I assume that a home owner would have insurance on their house. Won't the insurance company step in here and replace/rebuild the house and their belongings? I think the problem is how long it can take insurance to work. I had to file insurance for one room and it took me 2-3 months to get my payment. I can imagine it would take longer for an entire house burning down and might not get a full return. 

In that time, you need to find somewhere to live and buy new clothing and other essentials for atleast 2 but probably 3-4. Savings should be there to cover that type of thing, but not everybody has it. A fundraiser of $500-$1000 would help to fill the gap between savings and money needed. I guess we had great insurance...  The day of the house fire, we had our insurance guy out that day and he gave my dad a check to cover for new cloths and food for the next month.  They had use in a hotel room for about a week, then put us in a fully furnished apartment for about 6 months until the house was rebuilt.  They replaced everything and more in our house...  I got in trouble because my school did a fund raiser and my mom thought I told my class mates that we needed it. 670+ comments and you're the first to mention home contents/buildings insurance. 

At the moment we don't know if the family had insurance, I hope they did. Provided they did, they'll get back on their feet pretty soon.

Yes it's a painful experience and there are personal effects that can never be replaced. But it's significantly different from losing everything and being out on the street which most people seem to be imagining.  can i donate seriously this kid is awesome  [deleted] Seriously, tell them to.

Crosspost it to the smash subreddit too [here you go](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc)
 http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc Can we please get this verified that this is them.  That the house really burnt down and so on?  Seen too many of fellow redditors getting fucked over on these feel good stories Happening next week Tuesday-Friday. I'll make a follow up post. Is this legit: http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc        
         
Is it from the actual family and is that person actually going to donate to the family? I know it's kinda rude to ask, but I've seen lots of people open up a funding service and not donate the money. I just want to confirm with you, OP, that the money will in fact be going to the right family. Yes, from my understanding it is hosted by the Aunt? or very close family friend, as they don't have access to computers at the moment. Give this guy a collective high five from reddit whoever is putting this on What does "play friendlies" mean? I havent played smash bros since i think the first one. If they don't want to play the kid they could pay a dollar and play with a friend. The amount of people criticizing the low entry price is a little pitiful. He's fundraising from people at school. Most of these people do not have jobs, and every little bit will help this family. I don't think they're depending on this gamer for their insurance. Get some fucking perspective.  Oh I thought I was on /r/smashbros at first but this must be pretty big if it's on gaming.... Good for you guy! Help a needy family and have some fun playing smash. Hope you are successful!  That's pretty awesome. Challenge the whole damn town/city. This is a noble cause. He said he's looking forward to cramped hands. When my house burned down,  both schools my 3 children went to did a movie day fundraiser for us. They raised around  $1300 combined.  Who is his main character? I need to plan my tactics during the plane ride from Tokyo.
 The fact he is charging so little is the best idea possible. People will don't more than $.50 but if he charged  $5 nobody would donate. I remember learning at a young age that making a lemonade stand and saying it's free will always net you more money than charging. I wish someone gave a fuck when my house burnt down twice. Why did you burn it down the second time? Nobody cared the first time so he set it alight again. Im so sorry to hear that that happened. I hope everything's okay now. Where is this? I know a friend and his house burned down very recently. Idaho or Wisconsin? Why is everyone judging this kids business skills? It's just a kid..
 Here is the [gofundme link](http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc) OP posted in comments. You know, if you hadn't Photoshopped his name out, Reddit could've raised a crap ton of money. homeowners insurance? So instead of everyone reacting like, "oh hey what a cool idea," people are reacting like: "50 CENTS IS NOT ENOUGH. THIS KID IS NOT DOING ENOUGH!" Fuck you, what are you doing for them besides commenting on a reddit post? "All profit goes to charity"
Kid claims video games as expenses.
Kid claims a loss on the charity.
Keeps money and collects tax rebates none the less. I hope he is really good I've seen him drop 4 stocks on decent people in a minute probably should add "donations gladly accepted"  /u/changetip /u/Link_Mau5 $1.00 w00p some on me kudos to him for playing 600,000 games I fight for my friends  Home insurance.  All home owners are required to have it.  

They will be getting another new house, but it does take a long time and possessions are only partially covered.   At least in America, there's no requirement to have homeowners insurance if you own the house... Least he's smart enough not to bet *$1000* for a money match. Oh, Mango... This is absolutely amazing! What a selfless thing for this person to do. Made my day a little brighter to see this  Thank you  This is a great idea but he needs to charge just a bit more like 1/2 
 Kids got his mind in the right place, and making use of what hes good at. 
 What kind of asshole move would it be to actually keep .50 after beating him when you know what the money is for? For every match he loses he's putting a dollar in the jars. Yeah, but still, unless you're dirt poor taking back fifty cents from a family that has lost everything just seems like something a douche would do. Anybody live near this kid that has streaming equipment? Would love to watch on Twitch and support. I'd be willing to donate too.

And yeah I know the family doesn't have a donation link or site but fuck it they didn't ask this kid to do this for them either. He said he's talked to the daughter of the family a few times, and every time she has been the most friendly person to talk too. Aww that is super dope.  All *profit* will go to the family. Profit. Revenue less costs. I wonder how many chocolate milkshakes this kid is going to claim as an expense! 

....just kidding folks! Shouldn't the prices be reversed? It makes more sense for the bigger amount to be the one that you are competing for, and the smaller amount to be the risk-free one. Think of it as 50 cents a player. http://i.imgur.com/nZqd0g8.png Help the kid and make a donation page, please Not exactly.

For my suggestion, it's functionally $.50 per play, if the $1.00 is what you're going to be competing for, and the $.50 is the "risk-free" play. 1/2($.50+(1/2)($1.00))=~$.50 per play. Essentially, both will be worth the same amount per play, at $.50

The way you have it is $1.00 "risk-free" and $.50 for competing, which ends up as 1/2($1.00+(1/2)($.50)), or ~$.6125 per play. 

Though it is more per theoretical play, practically no one is going to pay twice as much if they have no chance of keeping their money, so you have to remove the $1 casual games from the equation. (This leaves your equation at just $.25 per play.) When you have both have the same functional price, you'll get more guaranteed donations, because people will have an actual choice to make. Plus, if someone does take the risk for $1.00, and they win the first time, they'll likely play again, increasing the chances of getting the $1 donation. 

I like the idea, I just think this way could potentially accrue more donations.   Is there any place where I can donate? yes, many people linked
 http://www.gofundme.com/n8xujc Reminds me of pretty recently, only 2 months back, where 2 tournaments(kinda) were held only 1 week away from each other, one for Hotline Miami(for fastest time beating levels), and the other for CS:GO. The only reason it got approved was because the Video and Media Technology teacher sponsored it(he's a pretty cool guy) I volunteer as tribute!  /r/smashbros If it's not a 0-death it's not front page worthy! In all seriousness, I will cross-post. :) No, they'll just sell drugs to get their Magic money. Yeah I started real young in beta, and I got pretty good.

Started winning tourneys and getting boxes, and trade sharking people.

But then sold cards on friday to buy weed/liquor.

At the GP couple weekends ago I spent some time looking at the prices of power and random legends/antiquities/Arabian cards I sold off for 10-15$ to buy a mickey, it was painful.

 I've been playing over 21 years, so long enough to have pretty much seen and done everything Magic-related.

My biggest Magic financial regret is buying a sealed box of Beta boosters in 1994 on the Usenet (rec.games.trading-cards.magic) for $500, and then flipping it immediately for $1000. 

It was all the money I had in the world, and doubling it made me feel so amazing.  Doh.

For reference, a single booster pack of Beta recently sold on Ebay for around $2600.  There are 36 booster packs in a box. But then there are those times where you don't listen to the common opinion of a new rare and buy 50 Tarmogoyfs for 2 each(well 4 DM at the time), thinking"That's gotta be a 10 card in a few months".

Few years later, I bought a nice used car for the money 46 goyfs got me :) ouch Or they'll buy Magic cards then sell them later for drug money. Actually had a buddy that use to sell drugs for Magic money. He said to me "I fuel other poeple's addictions so I can fuel my own". My brother got grounded from the computer once and stormed off claiming he would do drugs instead. Did he?  He hasn't come back yet, so who knows. some say he is still doing drugs to this day I like to believe he's still grounded to this day and has to do drugs. He can't be on the computer. There is no alternative. I'd like to believe he's still storming off, in an ever-lasting march toward the elusive "drugs" he plans on doing. "Yo, yo homie... you like ta *party*?"

"NO I DO NOT LIKE TO PARTY I LIKE TO PLAY ON MY COMPUTER BUT MY MEAN PARENTS BANNED ME!"

"Oh. Yeah uh... bummer man."

"YOU WOULDN'T HAPPEN TO KNOW WHERE I COULD GET SOME ILLICIT DRUGS WOULD YOU!? ^^^ban ^^^me ^^^from ^^^the ^^^computer ^^^will ^^^they." "4 weeds please, my good man!" Banning from computer requires at least 6 weeds and a downer. Maybe one small world. I read this in Steve Smith's voice. I read this in my voice I also read it in your voice. "Son, we're worried about you. You haven't eaten or slept in days."


"If it's not a computer or drugs, it doesn't exist in my world, mom!" Story of my life.
 One day he met a wizard who wished to send him on an opportunity to a place called the "Outside". And in this "Outside", there was beautiful sunshine and stunning women for him to have sex with. Then the acid wore off.  In this mythical land, I heard people sit next to each other and tell jokes and anecdotes and upvote and downvote by smiles and frowns.  I used to do drugs, I still do, but I used to too. You can't please all the people all the time, and last night all those people were at my show. I havent slept for 10 days, because that would be to long.
 All we know is....hes called the Stig. And if you listen closely on dark, windy nights, you can sometimes hear the clacking of keyboard keys... I see he's going for the long snort Stomps out of the house.

Stomps down the street.

Stomps down a back alley.

"I'd like one drugs please".

Edit: http://i.imgur.com/kHkS1Nu.jpg "One drugs plz" &gt;instead

So he wasn't playing WoW then Better than winding up on Moonguard server? ANT or TES? Yeah I'm holding, what you need?  

I got boosters, starter packs, pre-constructs and even got a good deal on a booster box if you're up for it. i remember spending whole paychecks getting boxes. &gt;i remember spending whole paychecks getting boxes.

I spent my allowance the minute i got it. Until i learned if i saved a month me and my friend could split a booster box. I quit in college for the total lack of money since all real money needed to go to gasoline and alcohol.

The past several times i've been to walmart ive found myself walking over and looking at the new magic boxes wondering what new things exist since the 6th edition. Then i realize i have credit cards now and how fucked i'd be being able to spend $1000s. [deleted] &gt;Just buy one box to see the new cards.

Hahahahaaa &gt;&gt;Just buy one box to see the new cards.

&gt;Hahahahaaa

Spoken like a true drug dealer "just take a hit man, it won't kill you" You can't buy just one. Addiction doesn't work that way. &gt;gasoline and alcohol

All I see is "up to 10% ethanol and ethanol"

Gotta have that ethanol  I went in with my friends on a box once. Just once. When I sold one of the rare lands I opened, one of my roommates went apeshit about not "keeping the cards in the family," and started to break into my room, leave threatening messages, and steal from me. That got me out of Magic pretty quick.

Still, I used go to the local comic store and pick up a pack a few times a year when the the new set came out. It's the closest thing to an addiction I've had. Play non-constructed. Draft once a week it's only 12-15 bux and play in pre-release sealed tournaments which is like 30 bux 3-4 times a year. 