I've heard a solicitor tell a story of a case they prosecuted where the defendant addressed the judge "your grace", "your majesty", "sir", and about a half dozen other titles, but never once managing to get "your honour". "khaleesi"

"king of the andals and the first men"

"first of his name"

"breaker of chains"

"kingslayer" You forgot usurper  And misspelled Kelly C.  Kelly C. and Carl Dragon were a good couple.  I remember when people actually thought her name was Kelly C.
:/ And they still think her name is Khaleesi. Only Jonah thinks she's Khaleesi. He spent too long on Dorthraki horseback. The rest of us call her Kelly.

He's so subject zoned. M'feudal lord. *M'other of dragons* Jorah* I bet he'll get eaten by a whale anyway. The Judge of House Targaryen, Barrel Rider and Ring Winner, First of his Name, of the Blood of Old Valyria, Blood of the Dragon, Stormborn, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, Protector of the Realm, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, King of Meereen, Young Girl and Knower of Little of the Ways of War, Breaker of Chains, Rider of Dragons, Chainer of Dragons, The Prince that was Promised, Azor Ahai come again, First Chosen of the Lord of Light, a New Hope, Prince of Dragonstone, the Unburnt, the Empire Strikes Back, Nerfbat of Morello, Mother of Dragons, Swooner of Sell Swords, Lover of Ladies, Seducer of Seducers, Eater of Food, Wearer of Clothes, Mysha, Daughter of Death, Wizard of Oz, the Hero of Kvatch, the Dragon Reborn, Non-eater of Spicy Locusts, Pokemon Master, Heart of the Cards, The Nidalee that Supports, Leader of Unsullied, The Giant Dad that Returns, the Legend that Never Dies, Slayer of Lies, the Return of the Jedi, Mead King of Rudy Hall, Flip Flopper of Fighting Pits, Dankey Kang, Sunny Shrine Maiden of Paradise, Bride of Fire, King of the Druids, Eater of Horseparts, Diddler of Handmaidens, Wearer of Floppy Ears, Lord of the Rings, Friend-zoner of Dorne, Bene Gesserit, Kwisatz Haderach, Slayer of Slavers, Burner of Warlocks, the Silver Queen, the Phantom Menace, the Silver Lady, Daemon Prince of Tzeentch, Liver in the time of Cholera, Shitter of Brown Water, Poopiest of Poopers, Saver of Dwarfs, Revenge of the Targs, Keeper of the Keys and Grounds of Hogwarts, Douche of Lords, Procrastinator of the East, Exiler of Mormonts, the Last Airbender, Maker of Hats, Haver of Titles, a Partridge in a Pear Tree and Moonboy for all I know.

edit; ty 4 gold ;) what are you on, because you need about half as much and it would have been perfect actually read all of this. was rewarded by the 40K reference, but my favorite is definitely 

&gt;Diddler of Handmaidens Followed closely by Friend-zoner of Dorne Elder Scrolls, Dark Souls AND Dune references? nice. You forgot the Rhoynar! Everybody forgets the Rhoynar! Because the show didn't say it.  Sad but true. "Eredar lord of the burning legion" Khal Joe Brown My mother was raised catholic. Very devout, careful driver too. Got pulled over one day, she responded to the cop by going "Yes father". How many Hail Marys will 5 over get you?  5 Hail Marys, 2 Glory Be and 1 Lords Prayer. 

If the back light was out, it would have been the full rosary.  And 3 livin in the USAs &gt; your grace

Lol.

He should have tried "Your Radiance" (Dances with Dragons reference). I might have gone with Grand Cyclops or Imperial Wizard.

I think the thing I hate most about the KKK is how good they are at coming up with job titles.

  I wish the software company where I work was structured that way, though  I suppose my position is less grand and more equivalent to something like "Butt Goblin". That's been one of my problems with the KKK.  Just when I think I have come up with something funny to put on my business cards as a title. I find out it was already used by the damn KKK or some other equally repugnant group of hatemongers.  I wanted to put Grand Wizard of the Cloud on my cards.  =(  Just can't have any fun anymore. Assert your dominance, and take the title... for the people! *the white people.  Made me snicker You're not yourself when you're hungry. [Google has some pretty cool job titles - Security Princess](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parisa_Tabriz) From Wiki:

A system of "judiciary" organs was created in each prescript. In the first the judiciary was divided into a **Grand Council of Yahoos**, to try officers of the Klan, and a **Grand Council of Centaurs** to try *regular Ghouls*.

If they weren't so awful they'd be hilarious. Your magnificence  Reminds me of Johnny Bravo:

Johnny: ...your majesty.

Judge: Your *honor*.

Johnny: Aw, you don't have to call me that. "My Lord and Savior, may you grant me the benefit of the doubt for this?"
 you holeyness I think that was one of them.  Judge is like " I aint even mad". "Doth sayeth I, that such an abrasion bristles me not." Doth mother know you wearth her drapes? Where's that from?  Backdoor Sluts 9 I didn't know that movie had thespians.  Thlesbians Then that judge said "it's gonna cost about tree fiddy" Isn't that a Tony Stark quote?  From the avengers I think? Yeah Tony Stark says it to Loki in the Avengers.

EDIT: it was Thor sorry Iron man says it to Thor no? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a8SLT5fmreU

It's actually Thor ftfy "Yes, your magesty"

*2 minute pause* 

"All charges dropped"
 THE EUPHORIA OF SUCCESS WILL FUEL YOUR DESIRE TO CONTINUE TRAINING are you a bot that spouts fortune cookie quotes? I would like that bot, i think, so long as it was used sparingly. If that's not the case I am quite confused. considering the two comments he made before this one are "OP is kill" and " *ORBITAL NUKE INCOMING* ", I don't think he's a bot. unless he's driven by Cleverbot. It's obviously clever bot.

Look how clever he is! It'd probably be pretty easy to right a psudo-cleverbot specifically for reddit that would draw its lines from previous posts on the same subreddit. Still hungry?  Have another fortune cookie. There's a cheap oriental diner in my home town that's owned and operated by this sweet old lady and her husband. It's one of those places that has like 10 items on the whole menu, but they're so greasy and delicious, that everybody loves their food. The old lady and her husband make a point of being extremely friendly and talking to everybody that comes to eat there, even in the middle of their crazy lunch rush. I've been going to eat there since I was 5 or 6 years old, so they've seen me grow up a lot. The week before I got married, my older brother and I went there and when we were talking with Mrs. Betty (the owner), I told her I was getting married. She got excited and ran off to their storeroom and I had no idea what was going on. She came back with a giant box of fortune cookies and told me that that now I should have plenty of fortune for a good marriage. 

My wife and I are still eating through all those fortune cookies. I'm glad I scrolled down here.

lol whoops *I'm am  M'ajesty *Tips the scales* [Time to tip the scales!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u63802gGvSg) This needs to be posted to /r/DeepIntoYouTube  what the hell... it's time to tip the scales. Fire Emblem! ***Pick a god and pray!*** This may be the find of a lifetime -- *Attention is called. Everyone takes their seats.* --

"All rise for the honorable Judge Leopold. Ajesty."

-- *everyone stands, except for the person in the back who will become an integral part of the story later on.*--

"Thank you, please be seated. We are here today to decide the case of Hanson vs. The State of Minnesota. As precedent has been thrown out the window in this fictional account, Mr. Hanson, would you like to perform a small dance number?"

"*No thank you, your Honor."*

"Please, call me Mr. Ajesty."

*"No thank you, Mr. Ajesty."*

"Shorten it."

*"Excuse me?"*

"Just say, Your Majesty."

*"But-"*

-- *all of a sudden the man in the back from earlier in the story tries to pull out a gun* --

"DIE, ALL OF YOU! YOUR MAJESTY PUT MY BROTHER BEHIND BARS FOR GRAND LARCENY AND NEVER EVEN EXPLAINED WHAT THAT MEANS!"

-- *the man reaches into his pocket to pull out his gun, and a bunch of spaghetti falls out* --

"Get him boys!"

-- *the man is apprehended and quickly taken away* --

*"Thank you, Your Majesty."*

"That's more like it."

 Yum! Ah, the ol' relevant username Shame i'll never have one of those... But if you are not relevant then you become relevant so  then your name is a lie But have you ever had spaghetti......in space? I up voted your comment about ''is that picking up a grape with chopsticks'' (lol) like a week ago on a timelapse weight loss video... Is the Reddit community that small or is it weird to see the same people over and over?? (I remembered your name because I have a mate we call toko and he is tiny) # /u/tokomini has 480k in comment karma, so not really that weird you'd see him again. According to RES, I've upvoted him 24 times.  Ohh right I get ya. So he has loads of top comments... Last month on YouTube I came across a person who I was in a bitter argument with (the world's most foul mouthed human) on a completely unrelated video, so I initiated a really friendly conversation with him. This went on for a week and he never noticed that I was seeing two very different sides to him, all smileys and ''lolz'' on one video and a racist troll on another... When I did the big reveal, he stopped replying on both haha Euphoria fuel can't melt the beams of success Judge: "NOW BOW PEASANT!!!" Yes your lordship My brother is a lawyer and gets very nervous in open court. He once said "Thank you, Father" to the presiding judge. The courtroom erupted. Catholic? Just daddy issues. Seems odd to build a courtroom on a volcano. It makes trial by fire that little bit easier Its not that kind of eruption

*if you know what I mean...* Most amazing TIFU I've ever read, and it's one sentence long. Hahaha I love short TIFUs. None of the rambling and all the flesh is in the FU. They're like the one-liners of stand-up. Yup! Quick glance, aaand I'm back to working. And by working I assume you mean posting responses on Reddit haha No he means watching basketball. Wha everyone is really doing today  I get paid to cover college basketball. :P are you the roof of a stadium? Well played "Working" Who are we kidding. It's back to the next thread  One of my favorites had the title "TIFU by fingering my wife". The description was something like "So there I was chopping jalapeos when my wife walked in..." &gt; he title "TIFU by fingering my wife". The description was something like "So there I was chopping jalapeos when my wife walked in..."

I did something similar to myself one night.  I decided to have some Tabasco flavored potato chips right before bed and I just kinda licked by fingers clean.  Apparently I itched my butt in my sleep and woke up with a burning asshole and couldn't sleep the rest of the night :/ That's disgusting. You scratched your bare butthole in your sleep?  Do you not? I don't like getting nocturnal pink eye... Confucius say, "Man who go to bed with itchy bum wake up with stinky finger." [Right here](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/28sd0t/tifu_fingering_my_wife/) Feels like flash fiction. Flash fiction?

IT WAS ME BARRY, TIFU! Which is weird, since usually TIFU features flesh fiction. Some of prefer the ol' flesh fiction once in a while. More like flesh *friction*, amirite? Only if you didn't use enough Tabasco sauce for lube. so hot.  Really spices up things in the bedroom. Really? As a lawyer, I've seen this happen before by unrepresented parties. We are also sometimes before Masters (lower rank than judges here). One of the Masters had a speech he would give at the start of days that involved a lot of unrepresented parties that very briefly went "You may address me as Registrar (another title he bore). You may address me as Master. Some people address me as Your Honour. Although I have not earned that title, I certainly will not correct you if you use it." I was once told that if you get a parking ticket or whatnot, calling the Justice of the Peace "your honour" makes them feel important and there's always a chance that could help you. I've done something similar - referred to a superior court justice with the honourific for the lower Court. Corrected myself quickly, but he responded "Oh, that's alright, Rumple, I've been called worse today."
 OMG RUMPELSTILTSKIN IS ON REDDIT What can I do for you, deary? OMG OMG OMG I'M TOTALLY NOT HYPERVENTILATING RIGHT NOWWW.

Can you do that thing Tink did for Regina and lead me to my True Love?? What do I look like, cupid? I don't mess with that "love" stuff. I could teach you how to get anyone's heart but you're going to need a place to store them. Maybe you could collect them in a jar. Hey! I'm kinda close. Me too! Lies! I think he meant [Rumpole](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0078680/) You're like a lawyer in a Harry Potter fic.

Better Call Rumple I love that OP gives no context, no replies, nothing.  Like eddie murphy back in his stand up days he just drops the mic and walks offstage. To be honest, I don't read any TIFU posts that are more than a paragraph. This sub is full of novellas, I'm just surfing, I'm not looking to explore 'your life.' I was prepared for a looong story  yeah, I saw "court" and was like "I'll come back to this one when I have more time". Yeah I even saved it before expanding it on my front page to see it's the best one-liner TIFU I didn't expect to enjoy a story this short this much. in a related vein, i once accompanied my brother to court and he referred to the judge as "your highness", which resulted in laughter in the courtroom. in his defense, he legitimately thought that's what you had to call people in authority, because they were seated higher than you. also in his defense, he was a bit of an idiot.

the judge chuckled and said, "flattery will get you nowhere; you just call me 'your honor'".

i was really on pins and needles fully expecting my bro to call the judge by the singular possessive, "my honor". fortunately he didn't, but i suppose that says something about what my expectations were for him at the time. good thing he's changed his life around over the years.

incidentally, he was in court for DUI and evading arrest. when he was pulled over he exited and ran circles around his car, keeping the officer on the opposite side of the car at all times. finally he got tired of that &amp; decided it was a good idea to just run into an open field, where he was promptly tackled and cuffed.  Your brother sounds like the type of guy who would jump from a second-story window into a swimming pool on a dare. true story: he once ran around the block completely nude in January in exchange for two beers and some convenience store nachos. so...yeah. Bloody lucky it was bring your monarch to work day  I think this is the first TIFU I've read that made me immediately laugh out loud. That FU probably made the judge's day. I propose that TIFUs should be one sentence long! This was perfect.  One sentence wednesday? Run on sentences everywhere. Alright. On one sentence Wednesday number of upvotes you get is divided by the number of words in your submission. Best upvotes/words ratio gets their username in the side bar for a week. Title: TIFU by making my friend think I like him.

Body: I accidentally his balls. choo choo!
 TIFU by typing more than one sentence on one sentence Wednesday because I totally meant to do it the way I'm supposed to (because as they say brevity is the soul of wit) but sometimes I can't help but express a lot of words in a single sentence, so this has really got to be the worst possible day for me to post to TIFU; but anyways I digress, let me get back to the topic at hand by saying that this particular time it was a Wednesday and TIFU was having their one sentence Wednesday thing and I typed way too much, like **way** too much, it just kept coming out and I tried to put a lid on it but no matter what I just couldn't press that damn period key (or dot or whatever you want to call it) even though I knew that I should have, and don't you know it, what came out was the longest damn run on sentence I've ever made, like ridiculous, the absolute worst although this one time I wrote one almost as long but I think that I did a line break so that doesn't really count (okay so maybe that should have been a separate TIFU I'll submit that one later lol) though some of you think it might. It's Thursday ._. One sentence Thursday doesn't have the same ring to it. RING? we've been dating for a week and you are already talking about rings? let's take it step by step... Then every TIFU would be:

"I shit my pants."
Or
"I fucked up trying anal in public."
Or
"I got caught masturbating because I'm retarded." i got pulled over because i was driving distracted late at night and was really tired and swerving a bit. Female cop walks up, asks if i've been drinking/smoking anything. I said "no sir". she searched my car. Some people will freak out when you say 'No Ma'am', and the'll be like, 'No sir' and I'll be like, 'Does it really matter what arbitrary title I give you? I'm trying to be respectful of you.' I know right? Especially with male officers. m'ale Sounds like you're upset about spilling a beer. Tired of these god damn novels. This is a perfect TIFU post Didn't Ricky say this in Trailer Park Boys?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GGL0qGk5lA

1:00 Ah, yes, the *People's Freedom of Choices &amp; Voices Act* of 1830. WHAT WAS THE VERDICT I MUST KNOW Cory and Trevor got time, because they were the only ones with hard evidence against them. fuckin' idiots If I can't smoke &amp; swear I'm FUCKED. Thank you, your majesty.  Lol I just started watching this a couple days ago yknowamsayin. I'm on season ~~2~~ yknowamsayin.

Edit: just moved onto season 3! Gnome sayin? ricka ricka gnome sayin? I'm writing a song with a sexual nay-chah You're sayin too many knowmsayins What are you from the gnome census?  What, you counting my knowmsayins now? You takin' a knowmcensus mafahka? I needa swear and smoke for my defence... can we get a TLDR? Tl;DR? ok here it goes. So this morning I was in court disputing a traffic ticket when I called the judge "your majesty"...  and then what happened? DR;WM

(did read, want more) TL;DR: Majesty Well... at least you didn't say: "But mooooom....!!" "I love you." Welcome to Costco? "Hi, welcome to Costco... I love you" I was expecting a 5 paragraph story of you managing to have a threesome in court.  So, did it work? TL;DR: So this morning I was in court disputing a traffic ticket when I called the judge "your majesty"... TL;DR: Morning traffic majesty. TL;DR Majesty M'ajesty *tips gavel* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mG2fk48gIk

"YESSSS, YOUR MAJESTY!" Defendant: Your majesty.. I would just like to say how deeply sorry I am..

Judge: Your majesty?! I prefer "Arthur King of the Britons" but please continue....  *rest of the court laughs*

Defendant: King of the who?!?

Judge: The Britons.. never-mind it was a joke!...

Defendant: Who are the Britons?!

Judge: Well... We are.. We are all Britons! Apparently I am your King!

Defendant: Well I didn't vote for you!

Judge: Ahhh! You did get the joke! I knew you'd be a Monty Python fan...  Okay, enough of this silliness!... I 
sentence you to a life.... 

Defendant: It was only a parking violation!

Judge: IN CAMELOT!!! 
 For some reason I immediately flashed to the adventures of Brienne and Podrick. "Ser? ...My lady?" I was at court begging for less points from a huge speeding ticket and I said to the judge that I was very sorry and that "I throw myself at the mercy of the court," and she took off 5 points out of 7. Maybe use that line if you need it, reddit. Is OP actually suzaku from Code Geass Finally a TIFU that isn't a humblebrag and/or related to sex Cop here. The judge probably liked that better. They have ego issues. [You're not the first](https://youtu.be/8GGL0qGk5lA?t=50s) NSFW unless you've got headphones. Yes, your majesty! Uh - MAGISTRATE! Magistrate. Oh god. I cringed for you. Was it a full courtroom? 

*please say yes* Well technically they are called a magistrate, maybe you could have played it off by claiming to have confused the two... Depends where OP is.  By me they're actual judges. In Canada it is possible to call a judge "Your Lordship". However, it is frowned upon. 

Source: http://www.scc-csc.gc.ca/contact/faq/qa-qr-eng.aspx#f10  TLDR Please HAHAHAHA THIS WAS GREAT!!! what was the judge's (and courtroom's) reaction?? op pls Fucking beautiful. Lol, reminds me, I was in court and said Mrs Honor.

She said "excuse me?" With a mean look. I went blank, couldn't think of the correct phrase on the spot.

I just said sorry, nothing more https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8GGL0qGk5lA

1:00 beat me to the punch!
 What was the reaction of the judge? The judge took his robe off and sucked his dick right there What was the reaction? If I were the judge I'd probably burst out laughing. upvoted just so everyone else can be as surprised as I was on how short this fuck up was I was happy when I discovered it was only a sentence long.  Was his name Lelouch? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0IFtEklXuHw 

"YES YOUR MAJESTY"  fucking thank you for not turning this into some ten paragraph bullshit TL:DR; Called a judge "your majesty" I don't know a lot about court, what's the problem? Is saying your majesty offensive or something? No, it's not offensive. It's just the wrong name.

Majesty implies that the person being referenced is royalty. It's often used when referring to monarchs. Clearly, judges are not royalty. Seems like the most insignificant fuck up. &gt; Johnny Bravo: That's the whole story, your majesty. 

&gt; Judge: Your _honor._

&gt; Johnny: Oh, you don't have to call me that.

Literally you. Did the judge dismiss the ticket? Where's my TLDR? You fucker. 

You made me make the weirdest sound come out of my nose while at work because I was trying to contain my unexpected laughter. M'yes M'laud. If it makes you feel better, when his holiness the Dalai Lama came to visit my university, the Vice Chancellor addressed him in front of the crowd as "your majesty" instead of "your holiness"  :) The defense rests, everybody can fuck off. Except you, I didn't mean you. "Your majesty, can I smoke in here? 'cause if I can't smoke and I can't swear, I'm fucked. And these guys are fucked." "Defense rests, everyone else can fuck off.  Except you, Your Majesty" - *Ricky, Trailer Park Boys* You fucked up long before you started speaking. A lawyer should be doing the talking for you, especially if points are involved.

You DONT want the points. &gt; which I always just assumed meant "egg on toast" or **some shit** in French Well he was right. And he wasn't even wrong. While at the same time he was right! WHAT IS THIS Just to clarify, op was both correct, AND not incorrect at the same time. Thank you for your correct and not incorrect clarification Clarity unclear. Clearity unclaritific. Cleric unclarified Claritin clear So he was correct correct? I've got the biggest correction right now. correct. In fact, not incorrect. Schrdinger's OP? i shall upvote you for [combo's sake](http://i.imgur.com/IDqpzrX.jpg) Meanwhile over at r//talesfromretail/you want to eat whaaat? As a frenchman, all I can say is LOL. Bien jou, dude. *mdr enculer de rire Buttfucked with laughter? its an old french meme C'est plutt dank Haha yeah I stuffed a replica of Pluto in my ass once Danque* mmes humides Humid memes? Mer il et fou ? (speaking of old french memes)
 Mimes* sans moi vous seriez vous enkuler de rire*

si j'tais pas l vous seriez vous ? Please tell me French video game players say "bj" at the end of games. In Portuguese 'bj' at the end of a conversation stands for an abbreviation of 'beijos' ('kisses').  Quite common. "Bon jeu" translates to "good game"

Or maybe it's like the original commenter said, "Bien jou", or "well played"

Not a native French speaker but that's what I assume from "bj" Good point! Although, same abbreviation regardless... bjbj == ggwp?  Nah they just really wanna give you a bj My ex-wife is half Korean and speaks the language fairly well.  She would sometimes use Korean words instead of English words just to spice up day-to-day conversation.  A few times she referred to the dog as the deogee.  I always assumed that was Korean for dog.  I must have told 30 people that deogee was Korean for dog.

She was saying D. O. G.  I have to wonder how many people think deogee is dog because I'm a dumb ass. That gave me the warmest feeling I've had all day, thanks. She probably was not saying D. O. G. Deogee actually means pig in Korean.  Depends on what pronunciation of "eo" you're using. OP might have meant "dee-o-gee" or, if using the standard Romanization of  as eo, "duh-gee," or probably half a dozen other variations.

That's why I hate spelling Korean words with anything other than .

Edit: The standard Romanization of  is dwaeji, if anyone's curious. No? Oh well. *teach me how to *

*teach me*

*teach me how to * It's clearly Dee-O-Gee as evident in the post. If she was saying D.O.G. There's no way she said Duh-gee lol.
 Why would she call it D.O.G.?

And "dog" in Korean is "gae" (or "geh") in case you still haven't figured it out. If you spell it out, sometimes the dog doesn't know you're making fun of it. Related french naming thing.

I have French-Canadian heritage and my absolute favorite dish is what i could only, until recently spell as "befakashet". It's a style of Shepard's Pie that would add a few more things into the mix.  My mom would make it and call it "bucket of shit".  But it recently came to light to me that it would be properly spelled "boeuf a cachtte" or "hidden beef".. sounds like a  sex move, honestly. It sounds like you're describing pt chinois which is ground beef, corn, and mashed potatoes on top, it's basically poor mans shepoards pie and I'm pretty sure it's a French canadian thing, could just be Franco-Ontarien though, not sure if I've noticed it outside of Ontario, but id assume the qubcois do it too. 

Edit: shepherds pie =\= pt Chinois =\= cottage pie.  Two are beef, one is mutton, all three are spiced differently, and one tastes magnificent.  There are apparently a lot of different stories about where the name for pt chinois comes from, I have no idea which is right, what I can tell you is that it tastes different, the spices and way it's prepared are different, it has no crust like a pie, and is apparently eaten throughout eastern Canada and New England.  Like many French Canadian dishes it has an ambiguous origin.

Now please, stop raping my inbox, I've had to uninstall alien blue so that I could actually sleep without my phone buzzing like some sort of demented torture devise. Definitely Quebecois too. *Steak, bl d'Inde, patates!* [Comme ca??](http://mangerensemble.mcq.org/sites/default/files/styles/large/public/apercu-preview/4_2_1_pate-chinois-shepherds-pie.jpg) Exactement! Je cherchais un clip sur Youtube, mais j'ai pas trouv :/ http://youtu.be/wuDPjzvvtE8?t=6m35s

http://youtu.be/wuDPjzvvtE8?t=21m52s Yeah I had a feeling, it's too bad it got warm today, I kind of want to make it for dinner now, but it heats my whole apartment up. &gt; it's too bad it got warm today

OH BOO HOO 



 &gt;&gt; it's too bad it got warm today

&gt; OH BOO HOO 

Found the Bostonian? Or a Canadian that don't live in Vancouver or another lucky area with temperate temperature.  You have to suffer to get to enjoy some great pt chinois. ;) It's only March 2nd, odds are it'll get cold again anyways. :) True! haha.. you say that when it's - 5 and feels like - 14 (though I whole heartedly agree, it's almost summer today!!)  We eat that here in the Southern US.  That's it precisely. The town my grandmother lived in is very much settled by them (qubcois). Yes, other families do call it pte-chinoise (chinese pie) but my family always called it by beouf a' cachette. beef, corn, chinese vegetables and sweet-&amp;-Sour sauce topped with spiced mashed potatoes. Can't say I've ever seen Chinese veggies or sweet and sour sauce in it, I thought it was just called pt-chinois because the Chinese introduced it to the region. I'm Qubcoise, the actual story is that some workers had a chef who was chinese, and the only ingredients left to cool was ground beef, corn and potatoes, so he made that, and the people started calling it pt chinois because of the nationality of the chef. (not sure this is 100% true, but that's what I heard) I read somewhere that when the Chinese workers were doing the railroad in QC they came up with the dish made from the only three ingredients their bosses would give them.  Sorry to correct you but it's pt chinois, not chinoise. But yeah I live in northern QC and we do the same recipe! (loaded with ketchup). Yeah it keeps autocorrecting and I'm too lazy to fix it, nor does it ever occur to me to change the keyboard language on my phone before typing a French word  I thought that was shepherds pie. god dam I was a sheltered kid Shepherd's Pie is ground lamb topped with potatoes. This sounds a bit more like a variation of Cottage Pie which is ground beef topped with potatoes. Personally, I like a dish with a fancy name but pretty rustic ingredients, Hachis Parmentier, it's like a French Cottgage Pie but with more spices and ground pork or skinned sausages  in the ground beef. Qubcois aussi.  Yeah pretty sure he's talking about Boeuf-Hach and not Boeuf-cach. Boeuf hach is "ground beef", or more literally "chopped beef".  Washington state here, I make that so not exclusive to Canadians.. Although BC is just an hour away It's a French canadian thing so I'm actually more surprised to see it in BC than Washington state lol. Lol French Canadian here, pretty sure you mean Boeuf-Hach or Steak-Hach, not Boeuf-Cach. The verb Hacher means to chop. So Boeuf-hach means chopped beef, which is what we call ground beef. Haha "hidden beef" that's hilarious first time I hear that. &gt; Boeuf-Cach

I'm glad you said this because OP was saying "boeuf a cachtte" which was all kinds of grammatically wrong so I wasn't sure if I had just learned nothing in years of french class... Aaahhhh, I can't stop saying boeuf a cachette now!

Try alternating that really fast with bucket of shit. I think my brain is gonna explode. 

Edit: that's actually really fun. Help, I can't stop! If boeuf = beef...omg. Shia The Beef. That's fucking boss. &gt; boeuf = beef

It is. But it's Shia Labeouf

edit: seems like it could come from that word though. Praise the beef!
 La means the but only for feminine nouns, "boeuf" is masculine. On the other hand there is a restaurant called "La Belle et La Boeuf" (Beauty and the Beef). Can we get a francophone in here? French native here.

Leboeuf is actually a fairly common name in France.

Shia's name got corrupted somewhere along the way, and he spells it Labeouf.

But yes. The Beef. I think that they left the "la" because it's a play on "La belle et la bete" (the Beauty and the Beast, as in the disney movie). Boeuf is definitely masculine. In that case it seem that "cachette" has not the meaning of "place for hide" but a very specific and rare and unknow to me culinary meaning. A hidden meaning in a kind of way. Or La Cachette, a place, in France. Crouching pie, hidden beef. Eggy toasty seagull poop.

&gt; I beg your pardon?

Whale sperm soup.

---

French is not my native tongue.

I want an eggplant in my bum.

---

&gt; A what in where?

&gt; You are a perv.

&gt; To speak to me with foreign nerve.

---

Well do you have a beaver snatch?

Or pumpkin latte freckled ass?

---

&gt; Monsieur!

&gt; Arret.

&gt; Do not persist.

Have you any pizza tits?

Or chicken chokes and slap-a-dink?

&gt; Monsieur!

&gt; You say not what you think.

---

Mama dearest.

Grandma Sue.

Tell me please, what did you do?

---

*We named the breakfast seagull poo!*

*You ordered eggy toast snafu.* This account is going places.  Not France, but places.  Oh, the places it'll go. Did you just make this up? This is really good.  I'm sure he's had the Dr Seuss seagull poop poem in his back pocket for this kind of situation This comment confused the hell out of me at first, then I saw your name and started it reading it like a Dr. Seuss poem. It was pretty awesome.  Happy Dr. Seuss's birthday to you too. My family and I was in France on holiday one summer.
We usually don't enjoy roaming the big city too much, so we were staying in a rural area with a lot of locals. 

On the first day I decided to check out the area, and while on my stroll I spotted a young girl with a cute looking dog.

Having just arrived to France, I figured it would be a good move to brush up on some of my high school knowledge of French.

I walked over to the young girl wanting to ask what the dogs name was. 

Trying my best at broken French, I managed to say something in the lines of "Qu'est-ce que c'est?"

a bit puzzled, the girl replied "chien"

I proceeded to cuddle the dog, all the while repeatedly saying "chien, chien".

The little girl left shortly after, and that's when I remembered that 'chien' is 'dog' in French..

I had asked the girl 'what is that?'

The little girl thought she just met a grown woman who's never seen a dog in her life..

 all the odd looks she gave me made so much more sense after that.. 

Needless to say I didn't speak much French the rest of the trip.. It's alright, you can say chien chien, it's like saying doggy dog Say that in Japan and you'll get different reactions.  Why? It will sound like saying "chin-chin" which means "penis". No, it'll sound like "shan-shan", an onomatopoeia for bells ringing. That was the funniest thing I've read all day.  hahahah i laughed!!!! This story brought me to tears laughing.  Maybe I'm overly tired, but god damn.

"What is that?"
"Doggy dog dog dog" I think it was a friend of my mother who spent an entire holiday saying 'petits pois' (peas) rather than 's'il vous plat' (please).

'Un caf, petits pois.' Were they kind enough to put peas in everything for her? I needed that laugh so badly today, thank you.  Lol was she trying to say "pretty please" with a French accent? That's all I can assume, unless he really liked peas... Along the same lines, my dad used to make this sausage gravy thing we'd put on toast. He'd call it SOS, or Shit on a Shingle I think its a Navy or Military thing in general because my stepdad used to make that for breakfast for me all the time. He always said he learned it in the Navy. Good stuff too. That could be...my dad is retired Navy :D It is. It's usually hamburger or sausage gravy, but my ex used to make it with dried beef. Ex Navy.  My grandpops learned to love that shit in nam I picked that one up in the Marines, still make it every once in a while [deleted] Both my dad (air force) and my mom (army) say it too. I think it's all branches. I used to have shit on a shingle, except it was made with chipped beef, not sausage.   This is the "correct" recipe for SoS. Should be chipped beef with mornay sauce This is called "creamed chipped beef" or "creamed chipped beef on toast" in restaurants.  I just ordered some from a diner in New Jersey yesterday.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chipped_beef#Chipped_beef_on_toast Yep.  My grandfather had it in the army and my mom learned to make it from her mom.  Chipped beef on toast is a regular thing when I visit my parents. My mom did this too, but with thin sliced ham pieces and also put peas in it. It's really good, for being so shitty.

 Confirmed most definitely a military thing my dad is retired Air Force My dad would only order this when we went out for breakfast on Sunday as a kid. To this day, it's still one of my favorite breakfast foods. OP, your first mistake was thinking you were in Rome I once tried to show off to my art teacher by recognizing Pachelbel's Canon on the radio. My parents had always called it "Taco Bell's cannon." Everyone laughed.  Ratatat has song called "Tacobel Canon."

If you like electronic rock, it is definitely worth a listen. [Quick link for the lazy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3NawwqfkubI) Reminds me of the story my mom told me about studying abroad in France when she was younger.  She was very sick and was asking around if anyone had a blanket, and all she was getting was *crazy* looks.  Until she realized instead of saying blanket (couverture) she was saying "knife" (couteau)

TL:DR my mom walked around the train telling everyone "I am very sick, do you have a knife?" I'd be looking at her weirdly if she came up to me on a train and asked for a blanket that's still pretty weird.  I was in France for business.  My company has a location in Toulouse.  I went out to eat with my colleagues, but was still jet lagged and didn't have much appetite.  I couldn't eat much at dinner, and I didn't want to offend the waitress who asked if I hadn't liked the meal.  Again... when in Rome... or Toulouse in this case. So, I tried to use my basic french.  Don't really remember what I said exactly, just that I was trying to say "Sorry, I'm a little sick"... when I tried to say it, the waitress looked at me like I was nuts and walked away.  My colleague then informed me that I had announced, "Sorry, I'm pregnant". And this was weird cause you're a dude.....

   amIright..... amIright......amIright? I guess I left that little detail out :(  I suppose I just (stupidly) assume everyone can just SEE I'm a guy.  I can.

&amp;#3232;&amp;#8255;&amp;#3232; Now I'm not going to sleep. Shhh, I'll stand watch outside your door. I'll be over there in a minute or two. I was here first. Take a number. Now wait just a second. I've been staking out his house everyday for weeks. I think that qualifies me as being here first, doesn't it? I staked this house before you were born. Heck, even before I was born http://i.imgur.com/FCEYI.gif One time my sister's boyfriend came to Bali with us. His mother collects bird houses and he wanted to buy one from a street shop as a souvenir. He asked how you say "bird house" in Indonesian. Being the teenager I was, I told him to say "Memek Rumah". He didn't know, but that directly translates to "Pussy House". It was pretty hilarious to see the stunned looks on their faces. The cherry on top was him using hand motions to indicate a bird flying into a house. Good times........
edit:grammerz I told a class full of high school kids in France that Americans put condoms in their bread, so that was fun...  Ah, prservatifs. You only make that mistake once. When I was in Paris a couple of years back I accidentally told the sweet young lady at the cafe that I wanted extra condoms on my baguette. She was having a bad day. I got slapped. By accident or on purpose? When my French teacher was in France for a semester abroad she asked her host-grandmother to pass her some condoms for her toast. At least she didnt bring out what you asked for As a french student, it feels good to be able to understand the joke before reaching the bottom of the story. Q: Why do people in France eat only one egg for breakfast?
A: Because in French, one egg is un oeuf! (literal French translation). Now you can go back and order one egg.  In a French Subreddit somewhere:

Les serveurs de Reddit, ce est la chose la plus folle que quelqu'un a ordonn?


Un gars est venu et a demand la merde d'oiseaux. Je ai continu  lui demander ce qu'il voulait dire, mais il a insist sur la merde d'oiseaux.  I've always wondered why Google translate doesn't connect stuff like ce est -&gt; c'est it makes zero sense. Seems like it would be a super simple fix. C'est la vie, n'est pas?  Ce est la vie, mon ami Frenchman here. You would rather say: "quelle est la chose la plus bizarre que quelqu'un vous a command ?"  Literally used google translate for my post Oh, okay! Nevermind, then :D A hahahhaha. I love it.  When I was young, my grandfather would always have the kids yell "gwno" when taking pictures instead of "cheese"

He always had such a large grin on his face

Gwno means shit in Polish My grandmother is French Canadian, she used to call the cinnamon rolls she made "cul d'ours". It translates to bear ass hole. If it makes you feel any better, I was on an exchange in Germany and one of the guys in the program was adamant that he wanted lots of "Seife" (soap) on his hot chocolate at a coffee shop. What he meant was "Sahne" (cream). 

I will never forget the look of confused amusement on the German cashier's face. 

But I've made translation screw-ups too. Like the time our teacher was asking us if anyone knew the translation of squirrel, and I replied "Einhoernchen" when the answer was really "Eichhoernchen". The prof burst out laughing and said what I said sounded like "little unicorn".

Fricking languages, man.   &gt; "Einhoernchen" when the answer was really "Eichhoernchen"

If I'm not mistaken, those are the same word...

Edit: Nevermind, i see it now. Doh. finally my username is somewhat relevant to a post..only took 2.5 years! The real French name is Croque Madame if you wanna try again 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croque-monsieur#mediaviewer/File:Croque_Madame_1.jpg

")  A croque-madame is a croque-monsieur with a fried egg on top : boob like ? Or just because women have eggs We don't call it "eggs" in french, it seem a little rude. We call it ovaires and not really think of it like "eggs" even if it is.

Words shape or view upon the world sometime, it's why to learn a foreign language enlarge your world.

Anyway, I was joking, I don't think boobs are the explanation, rather a symetry with croque-monsieur. My girlfriend makes something called a toad in a hole.  Basically you cut a hole out of the middle of toast and pan fry and egg in the hole.  Pretty awesome.

Edit: okay, okay, she calls it a toad in a hole.  Apparently this is called something different every 12 miles you travel.  No matter what you call it, its an awesome way to have breakfast.

Edit: Just had a toad in a hole, or whatever the hell you call it because of this thread.  I couldn't stop thinking about it. Only problem is that there is food called "Toad in the Hole" and it might get  bit confusing. Sausage in yorkshire pud  Yep. And definitely **not** [chicken in a yorkshire pud](http://www.reddit.com/r/food/comments/yu0n5/roast_chicken_w_yorkshire_pudding/). [Chicken on a raft?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVihOxP2QeY) Eggy in a basket Also known as egg in a basket for, well, normal people :P Or, egg in a hole We always called that "bird in a nest." As the ppl below pointed out. Toad in the hole is Yorkshire pudding with sausages in it. It's an English dish and my favourite. Typically served with cabbage potatoes and veggies Egg in a frame? I always called it "Eggs in a Basket".
Then V for Vendetta confirmed it for me. We just called it eggy bread with a whole in the middle. So eloquent A whole what? I have something you'll find even more awesome.  
Croque-madame.  
A variant of the famous croque-monsieur.  
A layer of bread, some goat cheese ([this kind](http://images.wisegeek.com/chevre-goat-cheese.jpg)), ham, more goat cheese, bread with a hole in it, an egg in the hole, more goat cheese on the edges of the bread. Then in the oven for a while. The hard part is to cook the egg properly, I'll leave it up to you, but the white is supposed to be cooked and the yolk to be liquid. One-eyed pirates! Sounds like a one-eyed-jack It always fascinates me that everyone has their own name for this dish. When I think of it I ask people what they call it. My favorite is bob in a basket. Toad in the hole where I'm from is sausage in a Yorkshire pudding  That's what Toad in the Hole is, what he's referring to is Eggs in a Basket, as a whole bunch of others have mentioned. Not toad in a hole egg in a basket. I have also heard that called "man in the moon (Missouri)", "gashouse (Illinois)", and "egg in a basket (Ohio)". All delicious and so much better then just eggs and toast separately. When in Rome, Learn french My dad always tells me about the time he tried to order two nines while in Paris. He never got his eggs either.  Oh come on its cute! You have an awesome story to share for the rest of your life. My dad hosted my cousin from Peru when he was here on a business trip some years ago. My father moved to the States from Peru when he was only four years old, so his Spanish is somewhat limited. He was trying to hone his Spanish on my cousin and my cousin kept making fun of my dad's poor Spanish, laughing at nearly every sentence he tried to say. Well, they both went out to breakfast one morning and when the waitress asked my cousin what he wanted to order, he replied "pig and eggs".  Does this French cafe serve bird shit? Click here to find out. I ordered a napkin salad at McDonald's at La Defense.   The girl turned around and announced it to the kitchen and everyone laughed.   Bitch. Oh, come on now, that's funny. &gt;mer-dwa-so

I know it's necessary for the telling of the story, but the French language sure does look ugly when spelled out phonetically.  [deleted] English doesn't look too pretty that way either. I feel there is a reason why those languages aren't spelled phonetically :P [deleted] merde (mr.) oizo Omelette du fromage. In my household... My grandmother called it shit on a shingle..  I was Really hoping they brought it to you  If you didn't know "merde" means "shit," you have not learned as much French as you think.  For real. I'm supposed to believe OP has been in Paris for a semester and doesn't fucking know the French words for egg and shit? &gt; learning french

&gt; when in rome

And also geography maybe?

/s hahahah this made my afternoon!  bahaha that's hilarious! Don't go near the Beef tartare...  Why not? It's wonderful. You know, I don't think I've seen anyone type or heard anyone say the end of the idiom "when in Rome do as the Romans do" for the longest time.
 I thought for sure this story was going to end with you eating bird shit. That would have been preferable, and equally believable. Seems like the reverse could happen if a frenchmen asked for Shit on a Shingle. That, made me laugh till I cried... needed both :) Why not just order eggs and toast and put the eggs on the toast?  Don't be daft. My mom always told me when she ordered a large "caca" in France, mispronouncing whatever French is for a coca cola (coca I think.)

Caca is French for poop.  I wonder how many French people come to the US and try to order shit on a shingle... It's settled. My kids will henceforth be eating "Vogel Scheisse" for breakfast I think you should go back and explain what happened. She'll get a kick out of it and you can be known as a silly American instead of the creep who ordered bird shit. [Sorry](http://youtu.be/-vl3TD4H7OA) it reminds me of this gag reel. I'm surprised they didn't actually serve it to you. You're in France studying French and you didn't know what those words meant? Really? To be fair, there's American dishes like [this on](http://www.cooksinfo.com/shit-on-a-shingle-recipe) that are clearly named without being translated first. You still did it right? Yep. I didn't go through all of that effort for nothing. :D Congratulations on the sex, OP. Keep up the good work.  Give yourself a pat on the back! The funny thing about my back is that it's located on my cock Giving bareback a whole new meaning. This is genius

EDIT: I'm really high You sound like a fabulous wife! Coming home to a cheerleader after a business trip would be an invigorating asset.  But then he still has to go back to his wife OP ***really*** delivered! If he got a blow job then he's happy Hopefully she didn't use her hands. From what I gather, she didn't. The onions were just half-chopped.  Half a chopped up onion for dinner. My favorite.  Asking the important questions  [deleted] Sobjob. The best kind of lube. In spite of the botch, that's still awfully sweet.  I'd give it an A for effort.  And probably a D, too. *In spite of the botch, that's still awfully sweet. I'd give it a D in the A for effort.

 # ( o  o)
 It could've been worse. You could've come home to find *him* in lingerie, chopping onions. Now that would take more than a few sentences to explain.  Or she could have come home to find him in onions chopping lingerie. Would finding onions in lingerie chopping him not be worse? Or lingerie wearing him chopping her, who is wearing onions! But who was heels? We have ourselves a conundrum Well, either way, the title most definitely says "onions in lingerie".  The adult version of Bananas in Pajamas. 
 A *cononiondrum* How can onions be real if our eyes aren't real? Too many cooks  Chopping broccoli  As long as its not onions in him chopping lingerie  https://40.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mdkfq2LtzU1qj8u1do2_500.png Is...is that not normal? She might've just said "Oh, is it thursday again already?" This would have made for a far more eventful evening. Not sure which way it would've gone, tbh... (   )  ( o  o) A good time ruined by a series of unfortunate coincidences, easily salvaged with direct communication. &gt;  easily salvaged with direct communication

Tell this to hollywood writers. I'm so sick of simple misunderstandings ruining a movie because movie characters become retarded when they have to explain something. At least in a movie it only tends to happen once, which is almost understandable. But then you have seasons and seasons of a show where the characters make the same idiotic mistakes over and over and over and over due to failures of basic communication and you start wondering why you should have any connection to the characters anymore. Oh, I think this is the episode of Three's Company where there's some kind of misunderstanding. Weeds. This is why I had to stop after season 2. That lady could have avoided all her problems by not being an idiot over and over again.  Weeds didn't bother me as much, because clearly Nancy is an actual moron. Just like, a very real idiot who is incapable of realizing what a good decision is. It is never implied that she is anything but some dumbass stumbling her way through life.

Its much worse with sitcoms where you are led to believe the main characters are smart, or clever, or whatever, and they still act like idiots all the time. I don't think I watch sitcoms enough to understand. But I do think that Netflix should borrow your description of Nancy for their synopsis of Weeds.  If I was flipping through Netflix and saw "Follow Nancy, who is clearly a very real idiot, as she stumbles her way through life, making the worst possible decision in every circumstance" I would pretty much feel obligated to watch every episode in one sitting. I feel like if the show had been sold to me like that, I'd have enjoyed it much more.  My wife was really into it and we watched the first two seasons together before I realized that she is supposed to just be a moron. I kept getting flabbergasted by these awful decisions she was making, it was really frustrating.

She showed me a quote from the creator of the show where he said something like "For Nancy, we brainstorm out what the best possible decision is, then have her make the exact opposite choice". Then I realized she is supposed to be dumb.

I ended up liking the show after that. If you're just watching a train wreck its fun, but so few shows have a star who isn't smart that it wasn't something I even considered. I never had a problem watching Weeds due to the fact that Nancy kept getting naked.  That holds little appeal to me, for I possess three separate boxes which can deliver unlimited quantities of outrageously attractive naked women doing literally anything I can think of in mere seconds. Yes, and she didn't even get naked until like season 4 right? (it's been a long time) I remember her fucking that sweaty Mexican drug dealer guy in an alley, but I am not sure if you saw anything good. I honestly don't even remember seeing anything, its not what I am looking for since I have porn. I held on for only slightly longer into that show than you did, and I can tell you it only got worse. They took what was a good premise and removed any possibility of sympathizing with her character anymore. Really ruined the show. She was just so awful that I started wanting her to fail, but then she always got away with it by the skin of her teeth. Aggravating on so many levels.  whoa whoa whoa, season 3 is fine too, then yeah, it goes off the rails


I hate watched the shit out of seasons 4-8. I regretted it.  I hate watched 10 seasons of Grey's Anatomy, but couldn't do Weeds. I'm actually not sure if that says something about the show or about me as a person... Wow...I watched it for a few years and liked the first few seasons like most people. I just assumed they stopped after season 4. My frustration with Lost in a nutshell. So much this. The writers of these TV shows can not imagine/create actual conflicts, and so instead base everything off of failures to communicate. It is especially true in romantic relationships, where the people are so obviously dysfunctional and stupid that the whole thing just turns me off.

Even shows that I otherwise enjoy, like Arrow, are guilty of it. They have interesting villains, but they are constantly sidelined to focus on Oliver's need to totally alienate every one he loves to "keep them safe." Then simultaneously not providing them with the information they *need* to stay safe. Seriously.  I love Arrow, but Ollie is utterly hamfisted in every personal interaction, and it frustrates the hell out of me.  I'm especially tired of his dealing with.....SPOILER......SPOILER......SPOILER

SPOILER

SPOILER

SPOILER

SPOILER

SPOILER





Laurel taking Sarah's place as the Canary.  He tells her she's not trained for it, that she's not a warrior.  He refuses to train her.  She goes out to fight because the drive is too strong in her.  Gets in danger.  Gets the shit kicked out of her.  Has to be rescued.  Then he yells at her, refusing to train her because she's not a warrior.  Rinse, repeat, ad nauseam.  

And how much trouble could he have saved if he had finally completely trusted Thea, and let her in on the secret?  I get why he didn't at first, but eventually, when she KNOWS there's secrets being kept, it's pointless to "protect" her by keeping her in the dark.



&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;END SPOILER&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;

*Sorry, I didn't know how to spoiler tag it otherwise.

 MORE SPOILERS!!!!!






Or his interaction with Felicity. "I am totally in love with you, but because I am in love with I make mistakes like not magically knowing someone was going to shoot a RPG at a restaurant. So now we can not be together, rather than that I will just pine after you and spend every waking moment with you letting the sexual tension build and build and build. That will totally be less distracting." You must have watched Lost. They never take the single second to explain simple things. it's infuriating. "You cheated on me! I saw you with that girl that you hugged!" [main character stares at the ground intently, looking guilty] "I knew it! We're getting a divorce!" [main character continues to look guilty, instead of mentioning that the mystery girl is his sister]. ...and they also assume that someone would want to be with someone who is jealous, insecure and always jumps to worst-case conclusions, then makes major life decisions based on those half-baked conclusions. 

 "Im going to mysteriously hug this person, then act guilty for 2 weeks instead of correcting the simple mistake"

"Im going to leave him immediately instead of asking him who it was. I am assuming the worst of this person who I supposedly love. No possible other explanation besides they cheated on me."

"Oh no im being left. This is the time to mope instead of doing anything productive. Also I better act guilty and go hug the person again while lamenting how sad I am about losing you."

"Oh no I just found out its their relative. Time to go crawling back."

"Oh yay, glad thats all cleared up, im glad im still with you, you jealous, overreacting asshole"

"We are perfect for each other even though I trust you so little that I will leave you next time I see you talking to the milkman"

"Me too"
 Next time, on generic soap show #164... Sounds a lot like some of my Facebook friends... [deleted] There was a Wodehouse book, Uneasy Money, that climaxed with one of the female leads sitting the male lead down and clearly explaining everything.

I was more than a little stunned. &gt;I'm so sick of simple misunderstandings ruining a movie

They make the movie. If the misunderstanding is explained, the conflict gets resolved too soon and there's no plot. Unless you mean ruined because the plot is based on an implausibly stupid miscommunication and therefore not interesting. &gt; Unless you mean ruined because the plot is based on an implausibly stupid miscommunication and therefore not interesting.

That. And even so miscommunication rarely makes an interesting root for a conflict. It's usually just annoying.
 "Husband I will be dressed like a hooker peeling vegetables when you get home."
"That is acceptable." And now I'm imagining OP is LaBarbara from Futurama. Dwight and Angela. and a hummer Oh yes.  Hummers make everything better.  They're the bacon of sex. What is a hummer ??, The hammer is my penis! https://uproxx.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/captain-hammer-is-here.gif?w=650 A man's gotta do what a man's gotta do. Feel my Mjlnir, baby. Hagabadla! Seriously? 

It's where she's sucking your cock and starts humming to produce some nice vibrations. Upvoted to fight the abstinence crowd I would argue that you don't necessarily have to *actually hum* for it to be a "hummer." In my experience that's kind of just become slang for blowjobs in general. It's lobster in Swedish. http://i.imgur.com/LhDSefn.jpg Can confirm.  Am lobster. TIL It's a car of which only the finest of people can own. It's the Mercedes S-Class of America. And gets 2 to possibly 3 miles per gallon in it's 26 gallon tank. I love me efficient cars. What are you talking about screw the communication... Lets just get to the point! forget the small talk and complete what you started he will get it later!! LPT: If you get teary from chopping onions rub some onions in your eyes. It counteracts the onion fumes. It works for hot sauce too I hear. Wow! That one weird trick just saved my sex life! the only LPT I will ever upvote,  The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote.  The only, "The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote. The only "The only, "The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote" I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote.

 *what the fuck is happening??* I think I may have accidently started a redundancy cycle that will bring about a thousand years of darkness. 

Im sorry,   but not too suprised.

Edit: *it was all [u/FromTheMilkyWay](http://www.reddit.com/user/FromTheMilkyWay)'s fault* [deleted] [INSERT META STATEMENT HERE] [INSERT [INSERT META STATEMENT HERE] STATEMENT HERE] (upvote whore) (upvotes upvote whore) We have to go deeper!  The only "The only "The only, "The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote" I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote." Did not enjoy your comment. Downvoted. r/circlejerk  The only, "the only "The only, "The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote" I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote. &gt; The only "The only, "The only, "the only LPT I will ever upvote," I will ever upvote" I will ever upvote." I will ever upvote.
 It's really peculiar that the original statement and the first meta-statement are popular, yours suddenly is controversial and the following meta-meta-meta statements and meta-meta-meta-meta-statements are popular again. /r/shittylifeprotips /r/shittyadvice At least you weren't chopping a cucumber and making eye contact "hi honey"  Hagabadla Reference?

Edit: Thanks guys! [Here ya go!](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2xb9q9/tifu_by_stalking_a_girl/) http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2xb9q9/tifu_by_stalking_a_girl/ Oh my god. I just read that whole thing, laughed so hard I couldn't stop. Literally laughed so hard I couldn't breathe + was wheezing. Then the video someone posted in the comments of the murloc thing. As my laughter is about to come to an end, my mom comes over and makes me jump out of my skin. I read her the entire post and played the video for her. I have such a good hiiiigh right now (from laughter). Breathing problems still but holy fuck, thank you for that link.  Haha I'm glad I could make you laugh so hard :D! **How did you find tiny lingerie that fits the onions?** China
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/08/01/peaches-panties-china_n_5642579.html Surprised that it's not Japan this time. Japan.  I can't explain why, but this question being in bold made it funnier [Ah, the old reddit lingeroo](https://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/2xh1no/when_life_gives_you_bananas/cp0c1af?context=2) "My porn star make up had run down my face"

You never know...he might like that! Makeup!

High heels!

Lingerie!

Hubby coming home today.

---

Dinner!

Cooking!

Look at me!

What a sexy sight to see.

---

Frying, boiling!

*Telephone!*

Closer, closer.

Nearly home.

I will soon romance the bone.

Onion chopping!

Error prone.

---

Am I sexy?

&gt; You are sobbing!

Is your manhood throbby throbbing?

&gt; You are limping!

Am I lame?

I may be slightly off my game.

---

&gt; Are you mental Stephanie?

Clearly not.

As you can see.

I am cooking.

On the stove.

And barely wearing any clothes.

---

&gt; Let me help you?

I AM FINE!

I AM PREPARING SEXY TIME!

&gt; Easy baby.

SHUT YOUR MOUTH!

And help me get this turkey out.

---

&gt; What has happened while at work?

Heyo baby.

Watch me twerk.

---

Am I sexy?

&gt; Kind of, yes.

&gt; This is my weirdest boner yet.

&gt; You look a broken porno chef.

---

I have failed.

I am upset.

&gt; I will fetch your sweater vest.

&gt; And then we dine and drink some whine.

&gt; I am sure it will be fine. Someone get a guitar. You are nude,

I am a prude,

I don't like your attitude. That was fucking great.  i wish i could subscribe to you. [It's a start.](/r/seussification) So good... Just use cheesy porn script. 

"God damnit... I'm leaking and need someone to plug this hole!" Damn. If only I had been that suave.  The leak is coming from her eyes, you monster!! Hey, some guys are into that. Running makeup always does it for me.

Gotta go ... Catch up to it. 

 How to properly cut a onion, have not cried once : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCGS067s0zo In 2015 this should be basic knowledge. That's how my Dad taught me. 

Other crucial thing: a sharp knife.  God that video makes me dizzy.  This is the first TIFU that made me actually laugh out loud. A sniffling, limping eyeliner-smeared mess of a porn star saying "I'm making dinner!" to a perplexed and alarmed husband... Oh ho ho ho ho I be chortlin'. I was expecting him to walk in with his boss who'd basically invited themselves for dinner or something. At least only one person witnessed this! Though now the whole of reddit knows Yep, I was expecting a "Hey Honey, Bill's wife is out of town, so I invited him to join us for dinner tonight," as he walked in the door. This is still way hotter than any dialogue in any porn ever made. Kudos to you for trying to spice things up! [The Lap Dance Is So Much Better When The Stripper Is Crying...]
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BJ4GfHUXbUQ) ...name was Russell. What the actual amazing fuck did I just listen to... Bloodhound Gang. Go watch more. Trust me. That whole album was just awesome. DEAR CHASEY LANE I WROTE TO EXPLAIN THAT I'M YOUR BIGGEST FAN! So glad Im not the only one who enjoyed this song  Not TIFU.
TIF I never understood the "cooking dinner in lingerie" thing. 

What are you expecting him to do when he gets home? Have sex, or eat dinner? Mixed signals.

Edit:typo  When you guys have children, he will face palm himself for missing the paradise you made for him.


I can't have that anymore every day :( We "save water" by showering together ;)

MOST IMPORTANT! NEVER STOP DOING IT! HE WILL LOVE IT and just pick a damn orange :P Wow. Seriously, I don't care if this is fake or not, it's the best TIFU I've read since Jenny met up for kisses.  Plot twist: husband was turned on by crying wife in ruined makeup. /r/blacktears I used to work in a high end restaurant.The chef always told me that f I didn't want to cry over chopping onions, then I had to avoid getting emotionally attached to them. Harder than you would think.   Frankly, if I saw my gf with tear-stained makeup, bawling her eyes out in lingerie:

http://i.imgur.com/NOECI0s.gifv These are the kind of stories I come here for. Thanks /u/jswoll For your encore, I suggest cooking bacon while topless.  The moment was ruined, but the memory was made! I bet y'all will laugh about this for years and every time he'll remember you being all sexy for him.  At least you didn't "hagabadla" him while making eye contact. "I'm home. \*sees wife* :o What happened?!"  
"Hagabadla." [Information that would have been useful to you yesterday.](http://youtu.be/dCGS067s0zo ) If you place an onion in the refrigerator it won't make you cry. That's gotta be tough find the room for a cutting board and knife in there. hagabadla As I've heard tears are the most potent aphrodisiac,^^^^^^^^^^^^^boner-maker so win-win? I can't be the only one who doesn't get teary eyed from cutting onions. Good job though OP, that was hilarious to imagine You sound really really thoughtful.  I hope he does nice things like that for you.  Love hearing about relationships like yours.  Gratz As the husband in this story can confirm she was a hot mess.

And we still did it. Those of us who are curious must know... did you still bang? A for effort. *Chopping Onions in Lingerie* would make a great ~~band~~ album name. &gt;In my giddiness, I grabbed the first vegetable near me

I uh... I thought this was going somewhere else, sorry. In my defense why would you feel the need to cut vegetables when he is 5 mins away?! haha I wanted to be "cooking dinner" when he came in but didn't want to have anything actually on the stove cooking just in case I didn't get a chance to get to it right away... Prepping veggies seemed safer.  I don't follow, why were the onions in lingerie? My fucked up brain at first read the title as "TIFU by clopping in lingerie".

Fucking internet has ruined me. Plot twist: OP is actually MALE! I don't get it. Don't all wives cry when they have sex with their husbands. Surely it's not just mine.  Some men (me) find the whole runny makeup crying thing very hot, but then again I am a sick fucker. &gt; He didn't know whether to be concerned or turned on,

Ah, yes, the state of being concurned on. I'm laughing like a crazy person in the parking lot right now. Thanks for that.  "Hello, this is 911, what is the problem?"

"*There's a man laughing maniacally in his car, I'm scared*"
 Genuine way to stop tears when chopping onions: suck a teaspoon while cutting. Works everytime! True, but the actual trick to this is just to keep your mouth shut.  (This includes talking).  The teaspoon keeps you from opening your mouth, but isn't strictly necessary.  This is why you see advice like "put a matchstick in your mouth" or "bite on a slice of bread."   Mouth shut = no tears. [deleted] Mental breakdown is usually at 2 years. Can confirm. ...Am I seriously the only one that things running mascara is kinda hot? &gt;_&gt; Pro-tip: don't cut the end of the onion (the part where all the disgusting noodle thingys are branching out) until the very end. Then do it quickly. For whatever reason, not cutting that part prevents the release of whatever chemical makes you cry.

As an alternative, chew gum while chopping onions. [deleted] This seriously sounds like a sketch Amy Poehler would write or something  In case no one mentioned this yet: Get a cup of water and dip your knife in when cutting onions. Also if you're already crying, cold will stop it so lean into an open freezer to stop tears very quickly What if the onions were wearing the lingerie marriage material
 Who plans something like that *after a long weekend of working*?  Can you imagine if the roles were reversed?  "Hi, honey!  I cooked and bought new boxers.  Interested?" In my house...yes!!  Well that is one way to get wet that's for sure. Now here's where "Doesn't matter had sex" really applies! Take notes future wife.  Wouldn this story fit in on /r/confusedboner?  Could have been worse. Could have been chopping habanero peppers and then gave your hubby a flaming hot hand job.  This is one of those TIFUs with a perfect TL;DR at the end causing you to burst out laughing! doesn't matter had sex. If anything ever deserved an A for effort this does.  I recommend the apron with the bottomless back.   This. Fucking this. Just the apron and nothing else. bra-f'in-vo!!!

i read a lot of TIFU's and you had me crackin' up at your description!

i'm still lauging at your "i'm making dinner!" remark.
priceless.

i do hope you got laid well that night. If you use a sharp knife you'll never cry from chopping onions. Don't know how it works but it just does. It's because the blunt edge is crushing more than slicing, basically forcing more of the chemicals out. There we go. Thanks for the response.  This sounds like my sundays.
Except minus the husband.
and the sex.
and replace lingeries with underwear.
and I'm a man.
 I'm so sorry but the  visual of this is hilarious. I fervently hope he thought so... and you, too. Have you ever tried painting in lingerie? This is why I keep a piece of electrical tape over my webcam by default This is why I keep electrical tape over my nipples.

I'm a guy though so it's less sexy than it is creepy. Wow, I too happen to have electrical tape over my nipples. We should skype chat and exchange tips in a totally non gay bro way. Exchange tips? Choo choo? I'm Ron Burgundy? I am Skeleton Jelly? thank mr skeltal Pain train?! 

"Shotgun!" [THE PAIN TRAIN IS COMING! WOO WOO!!! WOO WOO!!!](https://youtu.be/RzToNo7A-94?t=1m21s) lol [I was thinking something more like this.....](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=igJY6uFZK9M) Yes, but only the tip. &gt; exchange nips Band aids for that extra fear in removing them. Post-It notes are kinder, gentler.  Not creepy man, we all gotta prevent nipple chaffing somehow! Who knows when the cotton tee will attack. although I'm a scotch man myself. Surgical or masking if we're being casual, of course. This is why I wear clothes Especially with work calls. Based on some amazingly long and boring conference calls, for me the problem isn't being naked - it's [leaning back in my chair playing Angry Birds on my phone for 45 minutes while some idiot prattles on.](http://i.imgur.com/0OR837b.png) Considering how easy it is to get access to someone's webcam that's the wise thing to do. I have a bandaid over my camera on the iPad. Not that anyone has a reason to spy on me, but if they did, they'd see some weird shit. The light is usually hard-wired though, right? So if someone does, they can't hide it. On some, like Apple's webcam, it's controlled by the camera's firmware. Only a hacked firmware can disable the light. [They managed to do that though](https://jscholarship.library.jhu.edu/bitstream/handle/1774.2/36569/camera.pdf).

On others, like a Realtek webcam, it's completely driver controlled. You can read about that [here](http://blog.erratasec.com/2013/12/how-to-disable-webcam-light-on-windows.html#.VRJS4nXd_UI). The article claims this is weakness of all UVC cameras, but I'm not sure that's true, it appears to use camera (controller chip) specific commands. Hm. I thought I'd heard of at least some manufacturer hard wiring them. If you connect the light in series with the camera's power supply, it's almost literally impossible to disable it with software. Yeah, but then you get a national security letter saying the government would really, really prefer you not to do that. In the Logitech one I've got at least, that can be disabled with software. I just disabled my webcam in the device manager.  If you have a RAT on your system they can simply re-enable the driver. (I guess that works for accidentally turning it on) I disabled my webcam in the BIOS settings. How about that? They can install malware that runs in your bios to re-inject code into your operating system at boot by writing to your hard drive. I disabled my webcam via hammer &amp; chisel. Problem solved. They can program a drone to fly by your house. I put clothes on. There are cameras that can see through clothes (airports use them). But I want them to see I put on lead clothes. Yah, okay, now for the *Issues* with this:

1) Most devices now days run custom versions of BIOS, or no BIOS at all, new computers use UEFI.

2) If your using a Laptop from most of the Major brands, any modifications to the BIOS will cause a checksum to fail, requiring you to use a hardware flasher to revive your board.

3) Because of the differences in BIOS, it is not possible to make a catch all injection method, so it becomes infeasable to make BIOS level malware.

4) A malware author isn't going to touch your BIOS anyway, because if they mess anything up, then that computer no longer boots. They just lost a zombie. (Computers = Zombies = Money)

Basically, the BIOS is the only place on your computer that you can be 99.999999999999999% sure isn't going to be fucked with. It's just not worth it.

That webcam is disabled, and it will be staying that way.


On the other hand, Rootkits often run before your bootloader, but those don't touch your BIOS, just Windows. Still can't turn on the Webcam, but it *can* record key strokes. 99.99% only. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NSA_ANT_catalog

For example: "IRONCHEF: Technology that can "infect" networks by installing itself in a computer I/O BIOS. " and I'm sure they have new toys by now.  Not to mention all the other state actors.   Only on reddit can a story about boobs evolve in a complex discussion on the best way to disable a webcam #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**NSA ANT catalog**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NSA%20ANT%20catalog): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;The __NSA ANT catalog__ is a 50-page [classified](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classified_information) document listing technology available to the [United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States) [National Security Agency (NSA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Agency) [Tailored Access Operations (TAO)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tailored_Access_Operations) by the ANT division to aid in cyber surveillance. Most devices are described as already operational and available to US nationals and members of the [Five Eyes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes) alliance. According to *[Der Spiegel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Der_Spiegel)*, which released the catalog to the public on December 30, 2013, "The list reads like a mail-order catalog, one from which other NSA employees can order technologies from the ANT division for tapping their targets' data."          The document was created in 2008. 

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/TBuKlJg.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:NSA_RAGEMASTER.jpg) - *NSA ANT product data for RAGEMASTER*

---

^Interesting: [^Jacob ^Appelbaum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacob_Appelbaum) ^| [^Equation ^Group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Equation_Group) ^| [^WARRIOR ^PRIDE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WARRIOR_PRIDE) ^| [^Tempora](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tempora) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cpq01zi) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cpq01zi)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) My grandma does this so "Obama can't see into her house" wtf.  Til Obama wants to fap to little old ladies You don't want to fap to little old ladies?
 I mean, replace the name of the leader of the government with "The Government" and it suddenly sounds less crazy. Yeah, I do it on my phone too... Sure, maybe I look paranoid, but at least you have to be there in person to see me looking paranoid... [deleted] This. WAY too much calls at work to accidentally hit a share webcam button. I'm not the only one! hooray! I use a puppy sticker. Same. I found out Google Hangouts likes to turn on the webcam automatically every time you log in, that was a fun thing to find out when you're logging into an all-hands... I taped over my cam with black electrical tape, it blends in so well you don't even notice it.  I was Skyping with my daughter and wife and couldn't figure out why I could see them but they couldn't see me.  It took me about 15 seconds of looking through the settings to remember that I had the camera taped over. Same. My company does a lot of conference calls which involve sharing of computer screens and I'm always terrified that my WebCam is going to turn on by accident even though it shouldn't I just don't want to take the risk I use post-its. That is similar to OP who uses post-tits. That is why I got a laptop without cam Just explain that your dryer wasn't working and you didn't realize the webcam was on. It's a new program, they'll understand.  I'm sure they will understand. I'm just... so horribly embarrassed.  Oh don't worry so much about it.  I work for a tech company and this has happened plenty of times.  That plus, farts, burps, and toilets flushing.

Just laugh and it'll all be fine.  They're just boobs. Oh yeah. The toilet flush happens all the time. I'd take a toilet flush over a naked webcam sesh with my boss any day I hope the background noises weren't your colleagues taking screen shots. no it was just fapping Haha yeah. Violent fapping. Username relevant  That sick fucker. Let's get him and rip his dick off. Wait a minute...  I mean. All of them hung up on her. The dudes didn't even helicopter dick, as is the customary response to a nude Skype call. Our chances aren't looking too good here. The boss probably isn't that tech savvy and was scrambling to find his phone to take a photo of the computer.

 "Hey, how do you take a screenshot?"

"Alt-F4"

"You're fired." &gt; plus, farts, burps, and toilets flushing.

My boss once shit his pants in front of me while I was on a call because he thought it would be funny to crop dust everyone. He learned his lesson. I did this once on a group conference call with the whole west coast team of the company I worked for. 120 + store managers, asm's a few district managers and so forth. I didn't shit my pants but I crop dusted the fuck out of my team because my store manager dared me to. Worse. Dare. Ever. Operations manager ran out of the office holding a trash can to her face. Loss prevention almost died laughing, I'd never seen soda come out of someone's nose before. Pretty funny stuff. HR didn't think it was so great an idea, thank god we where on mute on the call...
had my sgm not taken ownership for the dare I'm sure I would have been out of a job. But he took the blame for that one like a champ.

Edit* one to many zeros... For people &gt;23yrs old.

Crop Dust: The practice of passing gas in a crowd of people unbeknownst to them  WTH? It's hard to respect a man when you've seen him run to his cubicle to call the big boss to say "I have to go home, I just shit my pants." 

 &gt; I work for a tech company and this has happened plenty of times.

Oh, I bet it has. &gt; They're just boobs.

I'm not going to ask OP for photographic evidence* but I want to believe they're *spectacular* boobs.

&amp;nbsp;

^^^*BRB&amp;nbsp;checking&amp;nbsp;OP's&amp;nbsp;history&amp;nbsp;for&amp;nbsp;/r/GoneWild&amp;nbsp;posts. http://i.imgur.com/cwIxu6t.png Report back??...OP?? Zilch. :( Dammit! We'll get em next time captain.  Haha !  Reporting back. No Post History in /r/gonewild, but we still know her from that thread about the biggest poo in the world:  
[Everyday, someone on Earth unknowingly does the biggest poo in the world for that day.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Showerthoughts/comments/2rghan/everyday_someone_on_earth_unknowingly_does_the/) Your promotion is in the bag..  er bags. 

Just laugh it off of anyone brings it up.  And this is why my webcam has painters tape over it.  (electrical tape works too). Laughing it off is all you can do at this point. Plus you've just gained a hilarious story.  This post is hours old so it may have been brought up already, but address it! Don't ignore it! I know you probably just want it to go away, but just make sure you reach out directly, explain, and apologize. It was a mistake and owning up to it is far more professional.

You'll be fine. It's Australia, not America. You'd probably be sued if it were here in the US... x_x I just hope them two dudes don't think you were hitting on them or something.  Best of luck, naked OP. That's what I was worried about! I was just so damn enthusiastic  Nah, you're good. Everyone politely disconnected very quickly when they recgnized your fuck up. &gt;for a about 10 seconds

Try counting 10 seconds That is a *long* time I hope you emailed them both and said what a huge mistake it was. Better clear the air before getting brought before HR. *see attached screen shot* Honestly you are probably lucky you were a woman, seems like it would be a lot easier to brush off. Naked web camming would just be a hilarious fuck up. But if you were a dude you'd forever be the creepy guy who sexually harassed your coworkers Look on the bright side, if you they have the hots for you, your in, your jobs secured, you'll get the big deals and next thing you know, they're kissing your feet just to get another look ;)

PROMOTION INCOMING! Thats not all they'll be kissing (   )  Vagina. 

 I like your subtlety. You probably gave your boss a raise  No the Boss is the one that gives.........ooooohhhhhh.  hee hee hee.  http://imgur.com/7qTAjXa Nice Look on the bright side, a female colleague of mine at a huge consulting firm was caught making a photocopy of some random strangers penis. Her explanation: she needed it for a scavenger hunt.  That actually makes it fairly reasonable.

If it was part of a weird fetish, I'd be concerned. Might get in the way of work.

Carry on. Looking at pictures of dicks is now a weird fetish? He never said what species his female colleague was. If she were a  female fish looking at dicks it would count. haha! What an idiot.  Pot kettle something something I sat there for a moment thinking "What, she just asked some guy walking past in the corridor to come into the photocopy room and lay his penis on the photocopier because she was on a scavenger hunt?" As Australian working at a big corporate firm where this technology is now being piloted, and knowing a Patricia from the project team I'm highly suspicious you may be a colleague.... I suspect all I'd need to do is walk around the office talking about some naked exhibitionist webcaming and wait till someone glows red. 

Well played OP. I suspect we'll see this pilot move to full implementation far sooner than expected. 

Edit: Comma wasn't playing nice Shit I've been made.  TIFU by posting a TIFU on Reddit Not the first time it's happened, I'm sure.  Well at least you have a bright future as a camgirl so you have that going for you  Not that bright a future if everyone keeps hanging up on her. Don't forget to update us here You must be new here Don't forget your fellow redditors and update your status ;-)  Buy plastic tie-on fake boobs, wear them to work...then be like. 'Oh you thought they were my real boobs? '  Hahahhaha I love this!  You could just tell them that two months ago you were contemplating who takes the biggest poops in the world each day. ..  This sentence makes me want to reevaluate my life.  Oh that was you?! I loved that post!! I wasn't prepared for the comments on that one. Ohh the comments.  Just think, you didn't only contemplate this, you made a million other people in the world contemplate the same thing. I was also told that it ended up on a Texas radio show! That's pretty cool. Considering you know, it's about poop.  
&gt;I'm Australian

&gt;female

&gt;mid-20s

(   ) your boss And he's already awkward around me when I have clothes on ! gahh  Wait until he surfs reddit and realizes you are also a swallower

_


Gold Edit: Here i was in the past tryharding to make a smartass comment and get gilded but in the end it happened when i'm not trying. Thanks :)   **( )** Warlizarding intensifies /u/warlizard you're a verb now.. Jesus. [I'm betting this was his reaction.] (http://youtu.be/DzN4IQ5CIx4) If my mid-20s coworker sent video of her boobs to this 43 year old awkward male, the only regret would be how long it takes me to make a screenshot.

I'd never mention it again, if that helps. &gt;I set up my laptop and set it in front of my naked body.

You had me at 'laptop'. No prob - who hasn't seen a pair of boobs ... act like it never happened and move on - nothing to see here - not the end of the world ya know &gt; 'Hi Boss! Just testing the new program out! Hows everything going?' I don't hear anything except slight background noises for a about 10 seconds, then he hangs up.

I think I have a pretty good idea of what those 10 seconds of background noises were. Franticly hitting the print screen button. That's the long con, and a really good investment. I was thinking of something much shorter term.  TIFU by forgetting where my print screen button was while on a conference call at work. we are pandas. You are mistaken, I swallow pandas (   ) is OP into beastiality? _ No silly, I'm into eating !  so panda cunnilingus? _ GOD DAMMIT PANDA MAN. You just made me Google cunnilingus on my work computer.  

 I didn't read your reply fast enough I googled it in class with people sitting behind me \_()_/  oops you dropped something \ Thanks op   HAHA ya [nsfw]. I forgot you're Australian. It's 1:00 AM where I live.  Pandamonium all up in this joint.  If only you'd googled panda cunnilingus. Then your boss would've seen your boobs and your search history and you'd know for sure it's time to move on That's some casual Friday you got going on there. Haven't had anything like this happen at work ... yet. But we're a global team who all use Skype heavily. (I'm the only employee in Australia, and all the way over in Perth at that, so they keep on asking me to "pop over" to Sydney to meet a client...)

I think I'd mostly just laugh if I were on the receiving end. Rather worse if I was on the sending end though. Glad you're keeping a sense of humour about it.

We've had a few "I forgot to mute the microphone while I was shitting on a conference call" incidents though. Thankfully not me. Yet.

Also funny overhead comments from people's partners, or them saying something when they think they're muted. &gt; (I'm the only employee in Australia, and all the way over in Perth at that, so they keep on asking me to "pop over" to Sydney to meet a client...)

I once travelled from Melbourne to Sydney for a conference and met an American who was presenting.

He asked me how long the drive from Melbourne to Sydney was.  An hour?  An hour and a half?

I stood there not quite understanding for a bit, then thought about how long that drive might take:

"Uh, 9 or 10 hours?"

I explained that I flew, rather than drove.  He couldn't comprehend that two cities that looked like they were right next to each other on the map could be so far away.  You could see his mind blowing at the thought of how far apart that would make other places in Australia, like say Sydney to Perth.

Honestly I don't think many Americans would appreciate the distance from Sydney to Perth is comparable to the distance from New York to Los Angeles.




 It goes the other way too - I once worked with an Australian girl who thought it would be a good idea for an upcoming 4-day weekend to rent a car and drive to Florida.

From New England.

It could be done, just get on I-95 south and drive for, oh, about 24 hours. Europeans have a similar problem understanding how far apart places in the US are. Not to mention Europe vs Australia!

http://i.imgur.com/eHLg4AB.jpg

So basically, driving from Sydney to Perth would be like driving from Russia to Portugal.
 For a second there, I thought you were contending that you could drive New York to LA in 9-10 hours, and, being the arrogant asshole I am, I was getting super ready to correct you.

Then I realized you were talking about Perth. Then I realized I had no idea where Perth was in Australia. Then I google mapped it. The NYC/LA distance is pretty comparable. You might even be farther. I don't know, because I'm too lazy to google how long a drive between NYC and LA would be. 

...thank you for reading my uninteresting, mildly drunken musings. NY, NY to LA, CA is about 41 hours by drive. There are lots of perks for everyone when you work at home. As soon as you said Australia I assumed something horrible with a spider. Thanks for no creepy crawlies Not to worry, the snake outside my house ate all the spiders.  I'm sure you mean snake*s* No, there's only one left since the drop bears ate the rest of them.  ... What is a drop bear? http://goughyrants.webatu.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/539110_10151184278851955_945217792_n.jpg That looks exactly like the one that got my dog last week. A falling death machine.  Have you not heard of drop bears? Koala like carnivorous  mammals that kill their prey by dropping down on them from trees. They've been known to attack people and seriosuly injure, sometimes kill them This is a [drop bear](http://gifcrap.com/g2data/albums/Animals/Bear%20falls%20out%20of%20a%20tree%20onto%20a%20trampoline.gif) [deleted] [deleted] If he's right then please... leave reddit, close your laptop, put some close on then just run, run far away from this creepy place lol Then come back and report on how far you got, I bet it was as far as a local shop [deleted] Like to be fair, pretty much half of Sydney's "big corporates" can have this apply to them :p Omg see! People said I was paranoid for taping little pieces of paper over built in laptop cameras or making sure desktop USB cameras are unplugged when not in use. FOR THIS VERY REASON! I also don't take my cell phone into the bathroom because... just no. 

WHARES MY TIN FOIL! WHAR IS IT! (The internet never forgets...)     prepare your inbox for conference call requests. http://imgur.com/bgCr6hp Oh 2006, how I miss you so Obviously you want a promotion. I think it worked, now you need to assert your dominance by going to your boss and asking him if he liked what he saw.

BTW you must be in the Melbourne or Sydney, I literately just started working now and its only 8:49am here in the office (Perth). Because Canberra, Brisbane, Adelaide, and Darwin weren't at work by the time this was posted? I forgot about Hobart. Don't worry Tasmanians, so does everyone else. If I was Tasmanian I probably would of had 3 boobs.  You've done it several times so I just have to correct you, I'm sorry.  *HAVE* not *of*. Haha dammit I did it again! I understand. People's misuse of 'there' etc makes me die a little inside.  Don't be silly, nobody lives in those places, everything is just Melbourne or Sydney.  Sometimes Perth. Hey, uh, just trying to help out here, but if you need someone else to test call, I'm available. You would think you would want to keep your clothes on with all the deadly creatures in Australia. Most of them can bite through steel, so there's no point in wearing any protective clothing, better to be unencumbered so that you can run away faster. &gt;Most of them can bite through steel

Australia. Not even once.  Guys who didn't leave a comment because you wanted to say something naughty,

You da real MVP &gt;female

&gt;mid-20s

&gt;naked

insta-karma. Yeah good luck with your boss and co-worker OP, hopefully they don't start making things more awkward for you. Seriously, WTF @ the first two people just hanging up and not even telling you what is going on? That's really shitty form on their part. Sure, it's going to embarrass you, but clearly that is inevitable anyway. Poor OP! I feel bad for you! I would write an apology email and send it out, then I would start looking for a new job. A new job bc I wouldn't be able to handle the stress of the embarrassment. Haha that was definitely my first thought!  Lie. LIE TO THEM. Tell them you had just hopped right on out of the shower and something was going haywire with your laptop, making calls when you didn't tell it to and whatnot and that you didn't realize that this product included webcam features. Pretend it didn't happen. Wear turtle necks for the next 80 years. If that doesn't make you feel better, take a deep breath, make yourself some tea, go for a walk, keep walking, go straight to the airport, buy a ticket with a fake ID you bought from Simon the Sketchy on the corner of Main and 3rd, get on a plane, never return, don't speak to any of those people for the rest of your life.  Lmao I hope they are all understanding about the situation and allow you to continue to work from home.. lmao What kind of fucking moron hangs up? One who doesn't feel comfortable looking at a naked woman without her consent... So they don't feel comfortable, yet they don't let her know? :| They're probably choosing - under stress I might add - the course of action they feel least likely to get them in trouble. I imagine it might go like:

*Holy shit, she's naked! Heuheuheu, boobs... er... shit, do I tell her? No way, HR might construe that as harassment. But she called me? Fuck it, this is taking too long already, might look weird, just hang up.* but bro I think it was more of they feel awkward since they have a professional relationship, I'm not sure that they even thought it was on accident on her part. I would like to think that they did but maybe not. People that think the situation is so good it's some kind of trick or test. The one who doesn't want to get fired for looking at porn at work. John, are you looking at porn?

No sir I am just looking at our colleagues boobs.
 One who takes screenshots trying to understand why you had to describe the men you work with as "awkward" and "nerdy", yet patricia is just patricia.  Because I'm not fussed if a woman sees my boobs. But a male is different, and explains why they would just hang up,  being the more introverted type.  If a chick called me up naked while at work, I would hang up instantly as well, no matter how badly I wanted to see her naked. It's got nothing to do with awkward and everything to do with HR. but the woman hung up as well.  To be fair, if a guy flashed you, as another guy, you'd go "Oi yeah nah, put your tackle away bud". Whereas you'd just go "Holy shit, she flashed us her tits!" to everyone if it was a woman doing it. Bit of a marked difference. yes, but the woman reacted in the same way as the men did (hanging up), so i don't see why the men had to be described as awkward and nerdy to get the point across. 

ya feel me? No? I'm genuinely not seeing it. 

She's okay with a woman seeing her boobs.

She's not okay with a man seeing her boobs.

Their reactions compared to each other is irrelevant. She doesn't care how the woman reacted, but I don't blame her for feeling embarrassed at a guy seeing her. if she is embarrassed because a *man* saw her boobs then why point out they were awkward and nerdy?

would she not be ashamed if they were suave and buff? Well, something tells me that if they were the standard, lecherous, type, they'd have just stayed on the call and watched the boobs. Well if they were at home yes but at work you would keep it up for 10 secs or so get the screenshot then close it so people dont think you are looking at porn at work. Mate no. She's cares about the guys opinion at her state of undress, so she describes it. She apparently doesn't care for the woman's opinion at her state so she doesn't describe it.

Is that a difficult concept? if she cares about the *guys* opinion **because** he is a guy then describing their personality or looks is pointless, as their looks or personality shouldn't matter. 

by describing the two dudes in negative light and not saying a thing about the woman she makes the reader think that the only reason she was mortified about her male coworkers seeing her boobs is because they were not some office hotties.

it just stood out to me as a reader, i don't see why everyone is playing dumb and as if they don't get why i asked what i did. skeesh. Don't worry...you're not alone in your thoughts on the matter. But there is no point in arguing with people who will never see what you see. They clearly are completely missing the point you're trying to make (possibly intentionally.) Of course women smile at cute guys when they look at them in slightly revealing clothes but yes to us fat guys who are not attractive its that "stop looking at me" face that says it all.

What was that saying Step one be attractive step 2 be attractive I think was it. I would not mind if a girl saw my penis unless I just got out of the pool SHRINKAGE is real jerry, but like another dude seeing my junk I would feel horrible poor guy doesn't want to see that boobs is where it is at. 1. There's nothing wrong with being naked.  You shouldn't be ashamed of your body and "want to die."

2. It was an honest mistake.  Explain what happened and apologize.  (Note: You're not apologizing for being naked.  You didn't do anything wrong.  You're apologizing for not realizing you were on camera.)

Laugh it off.  DO NOT make a big deal out of it and don't let any of your co-workers either.

And feel free to call me any time to talk about it.  :) Totally thought Patricia would be from HR. Hopefully you work for a small less-corporate progressive company? I see a raise in the near future. 10/10 American bosses would hire you with this on your resume

 Also work from home. I have a bandaid over my camera. From time to time we're supposed to "join" meetings by enabling our webcams so we can all see each other. I go through the process and then say "Oh, my webcam doesn't work."  Actually, I've done it so often that everyone knows my webcam is broken. Since the laptop is essential to my job, I can't send it in for just a webcam fix.

All this so I don't have to brush my hair Hi OP , Some advice and perspective from a  M/Early 30's/ world-weary dude. Don't worry about it and stress yourself out. First and Foremost, everyone involved is an adult and it's not like they've never seen a naked body before. When you separate and compartmentalize the situation, you'll see that the frack-up is relatively minor and should not in any way be used to compromise your job. Before I begin:

TL:DR: Be cool. It's cool. Honest mistake. It happens. Live, learn and laugh about it later...BUT if someone was to use this against you, sue every last drop of blood and spark of soul out of them!!!

Lets it break it down
1. We're all naked underneath;
2. They're all mature professional adults;
3. In the context of work, results matter most, appearance and sociability matter to a lesser degree;
4. Your home is your sanctuary, wear as much or as little as you want;
5. Be confident and proud of your self and your accomplishments thus far.
6. New technology should be approached with caution and utilized after understanding how it functions;
6. Like all things, this shall pass; You will grow from it and then laugh at it.
6. If anyone attempts to retaliate against you, sue and destroy them.

So, don't sweat it. Simply go into your colleague's offices and tell them "Hey there, my bad with the Skype call. First time using that program. Thanks." Don't let anyone bring you down. That had to be un-bare-able   =) I think the real fuck up here is being casually naked in Australia. What if a poisonous gecko or an angry venomous spider crawled up one of your unprotected orifices? At least you weren't taking the worlds biggest poop at the same time... you work a corporate job at a big firm and you didn't realize skype has video and not just sound? does your job responsibilities include sorting the mail and delivering it?
 It wasn't Skype.  wow - can I learn to fucking read?? you've just proven that you work a corporate job at a big firm. :) Today 



I 




Froliched about 




Undressed  Anyone else reading OP's comments in an Australian accent? Also, why the hell did those dudes hang up?! Dudes hang up because they are at work and that image is in no way appropriate to have on their screens at work. How does one 'do' an Australian accent? If butchering the English language is the only requirement it couldn't be too difficult. Pics plz Took a little while, I had to take my clothes off and make sure I wasn't connected to any calls, but here you go!

http://i.imgur.com/JWK64BV.jpg?1
 Oh man even better than I was hoping for. If that was me I'm afraid my FU would of been birth.  Yes it *would've.* That was a picture of my mother, you asshole! Damn Dude... Sorry, that was harsh. I'm in a bad place right now.. you know, because boobs.  That was pure comedy gold. Don't you apologize for shit, CamTits.  Hahah Camtits You should consider cutting down on the pandas, too. They can cause nervousness, irritability, and a thick, luxuriant pelt. rekt LMAO. I like this OP. On a scale of 1-10, rekt https://i.imgur.com/kPdlpBV.gif Where is this from? This is glorious. What's it from?? Some horror movie I can fap to this... God dammit  To be fair, you just told her she doesn't need the validation of any man to have a good time. 

So in theory, it doesn't really matter whether you said yes or no. In theory... (just trying to make you feel better bro :P) Yes, in theory. In practice, one motivational speech is unlikely to change the whole foundation of someone's confidence system. Rejection sucks. :/ IT LASTED FOR 15 MINUTES DUDE Well, yes, speeches are typically a bit long winded.  The confidence he built in her was a bit short-winded. Let's be fair, that's like 30 seconds in drunk time. more like 4 hours in drunk time I've seen drunk people say exactly the same statement to another drunk person over and over again, went on for like 30 minutes and consisted of maybe 3 or 4 sentences.  The awkward moment when the person tries to leave and they say, "No wait, you gotta hear the last part." Can confirm. My mom does this when she drinks a lot. She will say maybe 6 sentences and reinforce like three of them over and over again. Meanwhile I'm sitting there thinking "yeah, yup, you've said that already...that too." AND YOU LET HER GOOOOOOOOOOOO Well you only need the light when it's burning low  Like a lot of guys who watched the 70s and 80s dancing on TV and then grew up, he probably just didn't like dancing. 15 Drunk minutes! These are like the opposite of Microsoft minutes She thought it was true love. "In theory, there is no difference between practice and theory; butvin practice there is"
-Yogi Berra That's a good quote. And as a bonus, you invented a new word, so that's nice. Rejection is a normal part of dating. Rejection is a normal part of life, not just dating, but that doesn't make it any more pleasurable.  "He better get used to it. Disappointment is going to be a big part of his life. He's a foot short for his age and he's crossed-eyed."

http://youtu.be/O9A067i_a2o I don't think anyone was denying that. That doesn't make it any better.  But seriously, he was clearly already interested in the friend. Back off, girl.   motivational speeches, in my opiniom, do very very little. like puting a bandaid on a gaping wound, they do very little nothing for the actual problem, but are marvelous at distracting you from it. Pro tip: don't ask people playing beer pong to do something else during a game, especially if they're drunk  &gt;(just trying to make you feel better bro :P)

So what you're saying is, you wouldn't want to dance with OP either?  Good idea, but... fuck that shit bro! OP had this shit from the go to listen to him drunkingly stumble on her greatness for 10 to 15 and then let her down. well observed my girlfriend does this really dumb thing when she's upset: 

her: *goes on about something that's making her mad/upset*

me: *really nice and comforting tone of voice* it's okay to be upset, don't worry

her: I DON'T NEED YOUR VALIDATION TO BE UPSET I'M MY OWN SEPERATE WOMAN FROM YOU I DON'T NEED TO YOU PREACH ABOUT MY FEELINGS BLAH BLAH BLAH sounds like a keeper that won't be a problem down the line at all.
 she's a keeper Actually that sounds really condescending. Sorry. People sometimes don't react well to that shit when they're already mad. Next time you could try saying, "Wow, that sucks" and then just listening. "Oh. I didn't mean with me." "I meant leave." Damn. Settin her straight. But what happened with the other girl???? Oh the other girl? She had a boyfriend. He was one of my roommates the next year.

Funny sidenote: The next year her boyfriend and I were playing CoD or something and he turns to me and asks, "So what're 'lion tactics?'"

I'm like, "I don't know, what are they?"

He explains that I kept telling his gf that night that he'd been using lion tactics on her when walking to class.

Turns out I was referring to how he would separate her away from the herd of girls and "prey" on her.

Totally forgot about that. I bet your friend is attractive, whenever I do that I get a restraining order. Restraining orders= playing "hard to get"

Never give up. Tried that too a couple of times, I got banned from a library and a local elementary school. Elementary schoolers are such prudes... well at least he will slow down in school zone!
 Ahhh, sooo that's what those pesky signs mean.  [Hey, no joking! This is the internet, not a joke factory. By breaking the first law of the internet, you are hereby sentenced to one brigade courtesy of the internet police.](http://imgur.com/q5c9zh4) This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.


- [/r/ShitRedditSays] ["Restraining order = playing hard to get. Never give up." later response... "Elementary schoolers are such prudes."](http://np.reddit.com/r/ShitRedditSays/comments/2y3lrp/restraining_order_playing_hard_to_get_never_give/)


- [/r/Unexpected] [The ending of this r/TIFU post](http://np.reddit.com/r/Unexpected/comments/2y3s08/the_ending_of_this_rtifu_post/)



*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote. ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot) Jesus, it was a joke. Fuck SRSers. They can't step outside their homes without getting offended. I'm homeless-kin and you just triggered me so fucking much.  I'm kinless-kin and you just triggered me so fucking much. I'm trigger-kin. Also homeless.


Not triggered, strangely enough. I'm strangely-kin and you made me deeply homeless  You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy. Well that changes the story. I thought you were hitting on the other one. Or were you? Maybe? I don't really know/remember. I think we were just talking. I'm pretty sure my friend was going out with her at that point and I wasn't about to make an attempt. You just sort of hinted at having a preference, so it seemed like you were choosing one over the other. Well to me it looks like OPs preference was beer pong -_- Don't leave us hanging,OP! OP PLZ Deliver  http://i.imgur.com/vlqnRuG.gif [that's how Steamboat Willie would roll if he were a package.](http://youtu.be/BBgghnQF6E4?t=31s) I don't know why, but you're right. 100% TIL Mickey Mouse is kind of a dick. I just watched a cartoon. Dunno how Gave her the best damn 17 seconds of her life! I'm sure OP was too drunk to fornicate. I recommend taking cialis before a night of debauchery. Whiskey dick is a thing of the past! The drunk slut you take home will need to be plowed until she can't walk. That... That escalated quickly. Escalated at a normal college-level pace for me.. True but cocaine is easier to get around these parts though is not ideal as a longterm aid Too much cocaine makes it worse. Cocaine is a vasoconstrictor, so exactly opposite of what you're trying to accomplish It definitely does the trick though in moderate doses. The horniness and stamina it brings definitely override any vascoconstriction.  .... wait really?

Asking for a friend. nuffin cuz OP is a bundle of sticks &gt; Afterwards she looks at me, I can still see the sparkle of admiration in her eyes, and says, "Wow, thanks brochill! Would you want to go dance with me?"

&gt;"Nah." And I turn around and keep playing beer pong.

I just lost my shit at work. Fuck.... I should get off reddit. i imagined /r/unexpectedthuglife sunglasses and chains descending from the ceiling at that moment. *It's tha mothafuckin dee oh double-g...* "Fuck the police, Coming straight from the underground" [deleted] "And not the other color, so police think" They have the authority to kill a minority Doodoodoodoodoodoo doodoo doodoo I imagine him saying it like "nnaaahhh" OP is hilarious, would grab a drink with 10/10. No you did not.  Losing your shit at work is different than losing your shit anywhere else. Very true, when you're in places where you're not allowed to laugh things instantly get much funnier. You know...I should name this phenomenon, I'll call it: "Decoy's law" [deleted] Whoa, you shit 3 times a day? IBS? Crohns? [deleted] You shit all weekend long?  Must be a pain in the ass. I'm no doctor, but I think that's just being regular. Maybe you need to eat more fruits and vegetables. 3 times a day is definitely on the higher side of poop frequency, not that its particularly unhealthy or anything. I shit in the morning when I get up. I usually take a mid-morning shit after the coffee starts working. I usually have another shit after lunch. And depending on how much I have eaten the past 36 hours, I may or may not shit when I get home from work. So I'm a 3-4/day shitter.  
Edit: Sometimes I shit more if I've had a lot of dairy or eaten beans or chili or something like that. Wtf, I only take a shit in 2 days. Should I be worried?!  Ah, Coffee will do it.  I'm not a big coffee drinker, but I've noticed quite a bit more movement if I have a Coffee in the morning.   I saw an interview with a doctor, and - granted he was trying to sell a book - he brought in some great logic: 24 hours.  3 meals. A meal every 8 hours+/-.  The average digestive cycle is 8 hours+/-.

TL;DR: You eat 3 times a day, why shouldn't you move 3 times a day? Because you dont shit all the shit you eat. A lot of people don't eat 3 times a day, especially with 8 hour intervals.  Not everyone eats 3 times a day.  Also, there's usually 12+ hours between when you eat Dinner then when you next eat Breakfast. [deleted] Other doctor here - I think you're full of shit.  3x/day is quite normal for some people &gt; little by little you will shit your whole body out until you eventually die.

Good lord.  I'm no doctor but I have taken a lot of shits in my life.  3 times a day is a lot bro. Try making 5 shits a day for 3 summers! Still not funny enough. 

[This]( http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view1/3230585/hippo-poop-fan-o.gif) is losing your shit funny. You can dance, if you want to. You can leave your friends behind. Cause your friends don't dance and if they don't dance, then they're no friends of mine.. dun dun DUN DUN du du du DUN DUN Song name? 

**When people tell you the actual song name and not realize that his comment has ["du du du"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6120QOlsfU) in it** Lol, this song takes me back to 8th grade. Thanks, man. how's ninth grade treating you? The fuck are you saying? The song was released in 1983.  safety dance [Safety Dance - Men Without Hats](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AjPau5QYtYs) [Saftey Dance - Nichijou style](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vElbh2Ox1dA) (   ) Obligatory **DARUDE-SANDSTORM** I was waiting for it. &gt; I found myself playing beer pong with a person I didn't know and I house I'd never been before and drinking something that I wasn't quite sure of

ah yes. college. And you may ask yourself, well, how did I get here? Is this my house? Is this my beautiful wife? Talking Heads deliver the news. I saw a body float by in the hurricane. Word. F. By coasting through highschool and using my parents money? &gt;*"she and I are having an intelligent conversation about the finer points of beer pong"*

I lost it. You lost because you don't pay attention to the finer points of the game like OP. I lost the game I want this phrase to be my last words.  That can be arranged. Where do you live? Ask the swat. They keep showing up at my door and throwing flash bangs and shit.  I'm used to seeing flashbang as one word so I instead thought of a flash mob. Banging. Just a SWAT team randomly showing up and having sex at your front door. I'm not sure whether that would be better or worse. As a non-native English speaker, this is exactly what I thought a flashbang was That depends on if you're involved in it and whether or not you happen to be a straight male.  Dude. Whatever u do, don't put ur hands in the air. They shoot at that shit Not necessarily, it depends on the colour. Not in Florida. Floridian hands are all the same color. Wrinkly. I just imagine you sitting inside on your computer while there are SWAT teams set up on your front lawn yelling "HANDS IN THE AIR GET DOWN" "THROWING A FLASH BANG". But you just don't care and it's really just become a daily annoyance. 

Every morning you get up, peek out the window and sure enough they are still there. You make breakfast and find part of the flashbang casing in your coffee. You get dressed and start heading out to your car. The frontdoor opening alerts the SWAT Teams and they continue to scream "GET DOWN ON YOUR KNEES HANDS IN THE AIR" which is starting to get really annoying because you have a headache from hearing them outside at night as you try to sleep. You walk to your car trying to ignore them. You get into your car and roll the windows up, which muffles the sounds of them yelling "GET DOWN ON YOUR KNEES HANDS IN THE AIR". 

You start your car, and your favorite [song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ) comes on the radio. You smile and pull out of the driveway, running over flashbang casings and general debris from the SWAT team's shit. You arrive at work, and as you are working you look out your office window every now and then, to see a SWAT member staring back at you yelling "HANDS UP GET DOWN ON YOUR KNEES" but you can't hear him, only you know exactly what he's trying to yell. 

When on break at work you go to the fridge and get your food, make a coffee and sit down to eat, but there's a flashbang in your food! The end of the work day arrives and you depart from work. You are almost home and are driving down your street and the SWAT starts to get up off the ground eagerly as they spot your return. You pull into your driveway and get out of your car. "GET DOWN HANDS UP ON YOUR KNEES", but it's just another daily annoyance and you walk through them like a celebrity being swarmed by paparazzi. You go inside and have dinner, and go to bed. All ready for this to repeat tomorrow.  I have that song on my iPod. It pops up occasionally when I put it on shuffle.  Terrorist or streamer? dude, just put it on your tombstone. even better since it'll reach people you've never met that are wondering around the cemetery looking for somebody else. that and the people that mow the grass would lose the game every day. I would absolutely lose my shit if I saw that on a tomb stone.

Then I would be escorted off the premises by police officers for raving at a tomb stone. "FUCK YOU, YOU SON OF A BITCH, I'M SO GLAD YOU'RE FUCKING DEAD." I have the most hilarious mental picture of this right now

It involves at least 4 escorts with the escorted red-faced waving a golf club for some reason, screaming at the top of their lungs XD ***FUCK!*** Damn it man. I've lost twice now in the last few bloody years. First time losing the game in a while :'(  Nobody on /b/ knows what it is anymore, so I don't lose there. I forget about the thing for months/years at a time until some smartass brings it up on an entirely different website. I read most of this thread without losing God dammit!  Winchester Station.  **GODDAMIT** I lost the game. FUCK I WAS WINNING FOR 4 YEARS GO DAMNIT FUCK YOU  Aren't you aware that anytime someone loses, it's another win for you? You don't lose if someone else announces their loss. SONOFABITCH!!! I think it rolled behind the couch, just get a new one. That was our last one. In fact it was our only one. &gt; I lost it.

Keep reading, it gets better. You have a low threshold.  Probably because your elbow was over the table. Wikipedia actually describes techs and tactics.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beer_pong well you were in the middle of a game werent you?
 "Nah." -  brochill111 I felt that from here. Ouch. oh man that is cruel If you let her down a bit lighter then you would of been fine. but pretty funny  Seriously. The proper answer was, "I'm way too drunk to dance without getting myself killed." Haha if only you said that though :P that's not op
 &gt;of

_ I hope this is why he deleted his account. You know. It's not about the rejection. "Nah" and then turning around to play beer pong is just so cold... That is quite probably the greatest thing I've ever read. You sir, are my favorite scumbag. I can totally picture Fry from Futurama doing this. #[nah intensifies] Very relevant.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6gzOcTNKwE Oh man. That's awful...I feel so bad for that girl. I bet she thinks about that moment whenever she's having trouble falling asleep at night. Brutal.  Dude I upvoted you while wanting to downvote you to oblivion. Great story but go find her and be nice! I realize being shitfaced shouldn't be used as an excuse for things but... Come on, at least he was trying to help. Probably left her better off than an encounter with one of us while being shitfaced would have. Did you realize at the time what you did? Nope. Not until like a week later. Tagged you as No Chill Bro Chill &gt; I tell her to go out and dance and if guys don't want to dance then they are friggin idiots

*You can dance if you want to...* OP = "friggin idiot" confirmed Oh, I fully agree with that. You could hear my palm hitting my face from 3 states away when I realized. Nobody asked you, Bobandy. Ya!! go eat a cheeseburger you greasy-ass mo-faka. knowaimsayin? I hear burgers and onion rings coagulating, I hear soda fizz. Know what I don't hear? A heart Mafucka.  If she asked someone who can barely stand straight... yeah, that's not going places.  Sounds like you did well. The whole point of your speech was "go out there and take a risk", she didn't do that, she stayed in the safe zone and asked someone she thought would be a sure thing. You broke down the worst outcome (getting rejected), giving her no remaining option but to say "fuck it" and go have a good time. I lost it at "Nah." &gt;"Nah"

this, when i read this part, i just bursted laugh hard  This sounds like something out of a fucking sitcom Wait! So this is one of those points where a Niceguy^^TM would claim that you're one of the roided assholes that all the girls fall for!  Possibly. Weirdly enough, I'm normally a Niceguy^TM

Jack Daniels does some weird shit though. Op please what happened we need to know. I don't see this as a fuck up.  She asked her friend who turned her down because she was talking to you.  Obviously you were involved in a conversation and not ready to dance.  

Also she was totes cockblocking you. Hahaha cannot stop laughing at this right now i thought the fuckup was going to be You saying yes to Homely &amp; then missing out on Hot. maybe i'm an asshole. Well, I know what caused that stabbing, sympathetic pain I felt in 2010.  Savage  OP you've just turned this girl lesbian you dick Jesus, can we stop it with naming characters with a letter? Especially "A"!? How hard is it to give a fake name and just make things simpler. sooo...you started singing the safety dance? Quality post, OP.  I actually did lol from this Best TIFU evar! This sounds exactly like something I would do, except I likely wouldn't realize I said something upsetting. If I were that girl, I'd have just thought you were being super hilarious.  I did not expect it do be that bad. Damn. Brutal ....

 I think you turned into the male equivalent of the "Any girl would be lucky to be with you" girl that turns down the guy anyway. Haha I've been there man, drunkenly tell girls I'll take them on a date, regret immediately  *Ron Donald?* What a Charlie. Hi, Tucker Max This sounds like something out of a sitcom. Good job OP!  This might be my favorite TIFU. Bro You turning her down is her own fault.  Doesnt she see you are talking to someone?  I pictured OP as Burnie Burns. I hope she doesn't turn out to be a manhater for the rest of her life. lol. My girlfriend woke me up in the middle of the night once because apparently I was making too much noise for her to sleep. She said I was furiously pressing on the bed footboard with my foot and it started to creak pretty loud. I told her I was dreaming that my car would not start so I was slamming the hell out of the gas pedal. I never thought I would make myself laugh at around 3am.  I laugh a lot at 3am. And even more at 4am. By 5am I'm crying. And at 6am I'm chuckling as I drift off into unconsciousness.  Want to talk about it, buddy? The empty bottles listen well enough. My lunch break just got deep... I was addicted to vicodin for 7 months so I know full well his 3am-6am routine. Also, note that /u/MidnightWombat is not /u/SirGourneyWeaver. Can confirm am /u/sirgourneyweaver Are you Unidan as well? Come on now don't be silly. We all know there's only two people on reddit, you and me and all my alts. Nice try, other me! So....

Are you that guy from the Warlizard gaming forum? Nice try, Karmanaut! Shit I should take some vicodin  STOP FORCING ME TO COMMIT ADULTERY That isn't too far off from how I spend some of my nights and I'm almost entirely sober.

So, that's worrisome, I think. Took vicodin last night woke up about that time.  You spend your lunch breaks on the shitter? Well the food is shit so it's a shorter line. When I drink alone, I prefer to drink by myself. 5am - blissful confusion, something has happened but what?

5:01 - ah yes, an overwhelming sense of emptiness and despair

5:07 - wept uncontrollably 

6:15 - all cried out, hungry now. Ate entire box of frosted flakes they're grrrrreat!
 For a sec I thought I was reading a buzzfeed title.

3 will make you laugh. 4 will make you laugh more. By 5 you'll be crying. 4 AM is when I get funny. Some kid was arguing with me about Pokemon and not believing in luck . He only believes in mathematical chance. I told him he was damned mathematical chancy. Wait. Mathematical Blissey. Then I laughed at myself to sleep. I have been having a recurring dream where I am confronting some sort of ghost/spirit. In my dream, I am valiantly charging toward the spirit and yelling a war cry that rivals the roar of a lion. In real life, I'm halfway murmuring and halfway screaming like a small child. My girlfriend hears "Muahhhh! Uhhhahhhh!" over and over for about five minutes. Sometimes I "punch" the ghost by slapping my girlfriend in the chest.  If this keeps happening you might want to get checked out for REM sleep behaviour disorder.   In REM sleep (where you dream) you are supposed to be paralysed, if you are not it could be an issue (I am assuming your actions are not due to sleeping pills).  While rare, people have been seriously hurt and killed as a result of this. I used to be a zipline canopy tour guide and the property was pretty far from where most our employees lived so we would just camp there all weekend. My tent mate sleeps like a goddamn bear on ambien and started murmuring something like "buhh, buhh, buh", my coworkers were by the fire discussing what she could be saying. I went out there with them and a few minutes later it hit me and I got close to the tent and sang loudly "SWEEEET CAROLINE!" again, she sleeps like a rock, but responded beautifully with a perfect "BA, BA, BAAA!" 

She had no recollection of this and denied it in the AM. Thank technology for video phones! My husband wakes up laughing from dreams pretty often. Sometimes he tries to tell me what the funny part is, but that works about as well as you'd expect.

He used to have nightmares every night, though, so it's a great change. Anti-depressants are just awesome. My wife gets creeped out when I laugh in my sleep. She says it's the laugh I do when someone does something stupid and gets hurt, so she says it's creepy and doesn't want to know what I'm dreaming about and I apparently do it often.  Great job you've flooded the engine. "Flooded the engine" is an excellent euphemism for having busted a load in your girlfriend. Driving home from a cross-country trip, my ex girlfriend asleep in the passenger seat. 

Suddenly, she turns to me, sits right up and says "Whitepaddedwalls, the prince has got to find his home!" And then the asses right back out. 

She had no recollection of it. 

I almost killed us because I was laughing so hard. 

Edit: was gonna fix it but, eh, fuck it.  You edited it to say you weren't going to edit it? That's boss, I like your style. Haha, I did something similar. I dreamt the Xbox wouldn't start so I kept pushing the on button and my girlfriend woke me up pissed saying I wouldn't stop poking her arm.  Here recently I've been trying to start a log splitter in my sleep. I'm so happy that i only punch the headboard and not my wife My husband says some weird shit when he's asleep. I think my favorite instance was when I woke up to him laughing maniacally in his sleep while trying to force-feed me our bed sheets.  Still don't know what was going on there. Not sure I want to.  An ex of mine had a dream where she was lying underneath a glass table on which an old man was lying on his back, naked. She muttered "what's that thing.." just before she woke up and started laughing.  Apparently, she saw Barbie's tiny legs by his balls but couldn't quite figure out what it was.  A girl I'm seeing woke me up at 4am the other night by poking me in the chest. When I woke up she was just sort of laying on her side supporting her head with one of her hands, staring at me. I stared back at her thinking to myself "wtf is going on here" and then she just said "go on then". So I was like "...Go on what?" and then she said "wait, did that just happen or did I dream it?" so by this point I'm real confused and I'm like "WHAT? WHAT DID YOU DREAM?" and she goes "oh, I thought you said that you were going to ask me a question", so she turns over and goes back to sleep. Not as funny as some of the others but made me laugh  go on then...

 I've had a dream a few times where I am laying in my bed with my eyes open and a spider drops off the ceiling and lands on my face. The first time it happened I woke up yelling and turned on the light telling my gf that a spider was on my face. The next time it happened I get up yelling and she yells back "GET THE FUCK IN BED OR YOU WON'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT A SPIDER" Some time ago I had a LAN party with a couple mates. The morning after both of my friends woke me up laughing like crazy. Apparently during the night I had sat up, said "Where is my box?" looked around my bed for a while, grabbed my pillow and exclaimed "There's my box." before falling asleep again.

I wish they'd gotten it on camera because it sounds fucking hilarious. I had a dream that I was trying to catch something. I can't remember what exactly. I woke up to my then-boyfriend writhing in pain because I accidentally fist bumped his ball sack. A ball, maybe? &gt;fist bumped

Punched, the word you're looking for is punched. Happened to my dad once. He was out in the woods hunting, when he stumbled upon a large bear. Carefully he tried to back away without provoking the beast but it turned and charged him. He tried to fire a shot but the gun jammed! 

The bear was almost upon him and fear gripped his heart, he was paralyzed and couldn't move, but at the last instant he managed to give the bear a mighty kick just as it's slavering jaws were about to crush his skull. In that instant, he was awakened from his nightmare, having just kicked my mom right in the ass and sending her flying out of bed.

As my enraged mother started screaming and hitting him, my father reflected on the fact that he'd prefer to be in the woods with the bear at that particular moment. Very well written!! Don't feel too bad I got a story for you.

One day a few years back I decided to be a jerk girlfriend and launch a full scale tickle attack on my then boyfriend. He yells and wiggles about but I have magically nimble tickling skills and refuse to relent. 

Suddenly he jerks his elbow to try to get away and cracks me hard in the face. I go down like a sack of potatoes stunned and silenced by the now blooming migraine that's throwing a skull party. He freaks out and starts apologizing; I could tell it hurt him more than it hurt me and we laugh it off.

For few days after I notice a little shadow on my forehead in the mirror and brushed it off as a bruise. It turned out to be a small dent that's never gone away. At least its centered on my face and mostly unnoticeable!

Tl/Dr: tickled my partner and got a karma shot to the face that left a permanent dent on my forehead. Tickling is dangerous. Really, people don't understand. Go ahead, make a 6'3" giant lose control of all his limbs and flail about. See what happens. Tickling is one of the few things that relaxes me, it makes me tingle all over and puts me in an instant meditative state.  Unfortunately since I don't flop around like a fish, people stop doing it....no, tickle more damn it!  This could turn into a really interesting drama about someone looking for someone to tickle them.

They go to prostitutes and pay them for an hours worth of service just to tickle them, but when they don't get a reaction the prostitutes get all huffy and leave.

Que the quirky love interest who satisfies all the tickle addicts needs...

BRB writing a rom-com Cue. FTFY Que? "Love can hurt, but this movie will tickle your innards. Schmaltzy Videos in association with Mountain Dew presents one woman's story of a quest for tickles in a world of people who just don't care. Coming to a theater this spring... Fingers of Love." You might be a dog I love my feet being tickled. If someone tickles them, I pretend to squirm and giggle, and they continue ;) Looks like we have a dishonest tickelee on our hand.... err fingers!  I'm not proud of what I've done for tickles. We've all been down that dishonest past before.  Whether it was pretending to be asleep so our parents had to carry us to bed.  There should be a support group for us, the forsaken.   &gt;Tickling is one of the few things that relaxes me, it makes me tingle all over and puts me in an instant meditative state.  Unfortunately since I don't flop around like a fish, people stop doing it....no, tickle more damn it! 

Odd question but where are you from? my Russian wife loves getting tickled gently and it helps her relax, I wonder if it's something demographically explained, like certain nerves are allowed to mature more in a certain region because of diet, medicine, etc. 
 According to 23andme, I'm 99.9% Eastern European.  Germany on my Dad's side, not sure about my Mother's side.  I'm in the US.  Born in the US or moved?  I do it out of spite. When I suffer the  repercussions I laugh. I am 5'1" bf is 6'4" I am at elbow level and not ticklish at all. So I torture him any chance I get. It's just so cute to see him all giggly and stuff As someone who is extremely ticklish - NOT FUNNY.  Yeah, my brother used to tickle me until I couldn't breath. I'm sure he thought is was having a great time because I was laughing. 

But in my head I'm screaming, "I'm going to die! Please stop!" I used to hate my grandpa cuz he tickled me all the time when I was a kid. Then he died and I felt bad. &gt; Then he died 

Classic grandpa. that's hilarious and horrible.  Did you kill him? Look, I REALLY hate being tickled OK? That's all I'm going to say. My sister and my dad use to tag team me and one would pin down my arms and the other would sit on my legs and tickle me relentlessly. I swear to god I thought I was legit gunna die each and every time. 

My dad also used to try tickling me if I was walking in front of him up the stairs at home. To the point where even now, at the ripe age of 24, my husband knows to allow a good 10 steps between me and him when going upstairs. Oddly, *down*stairs is fine.

EDIT: TIL the other meaning of tag teamed. Tldr: OP got tag teamed by her dad and sister I find it painful! Too stimulating for the nerves, perhaps? I hate it.  That's when you land an "accidental" fists on the other person's nose. I'm 6'4. Girl i know, at 5'5, was tickling me and WOULD NOT STOP. She was doing it so hard I was at the point I had almost no muscle control.

I tried to push her away from me.

I ended up slapping her full across the face.

She had a hand-shaped bruise.... I used to love it when my dad would tickle me when I was younger...at first. It always reached that point where I really did want him to stop, but he never did. He always went way longer than I wanted him to. I hate being tickled now. And telling someone to stop and then they just keep going and going is one of the few things that makes me legitimately raging mad.  I take zero responsibility for what my limbs do when I get tickled.  I learned the hard way wrestling my husband and got a punch to the face and an elbow to the gut trying to be funny. :(.... Totez not funny! I wholeheartedly agree. I am dreadfully ticklish and once had a boyfriend SIT ON ME and tickle my feet. I was in tears within a minute and panicking like he was murdering me. He lost his Sara Privileges shortly thereafter.  That means you left him, tight?

Little fact: I am a kindergarten teacher and while learning about child abuse and stuff the person lecturing to us also said that overly tickling a child and not listening when it says STOP or not giving it the chance to say or make signs for stop is to be considered molesting.

Not specificly in a sexual way, but you are taking away a persons abbillity to say no and do something that at some point simply can be a cause for serious emotional and trust problems when overdone. Yep. Broke up with him. I was abused by my ex-husband and not being able to get away from someone absolutely sends me into a panic. He knew about all of that but thought he was being funny. Not funny at all.  Wow, that's simply shitty. Sorry to hear. I was the 6'3" giant and my friends figured out a way to do it safely. Back in high school, they would all jump on my and pin me down at wrestling tournaments, about 2 on each limb. then 2 or three other guys would start tickling me. I'm extremely ticklish and would legitimately try and throw them off me...


This is my wrestling team's warm up before every tournament My boyfriend tickled me and I kneed him in the mouth. Chipped his front tooth. I tickled him and he sprained my pinky finger.  Yep, a girl was tickling me, I headbutted her and hurt her nose and told her not to do it again, because I can't control myself when I'm tickled.

She does it again 10 minutes later and has to go to the hospital for concussion. I felt really bad about it but what am I supposed to do.

At the time I was 185lbs of muscle, I warned her not to do it and I told her I can't control myself when I'm tickled. A couple of my friends tried tickling me yesterday. I kicked one of them as hard as I can in the sternum. What the fuck  Tickling is dangerous even when you're making a 5'4" non giant lose control and flail about. I have given many bruises to my friends (and almost broke a nose) because they thought it was "funny" to tickle me.  I made that mistake when my friends wife and I decided to tickle him. He is 6'1" and almost 300 lbs. I, 6'2" and about 200 lbs, got kicked straight in the chest and was sent flying into the wall of the room. He was sorry for it but needless to say I haven't tickled anyone bigger than me again. My boyfriend tried tickling my feet, and he succeeded, but didn't expect the kick to the face he got from my flailing leg. 

I felt so terrible and he rarely goes for my feet now.  +1 for 'magically nimble tickling skills' Lol. Did it hurt longer than something that would normally cause a bruise? I had a mild headache for two days but the dent itself didn't hurt much. Wouldn't be surprised if you had a minor skull fracture. I was thinking the same thing and kind of horrified... but also impressed that humans can shrug off a small fracture to their *skull*. Human beings are stubborn by nature. Why do you think we lasted so long? Because we said fuck it, let's lay down and die? No. We told the universe "Bring it!" It did, and we pushed and we pushed and got ourselves to where we are now. That's why we're at the top of the food chain.  [deleted] Let me guess: Thanks to "zero tolerance" you were expelled forever and never heard from again?  Luckily she didn't blame me for it, just said it was an accident, or I would have been in deep doo doo. This is why we don't tickle.

In my marriage, we actually use ticking as a punishment. [Punishment for that typo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHIVeWhCMU8) Snape, snape, severus snape. I'm leaving it in. I deserve that punishment.

That's what I get for not proof-reading. You took an elbow to the face with such severity that your skull is now dented and you thought he felt worse than you did ... damn you're tough. The brain damage probably helped at the time. What the what? This exact same thing happened to my ex a few years ago as she was tickling me.... 
Not sure if there's a dent though.... Well I married my face smasher so don't worry this isn't your ex's reddit account. This reminds me of that story on Reddit about the couple who had to go to the bathroom at the same time but then one tickle attacked the other and ~~a literal shit storm ensued~~ bladders were not contained. Many regrets.

Edit: bad memory Please link! Here is the [original story](https://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2jljgw/tifu_by_tickling_my_boyfriend_of_four_years/) by /r/PIXL3Y (I didn't remember it exactly right but it is funny anyway):

I live with my boyfriend in a house that is all ours. We are both twenty something full time University students and have four jobs, five pets and approximately 9 key family members between us, all less than 20 minutes away at all times. Its pretty damn busy.

Cut to late last night.

We had had our friends over for approximately 7 hours for dinner and drinks, this seemed like a good idea to socialise before Exams amped up and really started to choke us. It was about 1am and we had just heard the final car pull away from the house. Success! A full night of entertainment and mature behaviour we both knew we were not usually capable of.

My attention quickly turned to my very full bladder. As I was the lady and host of the house I kept up the idea that I never use the toilet. Now my house way empty and all I wanted was to sit on my thrown with my DS and slippers. Now I knew my partner would also need to use the bathroom as his system had the strength and size of a five year old.

Now people as he had used the toilet not 2 hours before, I decided logically I would use it first. That was not the case. We both looked towards the bathroom at the same time. No one moved for at least three seconds. After that it was pretty much a fight to the death. Trying to push him out of the way and he in turn pulling me back to get in the lead. Now I am pretty small, 51 in height and flexible. He sits at a comfortable 62 so I would honestly say I had no chance. But I am not above biting and playing dirty. We were both laughing hard so it was all well and good till he flipped me over, opened the door and made a great deal of taking his prize with cheering /whooping as he sat down.

I gave up and though my bladder was constantly alerting me of the danger level we were at I allowed him to claim victory. I went and retrieved my sweet sweet slippers and Ds from the lounge room and came back to wait in the doorway.

Something about the stupid smile on his face, the wine and the feeling of losing the race to the toilet made me want to get even.

Heads up people He is ticklish. Not the hahaha - stop that but the full on spasm and seizure type reaction. My slightly tipsy self did not take this into consideration AT ALL!

So I took the two or three steps to meet him at the toilet and wrapped my arms around him. He caved instantly and gave me a hug back (happy). Now my arms had moved secretly to just between his ribs. The Weak Point If you will. So without thinking, without a moments hesitation or thought I went for it. He laughed so hard and tensed at such an angle that he leaned back from the toilet while he was stilling peeing like a horse and I was sprayed in urine.

I had finally stopped screaming about 2 minutes later. My eyes were squeezed shut and my clothes were suddenly uncomfortably moist. He looked at me with such a mortified expression that would have been hilarious if I was not covered completely.

Three things were abundantly clear. 1) I was about 50% covered. 2) He had finally stopped peeing

and

3) I would never tickle him again.

I stayed silent and he tried to find the words to apologise. I looked down and stifled a little sob. My duckie slippers had taken the full brunt of the tidal wave my boyfriend had unleashed upon me. They would never be soft or innocent again. My black jeans were even blacker in certain patches and my good white top had questionable splotches. Still deathly silence as my grimace had changed to a stare. I was surprised he was not stone by then. My boyfriend had just urinated on me. Full blast and uncensored. Thats honestly a first for both of us. Also I didnt like it so this will definitely not be a thing we have together.

I slowly removed my slippers one by one and deserted them on the floor. The soaked jeans were next then the top, followed by everything else. I left them in a pile at the doorway then proceeded immediately into the shower. He was still sort of frozen to his seat staring at my slippers, still processing what he had done to me. I scrubbed my skin with my apple shaped loofa until my skin felt clean or theuntil the next layer of skin was coming through... Your choice.

I am now in bed, hair wet and lights off. It has been 20 minutes since leaving the shower and I have not said a word. I keep hearing giggles then long periods of silence from him downstairs as he ponders on how hilarious this all was. I can also hear the washing machine whirl quietly so I think my clothes and slippers are in the process of being revived. Reddit, I will never touch a man on his thrown ever again. For the sacrificial slaughtering of duckie slippers will be the outcome.

TL/DR: Had friends over. Raced my boyfriend to the toilet. Lost. Tickled him. Got peed on. Slippers were murdered. Cried.  I got into a similar situation and I felt just horrible!  
My GF was sitting on the floor and decided to tickle me behind my knee. She took a knee to the face and curled up on the floor for a while. :( A karma shot to the face, eh? I gotta get my girlfriend to tickle me some more... I don't consider myself to be ticklish in general, but my no-go zone is my belly button and one night my wife started licking around in there and I repeatedly warned her to stop. I uncontrollably hit her in the head till she stopped, it was so uncomfortable for me. This was one of the biggest fights we ever had. People just don't understand and should listen to what you tell them. I did something similar to one of my ex girlfriends. I was sitting on a bed, and she lay down behind me. She tickled me just under the ribs, surprising me. I jumped, and came down on her chin with my elbow. She was a bit dazed by that one for ages. I once dramatically fought off an attacker that had leaped on me from behind only to wake up with my wife's hand firmly clamped between my teeth. I have elbowed my husband in the face when having a dream that someone was trying to grab me.   Your title makes it sound like your tried to save your daughter and failed. Thanks for the emotional roller coaster, OP. I imagined him sitting at the table daydreaming he moved but didn't. When I'm tired, I have conversations with my boyfriend that I never actually had. My husband does that all the time and then later on the topic will come up for the first time and he'll be like "I told you this already yesterday." Yeah, no you didn't mister always in your head!  Love the man to pieces but I kind of think he's part goldfish at times.

He also elbowed me in the face one night because I had a bad dream and scared myself awake. I sat up quickly, his body assumef I was a cat about to jump on him (because cats are jerks, his elbow connected with my eye socket. Pow! Lol Memory is a weird thing.  My girlfriend thinks Im crazy for doing the exact same thing. I will be showing her this comment to prove Im not a complete lone nutter. You're welcome! I've had a few stories reiterated to me about my mid-dream antics. Once I shot straight up in bed, grabbed my gf by her shoulders and started to shake her pretty excitedly until she woke up, "WTF?!" says she, to which I replied "You HAVE to get on the spaceship! When they come for us, you need to get on the ship with them, doesn't matter what they look like just GOOOOooo!!!" Then I slammed my body back into bed, curled up into the fetal position, and muttered unintelligibly until I was snoring. Apparently she got on the spaceship because she's not around anymore. That took quite the turn. I have done the weirdest shit in my sleep, and I didn't know about any of it until I went to college and had roommates. Apparently a lot of times I'll sit up and stare at the wall. Occasionally this will happen and I'll giggle and then lay back down. I would be TERRIFIED if I had moved in with a stranger who did stuff like this in her sleep, but luckily I got the best roommate in the world and we're still best friends. The worst one, however, was when I got out of my bed, walked over to her bed, leaned over her and full on punched her in the arm. The second I made contact I woke up horrified, and she just told me to go back to bed and she went back to sleep. Girl is a freaking saint for putting up with me for 5 years. My best friend since 2nd grade moved in with me for a few months. Studio apartment, sucked. He slept on a pull out that was about a foot away from the bottom of my bed. About once a week, I would wake up to him talking. This loud, very stern, a bit angry type of speech... In a different language! He doesn't know any fucking languages other than English. 

It was the most terrifying thing! I'd freeze in my bed, not moving, not breathing. Initially, I'd call out his name, but his voice became louder, angrier. I'm not scared of the guy, but it felt like he was a stranger! Apparently, he's been doing this since he was little. We tried to record during the night but it never worked out. The language wasn't Spanish or Latin, didn't sound anything Asian. Still have no idea, but it's not mumble jumble, it's like he's fluent. 

Anyways, you have a very understanding roommate. When people do strange things in their sleep, it scares the shit outta me! It's like they're unpredictable, not the same person you know.  My wife dreamed last night that I was cheating on her. She's been kind of angry at me all day. My wife has had that dream before, and I have had the same reception the next day too. Same here. First day she wouldn't talk to me. Second day was attitude followed by you know what you did. Third day she told me and was still mad!  My ex used to do this all the time. In fact, decided we were through because of her dreams. 

Never cheated on her, but I'm pretty sure I dodged a bullet there.  Well, you shouldn't have cheated on her, ya asshole.  I'm an active duty soldier, and I have some anxiety and stress issues. Plenty of trouble sleeping.

I recently went to the dentist for a routine checkup, and it was discovered that I grind my teeth pretty badly in my sleep. They made me a night guard.

I get home, and am excited to call my girlfriend, and tell her that I had found out the cause, and hopefully solution to my jaw pain. She started freaking out, and apologizing, saying she had no clue that I had jaw issues. This is what she told me. 

I was sleeping next to my girlfriend, about a week before, and grinding my teeth loudly. This woke her up, and she had difficulty falling back to sleep. She begged me to stop grinding. I was in the middle of a nightmare, and couldn't be woken. In her frustration, and half sleep, she punched me in the face.

I didn't wake up, and have no recollection of this... but evidently I did stop grinding. I recall clearly the next day, having really bad jaw pain while we were at the zoo... now I know why!  This...uh...this didn't go as expected.  OP, I feel the pain.  I really do...

I have a sleep disorder that as far as I know, is yet to be named.

Ever since I was about fourteen, after falling asleep, anything that wakes me up for any reason turns me into a snarling rage beast.  An added bonus, is the fact that I have violent outbursts while sleeping.  Plot twist: I do NOT recall anything that happens in this state.  
So, with this in-mind I have to tell you: my fiancee is awesome.  Through the numerous attacks and verbal abuses to her person she has devised an effective method for waking me.  Our last trip to the Renfest she forced me to buy her a real forged shield.  Additionally, she has unscrewed the handle from a broom and used cloth, duct tape and some soft stuffing to create the world's most ineffective mallet.  
Any time she needs to wake me, she will don the shield and mallet, and proceed to give me the ~~beating~~ pattering of a lifetime.  Eventually (30 minutes +), I wake up and begin functioning like a normal human being.



((edit: paragraphs.  Sorry reddit, somewhat busy today.)) One of these days she's going to calmly get the mallet and shield and start in on you. 

The entire time you'll be screaming that you're already awake. She'll pause long enough to say she already knows.  Luckily for me, she doesn't reddit.  Although, when she asks me for the highlight reel of TIFU this one may be left out. This is amazing! I feel like you're fiancee and I would be friends. We refer to my sleeping self as "sleepy Shisno".  Personality disorder?  maybe. When I'm asleep I'll curse you ten ways from Sunday if you try to wake me up. I never remember saying anything but it's bad enough that my partner doesn't try to wake me up anymore unless it's absolutely necessary. He doesn't like being verbally abused and I don't blame him. When someone wakes me up I simply sit up, have a fully articulated conversation (questions AND answers, with eyes open and body expressions), then lay back down once they leave.

I'm unconscious (asleep) the entire time and have no recollection of any of the conversations I've had.  This happens sometimes too but, way less often than "sleepy Shisno" That's me every time. I usually sleep a few more hours afterward and everyone thinks I'm awake. I can't even begin to describe the foulness that oozes from my belligerent other self's mouth.  I've cursed her mother, my mother, told her I'd kill her and the kids, told her she's the reason why Hitler let us down (she's Jewish)... I could go on for days, but those are the prime examples.  Apparently, it extends to getting *rapey* in my sleep (which she claims is 'exciting').  I've only ever screamed/yelled in anger twice in my (waking) adult life.  So, no, this is not an extension of my waking self at all.

Being poor sucks, I KNOW there's a problem but, there's absolutely no way to get this diagnosed and treated, when you're barely making rent and utilities.  She thinks the whole ting is hilarious, and I literally fall asleep at night worrying about when one of the kids tries to wake me up. I thought I was the only one! I've been doing the same thing pretty much since I can remember. And by remember I mean being told second hand by numerous different family members and friends who have had the misfortune of trying to wake me up.

My favorite story is when my mom had just married my stepdad and he moved in with us. Now, my stepdad's german and doesn't speak any english so all of our conversations are 100% in german. At the time, my german wasn't super great so it was kind of hard but it worked, but not if I was angry. Didn't matter who I was talking to or what was going on, if you pissed me off I'd cuss your ass out in english. So one night I borrowed his laptop to do some school work and passed out before I was able to give it back to him. He came into my room to ask for it back and, according to both him and my mother, when he started talking to me I turned over and screamed at him in perfect german what roughly translates to, "GET THE FUCK OUT OF MY ROOM YOU STUPID FUCK OR I WILL FUCKING END YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF!!!" Then laid back down and kept sleeping like nothing went down. The next morning when he was telling me about it he said it was both frightening and impressive since it meant my german was coming along nicely haha. I'm sure there's a sleep scientist out there who would love your disorder to be named after him. You just have to go find them and pitch yourself as a free case study. My brother has the same problem. Once when we were younger I had to wake him up for something and when I shook him he just turned around and started beating me so I ran away thinking "well at least he woke up..." Except that he didn't. So then I decided that I would be clever and get a fairly long stick to poke him with so I would be out of punching distance. Instead he woke up took the stick, beat me with it, threw it at me, then went back to sleep... So yeah, I feel your fiancees pain somewhat. Sounds like you got a keeper there man. I want video of this snarling rage beast.

I thought I was bad waking up. I will put in a request.  It will be included in the accompanying TIFU post :) I wonder if you just suffer from severe night terrors. My sister has it because of a medical disorder. Since we were little kids, any change in the environment (something as simple as turning the light off) would awaken her and she would literally cuss us out, speak in tongues, or get up to hurt something. She told my dad straight up that she was going to slit his throat. The funniest thing she ever did was get up in the middle of the night pissed off at something and ripped all of the curtains and the curtains rod down to come after me. She was so wobbly though that she ripped it all out of the wall and then laid back down from the excursion and went back to sleep. I laughed about it for a while because it was so amusing. Since being put on migraine medication, though, her night terrors have stopped, so I guess she was having migraines in her sleep? Or maybe it's completely unrelated. Who knows. Did you ask her if she was fucking sorry? Once, I had a dream that certain fruit juices enhanced your abilities for musical instruments.when my sister woke me up, my first words to her were, "Christine, you fucktard, apples are for tubas!" Sounds like a super messed up Trix commercial.  Haha, I dreamt I was turning a radio dial.  All I could hear was static and I kept turning and turning the dial.  I woke up with my hand on my wife's boob and I was tweaking her nipple.  

Amazingly, she never woke up.  (She does take sleeping pills though).   sorry for your loss :(( My SO has woken me up twice for doing stupid shit in his sleep.

First time he forcefully grabbed my arm and shouted "The King is coming!".. He had been binge watching Game of Thrones.

The second time he started punching my leg really hard.

Me: What the hell are you doing?

Him: Is that you?

Me: Yes!

Him: Are you sure?

Me: Yes!

Him: Oh I thought you were a zombie

Then he rolled over and went back to sleep.. He had been binge watching The Walking Dead. Better hope he doesn't watch Dexter. Haha, that reminds me of a story my friend told me once: He was dreaming that a lion cub was biting his arm so he punched it in the face, only it was a dream right, and instead his wife was laying on his arm. I woke up one time to the feeling of my girlfriend jamming her thumb into my eye socket.  I was not pleased.  When I woke her up she said she was dreaming of bowling.... FALCON PUNCH Lol I once dreamt that my wife and newborn daughter were falling off a cliff.  Kid was screaming and wife was yelling don't let go.    And I had them in a bear hug and wouldn't let them fall.     

Reality was the kid was screaming bc newborn in middle of night.   Wife was yelling let me go.  As she was trying to get out of bed but couldn't because of my death hug on her.   Then I received a elbow to my chest.     Similar (albeit less violent) situation happened to me. Was asleep with the guy I was seeing at the time and, in the middle of the night I'm awoken by an almighty ROAAAAAWWRR! We both leapt out of bed on opposite sides and he yells at me "WTF was that for?!" whereupon I informed him that it had, in fact, been him roaring and he remembered that he'd been dreaming a giant spider was chasing him and needed to roar to scare it away. My boyfriend sleep talks a lot. Sometimes it's unintelligible, but sometimes I can hold a short, strange conversation with him. One day he rolled over in his sleep and said, "It's like a pen.. A pen with salt in it..." Confused, I had to ask what the hell he was talking about. His eyes shot open and he said, "A pen with salt in it." 

"Why?" 

"Because then you stab people in the neck and they'll die slowly with diabetes." He then closed his eyes and went back to sleep. I was so confused and somewhat mortified by his response. He woke up later and had no recollection of our conversation. Husband does this. Wakes me up from a sound sleep with urgency and begins to tell me *important* things. Like the 23 ingredients of a Big Mac. And I'm too groggy to realize right away he's entirely asleep. Until he begins listing things like elephants as an ingredient, and it finally gets through to me that we're wholly off the rails. So I had a really weird dream one time with a similar outcome. I dreamt that there was a young kid that had an arm and a leg amputated, and he was telling me how nobody hugged him anymore, that made me sad and I told him I would definitely hug him!

Meanwhile, in my wife's dream, her mom called out to everyone in the family that dinner was ready, so she started running to the kitchen for her mom's homemade spaghetti and meatballs (she's italian).  

I reached out for a hug, she rolled around a corner into the kitchen, and our dreams, and bodies, collided.  Unlike OPs wife, however, I then woke up to her crying in pain while simultaneously slapping me I  the chest because I legitimately punched her square in the eye. Hard.  

Tl;Dr I wanted a hug, wife wanted spaghetti, she got a black eye and I got a trip to the doghouse.  I'm taking a new night time supplement that's supposed to help get more REM cycle sleep. Needless to say, when I'm out, I'm out. One night last week, I'd just started this supplement and I was sleeping. I'd dozed off when the fiance was laying there watching her DVRed tv shows. I snore like crazy when I sleep, but usually she can bump me and get me to stop. I remember being bumped 4-5 times and would adjust so I would stop snoring for a minute. I figured I was just being loud and she couldn't hear. I don't remember this part, but she said after the sixth time, i sat up and said something like "Look, I need to sleep. Im tired, I have to work in the morning. I can't fucking DVR sleep, so you can just deal with it, ok?".. Turns out my snoring was waking her up. We laughed about it When I was little I once woke up with my ankles wrapped around my dad's neck choking him because I was dreaming of catching pokemon When I was like seven or eight months pregnant with our first child, I once woke up early in the morning because the baby was kicking so hard. My husband was sleeping next to me, on his side with his arm around me and his hand on my bump. When the baby moved he first gently tapped with his fingers as a reply. But with every kick he felt he started to tap back harder and harder. When he was just about to slap the baby inside me I grabbed his arm and yelled STOP!

Which woke him up. And that's when I found out that he'd been dreaming that he was playing tennis and the baby's movement was the ball hitting his tennis racket. And when I stopped him, he was just about to smash. I hate those types of dreams where you physically move around along with what youre doing in the dream or the ones that seem entirely real even after youre awake. I had a dream the other night that someone was messing with the lock of my front door and when they couldnt get it unlocked they started trying to kick it down. I was literally out of my bed, gun in my hand, waiting for door frame to give in when i realized i had been dreaming. Usually noises around me seem to effect my dreams so maybe someone was trying to get in but gave up when the door wouldnt budge. I keep it deadbolted with a thick board propped under the handle at night (our apartment complex has gotten pretty shady lately) so breaking in would be a chore. A loud one that would me plenty of time to grab my gun. Uh, I'm a gun owner and rights advocate, but I think you should probably keep yours unloaded and in a safe. Normally I'd disagree, but I'd hate to see a headline about someone getting shot by a sleepwalking guy... I've had a dream similar to this:

It was about 3AM and all of a sudden my roommate bursted into my room and started screaming, "BRO, THEY'RE COMING, THEY'RE COMING!!". First thing I did was grab my pistol, put a round in the chamber, laid in my bed and prepared for whatever was going to come into my house...

I woke up the next morning with my pistol in my hand with no idea how.  Get a gun safe and keep it in there. That shit is dangerous.  My ex-girlfriend told me that I had a habit of talking in my sleep. She asked me who Rachel is, and why I was saying her name. There is no-one in my life by the name of Rachel, including my girlfriend. 

I mean ex-girlfriend, I'm sure you can work out why. Living in California, I'm always on guard for when the big earthquake finally comes. One night, my wife and I were sleeping, when she casually rolls over to her other side. For some reason, I thought the "big one" was happening, so I instinctively covered her head with my body. Well, she thought some random guy was trying to kill her in her sleep, so she freaked out. The next few nights were not so pleasant. My wife has night terrors, she just starts screaming like someone is trying to kill her.  I've learned to instinctively roll off the other bed.  She hits pretty hard and I'm not awake enough to duck and weave.

She never remembers the event so if someone hears her and calls the cops it is always fun trying to explain.  Doesn't help that she has a balance disorder and falls a lot so she's usually got at least one good bruise on her somewhere. My husband acts like his trying to ride a bike in bed.  He also screams and curse in this weird drunken voice when he's sleeping.  Such a weirdo.  This happened to me a few weeks ago. Apparently in the middle of the night I just shouted "No!" and hit my girlfriend. If I remember my dream correctly, I was ordering food and they said they were all out of what I wanted. That was my response. I woke up to my husband grabbing my hair and about to slam my head down on the mattress. My screams woke him up. I asked what he was dreaming about and he said, "I was about to fight a bunch of dudes". That almost escalated quickly.  Not really a dream, but I once woke up my husband because I thought I heard a mouse. When I finally got him awake, I told him I thought I heard a mouse and he said "It's just chocolate ice cream!" 
Then went back to sleep. That and the time he woke up in the middle of the night and told me he liked it when "the little pink sugar packets are all lined up in a row," are still some of the funniest things he's ever done.  Only a father would dream about reading newspaper at a table This one time, I threw a baseball really hard as far as I can. I didn't how far it went, because my wife woke me up asking why I threw her pillow across the room. My girlfriend and I are both sleep movers and talkers. This can, as you might imagine, lead to some very interesting nights. I woke up to her gripping my balls as if they were her only handhold above a long fall. She's woken up from a horizontal cunt punt. One morning we found ourselves completely naked in a lazy cowgirl with my limp dick inside her, dried cum in a large pool around my buttocks. Our sleeping alter egos apparently don't care too much for safe sex. Neither of us remembers what happened but based on the size of the dried puddle it was more than one round. Ugh, I was at the dog park this winter with my SO and our two dogs. The whole field was pure ice, like.. 'start giggling because you can't walk up a slight incline' ice. My tank of a dog decides to run full speed into the back of my knees taking my legs out from under me. As I'm going down SO turns to try and grab me but manages to flat out elbow me in the face instead. It was hard not to cry.  That was a nice turn off events.   Lol I know right? I was so turned on before as well. OP not sure how often this had happened to you, but it sounds a lot like REM sleep behavior disorder. It's when you don't get sleep paralysis like most people do, do you act out your dreams. Often people with this have dreams related to protecting or defending themselves or loved ones. Curiously, it almost always is men who have this happen to them.
Check it: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapid_eye_movement_behavior_disorder My brother is great for this. 
Once had a dream he was working at a winery, loading wine barrels into a truck, when one of the barrels tipped and started rolling down the ramp towards him.  
He looked up, sprang to his feet and sprinted out of the way... into the wall next to his bed, splitting his eyebrow open so bad he needed six stitches.  
  
Also, while on a farm prac in rural Western Australia(he's a large animal veterinarian) at university, he, his tutor and several fellow students were sleeping in swags (roll up beds) on the floor of a barn.  
Cut to 2am, and the tutor is asking my brother why he is wandering around amongst the swags at such an hour, to which my brother doesn't really respond, but proceeds to climb back into the closest swag... which was already occupied by his tutor. I was once reading something on r/nosleep a while back about demons or something at 3 in the morning and my boyfriend at the time randomly shot up awake, stared at me and muttered something unintelligible before collapsing his head back on the pillow. I refuse to read horror stories at night after this happening.  I once did something similar, suddenly started shoving my wife really hard in the back &amp; off the bed, she asked me wtf i was doing in the middle of the night and i just said "what, dont you like it?" and carried on sleeping :D Dont remember any of it was only told :D I've accidentally punched my wife while dreaming.. Luckily it wasn't hard since I was lying on the arm I swung with. She kneed me in the dangle berries though so I guess we are even My dad was a big time sleepwalker and talker, especially when he was stressed. He would have full conversations with my mom acting like a petulant child. He would get out of bed, pee in the corner, then get back in bed. He once decided to go ride his motorcycle. My mom caught him as he was getting on it. 

I miss his crazy ass.  Best sleep disorder ever: my ex would give me the most furious, superhuman handjobs while she was dreaming with no recollection after waking. I miss her. This needs to be higher up in the thread.
Can you explain how you would make this happen? May or may not try on wife. I guess that's one story you could use to report to the police for domestic abuse. Lol, I've done this before. I was dreaming I was in a fight and punch my wife square in the jaw.  She wasn't happy at the time, but we have a good laugh about it now days.   a long time ago i was having a dream where i was fighting off a mugger....

in reality, my wife was trying to wake me up and i ended up elbowing her in the face.....nearly breaking her nose. I did this one. Night I'm laying on my back falling asleep, my now ex wife to my left, and I start having a dream I'm at Honda under a car I have up on a lift. As I'm working the car suddenly falls on me which causes me to yell and punch out to both my sides in real life as I am waking up from this nightmare. My right fist bashed into the wooden nightstand knocking everything over and my left fist blackens my wife's eye. She was like WTF!!!? And I'm in tears laughing, half thankful I'm alive, trying to explain the dream to her. Ive done this once. Dreamt my husband was lying beside a cliff and was about to roll over the edge. He woke up to me clawing his belly and sides trying to save him. he was less than impressed.  Hahaha that's funny, don't worry about it though she will be laughing about it in a day or two. ive done that before and slapped my gf mid sleep its fuckin weird. only happened about 3 times tho.  I'm so glad I read the TLDR first I use to have horrible nightmares of past experiences and would fight people in my sleep all the time. It got to the point my ex-wife hated sleeping next to me, because I'd kick her out of the bed. Thank god for medicine. I once dreamed I was being chased by a tiger and all of a sudden I was in a river running from this beast, in my face this tiger lets out a ferocious roar. Scared shit less I awake to my cat meowing in my face licking my cheeck.  I distinctly remember many years ago being in some sort of "half asleep/half awoken" state and deciding that I had to jump off that train wagon right now! So I did, I jumped out of my bed and slammed straight into the ground...

Then there's that time where I stood up, went to my parent's room, went on top of the bed, walked it edge-to-edge and jumped over my mother and into the ground. Then I went back to sleep.

Weird. eeheehee. Fiance does this sometimes. Rarely, these days. One night, I was startled awake by him suddenly thrusting the covers off of us yelling "I'M SO TIRED." The second time, he yanked my pillow out from under my head because he thought he was saving me from... falling off of a cliff, I think? 

And then there was the box of snakes...  I once had a dream where I was being chased across a rock bridge by midget superheros and turned around to try and kick one of them.  The next thing I know is that my wife is yelling at me as I almost kicked her right out of the bed. When I was eleven I had a real bad flu. My fever was really high. My grandma told me that I got up into sitting position then started muttering phrases such as "Catch the laser!" and "Don't steal my blanket!". I was asleep when it happened, obviously. reminds me of this one dream i had about my best friend. we were playing with a frisby in my dream and he wouldn't take his foot off it to let me pick it up, so i tackled him. except i didn't tackle him, i actually tackled my girlfriend out of the bed while telling her she shouldn't have tried to keep the frisby to herself. I was laying in bed with a friend (yes I'm that friend zoned) and dozed off. My phone starts ringing and I usually sleep with it next to my head so on impulse I dive bomb it to get it before missing the call. Needless to say punched my friend and WTF's were screamed. The other day my girlfriend swung her whole arm and open hand slapped me in the face while i was sleeping. I woke up laughing and said "wow nice, what was that for? Was i snoring?" But she was still asleep, didn't know anything had happened. Somehow it woke me up in a good mood, i was wide awake right away, and i kept laughing about it all day. Oh my god that sounds like something my fianc would do.  Haha, that's pretty funny. My wife would do something similar. After my son was born she was pretty sleep deprived for the first few months. She would sometimes wake me up by grabbing on to me with such force that I'd bruise. She thought she was saving our son from falling off of the bed. Unfortunately she was only saving me from the 2 hours of sleep I could sometimes manage to get. No worries though, she has since been forgiven. My wife wakes me up at least once every couple weeks because I'm "supposedly" furiously masturbating in my sleep. No idea what I am ever dreaming about. I remember maybe one dream a month.  One time I woke up out of a dead sleep and started yelling "there's spiders in the bed, there are spiders all over the fucking bed!"

My wife of course jumped up and started pulling all the sheets off only for me to grab the blankets, lay back down and fall instantly back asleep, leaving her alone, awake and terrified. I've done something similar.
My girlfriend said that frequently, I sit up in bed, mumble "somethingsomethingsomethingsomethingsomethingsomethingsomething" then pause and whisper "it's in here with us." Then lie back down and go back to sleep, like nothing happened.

We are yet to figure out what *it* is or why it's in our bedroom. My best friend and I were on vacation when we were in college, went to Montreal and were drinking.  Heavily.  We were sharing a double bed and she woke me up in the middle of the night by slapping me on the face with both hands.  Turns out she was dreaming I was falling off a bar stool and she was trying to catch me I once woke up to my boyfriend screaming and trying to punch me in the face. Thankfully, most of his punches missed me. I manage to wriggle myself out but he's still fighting with the pillow and I'm still dangerously close to an angry man throwing punches so I punch him in the face. He wakes up, completely panicked and jump out of bed, trying to bring me with him and screaming something about a queen... After a couple of minutes he calms down and try to regain his breath.

Turns out, he was dreaming we were being chased by the Queen Alien and she was about to kill me so he tried to hit her... So yeah, end result was a couple of bruises on my arms, and a swollen lip for him. For those wondering, he's got an history of suffering from night terror as a kid. I dreamt I was in a restaurant once and a waiter spilled a tray of drinks on me. Woke up immediately  because in real life I'd knocked a glass of water off my nightstand onto my bed. Weird how the unconscious mind tends to make up its own shit. Once my dad dreamed he was being attacked by mice and ended up throwing our cat across the room Well if the cat would have done its damn job..  When I was a kid, my dad's attempts to drag my mom off of the railroad tracks were less appreciated by her than he expected, given that he actually did manage to get her from the bed to the floor, while she was screaming the whole time. I dreamt the other day that I was absolutely hammered and was walking around a pool and there were loads of hot girls. Then out of nowhere I jumped in the pool and couldn't move and was falling to the bottom trying to scream and like realising I was drowning and just couldn't move my arms or legs. It was literally so vivid I was so scared and then I woke up and was sweating buckets, craziest dream I've had for a long time. Apparently I snore when I'm drunk.. the wife had had enough and decided to plug my nose.  During which time I dreamed I was drowning. .. and came up swinging with her directly in the path.  Didn't hurt her bad, but she said she will never do that again! My mom once chased a wild rabbit down the street cause she thought our pet bunny got out of his enclosure.  Did she catch it? Have you ever tried to catch a rabbit? I have actually caught a rabbit, Super Mario 64 is a great game. Touch I have. 

My mother said that our rabbit needed to stretch his legs every once in a while (not that she's wrong). But you'd better do this in an enclosed area. 

I caught that rabbit several times, but as he grew larger, there was no stopping Peter.

Peter still stopped by often after that. To taunt me I guess. Then progressively less and less. 

Peter, if you're reading this. Enjoy life in the wild man and stay away from the cats. Our rabbit would just sit in one spot the whole time Yes. Drunkenly tried to lure it in with "whats up doc" it was un affected. Yep.  It's not that hard.  They're really fast, but not that smart.  You can out smart and corner them pretty easily. TIL I'm not smarter than a rabbit.  How do you catch a unique rabbit? Unique up on him. How do you catch a tame rabbit? Tame way. 

That felt bad. I give this story.

Six Thumbs up! Tha... That's not how it works... I'm with you. High six, man! Can you get your dick out of my hand? Can you get your hand out of my dick.
Exit: a word.  All we did was hold hands! And maybe kissed a little. Dammit JennyEDIT: Great, my most  popular comment is a Jenny comment. I might have touched his penis, but only a little. I ship it [Let's never do that again.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n0NGmqMjmk8) I unfriend you. That's not how any of this works! Insurance commercials are the best..."Becky just kissed Josh. I'm like, OMG Becky's not even hot." - Some hot chick in a Dodge Durango Sprint recently raised the bar on advertising.  

http://youtu.be/2xjbO-0qaDU

Kinda like an Adult Swim approach Wait, did I seriously just have to sit through an advertisement on YouTube just to watch *another* advertisement??? That commercial makes me a bit sad. Mr. Weebl sold out :[ The bars too low...call james cameron. I'm so thrilled this is the moment that ushered me into loving cell phone commercials. Sorry Mayhem, that seats taken. Yeah its strange how surreal and awesome commercials are becoming... I love the GEICO one with the dog eating spaghetti. I don't even fuckin' want car insurance, but that commercial is just awesome. WHY CAN'T I FAST FORWARD THROUGH ALL THESE FUCKING COMMERCIALS! *clicking furiously* http://youtu.be/2xjbO-0qaDU &gt; Kinda like an Adult Swim approach

Kinda? 3 thumbs up? Tri harder. The username makes this. You must get PM'd the words "Never Again" a lot.  I do believe this is the fourth time. I've had this account for about a month and a half I think. When it does happen are you pleased or disappointed?

Or do you just feel like you got dad-joked? Dad-joked. This type of cat is called a polydactyl cat.  Ernest Hemingway had several of them.  If you tour his house in Key West, they keep a number of them around there still. Did he prefer polydactyl cats for some reason? Here you go: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polydactyl_cat

"Nobel Prize-winning author Ernest Hemingway was a famous aficionado of polydactyl cats, after being first given a six-toed cat by a ship's captain. Upon Hemingway's death in 1961, his former home in Key West, Florida, became a museum and a home for his cats, and it currently houses approximately fifty descendants of his cats (about half of which are polydactyl). Because of his love for these animals, polydactyl cats are sometimes referred to as "Hemingway Cats"." Holy shit there are 50 cats there? I might have to visit there just for that I mean...I can't attest to the number of cats that are there now. Last time I went through was in the year 2000, I think?   I just recall there were a lot of cats there. They're not feral though.  They sort of try to keep a handle on the population. Most of them are fixed/neutered/spayed, otherwise there'd be a zillion cats.  Incidentally, if you travel, you'll find that most islands have wild cats and chickens on them.  The sailors used to carry chickens to have fresh eggs on the voyage, and the took the cats to kill the rats.

I went on to see Hemingway's house in Cuba later that year. I read this whole conversation branch as "Pterodactyl Cat". Now I'm disappointed because they don't exist. #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Polydactyl cat**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polydactyl%20cat): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;

&gt;A __polydactyl cat__ is a [cat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat) with a [congenital physical anomaly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congenital_disorder) called [polydactyly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polydactyly) (or polydactylism, also known as hyperdactyly), that causes the cat to be born with more than the usual number of toes on one or more of its [paws](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paw). Cats with this genetically inherited trait are most commonly found along the East Coast of [North America](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/North_America) (in the [United States](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States) and [Canada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canada)) and in [South West England](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_West_England) and [Wales](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wales).

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/d5WcblF.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Polydactylcat.jpg) - *One of the polydactyl cats at the Ernest Hemingway House in Key West, Florida; this particular cat has 26 toes*

---

^Interesting: [^Squitten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squitten) ^| [^Pixie-bob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pixie-bob) ^| [^Supernumerary ^body ^part](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supernumerary_body_part) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cp9zs5x) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cp9zs5x)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) I laughed way too fucking hard at that comment  I laughed so hard that my twin died I put on my robe and wizard hat Oh, I like to play dress up.  Hey! You're not BLOODNINJA! Glad I'm not alone. You're never alone (   ) That and this entire thead lol I don't mean to pry but do you have six thumbs on your right hand?  Dang... that's worse than the lowest score of seven thumbs up that Homer gave once. You put up fliers for the cat you found dead in the street?....

'FOUND CAT: DEAD' COLOR: ORANGE

QUANTITY: ONE DIMENSIONS: TWO POISONED: NOT CERTAIN HATED MONDAYS. Damned physicists. LIVES: 0 FUNERAL ARRANGEMENTS: FREE

FLOWERS: CONDITIONAL DEAD OR ALIVE? IT'S IN A BOX, WHO KNOWS. It's better for pet owners to have closure. I lost a cat a few months ago. I would much rather know that she's gone for good and grieve, than to be continuously looking out the window not knowing.  A thousand times this.  We had a dog that disappeared years ago.  We never found out what happened to her.  We worried that she got hit by a car or that someone took her or who knows what.  Not getting closure still hurts :( Make sure the cat collar has a safety release, in case he accidentally hangs himself. It can happen. Get him a microchip, too, if you're really worried.  Yes, get Chase chipped for sure. 

One of our cats hates his collar and is a master at popping off the safety-release mechanism. He pulls his head back, gets the collar in his mouth, and pushes. Can't keep a collar on that cat for more than 5 minutes. But they're all indoors (and chipped), so it doesn't matter that much.  My cat has figured out how to take them off as well. He also has figured out how to open doors, so I have to dead bolt every door to the outside to make sure he doesn't make an escape. If you want to let him outside... invest in a PET LOCATOR (tracking tag) on Amazon... I was afraid to let my cat out until I got one of these suckers... now if I"m ever worried about him, I beep him and I shit you not, he comes home!  This works by giving your cat treats every time you beep them. Thank you so much for sharing this! I lost a kitty a couple months ago. She got spooked and made it out of the house. It was just starting to snow when she left, so she couldn't find her way home. :( Sorry. :( Or a tattoo (though I guess they usually do those neuter surgeries these days). My cats don't cooperate with collars, so they are chipped and tattooed. None of them have died, so I haven't had a chance to test the effectiveness. My dad gets cat collars for his dogs now because this happened to one of his. (Small dogs) I don't have to worry about this because my cat refuses to wear a collar so does my dog, than again he kind refuses to do anything other than sleep and eat all day. He has better chance of dying from farting to much than from exercise.  Ah, to be a dog... My cat walked around backwards in an attempt? to remove his collar. Then he swung and rolled himself around awkwardly until I took it off . I actually laughed out loud, thank you for that mental picture. My cat has figured out how to take off collars with a safety release. He can also open doors. He's too smart for his own good I caught your cat trying to hot-wire my car: he said he was doing a security check - took off like a jack-rabbit when I called BS on his little scheme... &gt; took off like a jack-rabbit

took off like a cheetah

FTFY &gt; I caught your cat trying to hot-wire my cat

XKCD substitutions ftw. Yes, breakaway collar, and the BEST INVENTION in the last ten years is the PET LOCATOR (tracking tag)... really small you can get on Amazon... I can't tell you how awesome of an invention this is! Chipped is the easiest, it can ID him and used to locate him*. It's as small as a rice pellet, between the shoulderblades.

*Live tracking feed can be costly/unnecessary with most animals, activating it to locate an AWOL pet is better. RIP unnamed orange cat but I'm glad Chase is ok! 

I have a cat too and dread the day that I'll lose him, I wish cats had lifespans closer to that of humans I thought this same thing too, but having taken care of birds as a kid, it's really sad how many outlive their owners. The lady who owned the birds had two from friends that passed away, one had been with its owner since she was young. A pet is definitely family, part of our lives, but for the pet we ARE it's life, assuming good care was taken and that bond was formed. It was really sad being able to sense how much less happy this bird was than the others.

Forgetting the fact that we'd be massively overpopulated with cats, if they lived as long as us and we got the cats as adults, very often our cats would indeed outlive us and probably not get adopted as old cats. Much fewer adult cats are currently adopted compared to kittens. Also the fact that many people's lives will change at certain times and they may suddenly be unable to care for a cat. 

As much as I'd love my cats live with me forever, I understand it's really for the best for them. Fortunately they're still young, an American shorthair at 5 years old and a Bengal (street cat, so it's mixed, but predominantly Bengal due to the feral cats here). They'll probably live about the same years given the average life expectancies of the breeds, and that's honestly pretty ideal. I'll give them the best possible lives I can, thoroughly enjoy my time with them, and in the long, long years from now (knock on wood) when the inevitable comes, I'll mourn them and eventually likely adopt a new kitten or two.

It's so sad losing a pet, but when you really think of it, it's generally much better that they have shorter lives.  I wonder if the kitty was chipped? This happened to me too! It was right after I read the book "Pet Sematary" by Stephen King. It's about an evil indian graveyard where if you bury something there it comes back to life, only evil. The first thing buried there in the book is a family's cat.

My cat was hit in the road and I buried it. I lived by myself so I was the only one crying. Then my cat came home! I'd buried somebody else's cat! I went around to the neighbors houses and tracked down the owner. 

Now I don't read Stephen King OR let my pets outside.  &gt;  "Didn't you check the dead cat for the six claws?!"  
Do you always begin conversations this way? I can only assume that since I am typically NOT this brainless, it didn't occur to my upset wife to question my assertion of the dead cat being Chase.  &gt; Don't you hate it when you accidentally quote original text?

&gt; edit: stupid autocorrect &gt; originally I love that the realization that it's just a random dead cat instead of yours transforms this story from super sad to fucking hilarious. It should still be sad but it's just not at that point.  The day my dad fucked up and lied, that my cat died!! Lmao!!! This happened to my parents.  Found "their" cat dead in the road.  Buried it, called me and my sister to let us know.  Next morning, their cat is on the front porch wanting breakfast.  Never did find out whose cat they found, but it got a proper burial. &gt; Now, call me a *puss* if you must, but seeing my daughter cry like that made me cry. 

I see what you did there. That part made me aww &gt; That part made me meeeaww

FTFY Instead of asking you if you had checked the claws, your wife should have said,

"You have cat to be kitten me right meow!" Ha! That would have been purrrfff- NO FUCK THIS I WON'T DO IT! Some one is having a hissssssy ffffffffit He avoided a catastrophic pun. I cat stand these pun threads! You're all cunts. That was even more subtle What a feline joke! Cat. Cat. Cat. Cat. Cat. Cat. Goose? You have been banned from /r/catsstandingup. Meow Hey come on Maine, Coon you get on with the pun thread already? You must be the writer for bojack horseman. Back in the 90s I was in a very famous T-eeeeeeee V-eeeee shoooooooow. Hold it, paws for a sec... No, he ain't lion. My dad did that exact same thing with our cat Bob about 7 years ago.  (Who has since passed into Valhalla at the ripe old age of 19). 
 You had a bobcat?  Pretty sweet! Valhalla (Val) was my pooches name before cancer took him. God, I loved him soooooooo much. My condolences. I've always thought of pet heaven as Smallhalla. Did he die in glorious combat? **"Now, call me a puss if you must, but seeing my daughter cry like that made me cry."**

Fuck that shit. Men have emotions, and a guy who doesnt get sad, if not outwardly cry seeing is family member in pain is less of a man then one who is strong enough to be connected to his emotions. 

Fuck people who think men should be emotionless shells. They can go suck a dick.  This. How the fuck is it "unmanly" in any way to be visibly upset when your child is crying? Everyone deals with grieving differently. I wish I would cry more often when bad shit happens, I think it would make getting past it easier. But it isn't my natural response, I just go *numb* inside and can't process what is happening. It has nothing to do with being manly or not.

But as to people who mock others for grieving, they can go fuck themselves. Just so you know, crying is a chemical response. Everyone's brain chemistry is a little different. For some people, crying releases a LOT of serotonin, almost making them giddy after a good cry. For others, almost no serotonin is released.

Usually this cooresponds to testosterone and estrogen levels. Generally if a man and a woman are feeling the exact same (sad) emotion, the woman will cry and the man will not. This does not necessarily depend on social norms, as the man *literally* has less of a biological reason to cry, while the woman's body knows from experience that she will feel better if she does.

This direct coorelation to estrogen and testosterone levels is why men who get relief from crying, and who tend to cry more, are more related to being pussies. Not only are they behaving in a feminine way, but they likely have less testosterone than their non-crying male peers, which is also likely to be obvious by their physical traits. 

For example, muscular, tall, and hairy men will be (genetically) less likely to cry than their thin, scrawny (is that a bad word? Should I have said 'weak' instead? What's the opposite of 'muscular'?) peers. This is another reason why crying men can be labeled 'pusses'.

However, we, as a society, ought to start accepting our own differences. I think that someone who gets a serotonin kick out of crying is more lucky than someone who doesn't. Everyone should obviously be *allowed* to cry, but please do not equate it to displaying emotions. 

Someone experiencing the *exact same emotions* may not cry simply because there is no biological imperative for them to do so. Empathy can go a long way.

       *the more you know*

Edit: typos cause I'm on my phone. I think an apt synonym for scrawny is "lean." A few years ago, we had a black and white cat. We live in a rural area and the cats roam free, often only showing up every few days for food.

One day, I left my house and after a half mile noticed a familiar figure in the ditch. It was a dead black and white cat. I went back home and grabbed a paper bag, and broke the news to my 9 year old son. I went back to get the cat. I parked on the side of the road and scooped it into the bag. This was on a busy state highway, so I'm sure I got alot of looks. It was also the middle of July, the dead cat reeked and it was hotter than hell out. I wasn't a fun experience.

I brought the cat home, and I dug a hole in the rock hard ground in the sweltering heat among a swarm of mosquitoes. It was bad enough out that it drove my son inside, and we didn't even have a little service for our little friend.

I guess there are a lot of black and white cats that look identical, because the next day the real cat showed up.
 You know a cat has 9 lives.   Now it only has 8. Jerk. Had to wait for the respawn timer. Troll the respawn, Jeremy! Apparently in Brazil, cats only get 7 lives. True! Long live Chase! I imagine he got entirely globally spoilt the hell out of...

He's wondering "WTF?!"

Also - "Too many hugs dammit! But those treats are nice, more treats." "The day my dad lied..." lmao I love this story Once when I was a kid, I found a bird chick laying on the ground between a couple bushes in my front yard. I had heard not to touch baby birds, because the mother wouldn't recognize them anymore.

So when I found it I ran and got my dad. I brought him to the bush, but he couldn't see the bird. This chick was particularly well camouflaged where he was sitting. He tried stepping closer to get a closer look, but for whatever reason didn't bend down. I could see he was getting too close, so I pushed him away, and carefully stepped over the bird, so the bird was in between us. And I pointed at it. And for some reason I still cannot fathom, he STILL couldn't see the baby bird. And rather than bending down, he kept trying to step closer to me, even though I was trying to tell him IT'S RIGHT HERE!!! 

Well, he pushed his way forward anyway, and there wasn't anything I could do to stop it. I watched his boot come down on the baby bird, and heard the crunch, and I ran. 

Well, I was obviously unbelievably upset at having watched my dad step on a baby bird. Part of me thought he did it on purpose, because you aren't supposed to touch baby birds, so killing the bird was the "merciful thing to do." It was a complete accident, of course, but I still remember being completely helpless to get my dad to just *stand right there* and *bend down and look*...

Well, that's all there really is to the story. My dad told me it was an accident, and couldn't believe that I thought he had done it on purpose. I forgave him, of course, but, yeah. When I was 11, I was riding around on my BMX and I found a baby bird who had fallen out of the nest.  It looked like it couldn't have been more than a day old.  It looked fetal.  It was on the sidewalk croaking.  I looked at it, held my breath, and rolled over it with my front tire.  There was a crunch, definitely amplified in my mind.  I felt every bone through the tire, going to the spokes, and up the fork.

It's was one of the most heart-breaking things I had ever done, but I still feel like I did the right thing.  The poor thing was suffering and I couldn't let just sit there and dry out (I was in Arizona). It hurts even thinking about it. But yea, the poor bird was probably suffering. Without the full story your kid makes you sound like a real asshole Hilarious. Your daughter will forever remember the day her dad FU. 

It may be too late to change his habits, but indoor only cats have much longer life expectancy than ones that go outside.  Less chance of fleas, too. I gotta tell ya, I think I freaked out my brothers girlfriend while reading your story. I was reading your story with tears in my eyes while hunched over, chomping away at dinner, at my computer desk.  I'm a pretty big guy,  so when my brothers girlfriend came walking down the hall to ask me if I wanted any more dinner, all she saw was me this big guy slowly eating while tears are rolling down my face with a smile on my face. She basically said "Ooookay?" and did an about face. hahaha thank you for your story. I really did enjoy reading it.  This is awesome. I love you. My name is Chase and this story kinda of freaks me out... Are you orange? No but I am pizza.. Do you have six fingers on one hand? DID YOU KILL INIGO MONTOYA'S FATHER?  Are you a cat? Are you dead? Are you actually alive? I'm not sure. Let me count my toes. You have five fingers? This is in my top five of funniest ever TIFUs.  Someone please narrate this!!! I thought my cat was dead and gone.  Turns out she prefers to live outside.  I found a decapitated pigeon outside my door one afternoon.  My neighbor saw her drag it up.  When she was an indoor / outdoor kitty she preferred songbird.  I guess she's graduated to the big stuff, I'm really hoping for a turkey at thanksgiving. What a **cat**astrophe! It has a **pur**fect ending that cat is un**cat**chable All these damn puns. You gotta be kitten me! I hate you guys. I used to have a polydactyl cat! He was a sweet guy! We named him Sigmon. He was born a barn cat, in a place called Sigmon's Farm, so we named him after his birthplace!

  Then we got three dogs, though. :( That was when it all ended. They didn't hurt him, but Sigmon didn't like them, 'cause they got more attention than he did. One day, he got up, pissed on the dog food, and left.

  It was a sad day for all. Haha, I like the stories that end happily. Well, happily for you anyway. Too bad for the poor John Doe kitty. 

We had a similar thing happen once. When I was a kid, we had a male tabby named Mickey Mouse (I was 3 when we got him, and got to name him all by myself). One day, when I was in my early teens, I think, someone came to the door asking if we owned a tabby cat. He'd just hit one right outside our house. My dad said yes, sadly informed the rest of the family, and put the dead cat in a garbage bag. When our other cat came home, my dad actually dumped the dead cat out of the bag so she could "say goodbye." Our cat NOPED right out of there.

Later that day, Mickey Mouse came sauntering in like he always did and made a beeline for the food bowl. The dead cat sat in the bottom of our garbage receptacle for almost a week until garbage day. 

My family might have some issues.  this is the kind of story that keeps me subbed here. definitely believable, and fucking funny. your daughters narration really brought this together. Maybe if you didn't rename the cat it would have occurred to you to check the digits.  Huckleberry Feline. Schroedinger's cats? similar happened to me once. found my cat dead in the road, scraped it up and buried it, and right as I'm stamping down the grave my cat comes out of the brush like hey whatcha doin? Turns out that I buried my neighbors cat that looked similar and was indistinguishable because of the damage done by the car that killed it. This is a teaching moment, and may save her (or you) some therapy money later in life.  A lie is defined as "an intentionally false statement" - Were I in your shoes, I would want to be sure that my daughter knows the difference between a "lie" and an "untruth" - you had good intentions but you made a mistake in identification.  People sometimes need to be taught that it can be cathartic to forgive in their own time (when possible) but especially in cases when people had no bad intents.  The person that caused the trauma suffers with the guilt of having caused pain, however unintentional.  This is a good way to help develop empathy in people.  Still, you sound like a good Dad and we all make mistakes.  Lord knows I've made my own mistakes with my kids. Scumbag teacher for asking first graders a loaded question. Like seriously. The day my uncle raped me, my mom called me a whore asking for it, and my daddy didn't believe me. The day my grandma died. The day mommy beat daddy bloody then called the cops and had him taken away. This fucking teacher had no idea what these kids may or may not have been through. Yea what the hell? Teacher probably thought it was hilarious.  Kinda sucks though that this will go down forever as the day that you were a scumbag liar making a not-funny joke, rather than an honest FU. What exactly did you put on the flyers ._.

"To whom it may concern, we found your dead kitten please call me if you want me to dig him up and bring it to you.... thank you" Nobody asked for a pic of Chase yet? Cmon OP, cat pics right meow! This happened to my mother in law,  she buried her cat Rosie after finding her in the front garden dead. ..  At least what she thought was her cat.  When we found Rosie alive we dug up the dead cat to return to their owner and they were completely different colours.... How? I can't even....   " as he always preferred her lap, and never really paid much attention to me unless he needed something." &gt; call me a puss if you must, but seeing my daughter cry like that made me cry. 

Who are your friends and associates that this is something you'd expect to be mocked for?

&gt;""The day my dad lied"

I hope one of the outcomes of the story is your daughter understanding that being mistaken and lying are very different.

 "the day my dad LIED and told me my cat DIED! &gt;:(
thats how she remembers this XD &gt;call me a puss if you must, but seeing my daughter cry like that made me cry

Are you kidding? Just so you know, and i'll happily remind you any time you wish; the term "MAN UP" actually means *bawl your eyes out if you feel like it.*

My child suffering? I cry. My child super happy? I cry. My child says "you know dad, I really love you"; I cry.

Cry my brother. Let the tears release you from your melancholy or bond you to your joy.

  get chase micro-chipped, too.  This reminds me of a story. I'll make it quick.  My girlfriend (then my wife) (then my ex-wife) had a cat. The cat didn't come home and ended being missing for 3 days. My girlfriend was heartbroken. While driving home from work, her father sees her cat at the end of the street, dead, apparently hit by a car. He stops, picks it up with with work gloves and puts it in a trash bag. Then places the trash bag in his trunk. He gets home and prepares himself to tell his daughter the truth about her cat. He walks in sees his daughter sitting on the couch patting her cat. She exclaims "look dad, Princess came home!!!".............. he went outside and threw the trash bag in garbage can.  Wow the exact same thing happened to me in high school!  There was a stray cat who would lurk around our house that had the exact same markings as our cat Pookie.  

One day my dad saw Pookie convulsing in the front yard --it looked as though he had been poisoned.  I wasn't home at the time but apparently it was a really gruesome scene.  

When I got home from school I could tell right away something was wrong.  My parents told me Pookie died.  He was mostly my cat--I remember he would wait for me to come home from school and then stand up on his back legs for me to scratch his head.  So of course I was devastated.  My dad buried him under my bedroom window and I stayed up all night crying. 

The next morning Pookie came wandering home all nonchalant.  

I was so thankful, but at the same time felt terrible for the poor kittie who died a terrible death in our front yard.   Appropriate song:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NalZ53-MRPw What did that flyer say? Found your dead cat?  Have you checked for the six claws since, OP? In the relief of the moment, it would have been easy to forget. And then you'd never think to do it later. Not for three long years.

But maybe when you check tonight, there are only five claws on that foot.

Maybe it really was Chase in that box all along.

Maybe this new cat is the impostor. This is the type of thing you see in a sitcom, kudos to you sir  When I was little and one of my birds died, my dad told me and my sister that he was just at the hospital. He spent weeks going to different pet shops to find a bird that looked the same and finally found one 45 minutes away. The shop owner told him that the birds have to be sold in pairs so he bought both and released the other one outside.  Twist, the dead cat is ALSO named Chase. We recently announced that one of our cats was run over by a car. Our neighbor told us. Then our cat showed up for dinner. I think it's a common thing.  Your daughter is a good kid for not letting that go. And this is why my cat is indoors only. It's obviously Chase's evil twin that plotted the murder in order to take his place. Jesus Christ that was hilarious  I wish the title was TIFU when my cat died. The current title gives away the entire thing. Shouldn't she be relieved that her cat was alive and they got to bury one that wouldn't be respected otherwise? | Now, call me a puss if you must, but seeing my daughter cry like that made me cry.

You are not a puss.  I cried hard when I had to tell my daughter her uncle died.  (Like an uncle-in-law) "he never really paid much attention to me unless he needed something" story of every cat owner in existence. .. But a cat still died... My dad would have been like "Hey, your cat's dead out there in the yard, go bury it somewhere before it starts to stink."

  You tried to do the right thing man. Don't feel too bad. A friend buried a cat that animal control brought to him. Three months later someone contacted him to tell him they found his cat! At least that other all black large male cat got a nice burial. They had adopted a new cat two weeks previous. Lucky, the old cat, was pretty territorial and sometimes a little mean so they re-homed the new cat with a relative whose kitty had recently passed. My dad did this twice. We had a black cat and he scrapped someone elses off the highway and buried it. Then he thought our grey and black stripped cat was hit and scrapped one off the highway too. Living by the highway really meant allot of death. The saddest death was of our dog who suddenly got territorial with a big wheel. She's why my dad vowed to never get a dog again.  Great story, but be thankful the lesson your daughter got out of this was; "Sometimes Dad lies" and not "Sometimes when you die you come back to life!" My parents had an experience with switched cats as well (but a less sad one).  They had a orange and white cat that ran away.  After about a year, the cat showed up one night, walked up to my mom, and demanded to be fed, so my parents chalked it up as "well cats wander."  

They took the cat to the vet for a check-up and found that the cat was not neutered.  Problem was, they had neutered their cat.  The cat is now know as false-cat at the vets office, and my parents got him snipped, and got him all his shots and other items since they had no idea of is previous history. Proof that cats have nine lives? Plot twist:  The dead cat had six claws.  OP counts the claws on his cat.  It has five. I once left my apartment to go back to work after my lunch break (I lived close to work). I said goodbye to my black cat and let the door close behind me. I go out to my car and drive maybe 10 feet when I see a black cat run past. Panic set in immediately. I chased it down but it ran off. I rushed back up to the apartment now that the cat was out of my sight anyway and decided to be sure my cat had left. She was still sitting on the coffee table where I left her. Suffice to say I was late to work. This is why I love cats. Because some of them look the same? that's racist. ^^^^^/s Specist. So your cat has six claws, and you didn't name it Count Rugen? The cat you scraped off the road was actually Chase's stunt double. Silly sod tried to combat roll under an 18 wheeler.

Oh, didn't you know Chase is a movie star? Wait a sec.  You have a cat with 6 claws, but felt the need to get a collar to further identify it?   Hehe...might work if you remember to check it.   "The day my dad lied and told me my cat died, even though he didn't."

ha ha ha ha  Hindsight is 20/20, but maybe next time just call an ambulance to come check her out. It's possible she was just drunk. It's possible she was roofied. It's also possible she was having some kind of health crisis that could have ended with a dead nurse in the taxi cab.

I still think you did a good deed. Sucks you got beat up for it. &gt; It's also possible she was having some kind of health crisis that could have ended with a dead nurse in the taxi cab.

I didn't even think of that. My mom is incoherent as fuck if her blood sugar sky rockets from the diabetes. The last time she was hospitalized for it she said her BF had to carry her into the hospital because she couldn't stand or walk.  This or low blood sugar!! Both can leave you incredibly incoherent and appearing drugged/drunk.  I actually heard an awful story once from a woman whose granddaughter died in Jamaica from diabetes. She went into the hospital all stumbling and fucked up so they tossed on a bed to sleep off whatever drugs they assumed she was on. ^I ^should ^get ^my ^mom ^a ^medical ^alert ^bracelet For sure, I got a tattoo in case something like this ever happens!!  on what part of your body? Just wondering what the chances are they'd see it. Mine is on the outside of my wrist, lots of people get it on the inside on their wrist or forearm.  :( I find out tomorrow if I have diabetes. I'm nervous about the appt, came to reddit to get my mind off it and this is first post I clicked on. Lol ugh... Not maybe. If you find someone in a state of extreme intoxication, call 911. Stay with them and provide first aid as required.  &gt;Bang my head on the concrete. Housemate kicks me in the stomach, lays on a few more punches, and leaves me there.

If you play your cards right, you can turn this into a multimillion-dollar lawsuit and have all kinds of fun.

*Better call Saul*! In all seriousness though, that was battery.

Said housemate is on the line for all your medical bills, time lost at work, and emotional suffering from his attack.

He would be on the line for these things even if you HAD roofied his roomate. Seeing as how you didn't, this goes doubly so.

I'd sue.

Edit: I hadn't considered that there would be no medical bills in Canada. There is still the issue of compensation for time missed at work and the criminal act of battery. DAMN WHAT U GONNA DO WITH ALL THE DOUGH THIS IS EPIC Check out r/askreddit for his answer  First thing he should buy is a helmet or some roofies. Revenge is a dish... ...Best served with roofie stuffing Welcome to the game, Mr. Cosby. With roofies and stuffing* (   ), Served with a giant black dildo. It's pretty hard to kick a man in the stomach when you can't bring your legs closer than 3 feet together. It's more of a drink this time... And roofies Open a pizza restaurant And make your own pizzas Very good point, and then all his humiliation would have been settled. The girl would have learned her lesson as would the housemate. At the end of the day, this guy forgot the lesson. Snitches get stiches, but if they already need stitches, then keep snitching, cuz fuck these bitches. That made a surprising amount of sense. 2/3rd's into the comment I realized this isn't gibberish but a man who really has something to say  &gt;Snitches get stiches, but if they already need stitches, then keep snitching, cuz fuck these bitches.

It's like a rougher, prison version of Dr. Suess..... What lesson does she need to learn? You can get roofied while your drink is in front of you. You turn your head for a second to talk to someone that tapped you. Or the rapist knows the asshole bartender and asks him to do it. Maybe the chick wasn't paying attention that one time and it happened. People get distracted.  Let me quote OP here...

It was Halloween at Western University in **London, Ontario,** and my friends and I were hitting up an amazing burger join just outside of the bar we'd been drinking at.

Canada, free healthcare.

Edit: I get it, we pay it with our taxes blablabla. You know what i meant now get off your high horses. Shit. I didn't think of that.

Well I guess there is still the issue of criminal charges. But yeah, other than time off work I guess there wouldn't be much to sue for from a monetary stand point. Moreover, anyone with substantive enough evidence can report this assault in Canada and initiate the charges being brought against this man. It's only courtesy here that me or you ask "do you want to press charges?"

In Canada, if an assault occurs the crown brings the charges, not the plaintiff. A witness can inform the crown of the incident in question and the crown charges the defendant. An assault occurred on Canadian soil, this is what the crown cares about.

IANAL, this is my understanding of the law in these respects, based on some personal experience only. That is an unfortunate acronym. Isn't that what lawyers do to you with their fees? iAnal, by Apple It's a butt plug that syncs with your iPhone to vibrate with your music or whenever you get a text. Its actually a new apple product, and it should be written as iAnal. It's a probe that goes in your butthole, and monitors many of your bodily functions, records to an electronic device, and advises how ready you are for anal. sex. Early indications are that it should be a big hit.  See also: HUMANCENTiPAD. actually, iAnal is a small probe-like device that prepares your asshole for the deep intense penetration that Apple will give you whenever you purchase one of their products....thus forever rendering you an apple fan. Don't forget automatic posting to Twitter and Facebook.  The location of the screen is a bit problematic, though. This is true if the victim is filing for criminal charges, if they are looking to file a civil dispute i.e. For lost compensation, damages etc. the crown would not be involved. 
BTW for anyone who thinks Canada's healthcare is free it really isnt. We pay for it in our taxes.... Just like anything the government does. I think the phrase is free at the point of delivery &gt; Canada, free healthcare.

Universal, not free. As evidenced by my taxes. Hi. Canadian here. 

Health care isn't literally free. It's more like *kinda "free"*. We do have better health care than many places in the world, ~~but it is hardly completely free, at all, if ever,~~(see * below) except for when it comes to kids.

Really funny how people think healthcare here is completely free. It just isn't. Still better than America's though.

( * ) Okay, so i am finding out that there definitely *IS* free health care for stuff that is immediately endangering your life. Thank you everyone who has told me so far. 
 Also a Canadian, I want to clarify a bit more.

It's only free if it's life threatening and/or can be taken care of in a hospital or doctor's office.

For example, a doctor's exam is free. If the doctor lances a boil, that's also free. If the doctor has to resuscitate you because the boil lancing goes wrong, that's free, too. If the doctor writes you a prescription, you have to pay for whatever the prescription is. You also have to pay for a doctor to write you a note to get off work (usually $30).

Eye exams and dental exams cost money, though. Usually lots. My dad will never forgive optometrists nor dentists for not joining the public health care plan.  For low income earners in Canada, dentistry is pretty well out-of-reach. &gt; You also have to pay for a doctor to write you a note to get off work (usually $30).

Depends on the Dr.

Some will charge you, some will not. What isn't free?  I've never met anyone who paid for anything beyond prescriptions (which are heavily subsidized).  Though maybe it's a Saskatchewan thing as we have a formulary that indicate what treatments work, and therefore are covered.  AFAIK no other province has that. And, even as a college student and him having "free: healthcare , wouldnt money buy him Better healthcare? Especially if he experienced any permenent  brain damage down the road from his head injury, wouldnt a lawsuit to insure better heatlhcare be worth it.
  
  Just saying , cuz I've read stories where some Canadians who can afford better care will come into the states to avoid waiting. But in the US we have to wait and then pay The UK's medical care is pretty much universally "free", catered for by standard taxes as well, but the cost of this is long-arse waiting times pretty much everywhere thanks to the government's cuts once Cameron was in. My friend broke her arm in 3 places while on an evening walk, had to wait an hour for the ambulance and then waited 2 and a half hours in A&amp;E high on a light morphine dose before she saw a doctor. It was on a Saturday night I guess but thanks anyway, David Cameron. Just to be clear, and as a Brit living in the USA, this is not a ridiculous waiting time compared to other countries who have to pay for their healthcare. I expect that if this happened to me here (California), I would wait a similar amount of time, AND be hit with a bill ranging from $500-5000. I have top tier (platinum) insurance for which I pay $450 a month (my employer reimburses me).

Sorry to jump on this, and I am also sickened by the way Cameron is handling the NHS, but I speak to a lot of people in the UK who think that the NHS is far worse than it is.  People do complain waaaay too much about the NHS,  we really don't appreciate how lucky we have it. I saw someone bitching the other day that he would happily pay for private health care because the NHS is so shitty, after a bunch of people said "Well pay for private health care" his response was that he couldn't afford it. While our current government's reforms haven't exactly improved things, I doubt the situation would be any better with a different government. The demands on the NHS are simply too great, and the money and resources available too little to meet them. It's not all free here. Most stuff is covered but not everything. Not sure how much of the damages OP sustained wouldn't be covered by MSP but there could be some medical damages he could collect. Well it's not free, is it? The money to support it doesn't appear out of thin air. You don't sue for a criminal act, you call the police.  Battery is a tort as well. Can sue for damages. Probably won't get very far without a police report. It's the first thing Judge Judy asks for! Medical bills? What is this, some third world country? We're in Canada, what kind of ridiculous first-world nation doesn't have free health care? Correction: free health *insurance*. Even better! I see there's like already a dozen people talking about no medical bills. I'd also like to point out that OP is probably a first year since he said he's heading back to res and talked to his res advisor; so he's unlikely to be working (personal experience here, but at U of Toronto, I don't know many first years working). Definitely sue, because people who live with housemates are usually rolling in money...
 College kids' parents do indeed often have lots of money. Must be nice living wherever you're from. I don't think it's a secret that Americans with money typically send their kids to college. Yes, but these days Americans without money are also sending their kids to college (due to easy access to loans). can confirm, I have to pay for my American education by myself (i.e. loans) 'Sall Good Man I had never noticed this. It was only really revealed in a recent episode of Better Call Saul. "Revealed"
How did so many people not get that joke? For real.. this is like "Why do they call him The Count?" Yea you can certainly sue the guy, but getting alot of money assumes that he has alot of money.  I know  people who won large judgements against individuals who never saw a dime. It doesn't really work like that in Canada. Suing is a lot different here. Battery is definitely still covered. Looks like similar to the US at least medical bills and time off work would be compensatable. No medical bills... Damn magical Canadian healthcare. Pain and suffering, mental anguish, time missed from work, punitive damages... You realize this would costs thousands of dollars in lawyers fees and a long ass time to maybe get a few thousand dollars. In Canada it's a lot less common to get massive lawsuit payouts unless you get your leg ripped off by a drunk driver or something extremely serious. To sue someone over getting beat up is usually pointless, charge them for sure but unless you're a famous face model you're not getting much money. You cannot sue for "Pain and Suffering" or "Mental Anguish" here Can we sue because the guy didn't apologize? You can sue for pain and suffering here up to 350k. You can also sue for mental anguish. We don't have the US' litigious culture in the UK either, but you could definitely sue for that. The US doesn't really have the US's "litigous culture" either.

That whole thing is a myth. Very few people actually bring lawsuits. And the proportion of frivolous lawsuits is *staggeringly* low (and most get thrown out instantly, costing the legal system virtually no time or money).

The documentary *Hot Coffee* does a good job breaking down how this myth has become so pervasive and why (that is to say, who stands to benefit from everyone being convinced that the US is sue-happy and everyone will bring a lawsuit at the drop of a hat). Omg I would have a field day with that. If the friend had been like what the fuck! and asked for an explanation, sure. But he just fucking clocks OP?  You had a group of friends with you and left without them, that is where you messed up.  for real. I would contact the police for the assault, your friends can place you with them which is much more then she can place at all. Press charges.  This was a number of years ago, unfortunately. Think that time has passed http://i.imgur.com/WEm2Xmr.gifv Fucking flawless victory right there. This is why the "T" is so important in TIFU.  This error may have cost you gajillions. Don't worry, this took place in Canada.  It really didn't cost him anything. "You assaulted me!"
"Sorry eh"
"Ah its alright eh"
Canadian lawsuit My favourite is when I'm sitting on bus and my legs are out further than they should be.  Someone trips on them, and then apologizes to *me*. 

   My personal favourite was my professor.  He brings a laptop to present on and plugs it in.  He trips over the wire halfway through the lecture and apologizes to the laptop on instinct.

I've done similar to doors and such but in front of ~100 students makes it way funnier. I'm guily of doing that. I've also been told to stop apologising. "sorry for that" "Sorry"

"Stop that"

"Sorry.. stop what?"

"Stop apologizing!"

"Oh, sorry!"

"I said stop!"

"Shit, sorry!" "Just give me some cans of maple syrup and we're good to go." "What?! Every Canadian knows that maple syrup doesn't come in CANS!!!

Mounties! Show this man to the border!  Back to the US with you, buddy!!"

EDIT: *All right, so it turns out that Every Canadian knows that maple syrup DOES come in cans, and tins. Probably exclusively in Canada.*

EDIT 2: Buddy. Huh, where I'm from it does.. Yeah, here in Canada we can beat the shit out of random strangers all we want without costs or consequences because free healthcare, am I right?!!?? Maybe write IFU, if it's not today. &gt; gajillions

Is that more or less than gorillians? It a 10th of a brazilian. The true lesson here was you not calling the cops. You did a good deed , but calling the cops would have made the deed even better. That way the people who roofied her might have gotten in trouble, the girl would have learned to be more careful, and the housemate would have learned a valuable lesson about violence. Oh well, now you learned the lesson. Call the cops. Good job helping her btw :) a good deed is still a good deed. cops probably would have arrested him for roofying her Or the cops would have said he roofied her. Occam's Razor. I doubt it, if he called the cops from the burger joint where he found her. 

 I just have to say youre a dumb asshat for not contacting police when it happened. I cant stand shit like this on reddit, you need to stop being a dumb puss and take charge. This fucking sub... If nothing came of this incident, it might be safe to conclude that she remembered something after the fact and realized you weren't to blame.  Otherwise, you and your friends, her and her housemates would have had to give statements on the matter. I'm sorry you received a raw deal for being a good guy.  

That said, I hope you have happier memories of Western and London.   I am with you. I would want that guy to be taught a lesson on punching a stranger for no reason on top of having my medical bills paid/any time I had to miss work due to the concussion. Since Ontario. It's unlikely that any medical bills were issued other than maybe pain meds. Reasonable ass kicking but doesn't sound like too much time off work other than the concussion.

Overall I doubt Potential Damages Rewarded &gt; Lawyer Fees + Time + Aggravation
 There would be no lawyer fees, you would simply call the cops and the guy would get arrested for assault and battery. After the guy who punched him went to jail that would probably be enough of a lesson. Just one night in lockup is enough to scare most people. If it did go to court, with all the obvious evidence available, he wouldn't need to hire a lawyer.  I doubt this would work. Drunken "He said, she said" situations don't usually go very far without proof, like video, and even then it's a toss up. 

My friend was having a party one night in college and we heard a knock at the door. He and I walk out thinking it might be the cops. Nope! 5 asian ninjas proceed to jump us. I had just broken my hand a few days before and was having trouble fighting back. Before the rest of our friends could get out of the house they swiftly disappeared into the night. My friend recognized them. We called the cops. They said everyone was drunk and there's was no proof and drove off.  As a male; I would never help an intoxicated female to this extent without another SOBER female present. It's too risky as you found out.

Before people start bitching with "What would you have done, left her?!?" or similar; I would have called the Police or an Ambulance and they can safely take care of her without any risk of me being accused of sexual assault. In this situation I could have had a group of priests, judges and a Discovery film crew vouching for me and I'd still have just called the cops or an ambulance. Just too many ways to go wrong, plus if you take responsibility for her and she gets hurts or drops dead from an overdose of something that's awkward. Just call for the authorities, this is what they're around for.  Yup, when she didn't know her home address it was time to get the authorities involved.  Chivalry's not dead, it's just too much of a risk Sadly, this is entirely too true. It's frustrating how true this is. &gt; Discovery film crew vouching for me 

Yeah... cause they've never vouched for anything completely untrue ever... I'd be more worried about the priests This. OP found this girl lying in the bathroom, not knowing if she'd been raped or assaulted already. I think the actual fuck up in this story was not notifying the Police and letting them handle it. They can also assess whether she needed medical attention as well. OP got his ass kicked but it also could have landed him in a courtroom accused of sexual assault.  As a female, who has found drunk or drugged women passed out alone on the sidewalk of NYC TWICE, I still always call the cops. Seriously, who the fuck gets in a cab alone late at night with a girl too drunk to stand that they don't know. How in the fuck do you think that possibly looks good. To be fair, OP was drunk too. So his impaired judgement probably said, "You're helping another human being." Not, "Hey, someone might think you raped her." So why can't a male help a female in this situation without being targeted as a rapist? I feel bad, but let's say she was raped and the attacker just left her there. As she recovers from being roofied, she's going to remember you.  You have not done anything wrong at this point, but put yourself in her shoes. She has no idea what is going on, but as she slowly recovers, there's this rando dude she has never seen before, alone with her, trying to force her to do something. Sure, it's get in a cab and go home, but she's just been drugged. She doesn't know that, or anything that is going on. She just is slowly understanding that she's been drugged and is now alone with some man. 

As nice as it is to help her, I would not do it unless I am in a group or with the help of authorities. You can't blame her for freaking out. She doesn't know you did something nice.  Someone that is primarily concerned for someone's welfare and doesn't instinctively (although perhaps wrongly) think our society has become so awful that people rush to judgment without evidence.  Yeah, I'm trying to imagine being the girl in this scenario- if she WAS assaulted, she'd literally have no way of knowing if it was OP or not. Sadly I agree, no matter what people will always take her drunken word over yours. To drunk to stand? Screw you I am letting the cops deal with you. That is pretty much the correct move in this scenario. That being said, after getting punched he could have just called the cops and this whole affair would have been settled properly. Yea I can't believe he just went back to his dorm like nothing happened.  I would have immediately called the police and not left the scene until the party was broken up and the guy who hit me was in cuffs in the back of the cruiser.  Good for you. Not enough people realize they should call the cops. Its like paying annually for cleaners and then not calling them when your house gets dirty. It makes no sense. So her housemate thought you were some super creep white knight who gets off on drugging girls and bringing them back home safe and sound? I hope she realized the next day what she had done.  I assume the next day she had zero recollection of what she had done. Also, if OP is correct is thinking she may have been drugged, she may have honestly thought he had done it. I've never been roofied but I worked at a club where I saw several people get roofied at least two of them left in an ambulance. Knowing exactly what is going on is not what a roofied person excels at. Being frightened for your own well being while having zero control of your situation is what roofies are all about.  Yeah, she probably didn't remember anything. I was just hoping she might have so that she could at least feel bad for what happened to OP. Maybe all this time she has been wishing she could contact him and say sorry. i'm guessing her bigger concern was "did i get raped last night" Chances are she remembers none of it. If she does remember him, she may think he's the one who roofied her. Instead I bet the White knight roommate happily informs her that he saved her from pending doom in glorious detail in the morning! I saved you from some guy who dropped you off at home. Once you realized she may have been drugged you should have called 911. Nah, he should've offered her a bowl of eggs. Wizard detected I actually read an article about similar situations. I feel like it was called the Death of Men, but I forget. It was years ago. Anyway, although the focus was on men it can be applied to people in general. But the gist of it was that men were found to not be helping lost children and women in situations like your nurse was in. The reason was that this very real fear of being called a child molestor or falsely accused of crimes like rape overpowers the desire to help some, which makes sense to me seeing as how our society is. Which is sad, because a normal person not helping a lost child walking alone in a strange neighborhood gives a predator the chance to help them. A good guy like yourself passing the opportunity to help a woman in the state your nurse was in gives a rapist the chance to take advantage of her. I guess the lesson is that today it's better to only care about yourself. Helping others can get you punished. This is actually a huge problem in China right now. I remember a video going around of someone who got hit by a car, and pedestrians kept stepping over them. There's no good Samaritan law in China. You will be most likely sued by the victim to recover medical costs.  Also iirc the victim suing their helpers has actually happened before, but i have zero proof because its so hard to look for shit on the chinese internet That's part of the issue I have with modern day feminism's campaigns that say things like "Teach Men Not to Rape" 

It implies that all men by default are just *waiting* for their chance to rape or assault a woman. Which is not only highly insulting and completely inaccurate but it also creates an environment of fear for the many decent guys who might otherwise help a woman in distress. There's a massive hesitancy to help anyone in these situations due to the "guilty by default" nature of our social paradigm. All a person has to do is point the finger at you and say "It was him" and your entire life can be reduced to ashes. Guilty or innocent it doesn't matter.  As my (dead) grandfather used to say,

"No good deed goes unpunished" My dad says that all the time. I think it's a dick thing to say but I'll be damned if it's not constantly proven true.  did he make that up on his own? London represent woot
I have to ask though, what burger place were you at? The place right across from the Ceeps! Can't remember the name of it. Might not be there anymore. Pita Pit was right around the corner Asking the real questions.  "It was Halloween at Western University in London, Ontario"--you could have stopped there. Given that the setting is Western, I completely believe this story.

(It has a "party school" reputation for those not in the know) Took one home one night after a sand dune party in Florida. The guy who brought her left her drunk out in the middle of nowhere, and I was one of the last people levaing the area. Put her in my van, (yes I was driving a van.) and took her home. Dropped her off in the driveway, as It was 3/4am and she could walk fairly well. I also had no interest in dealing with her parents. 8/9am the cops showed up at my door with some questions...... All ended well, but man it sucks you have to worry about this shit when you are just trying to help someone out. RIP Inbox. Can't begin to start responding to all the comments, so for everyone's edification:

1. I had COPIUS amounts of drugs on me and in me. Was not calling the cops.

2. It wasn't until she tried to kiss me that it clicked she's been drugged. Up until then I thought she just drank too much. No reason to call an ambulance.

3. 'Captain Save A Ho' here did NOT want to save a ho. He wanted to put a drunk chick in the cab and send her on her merry way. Obviously I could have done things differently, cuntknuckles.

4. It never occurred to me to press charges. I was 19. I stayed in the hospital overnight because of the concussion and walked out the next day. It's called healthcare.  Man, look at OP here, being a pretty reasonable dude. How shocking. &gt;pretty reasonable


Canadians &gt;I had COPIUS amounts of drugs on me and in me. Was not calling the cops.

You didn't have to stick around.  Just call and say "There's a girl passed out on the bathroom floor in the so and so building. Can't tell if drugged, drunk, injured, or sleeping." And then leave. He was high so probably didn't think of all these scenarios, he just wanted to help her.

Also, he just thought she was really drunk and that is not really something you call the cops about. More like a cab. No good deed goes unpunished. This is why I never help anyone. If I see someone in trouble I call 911 and notify the police. I've called 911 about 10 times. Same here. No drunk girl's life is worth fucking mine up.  Stories like this make me so mad when I think about the fact that alcohol is legal and weed isn't.  When the fuck was the last time you heard of someone smoking too much weed, passing out in the men's bathroom, then accusing a guy who was only trying to help of roofying her?  OH THAT'S RIGHT NEVER BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T FUCKING HAPPEN, EVER.  Ugh.  If she did get drugged then the person who did it is a piece of shit, but if she was just drunk and mad that you wouldn't respond to her advances so she decided to accuse you of roofying her, then she's the piece of shit.

Like for fuck sakes, no one smokes pot then has to get their stomach pumped, or face plants on the side walk, or accuses someone perfectly innocent of trying to rape them. This is the reason I am always cautious to help people. Maybe this makes me an awful human being, but I just really feel weird trying to help people that I don't know and are not in any sort of state to take care of themselves. When I was in my second year of university I was playing some late night gaming (GW1 PvP I think?) and I decided it was time that I head to bed. I need to take a piss so I exit my dorm room and lying in the hall like directly outside my door is my female next door neighbour in pretty rough shape. Black out drunk, barely clothed, and slouched against the wall. So I don't know this person very well (we hung out in different circles) and I am kind of at a loss for ideas of how to handle this situation. 

Immediately I am thinking that I am afraid of trying to search her person for her door key, or trying to take her into her room or anything like that. I just wasn't comfortable with it. After standing there confused for like thirty seconds or so a group of like frat-jock-type guys come from around the corner out of the bathroom (also drunk as fuck) and say to me: "Oh man thank god we found someone! We are gonna' leave her with you ok man?"

Stunned, I kind of stare back and say: "Uhhhh.... no." I walked away used the washroom and went to bed.

I have always wondered what the correct thing to do in that situation was. Should I have helped her out at the risk of her thinking I took advantage or her or something? Should I have been concerned when a bunch of dudes show up who I don't recognize from my dorm?

I probably should have been more concerned for her safety and well-being, but I just don't want to put myself in a situation where it could have been perceived that I did something at fault. Exactly like how this poor chap OP suffered. You did the right thing. The only way to change the culture is for men to abandon all women in distress, It sounds extreme but its shit like that how the good Sumerian laws were formed in the US.  You should have contracted someone in charge of the dorm. Just leaving her there without doing anything is kind of shitty.  ITT, people who know nothing about roofies getting angry at a very confused girl instead of the situation. Thank you. I don't blame her one bit. I blame the dumbass that didn't think it was a bit weird the guy who date raped a girl brought her home afterwards I literally just read a comic yesterday in which a date rapist did exactly that. Seriously. If this story is true, it's obvious that the girl was disoriented as hell. If the OP's take-home message was "I've never hated a slutty nurse so much in my goddamn life." then he totally missed the point.

 You could have called an ambulance to come check up on her. She told you that she had barely anything to drink yet she looked completely hammered so that means she was probably drugged and then in her drugged up logic she assumed that you were the guy that drugged her. 

Actually you're pretty lucky that you didn't get more hurt. If it was a house party then you might have gotten a couple guys come outside and beat you up. Anyways my cousin used to be a bartender and she always told me to let the authorities take care of intoxicated people especially in case someone drugged them. 

Also a word of advice to people who like to go out. It doesn't matter who you are, what you look like, or how strong you are, watch your drinks. My old man that's in his mid 50s got slipped something into his drink at a company Christmas party a few years and if it wasn't for a very good taxi driver then my dad probably would have slept in the snowbank that year and would have gotten frostbite or worse... why do all "good guy found a drunk/drugged girl" stories always end with him taking her home? why not "called the cops bc the drugging rapist might still be on the premises"? or "tried to locate/page her friends who are freaking out bc their friend is missing"? or "took her to the staff so they could call her a cab and officially take responsibility for her"? why is it always "i'm a good guy, so your place or mine?" not saying that OP is a bad guy for heading off with an obviously inebriated girl. just wondering why the first instinct isn't to alert "authorities," but to cover it up. Because that wouldn't make much of a story. It would just be following party best practices.

I don't disagree with your general sentiment; just offering an explanation. Obligatory Wuck Festern. But seriously, that sucks. Today you fucked up by not pressing charges. Next time call the cops Next time just call the cops and have them deal with the drunk on the bathroom floor. PSA: In some countries NEVER put a drunk/drugged girl by herself in a cab, not all cab drivers are good people.

we usually stay with the person in a public area and call relatives/frequent dialed numbers in the phone, if the situation is bad get them to a er something like that. I took a class with my local police department who urged people to give them a ring when someone is that messed up - for several reasons, that being one of them. That and if she had been sexually assaulted prior to you finding her, she may be too messed up to remember, but not quite messed up enough to not remember you and puts the wrong 2 + 2 together and you get charged with something you didn't do simply because you are being nice and she can't remember cause she was drugged. Although I'm sure all of the bars in London have had problems like this, it is ALWAYS Ceeps that I hear stories like this come from. My fiance's friend got roofied at Ceeps. He had ordered the same thing as another girl at the table that they were at, and shortly after he had taken a few sips, he started laughing uncontrollably, forgetting information and eventually lost consciousness. They had to pretty much drag him home and in the morning he had no recollection of what had happened. Being the classy gentleman that he is, he was happy that it was HIM who got roofied and not her, because who knows what could have happened.  Dude. Im an actual nurse and beyond checking a pulse and checking for a medical bracelet i would touch someone on a bathroom floor. Too much liability (i dont trust "good samaritan laws" maybe the UK is less lawsuit happy.

I hope you learned a lesson that helping strangers is a bad idea Why would anyone take their roofied victim back to their own house while a party was going on. The logic of the house mate is terrible. Maybe she really wasn't drunk.  Maybe she had been roofied.  She could have been telling the truth on the "I hardly had anything to drink" bit.

Either way, you got your ass kicked for a good deed.  I'd be horrified someone would charge me with rape in that situation. Mate she was the nurse. She drugged herself duh  No good deed goes unpunished. Assuming this is true, ya know Internet.

You did a good, moral and right thing. I hope there are people in your life who are proud of you as an individual because there are many scumbags in this world who would have taken total advantage of a situation like this. Why are people acting like this is a easy civil case to win? He will say this story. The girl will say she doesn't remember what happened or the poster raped her. The guy will say he was trying to get her away from a rapist and will say you fought him the whole way. 

To top it off everyone will be able to look up a civil suit where you were accused of rape. I'm sure future employers won't have a problem with that. If you ever encounter someone in a state of distress as described, or the moment you know someone has been drugged - instead of calling a cab or the cops, call an ambulance and stay with the person until they arrive. It's impossible to know what the person has been given and how they'll further react to the drugs/alcohol. Heavy doses of depressants can cause someone to stop breathing properly, and increases the likelihood of someone choking to death on their own vomit. Paramedics are trained to assess, assist and monitor these exact sort of scenarios, and can further call the police if necessary.  Good job buddy. You did the right thing. Although u had to pay for it, you did a really good thing. We need more ppl like you in the world. Thanks! Ah yes, Western living up to its reputation If you *had* roofied the girl, why would you bring her back? Her roommate sounds like an idiot. OP, said housemate owes you about 20 grand. 

That is the going rate, based on several precedents, for battery in Canada.  Talk to a lawyer, open up a civil case.  

I am not a lawyer but I have retained one for ... legal matters that I shouldn't disclose.   If someone is that drunk that they can barely stand, call the police or an ambulance. Pretty easy. In the future, call an ambulance. You're just asking for trouble by trying to be the nice guy in this situation. Call an ambulance so she can get medical help then let her deal with the consequences (getting home, paying the bill) later What was this burger joint? I remember back when i was there, Tenenbaums Hamburgers was THE place to go. Good times. THAT'S IT! Fuck me. After a night of slugging back the swill Ceeps makes that place was a fucking godsend. I'll have to investigate this further... I think it's gone now. HeyDeyz last I checked. They have a cheap breakfast buffet, but stick with Campus HiFi for hangover brekkies.  I usually do Malibu over on Oxford and Wonderland for hangover breakfast. The Burrito Boys that just opened up downtown is fantastic drunk food, though it's always crowded. I'll have to keep the Malibu in mind! My loyalty still lay with that grumpy Greek waitress at Campus, though.  I always planned on visiting the school but it was just an excuse to go back for some Tenenbaums.

Sucks that it closed down. Call the cops! He assaulted you and I'm pretty sure that's illegal even in Canada. Yes assault is illegal in Canada. Sheesh. I was being facetious. Ahh, I'd hoped this was the case but you never can tell... good on you. I actually have a similar story. Except I never found where the girl lived, so I handed her off to an older women (40 maybe) and she took care of it.

My main concern was this drunk/drugged girl who has lost all her id and money would wake up in my apartment and think I did something. So I noped the fuck out of that situation. She wasn't your responsibility, so you did not have to do anything.  If you wanted to do something, call the police or public/campus safety.

That's hindsight for you. 20/20 hindsight. good news, you don't need hindglasses I have had too many close calls from theses kinds of situations to even try helping people. 

Pretty much at the point where you set her at a table is where I would have called her an ambulance and let the professionals handle it. The police will likely show up, ask you some questions and get statements from you and your friends. **This gives you a solid legal defense!** Paramedics will likely take her to the hospital for blood work and stick her on an IV until she's sobered up. Yeah, it sucks that she's going to get an expensive hospital bill, but its better than being accused of rape for trying to help someone. Healthcare is free in Canada right? we're on to your tricks, rapist. you just made up this story to try to look innocent.  Ya dun goofed ya fool.

Call the cops, let them deal with the bullshit. Shoulda left her in the bar.  No good deed goes unpunished
 I appreciate you were trying to do the right thing, but that girl needed to go to hospital man. Too much risk for the both of you. The story should have gone:
"... and find an apparently very drunk girl lying on the bathroom floor, **I alerted the clerk about her and then sat down and enjoyed my burger**" Why'd you go to the hospital? There was a nurse right there. Mate you fucked up when you took her to her house and not to the hospital. Sometimes roofies can cause a allergic reaction that and you have no idea if that was her house. Next time take her to the emergency room and let her sober up there.. the worst youll get is questions from police but with friends it would if been less than a punch in the face. See now the thing I don't get is why a dude who roofied someone would have the decency to bring her back home.  Let that be a lesson to you. In the future call an ambulance for the girl and if you want, wait for it to arrive. It's the safest thing for everyone involved and doesn't cost you a thing. you're a good man who did the right thing.  what happened to you suck, but what happened to her sucks.  and it sounds like she was too gone to know what was going on.   It sucks what happened to you, but at the very least you should be proud of yourself. Hopefully the next day the girl and/or her roommates realized what actually happened. Not likely though. Peaking on acid late one night, I found a naked girl with a throw rug tossed over her, crying and fucked up in a building doorway. 

The only place around that was open was a bar a block away, so I tried to tell the bouncer to come and help, but I was pretty incoherent, so I just wandered back and forth between the girl and the bar like an ineffective Lassie, until I finally convinced the girl to come and get some help. 

As soon as he saw me with her, the bouncer peeled off inside, and a couple of other workers came out. The fucking waitress I guess thought that I was responsible, and started yelling at me. The other bouncer tried to restrain me. High as fuck and still not entirely convinced this wasn't all a hallucination, I took off. 

And I think that was the last time I ever did acid.  People keep telling you that you should have called an ambulance.  Wrong.  You should have reported her to the manager of the establishment that owned the bathroom.  Let them handle the legalities.  Not your problem. This reminds me of the idiot in my neighborhood that pulled up behind my car that was parked next to the curb in front of my house, and just sat there for about 5 or 10 minutes.  He finally realized that it was parked, and went around.

There were no other cars around, and my street is a low-traffic street.  It was kind of funny to watch.  :) That reminds me of this time i stopped by my uncles work, which is a car dealership, to drop off some money he won in my football pool. My girlfriend was driving and parked by the curb that was opposite some cars for sale. A couple walked by with a salesman and asked how much the car cost. He said "well, about $20000 new, but that car is used and someone owns it. Shes in the drivers seat. And its a Hyundai and we sell kia." I laughed! Stoner* 
FTFY

I have waited behind construction workers f150's, parked at a traffic light ...in a lane marked off for construction. Looked over to see traffic flowing in the direction I desired to go also, then looked to the other side to see construction workers and realize I was a dumbass. I usually do that at a stop sign. I wait till it turns green. So I wait a long time.  The moment you realize you did LSD, but not enough for the damn thing to turn green. Colourblindness helps. Then there's the times when the opposite happens and you pull up to a red light, look right, look left, and then continue through the intersection as if it were a stop sign. After about 30 seconds or so it occurs to me what I just did. If anything, at least you looked both ways! I did something similar once. It was pretty late and I was out hanging with my best friend. Stopped at a red light, saw the other way go red so I prepared to go, saw the light go green and proceeded through the intersection. I noticed my friend looked at me odd and I looked in the rear view mirror to see the light showing an advanced green for the other direction of traffic. Drove through a red light completely thinking it was green. I was driving while high with a friend, and there was a stop sign, and a little ahead was a traffic light. I was waiting for the traffic light to turn green while I was at the stop sign.  Dont even have to be a stoner. My wife and I were in the car and she was driving. We were chatting and she stopped. We both sat there talking, waiting for the light to turn green. We were at a stop sign.... I've stopped at a red light then proceeded as if it were a stop sign before while deep in conversation.

Distracted driving is dangerous. Yep, done the same thing, luckily past a tiny sidestreet at night. Was of course yakking it up with my two passengers in the car. Stop driving while you're high I can't even THINK about getting behind the wheel without washing down a handful of mushrooms with a pitcher of margueritas. True; the best route to the Mushroom Kingdom is through Margaritaville. Does it prevent the weird stomach feeling that comes with shrooms? Tea.  Seriously.  Even better, brew the mushrooms INTO the tea. No stomach weirdness. I saw these guys there: http://imgur.com/a/pHD8Z So many fucking idiots in this thread. Don't drive while high, and don't drink and drive. 


The fuck is wrong with people.  There's a lot of things wrong with a lot of people. Apparently driving under the influence is more common than I thought. This is why I don't trust anyone on the road when I'm driving. I expect everyone to cause a horrible accident. Keeps me on my toes.  I also just love how once there's the slightest drop of rain or snow that doesn't even stay on the road, people become complete novices on the road. Tried Googling and I couldn't find it, but there's this comic strip I recall where someone's driving along all fine, when all of a sudden "Oh no! A light drizzle! *HOW DO I DRIVE?!"* and goes out of control. 

Yep.  I've seen some really stupid stuff when it comes to automotive stuff. And I'm only 20.. I think the best is someone complaining their mileage got worse as soon as they started driving it in the winter. Like no shit its worse, snow puts up quite the resistance.  Yep ICE! BETTER SLAM ON THE BRAKES! OHNOES Sometimes there's not much you can do to avoid idiots no matter how cautious you are. I was driving along and up ahead a bus was in a rester lane for a bus stop pickup. He was indicating towards the curb. I kept driving and the bus just pulled out into me. The dumbass hadn't checked his mirror or anything. Thankfully there was a decently sized striped median section in the middle of the road so I could avoid getting swiped. The weird thing was I actually worried about that happening and was ready to avoid it. If I'd acted like the bus driver was a reasonable driver I would've been screwed. I believe this is just commonly referred to as defensive driving. Yep definitely is. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defensive_driving [deleted] No, I don't do drugs anymore, either. But I'll tell you something about drugs. I used to do drugs, but I'll tell you something honestly about drugs, honestly, and I know it's not a very popular idea, you don't hear it very often anymore, but it is the truth: I had a great time doing drugs. Sorry. Never murdered anyone, never robbed anyone, never raped anyone, never beat anyone, never lost a job, a car, a house, a wife or kids, laughed my ass off, and went about my day. - Bill Hicks [Bill Hicks - Summer Trip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nMrxnJayQZo) RIP Right? I don't understand why you would even try. Even at my most stoned (and I have rocked solid [10]'s before,) I never even considered driving.

And that's the big difference between alcohol and MJ, as far as I'm concerned. Alcohol makes you think "Yeah, I'm totally good to drive," while MJ makes you think "haha there's no fucking way I'm good to drive..." Complete opposite for me. When I've had ANY alcohol I think "No I'm not going to drive that's irresponsible." 
When I've smoked I just go "Yeah I'll drive hopefully I go faster than 15 mph this time" Thank you... I hate stories like this. I'm not against high driving in principle. I think if you know your limits and are confident and experienced enough, high driving is no less dangerous than normal driving (and extremely less dangerous than texting, being drunk, etc). But for fuck's sake, if you make traffic mistakes that you wouldn't make sober - STOP DRIVING HIGH. IT'S NOT THAT HARD.  
  
EDIT to clarify: I am not against high driving, at ALL. I do think there *are* people out there who are slightly more at risk to make [even minor] mistakes when they drive high, because of the way weed affects them, and I think that those people, who *know* they are affected, but *still* continue to get high and drive... that's just shitty behavior. Only drive high if you are 100% confident in your high driving abilities. And just to reiterate, this is not coming from an anti weed standpoint, it's coming from a 'please do not get in an accident' standpoint. I fucking love high driving, because I trust myself enough to do it. How about we all stop driving while under the influence of mind-altering substances, so my blood pressure can go back down? People with high blood pressure and other medical conditions are accidents waiting to happen. Please don't get behind the wheel, dude.  How do we know if it's the weed or a sober person mistake? That's up to the person. If someone gets high and goes driving, and stops at a stop sign waiting for it to turn green, or at a green light - and they *know* that that's something they wouldn't do sober, I'd hope they would acknowledge that weed affects their driving abilities and wouldn't continue to smoke and drive.  [Newt said it best](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BagYRDEFvy0#t=1m43s). Maybe don't DUI?  you drive stoned? da fuck.  See, I've done this while I was trying to figure out where I was going using my GPS before. And I figure if I park behind someone else on the street I know I'm not in some poorly marked no parking zone. That's better than swerving around trying to figure out where the hell the house I'm trying to find is.  Do you lower the radio when looking for a house?

Never understood that I do, because when I slow down there's less engine noise so the radio sounds too loud. Huh, so that's why I do that. TIL That's not why you do it. You do it because lowering the volume means less multitasking.

http://sharpbrains.com/blog/2006/11/11/why-do-you-turn-down-the-radio-when-youre-lost/ I personally also do it to be able to hear my surroundings better, if I have to look to the side every now and again to look for houses, even if it is just for a short moment, then I feel like its best to make sure you can still use any other useful feedback (like noises) as best as you can. It's harder to focus when there's music blaring in your face, but I usually turn down my radio simply out of courtesy for the people who live in whatever neighborhood I'm driving through. I do that!  I never used to,  but now I do it when I need to concentrate.  My SO, on the other hand,  will turn it up and start talking to me,  so I have to turn it down to respond.  I hate it when people are like "let's play loud music when we talk" like bitch I can't hear you over the loud music.  It actually helps you find the house better.  By reducing excess stimuli the brains neurons are able to create stronger brain waves which resonate better in the hippocampus (located in the medial temporal lobe). This has been studied extensively as part of a brain system responsible forspatial memory and in theory the reduction of outside stimulus such as loud sounds will help you "navigate" better.
 I try to turn the radio up when my girlfriend is talking too quietly.

 I need to turn the music down so the house doesn't realize I'm sneaking up on it! Maybe he was commented on how far away from the curb you park. How do you know he wasn't just parked dong some weed? Doing some weed lol  Or maybe he was doing some alcohol too.  [deleted] I snorted three marijuanas and it killed my cat.  AREYOUINSANE I did that once, the fucker left his lights on, and there was a queue for a railroad crossing. I couldn't see past the van, and only realised when people started passing me... Do you have any pictures of your jeep by chance?? [deleted] Hahaha no but I love jeeps and saw your name and figured you did. What year is it? [deleted] Jeeps are high maintenance relationships. It sounds awesome though, I've been looking for a 4 door JK here recently for a DD that would handle itself on the trail. Your YJ sounds like it was a helluva time when it was going.  [deleted] My buddy had a nice TJ but it was lowkey ragged out but not bad. Well he sold it and got a JK and it's been less than a year and his TJ has been through 7 owners and he keeps looking on craigslist to find it and buy it back and make a gnarly trail only jeep.  [deleted] Nothin like that first love :') But that was the op.  I wonder what the people that observed you had to say. "Thats why u dont do drugs. You'll end honking at parked cars lol " Or stopping at stop signs, and patiently waiting for them to turn green.  Which is what happens when you may or may not have smoked a considerable amount of marijuana.  And there is a red stop light one block ahead of the stop sign you're sitting at.   It also happens when you're a new parent and haven't had a full night's sleep in months. Those were brutal times.  Also, you may come to a stop sign and realize you have no idea where you are. Then it dawns on you that you've been following some random car for a half an hour but they lost you at that stop sign. Then you're kinda relieved that you didn't follow them all the way home but need to overcome the pot in order to figure out where you are and remember why you even got in your car and began driving in the first place.  That... That's too high to drive. Perfect high for Grand theft auto.  I had a guy raging at a car a little ahead of me one day. He was on its ass and I could clearly see him flipping the bird and all kinds of other arm/hand gestures. A break in the right lane opened up and he gunned it to get along side. I saw it happen in slow mo... That lane is normally open to traffic during peak times. But during the day its used for community college parking. He failed to notice the break in traffic happened because the cars were merging left. He was so distracted by getting along side of the guy he was after that he didn't see the parked cars and plowed into the back of one about as hard as i've ever seen anything hit another object. He pushed that car into the one in front so bad *it* looked like the one moving. I stopped behind all of this and got out to call an ambulance. I was certain he was dead but he climbed out. Pretty dazed and wasn't able to do anything but lay in the grass. There was a kid asleep in a car three cars up that got rocked pretty good too. in total 4 parked cars had at least some degree of damage.  Road rage: Not even once. By far, you are not alone. Downtown Seattle recently changed one of the roads that puts parking behind the turn lanes and I've seen people do this quite often. It's a game to bet how long they wait behind an empty car. I've even seen on person get angry at the car owners returning and reality doesn't dawn on them until that person pulled out of the spot and there's another empty car in front. And all of this could have easily been avoided if the road was designed properly. That's Seattle for you. They had no idea what they were doing when they designed those roads. (Lived there for six years - *shutters with traffic memories*) I have some friends that live in Renton. While visiting them last year we saw that some of the two-way streets, downtown, turn into one-ways for part of the day. WTF is up with that? Yeah it's all sorts of f-ed up. I would say that they probably didn't anticipate the traffic of the future, but even new streets are being designed in the most difficult way, just like the one you described.  There's nothing worse than being forced into a long detour because the road gives you zero warning that your lane is about to turn into a turn only lane. That beautiful moment that a retarded asshole realizes that they're retarded is one of life's greatest gifts. I rage too for similar time-saving reasons. Though I'm beginning to see that even by driving fast, making sure to hit green lights, etc. The time gain of less than 5 min is hardly worth the self-induced stress and possibility of a speeding ticket or other traffic violation. Sigh. maturity.  My favourite thing as a responsible driver is having some car behind me hasten to pass me, only to pull up beside them at the red light.  ... over, and over, and over again. Sometimes I wave.

Especially where I know the light timings, so I know that there's absolutely no point rushing because you can't make it from one light as it goes green to the next before it goes red.

Also when someone overtakes me on the left (we drive on the left, so for Americans and mainland europeans, that's like an overtake on the right i.e an "undertake") then get stuck behind slower traffic shortly ahead so I pass them. I give them a little wave too ;-) The best feeling is when you know the timings so well that they hasten to a red light and you cruise pass them at the speed limit a few seconds after the light has turned green while they're practically standing still.

 Not only do they have to accelerate twice, but they already used more gas than you in the first acceleration I do this as a cyclist. Bike at a comfortable speed and go right past the still standing still car at the intersection, who gunned it past you earlier. :3 This makes me a lot happier to think that the car horn users have some self awareness. Oh god. Kevin's learned how to drive. Oh man, I need more Kevin stories in my life. You're a fucking retard but this is an awesome TIFU.  Truer words have never been written.  This has got to be the first time I've seen somebody on the internet call a person a retard while using the correct version of "you're." 

Well done, sir. This is great because you learned that you're an asshole (aren't we all?) without harming anyone/anything, except your own ego.  Well done. *"Although I'm pretty sure everybody zones out and starts daydreaming in traffic at least once in his life, I can't stand if that happens in front of me"*

And yet, you didn't even notice the cars in front of you were parked.  Maybe you'll be more understanding next time you're stuck and just lightly tap on your horn. You sound like the worst kind of driver At least it hit you before you hit them.  o_O Driving seems like a terrible thing for humans to be doing.  I don't think we're built right for it. Clearly we aren't built for the cars but the cars were built for us. but by whom?  where did they all come from and what do they want from us?  are they feeding off our anger and shouting? I was in a line of cars waiting to leave a parking lot because there was a woman just sitting in her car broadside to the the exit, completely blocking it. 

The guy driving a pickup truck at the head of our line politely tapped his horn to indicate she was blocking the way.  We waited.  She didn't move.  

He starts honking more significantly.  She looks at us, but still doesn't move.

Finally other cars in line are also starting to honk, so the truck driver just lays on his horn, at which point, the woman storms out of her car and starts raving about *"What kind of fucking asshole are you?!"*

And he replies *"You're waiting behind a line of parked cars, you idiot."*  Holy shit, you actually fucked up TODAY!? Maybe you could use that extra energy you seem to have on something of value rather than raging and screaming like a douche pickle (which doesn't solve anything, btw and actually increases the likelihood that people like me will intentionally slow down in front of you, cut you off and generally make your life a living hell) I will never understand how people can be angry about sitting in a comfortable chair within a climate controlled environment while listening to music. And for most people, also finally seeing open skies and sunlight after a long time spent inside.  You have either haven't had to sit in traffic enough yet or have a weird positive view about sitting in traffic. For most people, those things you listed are the only things that make traffic somewhat bearable. Also, I wouldn't consider most car seats a comfortable chair.  I'm guessing TheseMenArePrawns has just learned how to put things in proper perspective, maybe something the rest of should try to learn as well... Come visit Houston sometime Those aren't reasons as to why I am in the car. Do you understand that? As much as i disagree with OP's actions and general principals of road behavior, I also tremendously dislike yours. Anyone who does anything intentionally unpredictably or inconveniently to everyone around them is a dick. You're inconveniencing way more than just the guy behind you with that bullshit. [deleted] Strongly agree.

I'll slow in front of someone, but only if they're tailgating close enough that they're a hazard to me and I want them to overtake me on a 2+ lane road. Slowing down permits them to overtake without breaking the speed limit and gives them a firm hint that I want them to do so. I don't "brake check", just let my speed drift down.

I'm amazed at how much energy people will put into harassing others while driving heavy machinery. See a doctor. When I'm in rage mode, I would still.be angry that the stupid bastards parked there. Perhaps you are not the type of person who has the intellect to go around "putting people in their place". More than likely you are the person who needs to be. Anyone ever went the wrong way around a round about? I prefer to go straight through ahahahaha you're drunk go home! You're just dumb. Proof that you are a douchebag of the highest order.  *points and laughs* I dont get road rage my self, i get OHSHITTHATWASCLOSE shocks For the last three days in a row my neighbors have parked in such a way that my car cannot actually go down the street to my house. There is no longer enough physical space for a car to go down the street. This has nothing to do with your story but I needed to vent.  You wouldn't happen to be in a certain Central Florida city are you? I totally saw that happen to someone this morning. A person flew past me (nearly clipping my rear corner) only to find their right turn lane actually a parking area. I laughed when nobody was letting them back into traffic. Dude, you're not *in traffic*, you *are traffic*.

No wait, you're parked. Admit it, you were high.  On my way to work one day, I pulled up behind a truck that had just stopped in the middle of a major surface street where there weren't any stoplights. They were a couple hundred yards in front of me and just stopped - no other cars around at all. Running late as usual, and grumpy about going to work, this prompted me to spew out a lengthy monologue strewn with creative curse words describing their stupidity. As I pulled around them, prepared to give them a shiteyed stare, I saw that some guy had fallen off the curb in front of them. They had hit him and the contents of his skull were now painting the asphalt red. 

Not a good way to start your morning, for any of the parties involved.  Upvote, but you are really lucky there wasn't some guy in one of those cars with a gun in his hand. You could have died.

Road rage is never a good idea dude. Breathe. Relax.

They are seconds, not hours. ITT: too many people taking law enforcement into their own hands, punishing other drivers is not your job, stay safe you silly fools

it all starts with horn abuse you know, honking is for warning of impending danger or getting attention back on the task at hand, not for declaring your frustration or trying to "tell someone how wrong they were" (after all, a loud blaring noise that isn't alerting you to something is just another distraction) That sort of happened to me.  I honked at a guy who wouldn't turn right on a green.  Now I'm more aware of pedestrians crossing the road. So I guess you were the asshole that day. happens to all of us. at least you realized your mistake and try to avoid doing it again. that happened to a friend, we were navigating in a parking lot when he stopped like he was waiting for something I was reading so I didn't notice why he had stop we were there for a minute until I looked up to see why we were not moving and he was getting all worked up about the fucking car that wouldn't move and start honking until a pointed it out that in fact that was a parked car, so totally can relate. I had a good laugh from your story, thank you!  Good job, I'm embarrased by proxy. I live next to traffic light and I really hate it when people have to bump their horn for no real reason.  Such as when people honk because I'm unwilling to drive over the pedestrians in the cross walk who are legally crossing with their walk sign.  You sir are a retard.

Thanks for sharing :) Be careful OP. What I thought of as parked cars once turned out to be cars turning right. So I turned right from the proper lane (in front of a delivery truck) and got ran into. And that could have easily been prevented with good road design. Or paying the fuck attention. Pretty easy to tell a running car with people in it apart from a parked empty car. Tesla with tinted windows... Good luck. This story is kind of like yours:  there was a car in the middle of the road that was parked, and everyone was waiting behind it.  Literally In the middle of the street.  Dude who parked it was a dick. The worst is when you're behind those 4 or 5 cars and you're going at it only to notice after that they were all waiting for a little old lady to cross the road to safety! Why were they parked in front of an intersection? That was hilarious  I feel you there. My road rage tends to bite me in the butt. Due to an event that happened to me on Wednesday (where an 18 wheeler damaged my car a little bit...not my fault and a long story) I've been scared into driving more carefully and patiently. I also got a ticket for talking on my cellphone right after that (I called my Mom and freaked out because I drive a car that my Dad technically owns and bought for me to use to commute to school). I think it is for the better anyways, right?  Instant karma :D Wait...why were there parked cars at a red light? They weren't parked at a red light per say, they were parked in on-street parking spots near a traffic light. I thought I was bad waiting for the red flashing lights at the 4 way to change green. ;) In my head I imagined some guy pulling up behind some cars all normal like and then just spazzing out. I laughed so hard at this, stay special! Wow. I read this in the tune of the Fresh Prince theme song for some reason. I've got a friend we'll call Mike. I was following Mike the other night when Mike stops for a stop sign. After about 2 minutes I get it to go check on Mike and ask him why we are still sitting there Mike tells me her is waiting for it to turn green. I tell him it's a sign and then remind him that he is color blind. MIKE gets pissed and floors the gas running over my steel toe boot and twisting my ankle. Colorblind and can't read? Can't tell the difference between a sign and a light? That's when you get out, walk around for 5 minutes to make it seem like you intended on parking while leaving the horn being an accident and you having tourettes or just being very angry at something within the realm of reason. Then leave. Its fine I've done the same but the cars were letting an ambulance pass. My music was too loud.  Haha! You sound like my 70 year old mother, ..she's done that recently. lol! This very thing happened to me today, but it was only one car parked in front of me.

I give myself a break though, because there were two parking valets standing right there, just looking at me, so I figured it out before I could work up a good tirade. :) I'm a firefighter and when we respond to calls we park in the street by the firehouse. We came back from a run and people were backed up for 2 blocks waiting behind our parked cars.  This EXACT thing happened to me a few years back. So embarrassing. Is it a TIFU when there's nobody around to witness it and no harm is done to yourself? I was under the impression that he was on a multi lane road, the other lanes probably had inhabited cars in them. Thank you for this.  After a string of bad days, it was good to smile.  :) I'm afraid of making shitty mistakes like this when I start driving more, I would feel like a total asshole. Thank you for the chuckle.  Most appreciated. wasted rage on traffic, something you cannot control. enjoy your early heart attack. Did you apologize? Late to the party, but my boyfriend and I were once driving home from the airport after Christmas. There had been a hell of a snowstorm a day or two before, and between the airport and the interstate, we had to turn left.

Sat behind a car in the left turn lane for an embarrassingly long time before we realized *it had been abandoned.* 

On the great plains, an abandoned car in the aftermath of a serious snowstorm does not bode well for the former occupants. :&lt; &gt;"I can't stand if that happens in front of me and costs me precious seconds I could spend doing things I like better than waiting."


This is so....amazing- because, the more you stress about the few seconds you might have "saved", the more you theoretically shorten your own lifespan with unnecessary amounts of unhealthy, unprofitable stress. 

It's like, thermodynamic equilibrium...... for assholes.
 Thats what you get for being a dick.  