Did you enjoy filming Ghost World? What do you think of the ending, is it open ended or is there a definite answer? P.S. I love you I love you too!

And I don't know, if there is...*chuckles* a definite answer.

I love that it's open to interpretation. She gets on that bus, and... I hope that she's going somewhere good. And I loved working on that film. Thora Birch was incredible to work with, and Scarlett Johannson, and Terry Zwigoff, they were really smart and very funny, and paid attention to every detail. The director would get obsessed with people in the background. Sometimes, after Thora and I would finish a scene, we would see Terry walk up to us, and we would think he was going to say something to us, but he would walk right by us and give very specific directions to the background actors, telling them "Okay, let's do this again!" I love Ghost World, it's one of my favorite movies.  &lt;3 First time I saw you was in Reservoir Dogs, and over the years I've seen you in so many memorable roles that I feel like I know you personally (silly of course). So I wonder, is there anything of your personality in the characters you play, or is it really just that, they're characters. Is there one character that you consider 'autobiographic', like it could've been you? I don't think you can point to any one character and say that that's "me" but... with any role I play, I only have myself, to put myself into it, so there will be aspects of my personality that will come through, or I guess, exaggerations of my personality. And sometimes that's fun to do - like in a character like Mr. Pink, where i would NOT want to be that person in real life, but it was certainly fun to... explore aspects of my personality. Where I could be that person. And then, you know, there's roles like - there's a character I played in this movie, IN THE SOUP, which was an independent film I did in the early 90's with the writer / director Alexander Rockwell - and that's with Seymour Cassel and Jennifer Beals - and yes, there's aspects of that character that I think are like me... and certainly the character that i wrote for myself in TREES LOUNGE would be an exaggerated version of myself. The idea for that film came to me when I thought *what would I be doing if I never left my hometown? If I never went into acting? If I never pursued the things that I did? and was still doing the things in my home town that i was doing when I was young, what might I have become?*

So I guess you could say there's a lot of me in that character, as well.  &gt;Long Island loser Tommy (Steve Buscemi) is a hopeless alcoholic who loses his job for stealing from his boss, Rob (Anthony LaPaglia), who's now dating his ex, Theresa (Elizabeth Bracco). Tommy copes with his failures by hanging out at local dive Trees Lounge with friends he can barely stand. He takes a gig as the ice cream man, but he's awful with kids. The best thing in his life is a lukewarm romance with cool local girl Debbie (Chlo Sevigny), who, unfortunately, is Theresa's underage niece.


***Goddamn,*** Mr. Buscemi. Let's be thankful you pursued acting then. Trees Lounge........just a great great movie. I love that movie. Absolutely love Trees Lounge. Glad to see it mentioned here, even if by Mr. Buscemi himself. I encourage the folks who haven't seen it to check it out. When you started work on the Sopranos, were you aware from the start what would happen to your character in the end, or was the storyline an evolving thing? Well, I signed up for 2 seasons, so I fully expected to come back for another season - and towards, you know, towards the end of that season, it was season 5, I got a message on my phone from David Chase, and the joke on-set was "You never want to get a phone call from David Chase." And...so... I called him back, and he asked me if I wanted to have lunch the following day, I said sure, he picked a restaurant, and I got off the phone and thought *Maybe this is a good thing, maybe there's something else he has me in mind for, it doesn't necessarily mean that my character was going to get wacked.*

So I met him for lunch, I was thinking about it, didn't sleep much, and I got to the lunch and the first thing he said was:

"I'm sorry. We're going to have to kill you."

Something like that. I don't remember his exact words, but it was to the effect that there was just no way that my character could conceivably live doing what he did. 

And of course, I understood! *chuckles*

But I was sad that i wasn't coming back, because it was such a wonderful show to work on.  He called you in for the *Sit Down*. David Chase is such a gangster "Dave, can you get me off the hook?  For old time's sake." "Sorry Stevie, can't do it." I know I'm not alone on this, but you really *really* became one of my show biz favorites when I learned about your involvement with the Pine Barrens episode. TV or film, that stands out as one of the most entering hours I've ever seen.  What would you say is your element? Oh no! Um... hahaha... well, *this* is certainly not my element. I like being outside, sometimes? I don't really have one element. I tend to adapt. I like to work. I'm not one of those actors who... you know, has to do a play every year. So I wouldn't say the stage is necessarily my element. 

Yeah, I like being outside, haha! Shut the fuck up Donny. You've been waiting for this moment. I'm happy you're here. His comment really pulled the thread together man. Well that's just like, your opinion. Dude's been on Reddit for SEVEN YEARS and just doubled his total comment karma an hour ago. He's not the dude, he's Walter.  No, man, you got the wrong guy, I'm the dude. Or his dudeness, or el duderino if you're not into the whole brevity thing. Totally not into the brevity thing Totally into the brevity thing It's the long con. I seriously taken aback by the sheer dedication of /u/WALTER_SOBCHAK  &gt;Redditor since:2008-02-01 (7 years, 1 month and 23 days)

It's been a long and patient wait. Seven years well spent, I see. /u/WALTER_SOBCHAK is a truly dedicated servant of reddit. Except on Shomer Shabbos! I DON'T FUCKING COMMENT ON FUCKING SHABBOS. :( "redditor for 7 years"

Well done. Mark it eight dude. Your entire post history is Walter quotes. That is fantastic.

SMOKEY THIS IS NOT 'NAM THIS IS BOWLING, THERE ARE RULES! Seven years waiting for this moment. Nailed it.  What does someone do after succeeding on the internet? Like, what's there more to do in life? How do you feel right now? Mark it eight dude.  *'You mark that frame an 8, and you're entering a world of pain!'* *'A world of pain.'*

 Who is the better bowler, you or John Turturro? You know, we used to go bowling together, and yeah, I'd say John. John was better. I think he's just a better athlete in general.  8-year-olds, dude. What's a... pederast, Walter? Mr. Buscemi, have you seen the FX series Fargo, and if yes, what did you think of it compared to the original movie? I have not seen the TV Show FARGO. But I hear wonderful things about it. I do hope to watch it... someday! Someday I hope to watch a lot of shows, haha, that I don't seem to see.  It's very good but I feel like Nucky Thompson would have fixed all of the problems there quickly. Hello, Mr. Buscemi! Huge fan of yours. 
What are some of your favorite albums? Um... I love Elvis Costello, and I think one album that i go back to of his is "Get Happy." But he's done a lot of amazing work over the years. Same thing with Tom Waits. You know... "Mule Variations" is an incredible album, as is all of his work. I'll always go back to "Abbey Road," even though I haven't listened to it fully in years.  Tom Waits is a force of nature.   Thanks for doing this.  What question were you hoping would be asked but wasn't? Well - maybe people will realize by now that i don't feel very comfortable doing these things, so I guess I don't put a lot of thought into - to be honest, I'd rather not be answering any questions. I guess if I *HAD* to think of a question - um... 

You can put "long pause here" -

I don't really have one.  I can ask none for you. &gt;You can put "long pause here" - 

Brilliant as always, Victoria.  &lt;3 I'll take honest uncomfortableness over singleminded shilling every time. Big fan of your work, Mr. Buscemi; have a good one! Greetings!  Favorite memory working with Tarantino? Thanks! Just his enthusiasm, you know?

He was SO excited to be making a film. And... to be directing his first film. In rehearsals, the rehearsals were just as exciting as the filmmaking! He would set up - this whole improvisation of us robbing the jewelry store, so that we would improvise and act out what went wrong. He just had, you know, has a lot of joy, in him! And it was - it made all of us also feel like we were working on our first film.  TIL that Tarantino made them do the robbery scene even if its the one thing we don't see in the movie... interesting. Now imagine how much some people would pay for that tape, if it exists. What is your current favourite on-going TV show? Well, John Oliver's show is really, really good.

And I like the Daily Show. And I think Larry Wilmore is doing a great job on his show. I'll be very sorry to see Jon Stewart go. I think he's just been amazing every year that he's been on. 

*What do I like?...* Well, BREAKING BAD. I guess that's not current, but that's something I really like... what's on now? Game of Thrones, that's a good show... and I love watching Peter Dinklage. You know, I've worked with Peter a lot over the years. Our first movie that we did was called LIVING IN OBLIVION, that was written &amp; directed by Tom DeCillo, and it was about the making of a low-budget movie, and Catherine Keener's in it, and Dermott Mulroney, and he's made some really wonderful films. I've worked with him a few times. The last film that I did together with Tom (the director) was called DELIRIOUS, with Michael Pitt, and in that one I play a paparazzi-type photographer, and Michael played a homeless/out of work actor, but I take him under my wing and he becomes famous and gets his own reality show. And it's a very funny film. In LIVING IN OBLIVION, Peter played a character in a  dream sequence that I did.  http://media4.giphy.com/media/5xtDarzjcssLONw2bNC/200.gif Did John Oliver request you to show up as a cameo on one of his episodes, or did you make the request? 

Your appearance was so random on Last Week Tonight.  What is the best advice you can give a young person about life in general? Don't take any advice from me.

 Is this the advice?  Because if it is ERROR ERROR ERROR Take Mr. Buscemi's advice:

Don't take Mr. Buscemi's advice. Paradox? Any good stories from on the set of Big Lebowski? I know that people love that film. It's always hard to relate funny stories. But I'm so happy that that is a film that has gotten a lot of attention over the years. Because when it first came out, I think it was - not that it wasn't received well, but I think that initially, people (or critics anyway) were mystified by it. This was coming after FARGO. That, you know, FARGO was their first film that really broke into the mainstream. Probably any other filmmakers would have followed that film with something as equally as commercial, and they decided to go with THE BIG LEBOWSKI. And I think it took years for that film to develop a following. I think it took a good 5 years before people would stop me on the street, and talk to me about it. But then it was like - mostly college kids, who had seen it, at that time, you know, 5 times, or 6 times, and then the following time people would tell me that they'd seen it 10 times, and it's just grown over the years into Lebowski-fest. So it's so satisfying to see a film like that get made to begin with, and then turn into a classic that people enjoy seeing over and over again.  It's funny that you describe "Fargo" as commercial, because on this side of time, it's more obscure than the Big Lebowski, while "the Dude" has been plastered all over merch and purchased by people who've never even seen the movie. 

That said, I think I liked Fargo better as a movie (but you kind of have to have lived in the midwest to truly appreciate it, I think). People in the upper Midwest have Fargo-fest all the time and don't even realize it.  Oh yah?

All the great roles aside, [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DrM2gmx0tNM) really nails it. Actually, without hindsight neither is really all that commercial. I mean Fargo is at heart a traditional great drama film that appeals to adult audiences. Yeah, but it's so understated that it's on a parallel with comedy but what really makes it a masterpiece is that because of that understated drama and understated comedy it somehow borders on the absurd. Fargo was pretty big when it came out. I don't know how commercially successful it was, but I remember hearing about it a lot at the time. I use your [name for my Pizza Hut orders](http://i.imgur.com/bE8zdjt.jpg). Is that ok?

p.s. I'm a big fan of your work. Uh, sure. Why not. As long as you get oreos and french fries as toppings.  You know me too well Deeds [Buscemi Oreos and French Fries](http://i.imgur.com/5pgvscq.jpg) Steve's gone meta. You know me too well I don't like em.  Just don't tip. Everyone knows he doesn't tip. well he tips if the waitress does something extra like fill his cup of coffe at least six times. Or take him round the back and suck his dick. I'd go for 200% for that. I got to serve 'Mr Pink' in Montgomery, Alabama many times at a high end brunch place when he was filming 'Big Fish' and I can assure you he tips VERY WELL...I never got less then 20.00 tip on a single meal. Maybe he was over compensating for the stigma attached but I always appreciated it. Hi Steve! You're in so many great movies that if I'm surfing the channels and one of them is on, I have to stop and watch. (Fargo, Billy Madison, Con Air, etc.) 

What are some movies that you have to stop and watch every time they're on? Um... GOODFELLAS is one that i always stop and watch. Just recently I was... watching TV with my brother, and we came across CASINO, and we had to watch that. Pretty much... any Scorsese movie, haha, I think I would stop and watch! And then a movie that I've always loved but I hadn't seen it in years because I'd watched it so many times that i didn't know if i could watch it any more is IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE. Also... let me see... FAT CITY, with Jeff Bridges and Susan Tyrell... any John Cassavettes film...  I have recently discovered that I will stop and watch Goodfellas even if there's no sound. No need for sound.  I could overdub that movie.  Terribly, but I could do it. I loved Trees Lounge! Do you think you'll ever get back into writing? Or maybe especially writing / directing / starring? Yeah, TREES LOUNGE was something that - took everything out of me! I so wanted to write something, and direct something, and write something that I could be in... but I never necessarily saw myself as a writer or a director. I had been doing work with a good friend of mine, the actor Mark Boon, Jr. - he plays the character of Bobby on SONS OF ANARCHY - and we used to do a lot of theater together, throughout the 1980's on the Lower East Side and in the East Village - and so we always created our own work, and that's what i was trying to do with the film, too. You know. To write a part for myself, for Boon, for my brother Michael who's a wonderful actor, and for friends of mine, like Rockets Redglare, who's a wonderful comedian and actor... So... I've continued to direct sometimes, and sometimes I have a hand in some of the things I've directed in, in the writing, but yeah! Maybe in the future.  Hello! Con Air 2, yes or no? Um... well, I'm kinda curious what happened to Garland Greene? I guess if he got on another plane, haha, that could be a CON AIR 2. Sure! I had a lot of fun making that film. And I thought it was a great cast, and I thought Jerry Bruckheimer and Simon West put together a really great cast, and it was fun to hang out in the desert with all of them. So yeah! The scene with you and that little girl having a tea party is one of the most intense bit of film I've ever seen, absolutely amazing. I loved you  in that role almost as much as I love Donny. [Con air is a great movie](http://www.vunify.com/watch/con-air/c58659d8) i would love to see a sequel. &gt;  Con air is a great movie

[and here is precisely why](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ekakWBxspA) Why couldn't he put the bunny back in the box? Mr. Buscemi, I greatly appreciate you taking the time to do this AMA.

What role have you passed up and later regretted not accepting? 

Top 3 favorite books?  As far as roles go, I don't tend to hold onto that stuff. If I passed on anything, I think it was for the right reason.

Top 3 favorite books... yeah, you know, there's this book called YOU CAN'T WIN by Jack Black (but it's not the Jack Black that we know of today - this was a guy at the turn of the century, who used to ride the rails, and led the Hobo life, and wrote about it as a cautionary tale - he drank too much, he did too many drugs - but it's hard not to read that book and not want to live the life that he led! It's a book that really inspired William Burroughs, and actually, he had two books I really love - he's got a lot of books - but I really loved his books JUNKIE and QUEER).

JUNKIE really describes the life that William S. Burroughs lived in New York - his life of, I guess he was writing about the 1940's, and then QUEER is when he lived in Mexico City, and Jack Kerouac's ON THE ROAD has always been a favorite too.  TIL Steve Buscemi likes beat generation writers. Which pizza topping is better: french fries and oreos or peanut butter and gumballs? Well, uh, for all the DEEDS fans out there... french fries and oreos, definitely.  That was a film I did with Adam Sandler, years ago, and um, my character likes his pizza with a lot of different toppings on it.  They say time heals everything!

 Except for these crazy eyes. I wasn't talking to you, I was talking to that giant squirrel over there! http://i.imgur.com/vMwo6Xm.jpg No, Mr. Buscemi, he wasn't talking to you, he was talking to that squirrel over there.
*(cuts to mountain goat)*
 If you could time travel which decade would you choose and why?  You know, I really would go back to the 40's. I'm not saying it was because of BOARDWALK EMPIRE, but I always used to dream about, you know, being on the set of a Buster Keaton film. I think that would've been really, really cool.  Steve, I'm a huge fan.. I absolutely LOVED you in Boardwalk Empire. So what's your favorite boardwalk food? Favorite boardwalk *food?*

Um... well, I always like a good pretzel. 

But I guess I hadn't really thought about the food. It was mostly... about the clothes on that show. And those amazing sets. It was a time period that... I think that they really put a lot of thought, you know, into what, what they wore! And it was just a great time for fashion.  Sorry, the correct answer is funnel cake.  What is your favorite dessert? P.s you're cool. *chuckles*

Um, well, thank you for that.

And I like cheesecake.  Batman or Superman?  Superman. 

That was one of the shows I loved as a kid, too. Although I loved the Batman series as well. But Superman is definitely the one I remember first. There was NOTHING like the excitement of that show coming on TV, when I was a kid. And I did have a Superman outfit - a costume that I got for - I believe my 5th birthday. And on the cape, of the costume, it was printed - I forget how it was worded, let me see - it was something like "You cannot really fly while wearing this outfit." 

But then it said "Only the **REAL** Superman can fly."

I swear to you. That's what it said. 

**Only the REAL Superman can fly.**

I really did believe in Superman. [I think the answer is obvious]( http://i.imgur.com/V0zvPhm.jpg) Hi Steve, what's your favorite pastime? Say you had nothing to do and no obligations, what would you do? *What would I do...*

Just watch TV, or read the newspaper. Drink a cup of coffee. Go walking in the park.  I like you Steve.  How are you today? I'm okay.

I'm a little nervous.

Stuff like this always makes me nervous.

Otherwise, I'm pretty okay... I'm gearing up to do the second season of a web series that I do on AOL, called ["Park Bench."](http://on.aol.com/show/park-bench-518173474.120/518226615) We did our first season last year. You know, we're in pre-production mode on that, and that's been fun - trying to get that together again.  &gt;web series 

Cool. 

&gt;AOL 

Excuse me?  Steve is hip to what these internet kids like  
http://i.imgur.com/O7717xG.gif MUSIC / BAND Anyway : "We're sorry, but the video you are trying to watch cannot be viewed from your current location."  

Just like old times : nice job, AOL. Hi Mr.Buscemi, were you happy with the way the Boardwalk series wrapped up? Is that how you saw Nucky's fate playing out all along? I was happy with the way it ended. No, I didn't necessarily see it coming, but I was glad that they wrapped it up on that story between Nucky and Gretchen Mol's character, because that was a story that always interested me, and you know, when you look through the series, Nucky and Gillian didn't really have a lot of scenes - I think I only had about 5 scenes with Gillian. And I always LOVED working with Gretchen, and I always wished we could do more together. But ever since that scene we did together at the fortune teller's shop, I always wondered - what was their relationship?

So sometimes the show writers were forthcoming with the backstory - and then sometimes they were not. So there was only *so much* that they could tell me about the backstory of Nucky. Because I think - especially when you're writing on a TV series - you don't know the complete story of your characters, and you're going to leave it open, so they can go in any direction that they want. So you don't get tied into a concrete backstory - so it wasn't until the final season, until those last few episodes, that I truly understood Nucky's backstory.  How many cups of coffee would I need to give you before you tip me?  I would tip you after one cup of coffee. 

IF you're nice.  I think its absolutely amazing you used to be a firefighter and I love reading about the support you've shown to fire services across America (the photo of you volunteering after 9/11 is one of the best things I've ever seen)

My question is what made you decide to be an actor? So... I always wanted to be an actor, but I'd like to go back to the fire department question, because the person mentioned my connection to the fire department, and I do support this wonderful group in New York called ["Friends of Fire Fighters."](http://www.friendsoffirefighters.org/) And it was started by Nancy Carbone, in the aftermath of 9/11, she just went around to the firehouses in her community, to see if they needed anything, and it's grown into this amazing organization, where they provide mental health services to firefighters and their families, as well as other services, and I can't say enough good things about them. They were there for the firefighting community after 9/11, and after Hurricane Sandy, but they are there on a daily basis, for any firefighter or their family that needs support or help.

And getting back to the acting question - it's something I thought about as a kid. I never really thought I'd do it for real, or certainly make a living at it, and it's something that - it took years to sort've... be able to make a living at it, and I feel lucky that I'm able to.  &gt; (the photo of you volunteering after 9/11 is one of the best things I've ever seen)

[Is it this one by any chance?](https://thenypost.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/fdny01.jpg) Hi Steve! Loved you in the Sopranos! What was it like working with James Gandolfini? 

Also, I painted this for you: http://imgur.com/nlxUbn4
 &gt;God bless the internet Did you see Fifty Shades of Buscemi?  [His reaction after seeing it](http://i.imgur.com/kGsLgZ7.gif) I wish he'd answered this.  why hasn't anyone posted it for him to watch? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gnGX4FuIK60 What's the weirdest pronunciation you have heard for your last name? The weirdest one? Um... I dunno. Sometimes people will say "Bushoomi" or if they pronounce the C as a hard C - I guess it's hard to describe in print - like "Booo-stemmi."  oh god i was wrong all those years Hi Steve! Which melody do you hum to keep yourself calm?
 *To keep myself calm, hmmm.*

There's different songs that would pop into my head. It depends what I'm listening to.

Right now, Diana Krall has a new album out that I like a lot, so there's songs on there I've been humming in my head. She does some really wonderful interpretations of songs that I knew from years ago. One of them is ALONE AGAIN, NATURALLY. 

Or the Jim Croce song OPERATOR.  Hello Steve!?

My question to you is, do you like soup? Yeah, I like homemade soup.

I like chicken soup. I don't like canned soup.  Steve, if you were locked in a vending machine, what would be the first snack you'd eat? Um... I guess either a Reese's Peanut Butter Cup, or Almond Joy.  Any memorable moments from filming Big Lebowski? Well, they were all memorable moments.

Anytime you're on a Coen brothers set, it's just the most fun and relaxed set.

I just loved doing those long takes with John Goodman and Jeff Bridges. And I love sitting between them, you know? There's that one scene where we're at the counter in the bowling alley, and I'm seated between them, and they're arguing - and I LOVED just being around those guys.

I was once in a hotel room, and through the wall, I could hear this loud voice on the phone.

And at first I thought *Oh my god, I have this really loud neighbor. Maybe I should switch rooms!* And then I recognized the voice, and it was John Goodman. So I actually heard him ordering room service, hahaha, loudly! And so when the room service tray came up, I popped my head out the door, and he was very surprised to see me. And he said "Forget room service! Let's go down and have dinner!"

And I just love being around him.

And of course, Jeff Bridges is one of the sweetest guys. He's a really great photographer. He would take pictures of us on-set. And he's been in like, all these great movies, and it was just fun to hear him tell us stories of what it was like to work with John Huston on the set of FAT CITY...

Jeff Bridges could bring about world peace. 
 Some of Jeff Bridges' photography from The Big Lebowski:

* [The Stranger and The Dude (aka Sam Elliot and Jeff Bridges) at the Lebowski bar.](http://i.imgur.com/lMlmhAN.jpg)
* [A risque pic during the dream sequence on the set of the Coen Bros. absurdist masterpiece.](http://i.imgur.com/DUddpih.jpg) -- **[**[Bridges tells the story behind this shot on Conan](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B7zLthh85P8)**]**
* [The two opposing teams finally shake hands](http://i.imgur.com/UMGFOJt.jpg)
* [The Jesus (John Turturro) hurls one down the infamous bowling alley setting of Lebowski](http://i.imgur.com/kYG5Ya3.png)
* [Philip Seymour Hoffman gets the double exposure treatment.](http://i.imgur.com/c2RhqWl.png)

Photo credit: [Jeff Bridges](http://www.jeffbridges.com/). Found images [here](http://www.rsvlts.com/2014/08/21/since-the-1980s-jeff-bridges-has-done-something-incredible-on-the-set-of-all-his-movies/) with photos from his other movies. One reason these pictures are so captivating is because Bridges used a camera called a [Widelux](http://i.imgur.com/jg7jrrR.jpg), which shoots a panoramic frame through a swinging lens. Because of this quirk, it's possible, with slower shutter speeds, to appear on both sides of the image if you run to the other side (see the picture of Phillip Seymour Hoffman). The cameras are notoriously finicky to use (the viewfinder doesn't exactly match what it shoots) and tended not to be reliable (also, they're not cheap).  It seems like you really enjoy being an actor and appreciate other actors.  It's good to know that you're a genuine person. Hah, the John Goodman hotel story reminds me of the scene from Barton Fink. Did he give you a present and tell you not to open it?  Exactly what I was thinking.  Barton Fink is a movie that everyone should watch. Hi Steve, I was just wondering what would you consider to be your spirit animal? My spirit animal.

So tell me what a spirit animal is?

*Yeah.*

Maybe my spirit animal is - a - monkey.  http://imgur.com/ysc7nrr God bless the Internet. How do you do fellow kid? What is the weirdest thing you have heard about Nicholas Cage? I don't think he's weird at all.

I think he is who he is. And I'd love to do CON AIR 2 with him.  Hi! What inspired you to work on this documentary? Did you spend a lot of one on one time with the subjects? In what ways did they change you as a person, if any? I did not (unfortunately) spend plenty of time with the kids in the film. But I do hope to meet them. Right now, the film is still being worked on, and that's why I'm doing this campaign. But I will say about these kids, you know, that I've seen in the documentary - they have tremendous heart, and tremendous courage, and I think they're certainly - they have a rough go of it, you know. Every day. And I find their struggle really moving, and inspiring. 

Well, you know, when I was their age, and growing up in the town that i grew up in, in the time that i grew up in, it was...it was... if you were gay, you could not let anybody know that. So to see these kids just really be who they are, and a lot of them are flamboyantly so, it kind of amazes me that there's - even in this day and age, that I think is a lot more tolerant than when I grew up - there's still a lot of hate out there, and especially where they live, it's really dangerous. It's quite dangerous for them to be who they are. And so they've banded together out of necessity- a lot of them come from broken homes - so they've created their own family with each other, so they really help and support each other, and I really admire that.

I really...uh, admire that they struggle every day to make a life for themselves.  How did you get involved in this documentary project? Well, you know, a few years ago, my good friend Stanley Tucci and I decided to start a production company, and we found a wonderful producer in Wren Arthur. She used to produce with Robert Altman. And so the 3 of us started this company, so that Stanley and I can direct films, but we also decided that we should develop other things, TV shows and such, and... we also decided that it would be good to maybe look into the documentary film world. We did make a documentary, called A GOOD JOB: STORIES OF THE FDNY, for HBO, that Liz Garbus directed... and then the filmmakers Dana Flor and Toby Oppenheimer, I'm not quite sure how they knew Wren, but they told her they had been shooting in DC, this gang of kids that they thought were pretty incredible, and they showed us some of the raw footage, and Wren and I were really excited by what we saw, and we thought it was an important story to tell, so we wanted to give them as much support as we could, so we are co-producers.  Steve, is there a place in the world you would love to visit and haven't yet? Well... where would I go? I don't know. I don't think about traveling that much. One of the most beautiful places that I've been to, though, was Sicily, and I'd like to get back there someday. 

*Where would I go?* Maybe South America. I've never been there.  If it was your last day on earth and you were making a sandwich, what would be in it? You know, I have to be honest. It's these questions that make me nervous. I don't know why! I think it's a very personal thing to ask!

You can say that: I'm kidding.

But yeah, I don't know why these questions make me nervous. Hahaha! But they do! Lol I'm sorry about that. Any sandwich, any day, there.  It's because some little part of your brain is worried the guy asking has a murder/last meal scenario planned.  What is your favourite cereal? I like Cheerios?

And cornflakes.  Sounds like you're on the fence about the Cheerios.  I'm Ron Burgundy?  He was leaning towards Honey Nut Cheerios no doubt.  Hi Mr. Buscemi,
I loved you in Fargo

I wanted to know what it was like during the September 11 attacks, being on the scene for so long and how it was in the midst of all of it. And were you ever recognized as the famous Steve Buscemi while volunteering?

thanks :) Um... yeah, I mean, I was recognized, but nobody made a big deal out of it.

And I was down there with the company that i used to work with, Engine 55. I used to work with them, you know, on the fire department in the early 80's, and they lost 5 members of their company, and so, you know, it was just... something that I wanted to do for them. To help them out? And being at the site... with them... with my old company, it really helped me out, you know. They're the ones that were helping me, because every New Yorker at that time, it was just a atraumatic thing to go through - and not just for New Yorkers, but the whole country was in shock. So I feel privileged to have been able to be there, on the site, because everyone I knew wanted to do something, wanted to help, but a lot of people just didn't know *how*, how to help immediately. And I did have a physical way of helping. But that did a lot for my state-of-being, and I was only down there for a few days, and I can't even describe - really- what it was like. But, um... I'm grateful that I was able to be there.  What was your favourite childhood tv show?  Well, I had a lot.

I loved the 3 Stooges, the Little Rascals, The TWILIGHT ZONE, the Honeymooners, you know, and then things like Gilligan's Island... yeah, I would say those, yeah.  What is your favorite flavor of ice cream? Oh, I would say chocolate.  Hey Steve. I enjoy your acting.

 Have you ever been on reddit before? What do you think of it so far? Are you a big Web surfer at all? Any memes you love or hate? I... obviously, I think it's clear that i've never done this before! And it makes me extremely uncomfortable. And I don't go on the internet a lot.  Don't worry Steve, you're in good hands.  How dare you lie to Steve Buscemi. How many cartwheels can you do in under 30 second? Um... twenty-three.  Steve your awesome! What's your favorite film you've done with Adam Sandler? Well, I'm very partial to BILLY MADISON, because that was one of the first films that Adam did on his own, as part of his production company. And the film that we did before that was called AIRHEADS, which was directed by Michael Lehman, and that was the film Adam and I met on, where we played brothers in the band, "The Lone Rangers"... and I always have a great time working with Adam. I loved the character I played in THE WEDDING SINGER. I just worked with  him again on the western that he's shooting now called THE RIDICULOUS SIX. But yeah, I would say... I don't know if I have a favorite, but I really do love the character in BILLY MADISON.  Man I'm glad I called that guy! I really enjoyed that character too even though I felt so sad for him. "How can you pluralize The Lone Ranger?" You're not exactly... "Lone" What, in your opinion is the funniest movie you've been part of? Well, I can tell you the one that I probably had the most fun *making* was Stanley Tucci's film THE IMPOSTERS. This was the movie he made after BIG NIGHT, and we were all on a ship, and I played a character named Happy Franks, who was a sort of a suicidal lounge-singer... and it had an amazing cast of Stanley, and Oliver Platt, and Libby Taylor, and Elizabeth Brocco, Alison Janney, Tony Shahloub - we had SO MUCH FUN making it, and it's a very funny film as well. Billy Connolly is in it as well.  I just watched that movie a month or so ago, right after I watched Big Night, and it was one of the most fun movies I've ever seen. It's just a damn good time, and funny as hell. The cast was amazing, and you could really tell you were all enjoying it. 

Also, though I know you've checked out of Reddit for now, Ghost World was absolutely my favorite movie when I was in high school, and I just wanted to put that out there. Ok, lets try this again. What is the funniest movie you've been part of and why is it Billy Madison? Steve or Steven or Stephen or Sophie? Or Sophia/ shilabeouf/Salisbury/Sally. 

I thought you were amazing in Ghost World. That movie was obsurdly underrated. Staying true to oneself is such an important life lesson and that movie does a good job of displaying it. Thank you for your work.

-Diggsbee/Salamander  Do you read philosophy? If so who is your favorite philosopher and why? *Hmmm.*

I guess I don't read enough philosophy to answer that question.  I wish Reddit said this more often. I love how he is trying to answer every question. Even the ones he has  no answer to. What a great guy. that's pretty deep What's your favourite dog breed? I like mutts. I don't know that I have a favorite breed of dog.  That's okay. Ralph and George would like to suggest Miniature Schnauzer. Please don't be intimidated by their livid little faces. http://imgur.com/iemMfse you should cut their eyebrows so they can see (not full, just the tip)

source: I own a schnauzer too, and he looks way better that way man Haha cheers dude :) We'd love to have you over at [r/schnauzers](http://reddit.com/r/schnauzers) subbed! We'd love to have you over at [r/schnauzers](http://reddit.com/r/schnauzers) In the words of Lonestar, "I'm aaalready there" &lt;3 Awww they look pissed :) Mr. Buscemi, thanks for all of your fine work over the years. Which scene in Boardwalk Empire did you most enjoy filming? And are you as obsessive or passionate about anything as your character in Ghost World is about record collecting? Hi, Mr. Buscemi. According to IMDb, the part of Carl Showalter in Fargo was written specifically for you.  If this is true, were there any parts of your dialogue that you added unscripted? Thank you. Do you have any interesting hobbies? I don't, hahaha! None that are interesting, anyway.  Interesting hobbies are overrated. The most honest man.

Edit: that came out wrong. I meant that I admired him just being like "fuck it, I don't and I don't need to pretend for the internet." Mr. Buscemi, I am a huge fan, and have been since high school. 

My question may be a bit sensitive, and I understand if it goes unanswered. 

Did the assault against you in 2001 affect your view of your fame? 
Do you regret becoming so successful? How did this change your life, if at all? Did you grow from it? 

Also I would like to express my undying love for you and link you to this photo shopped image of me swooning on your shoulder.

http://imgur.com/cxX8SUn Great Photoshop skills. I can't believing you have made yourself look like Stevie B and he almost looks like a swooning woman. Kudos. Do you actually believe in tipping?  Please upvote this people Steve, youve been part of my consciousness ever since you portrayed Phil Hickle on *The Adventures of Pete &amp; Pete.*  From then on its been Zwigoff, Coens and *Sopranos* as personal favorites of mine.  Its an absolute thrill to get to talk to you, thank you so much for doing this.

*Per my mom* 

Theres been rumors (or quite possibly confirmation) about Ben Affleck and Bruce Willis ad-libbing in *Armageddon.*  Do you enjoy the spontaneity of riffing or would you rather stick to script?

*Per me*

Id seen all four features you directed previously to seeing your work in *The Sopranos.*  In *The Sopranos,* you really got a chance to try all different aspects of making a show.  As you continue on in your career, do you wish to write and direct more features/episodic television?  Do you enjoy any one process (acting, writing, directing) over the other?

Edit:  Bummed.  :( I completely forgot about The Adventures of Pete &amp; Pete until this comment. The memory of Phil Hickle instantly popped back into my head. I loved that show when I was younger but didn't fully realize until I was older what a nice job they did with it. Stuff like having Steve Buscemi on in a recurring spot, or Iggy Pop! 5 episodes out of that guy.  Dude, the exact same thing happened to me. I suddenly snapped to all the memories of that guy... Thanks dude. I'm bummed too, man. Seeing Pete and Pete in your comment brought that show rushing back into my head from when I was just a kid. I complete forgot Steve Buscemi was in that. He was the guy who could eat BBQ chicken without getting the sauce anywhere, right?  No, that was Inspector 34 played by some other brilliant actor.

Steve played [Phil Hickle.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ijaBpV81L8&amp;t=3m14s)  Ellen Hickle's dad and school guidance counselor. Ah ok thanks. For some reason that BBQ chicken scene sticks in my head, and it seemed like a role Steve would have been great at.  Don't feel down. Sure at least you can know that if stuck inside a vending machine, which candy Steve would reach for first :-/

Edit: And his spirit animal. Ha.  Yeah, I know.

Honestly, I've participated in a lot of these and I've gotten through to about 90% of the people that have been on.  So, I'm pretty thankful.  I knew with this one it would be hard to get through and if you make your question/s long, it's even harder.  But, to me it's worth it to say what you want to say to someone whose work you admire.  This may be the only chance you get to talk to them.

I've talked to some incredible people.  It's okay for others to get a chance/turn.

Edit:  And Victoria should get due credit for it happening, she's primarily been responsible for getting me in touch with these people.  Go Victoria! rekt ...

:( I knew I'd find you in here somewhere. Where have you been, stranger?! You mean you didn't just stalk my post history?  ;P TL;DR It actually isn't.  I know it's a tad long but I've submitted longer and have had it answered.  It's always a roll of the dice with AMA's.  This was a fun one to read. Dude, your MOM got a question in. It's too long. What's your favorite alcoholic drink?  What was it like acting in Spy Kids compared to Reservoir Dogs? I love you! Do you love me? totally I understand now completely why you're so obsessed with me. You should have just said this from the start! but i did! you NEVER notice me. makes me so sad.  Also, you might wanna fix [this](http://i.imgur.com/YilYnPD.png) comment where you're pretending to be me but referring to yourself and the subs you got me banned from. this is such a unique troll meltdown, really... You're the queen of internet meltdowns, you'd know all about them. oh totally! that's how i know you're in a rough place, just like sniperpanda and deanz_bitch who both have been very open about their depression, and it no doubt fuels their intuitive angst.

 Intuitive angst? You think people envy a loon like yourself because you're an "intuitive"? look up the word angst. does angst mean envy? try again.

haha yeah i'd say that a sub that seems to focus quite largely on bashing intuitives because of some sensor victim complex has quite a bit of intuitive angst. i'm sure you know this, or maybe you're so fucked up that you really have no idea what's going on with yourself. sad.  i think deanz_bitch aka krishol actually typed as an INFP at one point! LOLOL I'm glad she came to her senses and realized she wasn't. No one wants to be infp. Not even infps seems like you don't want to be yourself either :( Yes I did, thanks for mentioning me and thinking I wouldn't notice. I realized I wasn't INFP when I didn't identify with the INFPs' lifelong, subconscious urge to commit suicide. oh damn! u noticed me i gotta commit suicide now :((( ...well if you didn't delete your replies to me all the time to save face with others and get me banned from places maybe I would have a long time ago. oh, i don't want you to leave me alone! i would miss you too much &lt;3

sweetheart glabius knew of your existence and was going to ban you regardless of /r/mbti members bringing it up to him. certainly doesn't stop you from using your other accounts. 
 By mbti members you mean choogly and yourself? How do you keep glanius in your back pocket? You pm him your tits a lot I bet. And fatalfuryguy is all I've been since I've joined reddit. Nothing else. Don't project your handling of multiple usernames to keep your karma on this account floundering onto me  glabius confirmed with reddit admins that you and sniperpanda were doing tons of vote manipulation... that's why you got banned. If by vote manipulation you mean either up or down voting comments then, yeah? Sounds more like you went shrieking at him like some a banshee to get me out. And I'm a little upset you got me banned from skincareaddicts. I was learning so much about keeping my face beautiful  upvoting and downvoting from different accounts. if you have questions about how reddit admins determined you were using diff accounts, maybe ask glabius? i'm not really an expert.

seems like you take the bans so much to heart! you aren't becoming an INFP now, are you? What's some of the craziest stuff you have found in a bill that the politicians hoped no one would read? There's so much! A lot of the craziest stuff is in the fossil fuel related bills. For example, I've seen multiple bills that make people fly to Washington D.C. to challenge natural gas fracking and fossil fuel pipelines in court and I've seen lots of automatic approvals of permits. There was also a truly scandalous bill that allows US taxpayer bailouts of foreign and domestic banks that trade the riskiest derivatives (the kind that literally crashed the world's economy in 2008). That bill was quietly attached by Rep. Kevin Yoder of Kansas to the 2015 funding law - which President Obama had to sign to prevent another full government shutdown -  and is now law. That is still one of the craziest things I've ever seen in my life.  &gt;That bill was quietly attached by Rep. Kevin Yoder of Kansas to the 2015 funding law - which President Obama had to sign to prevent another full government shutdown - and is now law.

I haven't heard of this. Why haven't I heard of this? Any idea why that didn't get any attention? Because it was quietly attached by an unknown representative of a state no one cares about to a bill no one paid any attention to that no one read before it was signed.  &gt;to a bill no one paid any attention to that no one read before it was signed

Except that bill is what prevented another shutdown of the U.S. Govt. Obviously it was an important bill and people looked at it. And then didn't care. I don't know if it's so much that people didn't care as much as it was it was decided that shutting down the entire federal government over the attachment simply wasn't worth it. Now, why in the hell attaching unrelated riders to other bills is even allowed to be a thing is something I'd be interested in someone explaining to me. &gt; Now, why in the hell attaching unrelated riders to other bills is even allowed to be a thing is something I'd be interested in someone explaining to me.

This is something that I've researched and the answer is always "just because".

I know *why* it happens, but there's no indication as to *why it can happen*.

Look at the recent sex trafficking bill that just made it out of committee - republicans threw in language at the last iteration to block funding for abortions on trafficking victims and the dems in the committee *didn't read the version they approved*. They asked for a change log and it was conveniently left out there. It's taking advantage of the fact that our politicians aren't doing what we're paying them to do but we don't hold them accountable.

So I guess the reason it's allowed is the general public doesn't give a shit. To be fair : it's made complex on purpose so that most people can't understand shit about it, and they are also spending a lot of time in flooding the thing with bills so that you can't really read it all.

It's just people abusing the system basically. Exactly and it's that level of bs that needs to stop.  Sure it takes some references in the past actions of our founding fathers, but seriously we need this to be restricted.  One bill for one purpose. I swear House of Cards has gotten me more interested in politics now, good to know there is real life House of Cards action in our own government to keep me occupied in between seasons. The problem is that no one really knows what "unrelated" means. Check out the Wikipedia article on [relevance logic](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relevance_logic). The idea is to grease the political wheels to get things moving so that *something* can at least get done. You might, for example, want me to vote for your bill but I don't have any particular reason to do that. If, however, you were to say attach one of my hairbrained ideas to it then I just might be inclined to agree with you and vote for it.

Any half-wit (Congress apparently doesn't meet even this lowly standard) would see what kind of bullshit corruption and general mayhem this would cause. Jon Stewart talked about the amendment it was added at like 3am during an all night session right before the deadline to prevent another shutdown  TIL nobody cares about where I live. Its written in legalese and discussed on CSpan instead of major channels. Plus at the time more people were focused on an impending government shut down. Its amazing what kind of egregious laws are passed with out people noticing. In my home state the voting laws were just changed so out of state students attending college would have to re register their drivers license and change license plates if they wanted to register to vote here and virtually no one noticed because people don't follow politics that closely or realize how much of an impact they can have.  Im so depressed about the current state of our country. I wish there was more we could do. wolf-pac.com That's not really what I mean. What do you mean?

 I don't mind donating to something like that, but I can't help but be a bit hesitant about supporting one giant thing vs another.

Just wish I could do something more impactful. Boy, it just feels futile, doesn't it? I understand exactly what you mean. The problem with activism though is everyone immediately calls you kooky for going against the grain. They've attached such a stigma to it that it makes it almost impossible to get any traction. Then, you have things like the Occupy movement which was a great example of people being fed up and doing something about it and people turned it into a fiasco.  It's a trying situation. I helped organize a local occupy in a mid-sized city in the bible belt. We just gathered on weekends (because of work and laws prohibiting a true "occupation") so the participants didn't really get rowdy. What did happen though was like 2-3 cop cars parked beside us (we're like ~12 people each weekend) making us look like we're some big fuss. Then the reaction from the sheep flocking by was ridiculous. There was a lot of great response as well but how do you turn that in to "hey come join us". People are just so apathetic and generally busy in their routines.

I questioned u/Daeavorn in hopes that she/he could offer a plausible action. I feel like it may really need to be some kind of large scale movement, which would require a lot of people to wise up to the severity of the situation and rally around a particular solution. What mobilizes that many people (whether to the streets or the ballot box)? &gt;There was a lot of great response as well but how do you turn that in to "hey come join us". People are just so apathetic and generally busy in their routines.

Not true.  People are under loads of constant financial pressure from various sources of debt because certain interests have us convinced we should worship at the altar of FICO.

So your average person is so tired by the end of their day all they want to do is crash at home.  Then when the day(s) off rolls around all they want to do is relax.

I really believe we'd see more activism prior to the inevitable shitstorm coming our way if people didn't collectively have so much debt.  Problem is it's that same thing that'll cause the shitstorm which will eventually force people out of their homes.  Problem *there* is it'll be so fucking bad at that point people will have no choice. Wolf-Pac volunteer here. We need more callers. Sometimes we only have 30-15 volunteers. We got resolutions passed in 4 states. If we had 100 callers on phones, we could work on more states simultaneously. We don't want your money as much as we need your time. In an hour a week you could be one of the country's new founding fathers. It takes a fight fire with fire approach.  In a facetious way, it's sort of the argument of the second amendment.   The only thing that can stop a bad guy with a superpac, is a good guy with a super pac.         
  
  Btw, full disclousure, I volunteer for wolf-pac a few hours a week,  and personally, I feel like it has the potential to be one of the biggest impact things to happen to our democracy in my lifetime. I think this is a start. Thanks to this person* we are becoming more aware.  We have to keep this momentum going. We need more Americans becoming aware of what's happening.  

Edit: A lot of Americans can probably use some guides of how to fight back with these domestic enemies. Maybe that website? 

Edit 2: Yikes...Sorry for saying "dude". My apologies to Jen (I'm very thankful for what your doing and im very very sorry if you got offended at all by that) I'll try to keep that shit in check next time.  "This dude" being Jennifer Briney? The irony of "becoming more aware" and not knowing the sex of the author is killing me its a girl not a dude
 Women can be dudes. You racist. Agreed. Dude is a state of being. Not a state of gender. Says "The Dude".  &gt;There was also a truly scandalous bill that allows US taxpayer bailouts of foreign and domestic banks that trade the riskiest derivatives (the kind that literally crashed the world's economy in 2008). 

How can I find and read the text of this bill?  Hi, first off, thanks for doing the leg work most of us don't want to -- I can't imagine having to read through 245 congressional bills. 

What do you think is the best way an average citizen can compete with the corporate interests at both a local and national level? You're welcome :) Reading the bills is tough but it allows me to do fun things like this. 

As for what we can do to compete, that's easy: VOTE! 

About 80% of eligible voters under 30 didn't bother to show up in November. I haven't checked the other age brackets (I should) but that's a huge untapped voting block! All the gerrymadering of districts and assumptions and polls would go right out the window if the non-voters showed up. It should be socially unacceptable to not vote. 

So let me edit my statement: The best way an average citizen can compete with corporate interests is to vote, and to shame anyone who tells you they don't.  &gt; and to shame anyone who tells you they don't. 

Any suggestions for how to do this without antagonizing people? By letting them know that if they do not vote they are essentially saying, "Here is roughly 1/4 of the money I make, I do not care who controls it or what they do with it."  I have a couple idea's that might help. (again just ideas!)

1) Get rid of 2 Federal holidays (Columbus and Presidents) and instead have a Federal voting day. I'll pose this to Reddit but does anyone have an idea how individual States could implement this for congressional voting days? Yes not everyone would get these days off but it does give federal workers the ability to get to the polls.

2) Similar to Small Business Saturday, I propose business owners offer incentives in their store if they vote. I understand this would have to be a grass roots effort because they're the ones taking on the financial burden of discounting items. The whole idea is not to shame people for not voting, but give an incentive to get out out and vote. 
 And yet, this is your only comment I've seen thus far with lower karma than the posted question. People, even here, really have no belief in voting and it's a shame. They just go "oh it wouldn't matter anyways" while completely ignoring the fact that we still decide who to put into office. 

Thing is, as you alluded to, an overwhelming percentage of people under 30 don't vote. These people are typically left-leaning, even if they don't know it, while those who are very vocal about their beliefs almost always land on the Republican side due to strongly held beliefs. People with strong beliefs vote, and vote in droves cause they desperately want things to go their way, while those with a more care-free attitude wouldn't vote, despite their beliefs most likely associating with a better potential outcome.

While my sample size isn't huge, around the time of the general elections last year, of people I personally knew, or those who vocally stated it on Reddit, everyone who didn't vote would side as a Democrat or Independent. I never saw one Republican even question their right to vote, doing so without fail. 

While I don't condone forced voting because people who don't care about politics would pick random candidates, if everyone who did care, even slightly, voted our country would be much, much different.  It is ironic that most people think their vote doesn't count when it's usually the most effective political act most people ever take and the vote is the only thing that determines the outcome of an election. As the mantra goes, 

&gt; If voting isn't important, why do politicians spend so much energy making it harder to vote?  What are some of the more notable instances of corruption you've found? My entire show seems to be an expose of corruption but the bill (now law) that I mentioned above that allows bailouts of foreign and domestic banks that recklessly gamble on debt, that one still blows me away. There was another corrupt attachment to the 2015 funding that also shows how low the 113th would go which is they VASTLY increased the amount of money that rich people could give every year to political parties. It went from something like $33,000 a year (which is a lot to me) to about $250,000. So unbelievably self serving.   I really want to know how that conversation went.

"We need to allow people to donate as much money as they want to us.  BUT we can't be obvious about it and just eliminate the cap."

"Can we set it at a bajillion dollars?"

"Nah, still too obvious.  There has to be a number that sounds reasonable to poor people without being blantant about it. Hmmm" This is just disgusting. The worst part is outside of the few social media platforms like this, no one will hear about it. The major news corporations will never allow this type of reporting, as they too benefit from the financial interests of the political parties. Even if this were to reach #1 trending on Twitter and Facebook, it would quickly be covered by a big story about a celebrity. What's the best new law you've seen implemented? Sadly, this is the hardest question yet. The best thing I've witnessed was the repeal of a bad provision. The provision was slipped into a must-sign bill by Roy Blunt of Missouri and was nicknamed the "Monsanto Protection Act". For six months, a company that invented a new plant was allowed to sell that plant - that food - to consumers WHILE it was being evaluated for it's safety. The Internet found out about it and people flooded their Reps with emails. The law that reopened the government in 2013 repealed that provision. That was a beautiful drop of hope. It was proof that we can force change when we try.  So the law stopping *unevaluated foods from hitting the market* had to use the same sneaky piggybacking tactic just to get passed? Am I reading this right? You are. 

Proponents of the system will say that all legislation requires compromise, and that compromise can take varied and unusual forms. 

Opponents of the system will say that when every change, even the beneficial ones, requires the use of piggy-back amendments, back-room deals, odd legislative vehicles, theatrics, and last-minute heroics from our representatives that one of two conditions may be true:

* Our reps are absolute shit at their jobs (frightening when they're supposed to be our best and brightest, carrying out the will of all our nation's voters). 
* The process is inherently dysfunctional, preventing any straightforward action.

These options need not be mutually exclusive.  What do you think would be an effective and actually possible way of combating corporate influence in Congress?

Also, how does the current time compare to congresses of the past in impact of corporate influence and money? I love the idea Cenk Unger of The Young Turks is running with, which is WolfPAC (&lt;- google that for more info). The idea is to get a constitutional amendment that prohibits corporate money in politics by going through the States, instead of Congress (since our current Congress is the beneficiaries of all that corporate cash). My complimentary idea is to take over a mid-term election ( 2018 would be ideal) and mobilize around the idea of firing the corporate funded candidates from both major Parties. This would require at least one person from every district who is not a corporate hack putting their name on the ballot so that we have someone to vote FOR and then requiring that the first order of business in the new Congress would be the same type of constitutional amendment that WolfPAC is going for. Two strategies: Same goal. 

As for the current Congress vs old, I'm not sure. I'm still just learning how all this works and really can't comment on any Congress before the 113th (we're now in the 114th - every Congress is two years long). I can tell you that this one is looking very similar to the last one in terms of priorities and corporate influence... and that is not a good thing.  This is very similar to what MAYDAY PAC tried to do with the last election. They didn't do so well. Not sure what their plans are now. In your experience, what are the top three industries that exert the most influence over American politicians?  Excellent question.

1) Banking
2) Fossil fuels
3) Insurance/Pharmaceuticals 

EDIT: Defense should be #3  Geez, if I had to guess those would have been my guesses. 

Along with privatized prisons. They all seem so evil. Like sociopathic, these industries don't seem to care who they bankrupt, poison, or kill as long as it turns a profit.  Privatized prisons are, IIRC, like 3% of all prisons and generally dwarfed in comparison to the three she mentioned. It's taught in business schools around the country that business have but one goal -- money. A business isn't in the business of making a product, or offering a service and they sure as hell aren't in the business of taking care of employees, bettering society or taking care of the environment. Businesses have one goal - money. Everything else is just a means to that end. If a business makes more money ruining the environment, using child-labor in third-world countries, or doing crazy shit that causes a "great-recession" than that is what the business is going to do, and Americans around the country, in countless MBA programs are taught that that is not only the way it is, but the way it should be. As much change as can be made by voting, even more change could be made, I would argue, through voting with your dollars. Where and how you spend money, can make as much, if not more of an impact  than an election vote. Is there a service people can subscribe to that actually reports what lawmakers are doing? God knows the newspapers don't keep us informed anymore. My favorite source for raw information is govtrack.us. They have a tracking feature that allows you to get the exact information you are looking for. I have mine set up to email me every time a bill is signed into law. Here's the link to the page that lets you set up your tracking preferences https://www.govtrack.us/start I charted out an app that uses GovTrack API to inform voters of what *their* representative is up to. A system for both letting that person know how you feel about those issues and tracking the representative's voting record in relation to inputs from constituents via the app.

I was going to call it Representing Reality.

Edit: To those seeking to help out, please PM the folks below, like  /u/darthfroggy or /u/wannabesrevenge ,  who say they are working on something similar. Crowd source Reality

Edit2:  /u/staytheprovidence pointed out the app iCitizen which I see on Play Store. What happened to it?  Cost and time. I would rather unleash that project under someone else's banner than divert time from my other projects.

P.S. * if there is any interest to build it I will help describe the build. It's a very simple concept to implement, but the real prize is added functionality such as comparing voting district data to see who listens to their constituency in real time.

Certain politicians would sink in a heartbeat when their actions are clearly compared to their words. I'd  like to help build that. It definitely sounds like a worthy cause to pursue.  Shoot me a PM with your email. Im gathering names and will coordinate the effort of making this a reality! I don't have any skill for helping, but I would sure like to be notified when it's completed.  Could you maybe make a mailing list at some point? I also volunteer to help make this app happen. Edit: electrical engineer by day with embedded control systems software experience. I've dabbled with "apps" but never had any idea better than a fart app to pursue. I'll gladly volunteer in any way possible. Hey, possibly we should set up a github or similar collaborative project or something. Let's all PM each other, whoever's interested to make this happen. EditEdit: Just found this. In addition to the GovTrack API for US level, there is this for state level: http://sunlightlabs.github.io/openstates-api/ and this full list http://sunlightfoundation.com/api/ PM me your email, im gathering everyone who is interested and will be sending out a group email tonight.  This sounds amazing.  I don't have any software knowledge, but I have interest in this and would buy it. I've often wished there was something exactly like this.  I'm with you. I'd pledge money towards it a la KickStarter if it was possible. And I'm Canadian! Better neighbours make better home life! Have not considered kickstarter but now i will. Thank you neighbor from the north! Throw it up on github? Pm me I'm interested to help PM me/post the information, I'd love to at least take a look.  the app was banned and /u/Infinitopolis was slapped with child porn charges Meta....

I *mailed* flash drives to my friends though. What would I have to do (sexual favors aren't necessarily off limits) to get you to mail one to me? It's already on they way bro. &gt;the app was banned and /u/Infinitopolis[1] was slapped with child porn charges

Why do those damned political corruption highlighters always turn out to be child predators?

It can't just be a coincidence. I know! Only child predators would investigate the actions of the government! Therefore, *for the safety of our children*, I am going to propose a bill that automatically incarcerates anyone judged to be investigating the government due to them most likely being child predators.

It's for the children, people! You're not against the safety of our children, are you?! Support the Child Safety Act 2015! It's like calling someone a communist in the 80s. Doesn't have to be true, or even have ANY proof, just the headline, investigation, or just rumor is enough to just ruin your career politically. Even if it never gets proven to be true &gt;It's like calling someone a communist in the 80s.

That was more the case in the 50s, with Sen. McCarthy at the helm. In the 80s, the pejorative was "liberal". Wanna make someone run away from any position that they're taking? Call 'em a liberal, and thank St. Ronnie for the idea. That's pretty much how it happens. I've actually been working on the same thing. PM me if you're interested in sharing ideas and thoughts. My hope is to start developing it soon, still in design phase now. 
PM me your email address and ill reach out asap.  Sent. I was there when reddit took over oversight responsibilities /u/darthfroggy for president 2016 Hey! I was thinking of making a cross platform web app to that effect. Anyone else interested in this idea should PM me sounds like we have many people with the same idea and combining our efforts could be a great way to make this a reality.  Boom! That's what I was fucking hoping to hear. 

Cheers. You should do it!  I will help anyone that wants to try it. I'm buried to my elbows saving the world in other industries :P If this ever returns to your to-do list, please come back to reddit and let us know. I would love this. Public intrigue is a creators fuel. This type of thing could be a political game changer. Bringing social media into politics to actively engage your representatives in this way would be amazing. I would pay a decent amount for this app if you made it. I drool when thinking what the raw data behind a Ted Cruz or Mitch McConnell looks like. To have some sort of public oversight of our politicians that blends social networking, communal critique, and digital spot polling....you could even stick a QR code at the voting booth so app users can verify that they participated. 

Congress person X is paid $500k to support relaxing cigarette laws, app input for Rep X's district says "don't you fucking dare", you're move Mr./Ms. Representative. /r/watchingcongress In the UK we've got a pretty good website http://www.theyworkforyou.com/ How often do you see things that have nothing to do with the brief of the bill in the bill?  (i.e. having a section on health care within a bill for national security) Far more often than I expected  If anything deserves a Constitutional Amendment it is this. It should be required that every bill brought to the floor can contain one and only one subject.  Every time I watch the House in session I cringe when the clerk reads the title and almost always the title ends "and for other purposes."  

Things like adding a rider pertaining to food stamps (or some other non related item) to a bill naming a post office need to stop. What tactics are used to hide this influence from people like you? The laws about political action committees are really effective in hiding who is giving money to our candidates. Since 2010, PAC's have been registering with the IRS as tax-exempt 501(c)4 "social welfare" organizations. They don't do this to get out of paying taxes (they don't have to pay taxes even when properly registered as political); they do this because "social welfare" organizations do not have to disclose their donors. This loophole is being used to funnel massive amounts of secret money into influencing votes and I can already see the percentages of money that candidates get from PAC's (as opposed to individuals) increasing. It's tough to tell who is influencing the lawmakers with money if you can't tell where the money is coming from.  &gt;**The liberties of a people never were, nor ever will be, secure, when the transactions of their rulers may be concealed from them**. The most iniquitous plots may be carried on against their liberty and happiness. I am not an advocate for divulging indiscriminately all the operations of government, though the practice of our ancestors, in some degree, justifies it. Such transactions as relate to military operations or affairs of great consequence, the immediate promulgation of which might defeat the interests of the community, I would not wish to be published, till the end which required their secrecy should have been effected. But to cover with the veil of secrecy the common routine of business, is an abomination in the eyes of every intelligent man, and every friend to his country.

-Patrick Henry

http://www.constitution.org/rc/rat_va_07.htm How do you feel about President Obama becoming the first candidate of a major party to decline public financing, a move he took in 2008 that allowed him wide latitude to accept massive amounts of money from PACs and other shadow-donors? What are some telltale signs that a bill is purely for corporate interest and not for the betterment of the people? I always follow the money. When the change to the law helps businesses either pay less in taxes or obey fewer rules, you can bet it's designed by businessmen for businessmen.  "You follow drugs, you get drug addicts and drug dealers. But you start to follow the money, and you don't know where the fuck it's gonna take you." Follow Clay Davis. He'll take any mother fuckers money if he giving it away.  Sheeeeeeit. [Obligatory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l1dnqKGuezo) As soon as I saw OP's response, I was already hearing it in Lester's voice Money addicts and money dealers? /mindblown When you follow the money, you don't know where you end up! Usually at the top, right?  There is nobody on top. Only money. R.I.P anybody who does this What is the craziest thing you've seen in a bill or on cspan that wasn't covered by the major news networks? That has to be the treaty with Mexico (that was signed into law as an attachment to must-sign legislation) that allows deepwater drilling even deeper in the Gulf of Mexico than where the Deepwater Horizon was (the area is called the "Western Gap", if you'd like to Google it). Seems like something we should know about, especially the Gulf of Mexico border states.  The depth of the well wasn't what caused the disaster.  There have been many wells that are deeper than that well.  It was BP being complete retards on a multimillion dollar operation which killed several people and caused a massive spill.  There were so many ways that that well should have been successfully closed off, but BP screwed up every single one by not following the advice from the expert contractors and not following common sense.   There is no such thing as "must sign" legislation. 

The President has an enormous mouthpiece with which to call out the offending legislation and demand responsible laws. That he does not, is a choice. That choice is always available. 

Before someone tells me that the legislation had to be passed or it would shut down the government: Clinton shut the government down not once but twice, successfully placed the blame on the Republican Congress, and emerged with the highest poll standings of his career.

It's just a matter of rolling up your sleeves and being the President. &gt; It's just a matter of rolling up your sleeves and being the President.

that's immensely idealistic of you! you know what clinton also did? negotiated "welfare to work" and presided over the change in glass-steagall so frequently blamed for letting banks do crazy-ass shit that led to the economy tanking, and i guarantee if you pour over the appropriations bills clinton signed, you'd find just as much insanity.

presidents have limited political capital. obama expended massive amounts of it passing the aca; clinton got smacked the fuck down by congress, because he didn't work with them on his health reform package. there are lots of choices presidents must make about using the limited resources of public and legislator attention.

of course there isn't "must-sign" legislation; however, the morning after such bills are vetoed could leave a president reeling--a lame duck for the rest of their term. then how they gonna enact any agenda, least of all their own. How many bills are written to be obscure and hard to read rather than short and effective? The vast majority. The reason is that they edit current law. Most of my time is spent finding the part of the current law that is being edited and trying to figure out what is being changed. Some of the most important things I've found look like nothing in the bill - a simple change of one word - but when you see that word in context, it's a game changer. I would love to pass a law that requires the new text of the proposed law in it's entirety to be printed in these bills. It would make them so much easier to understand (even though it would make them "longer" to read).  Isn't there an app for this?

If not, WHY NOT?  (a wiki-style changelist WOULD be useful, right?)   GitHub for Congress. When you need to change something, submit a pull request and let us review the diff! http://i2.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/013/889/images.jpeg
 someone please start github for laws. There was a TED talk about using version control for laws. http://www.ted.com/talks/clay_shirky_how_the_internet_will_one_day_transform_government?language=en You make it, we'll use it How many pages long is the average bill? There really is no average. Lots of bills are less than a page; it's amazing how big changes can be done by changing one sentence of law. However, some are monsters. The 2015 budget was published less than 48 hours before it passed the House of Representatives and it was well over 1,600 pages long. It took me a month to read.  So lawmakers don't read the laws they pass? Please tell me this isn't that common. Do they at least gets cliff notes?  I emailed both of my state's Senators (Lindsay Graham and Tim Scott) and my Congressional Representative (James Clyburn) about net neutrality around a month ago.  I specifically asked for a response from all three addressing their plans for voting on the issue.  The only one I actually got a response from was Senator Scott, who was very dismissive of my viewpoint (which is the same viewpoint of most people, not corporations, on the issue).  

This brings me to my question.  Other than voting these people out of office (which is beyond my control other than casting my vote) how do you actually reach these congressmen?  They're supposed to be representing the people in their state and district, but it seems more like they just represent themselves, without considering the views of the people they represent (other than whichever lobby is padding their pockets).  A lot of people are too bothered to vote any other way than the status quo, so the likelihood of them being removed from office is slim to none.  They almost get a lifetime appointment to Congress unless they get caught in some sort of scandal.  With no guarantee they've actually seen my email (and Senator Graham's admission that he's never sent an email in his life), how can my views and the views of the people in the state get heard by these representatives on Capitol Hill? There are lots of ways. 

First, don't stop the emails and phone calls. I wouldn't worry too much about the responses because the point is to tell them where you are on a issue. If their inbox is filled with emails saying the same thing as yours, that's how they get scared. I've heard that hand-written letters are most likely to be read - this could be an effective way to reach out to the email-hating Senator Graham. 

Second, find out where they do communicate with people and go there. Do they have an active Facebook page? Also, lots of Reps are on Twitter. I had a 6 hour on-off conversation with Huntington Beach, CA's Rep. Dana Rohrabacher on Twitter. Some of them love it as much as we do. At the very least, the ones that use Twitter will see your tweet. Add your voice to the crowd.

You can also physically show up to their town halls. That's the best way to actually speak to them, if that's your goal. Find your Reps website or call their local office. The staff will be happy to help you find out when the next one is.  Letters and phone calls work better than emails, or signing a form email that gets sent to your Reps, although I know those are popular. When a politician gets a physical letter or someone takes the time to talk on the phone, it means that person is motivated to action, so that person is someone who will definitely vote, who will definitely influence their friends, etc. So the politician is generally much more likely to bend toward pleasing those letter-writers and callers over the emailers, because those are the people who can keep them in office.

Don't know if that makes any sense, and I struggle with the very same questions you raise. But I hope together we're making a difference. I am amazed that none of your congressional representatives responded to you.  When I worked on the Hill, all staffers did was make sure that constituents got responses to their letters.  Granted this was years ago, so maybe this just shows that Citizens United liberated Congress from the need to respond to or represent peons like you and me.

Anyway, I can't give you responsive congressional representation, so have an upvote.  Just as good, right? how many bills on average are deleted and rewritten to keep the same HR or senate resolution number and make it harder to search for relevant info? I actually don't see it very often, but when I do it tends to be major bills that get attached to minor bills, which make them tough to search for. The 2015 budget is a great example. They took a 6 page bill that had already passed the House (I can't remember exactly what it was about but it was something minor), they deleted that text and then inserted the 1,600+ pages of 2015 funding. During those precious few days before it became law, searching for the 2015 budget using the words "2015", "budget", "appropriations", or anything else that would logically make sense was useless. The only evidence that this happened can be found by looking at the 2015 funding law's sponsor. It still says that the law was written by Donna Christensen - she's the delegate for the Virgin Islands; she doesn't even get to vote!  The real author was Hal Rogers, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee  How is this not illegal or something? Surely you can't just make shit up and pass it on an old bill with incorrect credentials?  Right? Would this not be a violation of the presentment clause? Surely there is laws against that? If not there need be! There were but they deleted that part Is there any way to determine if this was intended to hide the truth of the bill, or was it just the most expeditious and convenient way to get an important piece of legislation passed? Just when I thought politicians could not get any slimier.... The reason this happens is often procedural. For the FY15 appropriations you're referring to, that was done to bypass a number of Senate rules that require a certain amount of time to go by before the bill can come up for a vote. It didn't occur because Congress wanted to make it harder to look for. What is sketchy is when Congressmen attach unpopular provisions into must-pass legislation such as this budget bill.  The wholesale deletion of bills I have only seen used as a tool of the Parties to get something done that is generally seen as necessary, but unpalatable.  A prime example is the shutdown.  The bill which reinstated funding to the government originated in the House, where it was passed (though it had absolutely nothing to do with refunding the government) and then the Senate edited it to be the temp budget.  That is something that they cannot do, since the Budget must originate in the House. Which company were you most surprised to see spending money on congressional lobbying?  None of them surprise me. It's a fantastic return on investment. A few million in campaign contributions (or legal bribes, which is what they really are) can get a company BILLIONS in government money, via contracts. Why wouldn't a company get a lobbyist?  &gt;A few million in campaign contributions (or legal bribes, which is what they really are) 

THANK YOU, I've been saying this for years, yet I meet people who defend it.

Why is it there and how do we get rid of it? I'm an American who works and likes to do other things than read bills. If I set aside 15 minutes from my redditing time, what should I be doing to improve the situation? Listen to Congressional Dish :)

I'm serious about that, but then also, write emails to your Representatives and Senators about whatever you do know about their job performance. It makes a huge difference. It's important to always remember that all the money in politics is going towards one thing: Influencing your vote. If you communicate with your Representatives, especially when you're unhappy, it freaks them out. The few times I've seen good things happen, it was always because of a flood of emails and phone calls.  Can't upvote this enough. People have a right to be cynical, but even the worst do actually track and monitor constituent contact.  I was just searching for a new podcast to listen to, you earned yourself a new listener, thanks for all the hard work you're putting into this! She's fascinating. Check out this one for a good recap on who she is and what she does:

**https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BlYkw0QB9mA** That was one of my first ever interviews. Thanks for sharing!  I still think you're going to end up in a padded room but thanks for doing it.  More likely end up in the gaming forums... &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; What's the biggest thing you've seen in bill that wasn't related to the bill's ostensible purpose? Well, you can never judge a bill by it's title. Shockingly often, I open a bill expecting it to be one thing and it's something completely different. For example, the "Save American Workers Act" was a bill that makes people work 40 hours or more every week to get health insurance through their jobs (it's currently 30 hours). What's that one saving us from? Health insurance? I never really know what a bill's purpose is until I've read it.  What do you think about movements to promote fundamental campaign finance reform?  Will that help solve a lot of this pseudo-corruption that seems to be growing in our government?

I'm afraid that huge money from corporations and special interests is turning our government into a for-sale PolicyMart.  Money from special interests is drowning out the voice of individual voters.  

Sometimes people seem turned off by this issue as if it is some kind of partisan wrangling.  But this is NOT a partisan issue.  This is an American issue.

Our politicians are supposed to be employees of the people, not our masters.  We hired our legislators to make policy and to solve real problems, not to spend most of their time phone calling rich people for money just so they can get elected again.

Anyway, I thought I'd point out some information and some organizations that are trying to do something to solve this problem:

- [**TED talk, Lawrence Lessig (Harvard law professor)**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mw2z9lV3W1g)  &lt;== Seriously, a very good presentation.

- [Mayday PAC to end all PACS](https://mayday.us/)

- [Wolf PAC (amend Constitution to eliminate congressional donations from groups)](http://www.wolf-pac.com)

- [Ben &amp; Jerry's getting active in a good cause (get the dough out of politics)](http://www.benjerry.com/values/issues-we-care-about/get-the-dough-out-of-politics)

Our politicians need to fear and respect the will of the people again.  I think we can fix things, but we each need to get motivated.  

We shouldn't let congress bathe in the warm, soothing comfort of our apathy and malaise.  

(*Note: I am not an official in any of the above organizations.  Nor am I affiliated with a special interest or even a political party.  I'm just a random guy who's frustrated with his government.*)
 I completely share your frustrations, which is one of the main reasons I started Congressional Dish. I had to do SOMETHING. I think legal bribery of politicians is the root of all of our problems and banning legally bribery of politicians by anybody - not just corporations - is the first step to fixing them. If we are going to organize around a focused cause, this should be it.   Are both parties equally corrupted by lobbyist influence?   I don't know about equally but they both definitely corrupted. It's better, in my opinion, to judge by the individual.  Hi Jen -

As society, and the country grows, how can an average citizen keep up their understanding of the law and government without making a full time commitment? How can we even begin to understand legislation, its short and long term effects on us with the information resources (school, news) citizens usually have?  That's the question that lead to Congressional Dish. I asked the same thing but there was no resource, so I created one. It should be the job of the well-paid media to read these bills and report on their contents every day and it's just not happening. Instead, we get wall to wall coverage of a looney Senator announcing his candidacy for a Presidential election he has no chance of winning that's still over a year and a half away. It's madness.  How often is it the case that corporations write the bills that affect them? I don't know, but I want to. I wish I had time to compare all the bills with the texts available on ALEC's website. (ALEC is the American Legislative Exchange Council and they bring together State representatives and corporations to literally write bills together. They call their bills "model legislation".) I know that lobbyist written bills have made it through Congress; I don't know how many.  Doing your best to put your personal beliefs aside, would you say that one party's congressional and/or legislative habits as a whole are more deceptive than the other's? Honestly, no. They are deceptive in different ways. The Republicans are actually quite upfront about their motives; they brag often about how great their bills are for business. In fact, the idea for Congressional Dish was partially hatched when I saw Rep. Tom Cole of OK brag about slipping a provision to protect secret campaign contributions into a spending bill. I saw him say it on C-SPAN. The Democrats are sneakier. As a Party, they are fake opposition. They pretend to be the "Party of the People" but then co-sponsor bills like that awful bill that lets banks get taxpayer bailouts if they crash the economy again. When it comes to judging a Representative or Senator, doing it by Party is not the way to go.  &gt; When it comes to judging a Representative or Senator, doing it by Party is not the way to go.

I wish we could get the word out about that.  There are people voting for Lamar Smith, *the guy behind SOPA* because the idea of voting for a Democrat scares them so badly.  And people voting for Feinstein based on the same logic. Isn't the silence deafening? What can be done to spur real public interest in these issues? Not that flag waving horror show you see during political rallies. Actually, this experience is proving to me - without a doubt - that real public interest is there: The information is not. I'm hoping that Congressional Dish will inspire copycats (because there is too much information for me to find and share myself). If Congressional Dish and other outlets like it become popular, the rest of the media will follow suit. I cancelled my cable news subscription years ago and others are doing the same. The "news" organizations already know their model doesn't work with anyone younger than the baby boomers; what they don't know is what to replace it with. I'm hoping to lead the way.  Have you compared the amount of corporate influence in government before and after *Citizen's United*? It's often cited as the primary cause of corporate influence in politics, but it would be interesting to get an idea of how bad things were before *Citizen's United* and compare them to how things are now.  That would be so interesting! Unfortunately, I didn't start reading the bills until 2012 and the Citizens United case was decided in 2010. All of my knowledge is from after the floodgates opened.  How often do lobbyists and corporate attorneys "provide the language", that is, actually pen the very laws "written" by congress? I wish I had a way to find out. I know for sure that one bill which had 75 out of 80 lines literally written by Citigroup was signed into law a few months ago, but I only know that because of an investigation by Mother Jones. Other than physically comparing the texts with the texts available on ALEC's website, I don't know how I could find out without some journalist assists.  I wish I knew  What's your counter-argument to the idea that I, as an average American citizen, couldn't possibly know enough about a particular industry to be directly involved in its legislation and regulation? I know we all say that corporate influence is bad, but how would a group of "concerned citizens" be any better or more knowledgeable about what's best for certain industries? Don't we need experts and specialists? With the all of this in mind, what do you think will be the state of the US in the next decade? Do you see any hope in this crony capitalism being reversed or will it only get worse? I have lots of hope, otherwise I wouldn't bother with any of this. One of my favorite books is George Orwell's 1984. It's almost like these "powers that be" took that book and used it as an instruction manual. However, the one thing Orwell didn't see coming was the Internet. Yes, the world elite have set up the system to spy on us all but with the internet, we can watch them back. Congressional Dish could not exist 10 years ago, but now, some girl with a microphone and access to online government documents can tell you what is in Congressional bills. It's magical! We also can - and will- use this amazing tool  to organize with our communities to vote for better people, and we can do it without playing the money game. Anyone can launch a YouTube channel and speak directly to the world. We really don't need millions of dollars to pay the TV networks for airtime anymore. As soon as this idea spreads, and I think it's inevitable (Democracy Now is already hosting Presidential debates on the Internet), I think we will start to turn things around. Are you involved with Wolf-PAC? Is their method the best way to get money out of politics? I'm not but I love their idea. It's one of the best I've heard so far and definitely worth supporting  Are you affiliated with any political party? Nope. I was registered Republican when I turned 18 because my parents were Republicans. After the Iraq War was launched for no good reason, I registered as Independent, before I knew that was a political party. Now I'm registered as "unenrolled" or "decline to state". I wish we didn't have political parties at all.  Having read a number of bills yourself, what are your thought on Rand Paul's Read the Bills Act and other similar legislation? Do you think legislation of this kind has any chance of passing? I haven't read it but isn't reading the bills just a basic part of a Congressman's job description? Seems absurd to me that we would need a law to get them to read the laws they are creating. The way I see it, the people in Congress are our employees and this is a terrible indication of their job performance. It's on us to fire the ones that aren't doing their jobs.  Is corporate lobbying legal?  If so, why does the government allow corporate entities to influence legal framework by such means? Unfortunately, it is. Also unfortunate is that the people who benefit from corporate lobbying are the people who make laws, so they have made it more legal over time - more money allowed and fewer consequences for breaking the rules we have left. 

I think it's important to remember that the government doesn't make the laws. People - humans in Congress - make the laws. They allow these laws to stay on the books - and increase the number of those laws - because those individuals in Congress benefit from them. They get to collect millions of dollars and spend it on food, travel, a staff, etc. Who wouldn't want that? That money buys them a lifestyle... a lifestyle that doesn't suck. 

People tend to blame "the government" for allowing this but the government is a tool. The government could be used to create amazing infrastructure, to ensure a basic standard of living for every taxpayer, to make this a clean and fair country. Instead, we've trusted this amazing tool to selfish people who work for Wall Street, and therefore, it is being used to benefit Wall Street. It's all about the people in charge.  When and why do you think Americans started to tune out of politics? 

How can we fix this issue?  As a complete outsider I'd think it would be important to have an independent body read these bills as they are suggested and summarise them in a form that everyday joe can understand. THe problem is that even if you want to be informed, it's simply too time consuming or even impossible to grasp whats going on and it can be a big turnoff if you just feel it all goes "over your head".

So simply getting it more at eye level for most people would probably help a lot. The big problem in this solution is of course who is to summarise, because that is hard to do in an objective way. I'm sure some people already do this (OP), however it also needs to be advertised to the people in a decent manner, because if only &lt;1% actually reads it, it's probably not overlapping with the people you want to target (the people that zone out of politics).

It's not an end all, but I feel that would be a place to start. That's what I'm trying to do with Congressional Dish. It's impossible to be fully objective and entertaining at the same time  - I don't try to pretend I don't have opinions - but I spend hours finding ways to explain complicated things in a way that anyone can understand... in a way I can understand. I hope you'll check it out :) As a citizen I feel completely helpless at the current state of our government. I feel as a whole the government keeps us "just" happy enough and ill informed that we go along with these things. What do you think is one major thing I can do to really see change? If you're answer is voting, I feel that is completely pointless unless you truly inform the majority, can you persuade me on this? I completely understand the way you feel. Here's a good thing to keep in mind: The government is a tool that is used by human beings to create the laws that make you feel that way. Replace the humans in charge, you can replace the laws. How do you replace those humans? Voting. And here's the great news: Most of us don't vote, especially in midterm elections. In the last election, about 80% of eligible voters in the country's largest voting block - people under the age of 30 - didn't vote. That's a huge untapped voting block! If they simply showed up, all the political calculations and gerry-mandering of districts - which is based on historical voting patterns - flies right out the window.  Is it too late for American politics? Has capitalism destroyed democracy entirely? Is there ANY possibility of future laws prohibiting corporate influences on politics? Would a term-limited Congress help stem the tide of corporate money in politics? It's not too late at all! One of the beautiful things about our system is that it was designed for times like these. The House of Representatives controls all the money and we have the ability to fire every single person in the House of Representatives every two years. The problem is that we don't. We have two problems that are completely in our hands to fix: 1) We have shamefully low voter turnout and 2) The people who show up vote consistently for the person currently in office. My dream is to see a wave of people - especially young people - show up to vote their first time in a midterm election and dramatically change the Congress. It's absolutely possible. With new people in Congress, yes, we can absolutely create laws prohibiting corporate influence in politics. And no, I don't think term limits are necessary. We just need to vote.  What would you say to people who don't view the other options as better options? 

To me, more often than not, it seems the people who are in the position to be voted into office are not the people I want in office.  Run yourself.

100% serious.

 As a fellow young voter, what should be done to make more young voters turn up to the ballots?  Do you wish you had never seen the corruption and remained oblivious of the stuff that happens up on the hill? I've been paying attention since 2003 and I tried to run away from it all. Literally. In 2008, my now-husband and I sold pretty much everything we owned and bought one-way tickets to Europe. But the problems of the United States were happening there too. We now have a global system designed to serve the U.S. stock market and it's raping the environment and pick-pocketing the citizens of countries around the world. Then, after our visas ran out, I went to Hawaii for a few years. I waited tables, had a killer tan, and wound up feeling empty, useless, and scared. It was actually worse to only get the news in little bits because I didn't understand what was happening. Now that I'm producing Congressional Dish, I feel like I really understand what is going on and I'm doing something about it. It's empowering. I've never been happier.  How often are big pharma corporations behind legislative bills? I don't know but I have noticed that more than a few bills have been focused on making "drugs more affordable", which is code for getting government money to pay for people's pills.  What's the most recent example of a presidential veto being overturned?  How does anyone stand a chance of winning a election without the money?

Local, small town, sure it is winnable by name recognition but money still has influence on even the smallest town elections.

So how? How does the playing field become "level", so to speak? I think the Internet is doing a lot to deal with this issue. Once the public demands a solution to wasted-vote syndrome, I bet we will see a lot of newcomers making progress on shoe string budgets thanks to viral marketing campaigns. Couldn't have said it better myself.  Thank you, gives me something to ponder. What's Frank Underwood really like? Hillary and Bill Clinton? Do you have any suggestions for not burning out while following politics? In the morning!

I just found out about your show while to the 'No Agenda' show pre-stream. 

I listened to your latest episode and have downloaded some of the past ones to listen to this week!



I think you've got a good format /show layout, the Android app is great too! The only negative comment I have is your co-host(the guy in episode 093) is either a low talker or his mic was a bit off during someone of his 
comments.




I'd like to know why the latest episode is from hearings that took place in January. Are you just backed up with the amount of hearings that take place?

I like the show and hope to contribute in the near future, thank you for your courage.

 In the morning! Matt definitely noticed his lower voice when we were editing the last episode. He actually shouted "Speak up!" at himself as we were listening :) He's going to work on it. That was only his second time on the air; he'll get the hang of it. 

The episode is from January because we are still trying to figure out how to do the hearing episodes. That was only our second one and it's a pretty technically complicated process that we are inventing as we go. It's been bumpy. That episode was actually supposed to be three hearings but one of the recordings was lost - by me. For the general's hearing, we lost the recording of the hearing itself, so we had to go back and re-record it and find the clips we wanted. It was awful. Third hearing went fine except that Henry Kissinger had the longest pauses I've ever heard; he makes Obama seem like an auctioneer. On top of that, I was training Matt on how to edit so that he can take some of these and edit them while I'm reading bills. Basically, that episode was a beast. It shouldn't take so long in the future. 

I'm so happy you like the show! Thanks for stopping by the AMA :)  In the Morning.. I was going to ask if she listens to the No Agenda Podcast!  She would fit in perfectly.  Just discovered her podcast. I do, when I can. 6 hours a week is a lot but Adam and John do great work. I look up to them, for sure. John added Congressional Dish to the No Agenda Stream a few months ago so our shows are definitely friends  Have you done any work to correlate bills being passed which might financially benefit a corporation or industry with sponsoring politicians who received campaign funds from that corporation or industry?  Can you comment on if there is a clear trend of favoritism/influence supported by the data? What makes a "good" bill, in your opinion? In a congressperson's opinion who does NOT take corporate cash? In a congressperson's opinion who does? Unfortunately, I don't have any examples of bills that have passed that I've loved, but I would love to see some that improve our physical health and safety. There are so many ways that people are getting cancer that it's pretty much a joke. All the chemicals in our food. The pollution from cars and trucks as we walk down the street. Fracking scares the hell out of me, especially now that we know that fracking waste has been dumped in California's dwindling drinking water - my drinking water - for years. I also live about a mile from the location of the freeway that fell and crushed 40-something people during the 1989 earthquake. I know enough to know that I can't trust the rest of the infrastructure, not just here, but all over the country. I'd love to see some bills that address those issues - in a way that funds the improvements we need and stops the corporate practices that poison our world (the bills I regularly see generally stop enforcement of environmental law - those are the one's I get the most emotional about). 

I can't really speak to watch the Congress members think. I don't know them. I have no idea how they rationalize their behavior.  Thanks for answering! You're a very thoughtful person :) There are a ton of programs out there to try to get youth active in politics, but to little avail. How do you suggest youth become more active in politics and what impact do you think it would have in politics if it worked? What is the average bill about, and have you read any blatantly corrupt and/or ridiculous bills that aren't reported on? If so, can you give me a brief rundown of it? I have read so many bill that speed up and even automatically approve permits for fossil fuel extraction and I almost never hear anything about them in the media (although I don't watch cable news). That's probably the area where the silence is the most deafening; the strangehold that fossil fuels has on Congress. It's far worse that I had imagined  From your experiance, do you think we will effectively get "big money" out of politics any time in the near future?  Ever? 

For clarification, I understand corruption and financial influence will **always** be a thing in every level of government, but is there any hope to effectively get it to a *much* lower level than it is now?
  Thanks for taking the time to do this AMA! I think we will. I think there are enough people on board with the idea that the money in politics is out of control that we will do something about it as soon as we can get the right people into Congress to make the laws. The Internet lets us communicate in a way we've never been able to before (this conversation is beautiful proof!) and we'll use it to mobilize. The question is how bad things need to get before the people who pay no attention are forced to get involved.   that is so incredibly disappointing but not at all surprising. Thank you so much for your response.  You seem staunchly opposed to corporate influence in lawmaking. We're all prone to confirmation bias. Can you think of a couple cases where corporate influence has improved a law? That's a tough question because I'm not in the room while the bill is being crafted. If a corporation was changing a bill in the public interest, how would I know? The instances that are obvious are the negatives ones, instances where one industry is clearly the benefactor and it's usually in a way that will clearly make that industry more money. If a bill with passages that clearly favor one industry is written by someone that is proven to be taking money from that industry, that's the influence that is most obvious. I didn't start this project looking for corporate influence. It's just what I found.  &gt; That's a tough question because I'm not in the room while the bill is being crafted. If a corporation was changing a bill in the public interest, how would I know?

Does that concern you? Truncated data is a major issue in statistics. If you can't count the instances of good influence, you don't know which force outweighs the other. Without knowing that, how do you pick the appropriate reforms? So Just how jaded and cynical are you after reading what most of the bills cover and what seems to be a bunch of shady people putting them through? I'm really not. I'm more hopeful now than I was before starting, as strange as that is. I used to - like many people - think the entire system, the government itself, was broken. Now I don't. Now it's more obvious to me that this government is being run by humans. I've gotten to know some of them by watching them, especially in the House. The whole thing isn't so mystical anymore. Now I know that some of these people - too many of them- are as far from geniuses as you can get, which tells me that we have immense room for improvement. The challenge is to get people to pay attention to Congress. Everyone makes it so boring. I'm highlighting the stuff that fascinates me and it turns out that others are fascinated too. Knowledge is power and the more we know about Congress, the more power we'll have to change it. I'm extremely hopeful for the future.  I know I'm late to the party here, but is there any one rep/senator that stands out as being the most bought by special interests?  Rep. Mike Pompeo of Kansas is pretty stunning in his devotion to fossil fuels  Why are you the one reading these Bills and the people who are signing them into law and agreeing to them are not? An excellent question for your Representative and Senators  Thanks for the reply!  

Its disheartening to see what sneaks in.  Amazing that its so easy for the leaders of the free world to be able to cater to the money so much.  your AMA has been quite eye opening. I'm glad you've enjoyed it! Thanks for joining me :)  How accurate is House of cards in displaying politics? I don't really know. I loved the first two seasons because it captured my imagination about what I think it's like, but this last season was a disaster in every way. It's like the lobbyists just disappeared! I wish I could get those 13 hours of my life back.  [deleted] I read that Netflix produced the American remake because their market research showed that people like remakes of British shows and they like Kevin Spacey. Couldn't agree more with you! I was such a fan of the show until the third season. It was awful. As someone with an MS in Political Science, I can tell you that House of Cards:politics::Grey's Anatomy:medicine. When was the last time you said to yourself "Christ, that's not what I invented it for!"? Seriously, when I heard of people being hit by  crytpowall and crptolocker attacks. A company I did some work for got hit by the new version of CryptoWall recently, via someone's PA opening a dodgy Word document. The malware encrypted a bunch of her files (renamed them to blah.doc.ecc) and then went to work on their entire SAN, which was accessible from the victim laptop. AV caught it 8 hours later (new sig in the latest definitions), by which time it'd encrypted a few hundred thousand documents.

You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing. CryptoWall keeps a log of all the file names it has encrypted, so he wrote a powershell script to go through and revert all the files to their previous shadow copies and they were back up and running after an hour. No ransom paid, all files restored.

They now have heuristics on the SAN to catch these operations in real-time. [This guy?](http://xkcd.com/705/) The alt text really struck a chord with me, I've definitely been that borderline sociopathic sysadmin before. If you are on mobile like me: "Title text: The weird sense of duty really good sysadmins have can border on the sociopathic, but it's nice to know that it stands between the forces of darkness and your cat blog's servers." I'm kinda new to XKCD. What's the alt text?  Hover the cursor over the image, or, if you're on mobile, add **m.** to the front of the link and click the image. I did not know about m.  What an excellent learning opportunity for you!

M is a very useful letter. To replicate the sound that m creates, do as follows:

1. Tighten your lips together.

2. Put a slight force of air behind your closed lips.

3. Allow your vocal chords to make noise and release, opening the lips outward.

Now that you know how to use an m, I encourage you to read the rest of this co**mm**ent out loud (the two ms in comment are pronounced the same as a single m).

M has a magnificent history. The following is taken from the masterful website, Wikipedia:

&gt;The letter M is derived from the Phoenician Mem, via the Greek Mu (, ). Semitic Mem probably originally pictured water. It is thought that Semitic people working in Egypt c. 2000 BC borrowed a hieroglyph for "water" that was first used for an alveolar nasal (/n/), because of the Egyptian word for water, n-t. This same symbol became used for /m/ in Semitic, because the word for water began with that sound.

The marked origins in hieroglyphics may surprise you. 

__________________________

That's all I have time to tell you about m this morning, but make it known that there is plenty more to marvel at. If you have any more questions about letters, feel free to direct them to me.  You put more effort into a comment that will probably be so deeply buried than I put into most of my research papers.

Edited A Day Later: Well damn. Might as well go eat my shoe now. [Letter of the Day is M](http://youtu.be/SKoJUU_6fII) Where is the xkcd bot? Hit by a cryptowall attack.

WHERE IS YOUR GOD NOW. Where is your question mark? &gt;new version of Crypto Wall  
&gt;went to work on their entire SAN  
&gt;(new sig in the latest definitions)  
&gt;he wrote a powershell script  
&gt;previous shadow copies  
&gt;heuristics on the SAN

Imagine saying what you said to someone from the 1950s  Or a guy like me in 2015. If you're interested, (also, I'm not an IT guy, some of the comments below give better answers)

**crypto-wall** I didn't acutally know this one but from context clues it's clearly a type of malware that tries to encrypt everything so that the files are still on your hard-drive, but unusable, and then the person that sent it holds your encryption key hostage until you pay a "ransom" so that you can unencrypt all your files and use them again.

**SAN** ~~Secure Access Network, so a network, probably for a work-place, which is "secured" and not meant to be connected directly to the internet.~~ See blind2314 comment below

**new sig in the latest definitions** AVG and other anti-virus companies send out frequent virus updates, because mean people who make viruses continue to make new ones. AVG caught the malware in question because AVG downloaded a new virus definition telling it that the version of crypto wall was malware and needed to be shut down.

**powershell script** scripts are used by IT dudes to do IT stuff; add/delete/backup files. If you have to do a similar thing to thousands of files, it sucks, but if you write a short script for it, the computer can do it for you.

**previous shadow copies** a good system-admin will do frequent back-ups that can't be deleted, and they will back up *everything* on the network. [EDIT: apparently windows does this for you and that's what's called a "shadow copy", I have been corrected in a response] The copy of the network drive is called a "shadow copy"

**heuristics on the SAN** heuristics are tools that may not tell you directly that you have a virus, but they define behavior that is probably malicious. For example, opening and closing lots of network files is probably malicious behavior, and the software should be stopped.  SAN is actually Storage Area Network. It usually consists of several specialized machines, known as storage arrays or disk arrays (simply depending on what you want to call them) , that remotely store data. That way you can have your machine, whether it be a server, laptop, or whatever, have access to this data without keeping a copy of it. 

It's more complicated than that in practice, but that's a basic idea of what's going on with a SAN. Eh, they'd just hear technobabble, like many people would today.

I think more interesting is considering that something like "my phone fell out of my pocket and broke, so now I don't know what time it is" would actually sound like the ravings of a lunatic to someone from the 1980s.

Edit; changed 1990s to 1980s because of facts and history and whatnot. Yeah, or anyone non technical today  Can confirm. Am confused. Powershells are those things you shoot from your mariokart right? As a sysadmin that deals with a lot of windows servers and powershell, that genuinely made me chuckle.

I'll go and annoy some fellow sysadmins with that one in the morning, if you don't mind. :) &gt; A company I did some work for got hit by the new version of CryptoWall recently, 

CryptoWall is a notoriously nasty "computer virus" that makes your files inaccessible, and demands payment in exchange for returning your files.

&gt;via someone's PA opening a dodgy Word document. 

PA = Personal Assistant

Word = Microsoft Word 

&gt;The malware 

malware is a more general term for what you would commonly think of as a computer virus.  Any software that is malicious.  

&gt;encrypted a bunch of her files (renamed them to blah.doc.ecc) 

"made a bunch of her files inaccessible using a particular technique"

&gt;and then went to work on their entire SAN, 

SAN = Storage Area Network, basically a shared hard drive connected to the network rather than directly to the computer.

&gt;which was accessible from the victim laptop. AV caught it 8 hours later 

AV = Antivirus

&gt;(new sig in the latest definitions), 

sig = signature; Antivirus works by looking for known bad files.  It does this by comparing files to short mathematical descriptions (signatures) of known bad files.  It's like checking to see if a book is a particular book by checking if a particular sentence is in that book instead of by comparing the entire book.  

&gt;by which time it'd encrypted a few hundred thousand documents.
&gt;
&gt;You'd think this sounds dire, but one of their sysadmin guys shrugged it off like it was nothing. CryptoWall keeps a log of all the file names it has encrypted, 

The virus keeps track of all the files it had made inaccessible

&gt;so he wrote a powershell script 

"He wrote a simple program"

&gt;to go through and revert all the files to their previous shadow copies and they were back up and running after an hour. No ransom paid, all files restored.

"to go through and restore the files on that list from backup without paying the ransom"

&gt;They now have heuristics on the SAN to catch these operations in real-time.

They now have some kind of process that looks for this type of behavior real-time instead of just waiting for someone else to find the bad files and tell everyone. Your IT guy is better than my IT guy.  You usually get what you pay for.  And it's usually Adobe Reader.  To be fair this was a huge company with a dedicated security team and a respectable budget. This makes a big difference. People really don't understand. New versions of cryptowall are smart enough to delete shadow copies.  This was 3.0 (the latest) and it didn't delete the shadows. That being said, it might've been because the infected user didn't have access to shadow copies via the mapped volume. Oh yeah, that's pretty smart.
Least privilege maxim saves the day again!  Sounds like proper netsec there. The only people who should be able to modify the final backup should be the one that would use it (ie a sysadmin). As a bonus that person is also less likely to get the virus.  The lesson here is:

# Backup your shit!

http://www.worldbackupday.com Nice try western digital ceo! CEO or not, he's got a point... Can I examine that script? :)  Not my script, nor my IT guy. Was a client.

That being said, it's just a case of doing `File.ReadAllLines` to load the paths into an array, regexing/splitting out whatever gunk is in there per line, then looping through and invoking `volrest` (or similar) for each file. Really the only way to fix a crypto attack is patch the security breach and recover from backup. Some versions of crypto don't encrypt they just overwrite the first set of bits in the document rendering them unusable and unrecoverable. On a lighter note, what was the best thing you've said "Now that's what I invented the web for!"?

^(*other than your actual reasons for inventing the web I guess) Cat videos, obviously.

Or porn. Probably porn. Videos of pussy, got it Tim didn't invent the Internet, he invented the Web. (Distinction: the Web is what you do in a web browser. Email is not the web.)

It's like the distinction between New York City and New York State. Email's probably not such a great example nowadays given how many people do email in their browser. Thanks Tim!  Hi! What's the best thing to come from the Internet? The spirit of global collaboration among all the people working on it.  [deleted] You mispelt *"porn"* You misspelt "misspelt"

But yes I agree. Think back to a time of darkness where the only access to porn was via magazine or vhs. *shudder* You all misspelled "misspelled" Both spellings are correct. Yay English, you weird ass language! Also dank memes.  Whats your best non-internet thing that you love? People Some of my best friends are people! I have a bad feeling that in 25yrs - asked as a *turing question* - the answer will **not** be "people". The answer would be cats, and everyone would still be unsure if it's an AI or a person.      The flower would have also been acceptable.     &lt;-- Four spaces before the text.     Wow     such format     much black "This isn't why I invented this"      I didn't know I could do this. I'm going to start doing this. What do you think about memes?  One does not simply ask the inventor of the WWW what he thinks about memes.

 Fine. *sigh*

    $ telnet tim 80
    Trying tim...
    Connected to tim.
    Escape character is '^]'.
    GET /what-do-you-think-about-memes.html HTTP/1.1
    Host: tim
    User-Agent: peat
    Language-Accept: en-US
     HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
    Date: Tue, 10 Mar 2015 19:30:31 GMT
    Server: timbl
    Connection: close
    Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8

    &lt;!doctype html&gt;
    &lt;html lang="en"&gt;
      &lt;head&gt;
        &lt;meta charset="utf-8"&gt;
        &lt;title&gt;One does not simply...&lt;/title&gt;
      &lt;/head&gt;
      &lt;body&gt;
        &lt;img src="https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg" alt="One does not simply ask the inventor of the WWW what he thinks about memes."&gt;
      &lt;/body&gt;
    &lt;/html&gt; The imgflip link actually works. A+.

Here is the link for the lazy https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg I cry every tim. Net tools can't melt dank memes.     Dammit  Not MEMED 
 MEMED [:)](https://i.imgflip.com/io4y2.jpg) That took me at least 30 taps to get it to show the image.

I'm on mobile [.](http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=LlhKZaQk860) Somehow that worked on the first try. Thanks :) It took me 30 *faps* to get it to show the image.

I'm on a horse. &gt;:')

FTFY Well meme'd my friend! So dank [Only the dankest](http://i.imgur.com/bnWmD60.png). "They're pretty dank" Now you are Sir Tim Berners-Lee, dankest of danks. Very nice meme, one of the best things after the invention of the Internet.  With the developments about internet users' privacy (or lack of) online, what would you recommend we do? Do we stand up to the government, or get around these problems with encryption etc? Great and very important question, with no simple answer.   We must work with government to make them accountable when they use our personal data -- however they got it.   Just a battle of crypto might is not a solution, we also need to change laws and change the structure of government agencies. We need to give the police certain power in exchange for transparency and accountability.   And we need to encrypt email and web traffic everywhere, for general security. [deleted] Suddenly_Snowden? Holy shit, you don't comment much. There is a 3 year gap between two posts.  That's some serious lag. Is it true you're from Colehill or is it just an urban myth? If so Hi from Colehill and congratulations on being awesome. I certainly lived in Colehill Dorset for a bit.  High 5.  Have a pint of Tanglefoot for me at the Barley Mow if it is still there.

 &gt; Have a pint of Tanglefoot for me at the Barley Mow

This might be the most British sounding thing I've ever read. Pretty much as British as it gets.

Source: am British, have had a pint at the Malt Shovel. [deleted] Come to Bath mate, I'll take you to the Westgate for a lovely pint of Old ~~Peculiar~~ Peculier Gah! That stuff is like condensed swamp water. 

Which is what I said repeatedly as I drank lots of it. Worst hangover I ever had. Haha that's awesome! It is indeed, thanks for the reply!  &gt; Barley Mow

Soon to have a bronze sign: "The creator of WWW was here!" (well, that or writing on the bathroom wall)

http://i.imgur.com/GMwinco.png

[Google maps](https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Barley+Mow+Inn/@50.82043,-1.956274,3a,75y,120.76h,74.95t/data=!3m5!1e1!3m3!1s7renArvsBiIAAAQIt3bUPQ!2e0!3e2!4m2!3m1!1s0x4873a4a6765bb87f:0xa1cedacb94ecdbed) you lived in colehill ? !!! yea the barley mow is still there. if you ever go for a pint ill come and join you  Do you remember your first thoughts, or words, when you achieved the first successful communication between a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) client and server?  Nope.  I was head down getting stuff working.... the server and client were both on my machine at that stage... I wasn't using source code control, so I could nto go back and find the critical commit with the "hmm GET seems to work" comment :-) Where is that machine now? It's in the Science Museum in London AFAIK - http://blog.sciencemuseum.org.uk/insight/tag/next-computer/ Thanks!  Hope he deleted his browser history before putting it in a museum for all time.   Searching for pr0n before there was more than one server on the network. It may have been recorded in history that the www was invented to share academic papers and work material, but we all know he just wanted a more convenient way to access the porn server.  Fun fact: the first transaction online was a bag of weed. there was porn on the internet before there was the Web.   My first uses of veronica and gopher search was to find porn.  a few days of hunting and I found 1 jpg of a chick in a white bathing suit.   I stupidly declared the internet useless and went back to BBS's.   Big Bewb Servers. he just had to press the backspace to clear "8====D~~~~" I'm quite sure it's this one, and that it's at CERN: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CERN_httpd
 Thank you for answering my question, Tim. ()	
 Hey Professor Tim! Two questions:

+ What are your views/thoughts/feelings on net neutrality?

+ What are your views/thoughts/feelings on the modern internet? Net neutrality is really important.  Basically we do so much cool stuff on top of the network layer, it has to remain an unbiased infrastructure for all our discussion, innovation, etc.    I must have the right to be able to communicate with whatever or whoever I want, without discrimination, be it political or commercial.  See for example things I've said at http://webfoundation.org/2015/02/netneutrality-this-victory-is-for-everyone/  and http://ec.europa.eu/commission/2014-2019/ansip/blog/guest-blog-sir-tim-berners-lee-founding-director-world-wide-web-foundation_en
 Hi Tim!

Quick one but important: 

What is the single most valuable thing I can do on an individual level to help defend the open internet? Great question.   Keep asking that question.  Don't take it for granted.   Keep an eye on the situation in your town, your country, your company.  In each year of using it, spend some time with others working or writing or lobbying or protesting as needed to keep it open.   Hi Sir ~~Berners-Lee~~ Tim,

In his 2012 book _Cypherpunks_, Julian Assange wrote, "the Internet is a threat to human civilization." He was referring to the great potential for surveillance and control of people. To what degree do you agree with that statement, and what can we do to ensure the Internet of the future supports life, freedom, and autonomy? "Any powerful tool can be used for good or ill" &lt;-- true but we have to make sure on balance good things win.    We need to protect against not only governments but criminals too, and viral conspiracy theories which seem to sprout from nowhere.    I think that if we the people stand firm in democratic countries and demand that all power over the net taken by government comes with direct accountability to the people in how it is used, then we can indeed have a wonderful civilization.   We need to keep it decentralized both technically and socially.  We need to protect our rights using both code and law. **Required**: *Code and Law, 5th ed., Berners-Lee* with access code &gt; We need to keep it decentralized both technically and socially. We need to protect our rights using both code and law.

Shameless plug:

/r/darknetplan

/r/Rad_Decentralization 
 Just for future reference, it's Sir Tim. It would be Lord Berners-Lee but sadly he's not a lord... yet.  Actually it would be Lord [insert name of peerage here].

For example, it's Peter Carington, but Lord Ca*rr*ington. It normally is the person's last name, but not always. 

Source: I know a lot about Lords. I am Lord YAYAYA Hi Tim!

- Do you regret not building more security into your initial designs? If so, what additional security measures would you have implemented?

- How have you benefited personally from being the person to invent the WWW?

Thanks!  (One question at a time please, reddit works best like that.)   I wish we had a much more powerful general private key management ecosystem which allowed my computer to trust the same people/systems which I do, for the same reasons.  See discussions on publc-www-tag@w3.org etc
(I have got to meet amazing people) I kinda disagree about how reddit works, but this is the inventor of the Internet so I'm going to shut up Well, the way he uses it (to reply to 50 top-level comments in sequence, once a year) is vastly different from the way most people use it (semi-randomly going into nested comments, ad nauseum). He didn't invent the Internet. He invented the World Wide Web.  He invented my sex life, and for that I am forever grateful. I don't think he invented hands. That burn is too hot to touch! Sir Tim, are you optimistic or pessimistic about the future relationship between technology in general terms and humnakind? Well, the outcome is not a foregone conclusion, that tech will in fact end up working in humanity's best interests.  But we have a choice!    These things are laws and tech standards and so on which actually we control.    So it is up to us, where 'us' is humanity, and in general, about us, I am optimistic -- so long as we keep our eyes on the prize.
 Sir Berners-Lee,

Thank you for your work in creating the web, not only as a technology but as the free and open place it is today. Me and many others have grown up on the web, and feel a sort of citizenship to it.

While technically HTTP is a distributed protocol, monolithic services were created from it that control a lot of user data (Google, Facebook, etc.). How do you feel about how centralized the web has become today?

Also, what do you think about new distributed technologies working to make the web less centralized? For instance, [IPFS](http://ipfs.io) or mesh networks. Agrred. I have tried to touch on that in other answers.   What we concentrate on in dig.csail.mit.edu is RE-decrentralizing the web. &gt; dig.csail.mit.edu

my god, your subdomains have subdomains...  Oh man, you should see what a large-ish software development company's DNS records typically looks like. Think of a dictionary scattered with full stops instead of whitespace.

 We have a lot of hostnames exactly this long; host001.prod.back.thing.onlinestuf.bl.aah.bla.co.uk The fact that people get surprised by _this_ makes me cry. It's like a tree has smaller branches on its branches. Just a quick point, when addressing someone who has been knighted, the correct form of address is 'sir (first name)' What do you think about the right to being connected to the internet? I'm not asking just for now. How important do you think it would be in, say, 50 years from now? I think it will become more and more crucial.  (See e.g. http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/2014/12/12/web-human-right_n_6313688.html )    In many ways the web is not just a luxury for cool early adopters it is critical for people to really take part in society, education.   The #MakeTechHuman http://www.wired.com/maketechhuman idea is about technology serving humanity ... much of that is going to use the net. So no use if the net is controlled spied on or only available to the few. For a really long time people were talking about Web 2.0--can there be a 3.0? Or is the connected reality such that the web is a basis for all technology to play with? Maybe 2.0 = silos of user-generated content and 3.0 = breaking out of those silos and user-controlled data Wouldn't that imply the business model of the Internet would need to change first?

And dear God do I hope you're right about user-controlled data. Sir Berners-Lee, 

In today's age of technology, how can the layperson protect their privacy? 

Thank you for everything you have done, and everything you will do.  Install PGP compatible encryption on your mailer.  Get a geek friend to help, as it has not been made very smooth. Hopefully it will soon.
That's a simple practical step.  Limit the organizations you give data to  to ones you get value from, like magazines and (reddit and) clothes shops you buy from for example.    Buy the pro version of an app where the free version pays for itself by ransacking your privacy. Project Tox, for example, is like Skype, but with encryption, privacy, and decentralization built in from the ground up, BUT -- unlike PGP or anything, it is totally transparent to the end user. It is designed to be both utterly secure and usable by the lay person. :) &gt;  Buy the pro version of an app where the free version pays for itself by ransacking your privacy.

Or, better yet, find an alternative for that app. I don't believe that paying money for an app like that sends the right message to the developers of that app. Hello! What is your opinion about decentralized cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin?  I'm disappointed this hasn't been answered :&lt; What is one question you wish people would ask about but never do? What answer do you have for them? "Hey, is it OK if we establish an endowment for your foundation/consortium/retirement?" "Yeah, sure!"  maybe we should start a gofundme and make this so What's your bitcoin address? yes, lets all send him money over his invention :D TIP: have some kids point at you laughing... post the video on the internet.  *DONE* You are my favorite scientist. Your invention has benefited the lives of billions of people across the planet. Case in point: it gives me the chance to communicate with you at this moment, something that will probably never happen in the physical world. I am very much fascinated by the Web and I hope to pursue research on this topic. Currently, it seems that the social media is its most influential aspect. What do you think will be the Web's next biggest contribution to society? Hopefully, we will be able to roll out a world in which people can together and merge all the data which is about themselves and use it with all sort of cool apps to really better their lives.  We are working on this sort of thing in dig.csail.mit.edu Inventor of the hyperlink... doesn't hyperlink URLs. PEDANT

[Tim Berners-Lee didn't invent the hyperlink.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperlink#History)

/PEDANT (sorry) I didn't invent anything.

[dig.csail.mit.edu](http://dig.csail.mit.edu) How do you see the web in the next 20 years? Any milestone to consider that changes the way we use internet? Well... We have had a whole campaign webwewant.org to ask people what sort for a web they want for the next 25 years. It is up to us, but hopefully we will lock down (in culture and where necessary law) the fact that it is open.  The number of people using the web will soon cross the 50% and soon 75% of the world population, and then instead of worrying about getting the majority online the spotlight will b to those who remain disenfranchised in the remaining 25%, 10% .   Milestone? When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place. &gt; When I have enough bandwidth to bring me a scene in wrap-around HD so my eyes and ears can't tell I'm not in the other place.

VR is coming quickly now, so there's that If you could go back and change how HTTP was implemented, would you change anything? For example, would you change the TLD to be first in the URL, before the domain name, subdomains, and arguments?

This is often cited as a great problem in making URLs clearer to end users. Yes, thinks like instead of http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/c having 
http:/com/redddit/www/r/IAmA/c for example I thought about, and would probably have been a  more flexible and consistent idea.  I'm actually glad you didn't pick that option. I have enough trouble getting people to properly filter paths to avoid traversal bugs, let alone trying to get them to properly distinguish between TLDs, domains, subdomains, paths, and file paths when they all have the same separator character. Maybe com.reddit.www/r/iama ? On you statement about making tech more human. We've all seen the Hollywood adaptions of technology becoming hazardous to humanity as well as recent scientists making statements about their fears on A.I. Technology. My question is are these fears justifiable? What are your thoughts? I'd love to know. Well, the fact is that machines are becoming smarter. It seems unreasonable not to imagine that they will become smarter than us.  What happens at that point is not obvious.  That we have to think about it now is clear.   Do you think your fame has changed you? How could I measure that? in ladygaga's, i believe What is your favorite book? Making technology more human requires it to interact more closely--and seamlessly--with our lives.  As we enter the era of the Internet of Things, how do you envision addressing the security and privacy concerns associated with remotely-accessible devices in all aspects of our lives?  Do you feel that, e.g., HTTP+SSL is sufficient, or do you see new protocols and architectures as a necessary step in improving security? HTTP+TLS is important. We need to review the ways by which our systems trust particular certs.  We need to use client cert more.   We need to be able to set up family certs and so on without huge cost, or relying on the external PKI.   We should be able to make out own PKI. By default, we should store IoT data in the house and analyze it within the house without having to go through an untrusted cloud system just to get functionality.  The keys we use for things like TLS, GPG, SSH should be interoperable.... Do you have to share your internet royalties with Al Gore? Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf, who invented the TCP/IP protocol, said this about Al Gore, "As the two people who designed the basic architecture and the core protocols that make the Internet work, we would like to acknowledge VP Gore's contributions as a Congressman, Senator and as Vice President. No other elected official, to our knowledge, has made a greater contribution over a longer period of time."

Berners-Lee, however, invented the World Wide Web, not the Internet. Wait, did Al Gore actually have something to do with the creation of the internet?  I thought that was all made up?  Nothing *technical*, but he sponsored a *lot* of legislation in that area. His contributions were very real. and did so very early. The dude was a genuine nerd before a lot of redditors were born. Can't get shit done without the money, and Gore's efforts were a big part of what financed it.  "As far back as the 1970s Congressman Gore promoted the idea of high-speed telecommunications as an engine for both economic growth and the improvement of our educational system. He was the first elected official to grasp the potential of computer communications to have a broader impact than just improving the conduct of science and scholarship [...] the Internet, as we know it today, was not deployed until 1993. When the Internet was still in the early stages of its deployment, Congressman Gore provided intellectual leadership by helping create the vision of the potential benefits of high speed computing and communication. As an example, he sponsored hearings on how advanced technologies might be put to use in areas like coordinating the response of government agencies to natural disasters and other crises."


Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al_Gore_and_information_technology He's a 10th level Vice President!  And you guys could have had him as President. Man... If he would have said the internet's sole purpose was to censor cuss words from children, and that terrorists were depleting the ozone layer to focus a death ray at America, he'd no doubt have been our president. He pushed to have Arpanet (The Internet) to be public, instead of a private Government network. He saw the big picture of what it could become before anyone. More from Bob Kahn and Vint Cerf (who is often called the "Father of the Internet"):

&gt;"Al Gore was the first political leader to recognize the importance of the Internet and to promote and support its development.

&gt;...

&gt;As far back as the 1970s, Congressman Gore promoted the idea of high speed telecommunications as an engine for both economic growth and the improvement of our educational system. He was the first elected official to grasp the potential of computer communications to have a broader impact than just improving the conduct of science and scholarship. Though easily forgotten, now, at the time this was an unproven and controversial concept.

&gt;...

&gt;When the Internet was still in the early stages of its deployment, Congressman Gore provided intellectual leadership by helping create the vision of the potential benefits of high speed computing and communication.

&gt;...

&gt;As a Senator in the 1980s, Gore urged government agencies to consolidate what at the time were several dozen different and unconnected networks into an 'Interagency Network.'  Working in a bi-partisan manner with officials in Ronald Reagan and George Bush's administration, Gore secured the passage of the High Performance Computing and Communications Act in 1991. This 'Gore Act' supported the National Research and Education Network (NREN) initiative that became one of the major vehicles for the spread of the Internet beyond the field of computer science.

&gt;...

&gt;No one in public life has been more intellectually engaged in helping to create the climate for a thriving Internet than the Vice President.

&gt;...

&gt;The Vice President deserves credit for his early recognition of the value of high speed computing and communication and for his long-term and consistent articulation of the potential value of the Internet to American citizens and industry and, indeed, to the rest of the world." Yes, it was never made up, it's 100% true, and all of Gore's quotes on it ("I was instrumental in drafting legislation that led to the creation of the internet" or something along those lines) are wholly accurate.  People make jokes, but the people making jokes are the dumb ones. He did say, in words that I can only assume were an unintentional mistake, that he "took the initiative in creating the internet."  That set off all of the criticism.  The truth, as others have noted, is that he was hugely instrumental in recognizing the importance of the internet and getting legislation passed to help it grow.

Here's the snopes article about it: 
http://www.snopes.com/quotes/internet.asp

The important passage:

&gt;The "Al Gore said he 'invented' the Internet" put-downs were misleading, out-of-context distortions of something he said during an interview with Wolf Blitzer on CNN's "Late Edition" program on 9 March 1999. When asked to describe what distinguished him from his challenger for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, Gore replied (in part):

&gt;*During my service in the United States Congress, I took the initiative in creating the Internet. I took the initiative in moving forward a whole range of initiatives that have proven to be important to our country's economic growth and environmental protection, improvements in our educational system.* Do you regret implementing DRM into the HTML5 spec? And what implications will this have or end users who probably don't even know what DRM is? [I doubt it.](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2091d4/i_am_tim_bernerslee_i_invented_the_www_25_years/cg0wpui) Sir Tim,

1. Network Neutrality is obviously a hot topic right now, but in this relatively nascent age of cloud computing, what kind of security concerns are being overlooked? Security attacks like the ones on Home Depot, JP Morgan, and Sony expose customerss information and its hard to know what the average person can do about it. Is there anything besides the obvious (secure passwords, dont let websites save your credit card information, etc.) that a normal user can do?

1. As a computer scientist/programmer/tech enthusiast, what can I do to get involved and improve computer security and the quality of the internet?

Thanks for your time! Sir Tim Berners-Lee,

If you had the ability to magically change one thing about the WWW as it is today, not necessarily as you developed it in the early 1990s, what would it be and why?

Thanks! Tm.What do you think about present and future of bitcoin? WWW is for information what Bitcoin is for financial systems. I met him once, mentioned cryptocurrencies. He said they're a good idea, but another good example of how tools can be used for good and bad. Did you anticipate that most of the webpages that people looked at would be computer-generated, i.e. not handwritten HTML? How do you see the future of the web as a remote computing platform? Favourite milkshake flavour? mango lassi
 That is so 'Indian'!

 Yo, balle balle Yo! That is sooooo good! This is the correct answer. How should we deal with link rot? 
I remember you saying "eventually every URL ends up as a porn site" - it seems that Google has made it more robust to search for something than to link to it. 
[more here](http://www.kevinmarks.com/fragmentions.html) In lieu of the *would you rather fight 100 duck sized horses* question: 

    Tabs or spaces?

also: what is your prefered subversioning system?      Test lmao Do you agree that NSA and GCHQ etc are / will be one of the biggest threat to humanity? (This was the result of a survey among MIT/Harvard/Stanford professors and students.) That is a bit simplistic by itself.  Did the survey ask about agencies you don't know about in other countries, who are perhaps even less constrained than those two?  Did it ask about criminal agencies world over? As they say in Kingsman, we don't even know what the Chinese spy agency is called. Well it's the Ministry of State Security that oversees such. Doesn't do a whole lot to know the title though. Ehh, I wouldn't say you're exactly correct. AFAIK, the Ministry of State Security is like the FBI, it's more focused on domestic and counter intelligence operations. As to the counterpart to the CIA, I suspect it has some innocent name like Troop 736 or something like that. It was in the news a while ago that the NSA was able to track down cyber attacks coming from buildings owned by such army divisions in Shanghai. Well ducked  I think it's pretty easy to argue that the NSA and GCHQ are criminal agencies.   Why did you allow DRM in HTML5 ? https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2091d4/i_am_tim_bernerslee_i_invented_the_www_25_years/cg0wpui Thx. I really don't like the answer, thought. Well the fact of the matter is, DRM allows the protection of the rights of rights holders, which is something we *do* need to protect. Just because you *can* download something, doesn't meant you *should* have access to it. DRM doesn't work though, never has never will. It is defective by design. I think DRM will work sometime in the future, we just need to find a way for it to work. I think as the generations pass and you can't even go to the bottom of the ocean without still having full bars of signal, that DRM will truly become a non-issue. &gt;I think DRM will work sometime in the future

Basing that on what exactly?

DRM will truly become a non-issue when more companies stop using it.

&gt;in January 2007, EMI stopped publishing audio CDs with DRM, stating that "the costs of DRM do not measure up to the results."[[60]](http://lxer.com/module/newswire/view/78008/index.html) Following EMI, Sony BMG was the last publisher to abolish DRM completely, and audio CDs containing DRM are no longer released by the four largest commercial record label companies.[[61]](http://www.businessweek.com/technology/content/jan2008/tc2008013_398775.htm)

In April 2009, all iTunes music became available completely DRM-free. They are still in business last i checked. The people who want DRM are fighting a losing battle. I think DRM will work sometime in the future because there are brilliant people out there that could find a way to do it in a way that respects both the consumer, creator and publisher.

I'm not denying the fact that DRM as of now has been destructive and counter-productive but I think it's extremely foolish to say that there shouldn't be any form of protection for content rights holders. &gt;but I think it's extremely foolish to say that there shouldn't be any form of protection for content rights holders.

I feel like you're confusing copyright with DRM.

&gt;[DRM restricts entirely different activities than copyright does, and serves an entirely separate function. While Copyright restricts who can distribute media, DRM restricts how users can access their media. Copyright already provides leverage against illegal distribution, meaning that the largest distribution platforms must already adhere to the demands of large publishers, studios, music labels, and software companies.](http://www.defectivebydesign.org/so_youve_got_some_questions_do_you#difference)

They are still protected by copyright law if they don't use DRM &gt; They are still protected by copyright law if they don't use DRM

Does the fact that it's protected *"by law"* actually matter when it comes to the internet? It certainly doesn't seem to be stopping people from violating it right at this second. Now look at it from a content rights holder's perspective, it's not worth pursuing any sort of legal compensation unless you have the money to pay for it and the content is expensive enough to be worth fighting for. The legal system is failing content rights holders. [More info](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wL_Wxu6x1HU), it's over an hour long but it's honestly worth the watch. I love how people who create NOTHING are upset that the people who create actual stuff want to "Protect" it. Even the snide comment you have just written is protected under copyright law as a creative act. That's funny, because I have created plenty of stuff, protected. By copyright law.

Copyright law is != DRM. DRM prevents me of accessing things I legally should be able to. It is illegal to circumvent DRM, even if you have the right to access the underlying content. Don't like DRM? don't buy stuff that has DRM. You know it has DRM when you buy it. It's not a surprise. Thats like buying a frozen pizza, and then getting it home a bitching cause you have to cook it to eat it. You knew before you paid.

DRM IS = to PROTECTING Copyrighted stuff... because people do NOT respect Copyright.

Understand this... DRM wouldn't exist if people respected copyright. In fact it didn't exist until people started stealing... for a long time I never had to enter a code or login to anything to use software.  Then some really dumb people said "Hey you know what I can do? I can make an illegal COPY of this and give it to my friend for FREE" and then some even dumber people said "I can take this illegal copy, and put it on the internet so MILLIONS of people can steal it"

AND THAT is when DRM started.

So don't blame the creator for your issue, blame the jackasses who started the "Steal everything" movement. It is their fault you are inconvenienced.  &gt; Don't like DRM? don't buy stuff that has DRM

So, if HTML5 contains DRM, what do you want me to do ? The iPhone contains DRM, what should I do ?

&gt; DRM IS = to PROTECTING Copyrighted stuff... because people do NOT respect Copyright.

Nope. DRM is about implementing Digital Restrictions. Those restrictions are then used for many other things. For instance, DRM prevents you to install unsigned apps on iOS. This prevents you to do stuff with a device you own that Apple decided you should not do, like replacing the built-in web browser.

You drank too much kool-aid, DRM does not prevent copyright infrigment, and never will (due to the analog hole). DRM is about implementing arbitrary mathematically unbreakable digital restrictions, extending control of the device/content makers in areas that the law doesn't support.

     So, if HTML5 contains DRM, what do you want me to do ? The iPhone contains DRM, what should I do ?

Don't like. Don't use.  Don't visit sites that use HTML5 DRM to protect stuff. Don't buy an iPhone. It is not up to you as the consumer to dictate how the creator makes their stuff and or protects it.  You CAN influence their choice by not using their creation if it has DRM. This is called "voting with your wallet". If you "vote" for things without DRM, and you have a lot of others voting the same as you... then the product without DRM will take control of the market over the products with DRM. This then influences the creator to not use DRM.  This is why Apple music no longer has DRM in it since 2009 they were influenced to change.

But YOU do not get to unilaterally say "I don't care what the person creating this says, I am going to do what I want."

    DRM is about implementing Digital Restrictions.

Nope. DRM stands for Digital RIGHTS Management. To protect the rights of the creator of the product.  So iOS doesn't allowed unsigned Apps because part of the design of the iOS PRODUCT is to protect users from themselves. That is part of their product, apps are vetted by Apple to keep you secure. If you don't like it... don't use it. Go use Android. "Vote" with your wallet.  If nobody was buying iPhones because of DRM.... Apple would change their tune. A lot of people buy iPhones for this exact reason, they do not have to worry about grandma installing some random app that has ADWARE on it and brings her phone to a crushing halt.

    You drank too much kool-aid, DRM does not prevent copyright infrigment, and never will (due to the analog hole). 

You smoked too much hippie pot, and think everyone is going to sit by the campfire and sing songs and be nice to each other. Just because YOU wouldn't copy and give away... doesn't mean others will be so kind.  And DRM does work, just not 100% for everyone.  But a lot of people that WOULD have copied but can't because they don't know HOW to get around the DRM are actually prevented from stealing.  I know a ton of people who bought programs like MS Office because they tried to install from someone else's disc and the DRM required a license they don't have so they paid like they should. If the DRM wasn't there... they wouldn't have paid.

Just because you don't "Agree" philosophically... doesn't make you "right"... it just means you disagree. It is perfectly OK to disagree...it is not OK to simply do what you want because you disagree. Hi sir , 

A couple of questions 
1. Safari , Chrome , IE or Firefox ? Which do you prefer ? 

2. Many countries in the world , including mine (India) , are clamping down on freedom of the web. Recently a documentary was taken down (BBC). Do you / Can you / Will you persuade US , UK , any other countries in the world believing in freedom of speech and internet to use diplomatic channels to ensure the freedom of your baby - the Internet ? 

3. Your thoughts on internet based currencies , specifically Bitcoin.  And your thoughts on TOR. 

4. Your thoughts on copyright laws. And is the penalty for downloading illegal stuff excessively hard ? 

5. Have you ever been interrogated by customs regarding your activities while flying across the world ? Most Internet activists are.  I cannot see him saying IE to this one... I don't see him saying anything to that question. It'll be "The inventor of the internet endorses browser x" on tech sites the next day, he may not want that. Well he didn't invent the internet. Sure, but that would just make the real title "The inventor of the website endorses browser X". 

That's even better in terms of endorsement. 

"The inventor of guns endorses Colt" / "The inventors of planes endorse Boeing" / etc.  I bet he made his own. Around 01-02, IE was actually following all the html standards that Netscape (now FF) chose to ignore. TIL Firefox is an upgraded Netscape navigator What has surprised you about the internet? What are your thoughts on decentralizing the web? Is it necessary? Can it be fast enough? Are you watching anything in this area? "Can it it be fast enough" depends on what "it" is and may be a PhD project. In the crosscloud project at CSAIL we are trying to break the link between apps and data, so you can use any app and tell it where to store the data where you control the data.  Data stores become commodities. That could be a first step to moving the data into more of a peer-peer system without conventional servers at all.   
 Is it a crazy idea if in a world where "you control the data" to have people be able to monetize that data?  If data of a person is (hypothetically) worth $10 a month to google, why should they not get a share of that? Advertiser money would actually go to those who give something up to be targeted. Just an aside note: if users are selling their data and making all the profit off of it, the people developing the software would have to be losing massive revenue. Which would probably lead to less awesome software. &gt; If data of a person is (hypothetically) worth $10 a month to google, why should they not get a share of that? Advertiser money would actually go to those who give something up to be targeted.

...because then Google and other services would charge for their services. You do get a share of that, by being able to use Google services. I think the idea is that you area already being "compensated" by being granted free use of their services such as search and gmail. I think it may have started off that way. But it feels like a contract I cant get out of and they've raised the prices 1000%.
 because typically, they are providing you their service in exchange for the "Data". Its a trade. I like these ideas.  I wouldn't have thought of peer-to-peer net.  I like it. Hi everyone,

Thanks for doing this. What can we, as a community, an internet, and as non-lawyers, be doing to help raise awareness of this? Here's a partial answer to this question for the Americans out there: a few provisions of the USA Patriot Act are scheduled to sunset in June.  Congress has to consider, between now and then, whether to reauthorize the provisions, amend them, or let them expire.  You should make sure your representatives in Congress know that you want some commonsense limits to be imposed on the NSA's surveillance activities. This might be a dumb question, but what is the best way to go about this?  Call their office and leave a message?  Write a letter?  Email?

How do we know whatever message we send gets to them, unless they hear it from us directly? Former Congressional intern here. **Call their office or send snail mail.** Ask specific questions and leave your name and mailing address so you get a reply. If you live in the Representative's district or the Senator's state, you *will* get a reply. Even if it's just a form letter (which is perfectly legitimate when 1000 people ask the same question), it makes the office notice that people care. 


Everyone has 2 Senators and 1 Representative. Call all three no matter how much you like or hate them. If you don't know who your Senators are, click [here](https://www.senate.gov/states/). If you don't know who your Representative is, click [here](http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/).

**The Capitol switchboard is (202) 224-3121 and if you ask for the office of any member of Congress, they will connect you**. Or Google it, the offices all have direct public phone numbers.

Finally, don't be rude to the interns who answer the phone. People used to call me a Nazi because of votes my boss had taken.

Hill staffers, sorry I'm (hopefully) creating work for you!

Edit: Thanks for the gold! And everyone remember [the ACLU could use your $3.99 \(or more\) too. They're member-supported.](https://www.aclu.org/donate/join-renew-give) Former staff member in a **district** office here. This is absolutely correct. Don't feel compelled to call the DC office. The more powerful your Senator/Representative is, the more clogged their phone lines will probably be. Everyone tends to call DC but the local offices (mine did at least) keep track of this as well and forward it all at the end of every day.

And yes, please don't be rude to the people on the phone. I have one woman's name permanently seared into my brain because she called every day and started off with a decibel level equivalent to a megaphone in a broom closet. I was an intern at one of the party committees. Oh my god. Some of the phone callers. I'm so sorry that you feel that way, but please don't tell me to shoot myself in the face. OK, make it your foot. Shoot that foot right in its face D.C. here. Not everyone is represented &gt;Taxation without representation lmao. that's how the whole independence hubub started in the first place but we have no problem doing the same thing to DC and the overseas territories. &gt; and the overseas territories

Actually, at least for Puerto Rico, they don't pay most federal taxes. True and awful, but Eleanor Holmes Norton is a force of nature and she needs to hear from you. Everyone upvote the shit out of this. And then, all you Americans actually DO the shit out of this. sorry, I already upvoted. I did my part. Pack it up were done here We did it Reddit! Change is finally here! ^^^exactly ^^^^tree ^^^^^fiddy Yes. Let's have some actual action for once instead of a hashtag campaign that does effectively nothing.  \#wediditreddit [deleted] Funny because I never really thought that the ACLU accepted donations. Never really crossed my mind. Once I saw it did, I immediately donated 50 bucks. 

The ACLU does an extraordinary amount of work to help us maintain our civil liberties and prevents us from being taken advantage of by our government. I highly suggest donating to the ACLU if you have the money.  Former high level Congressional Staffer here.  Your response is logged by the Congressman's or Senator's office.  The program many offices use actually logs the number of letters and calls. This gives elected officials an overview of what issue people have been calling the most.  Also keep in mind snail mail takes up to 3 weeks to get to your elected officials due to the mail having to be scanned for threats.  As few as a hundred calls or letters, to your congressman can push an issue to the top of the program.  Hope this info helps! Calling the office or writing a letter is most effective. There is such a huge stream of emails, many of them script- or bot-written, that it is much easier for things to slip through.

Literally the BEST thing you can do is get a LOT of people from your area to write letters (you can even use the same letter for everyone, and just have everyone sign their own copy) and mail those in to the DC office of your Rep. and/or Senator. It's hard to miss a huge stack of letters.

Source: I open mail, email, and answer phone calls for a member of Congress.

EDIT: Listen to /u/VioletLaw, people. He/she speaks wise words. Find your US representative.

http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/ In the past, I have sent emails to my senators through their websites. Although it takes a few weeks/months, I've always gotten a personal reply. These replies are usually very vague and one email probably won't change a senators stance on an issue completely, but if enough people let their voices be heard I believe it can make some sort of a difference.  "I've always gotten a personal reply."

You get the copy pasted reply they send to everyone in regards to whatever topic you inquire about It depends, I've gotten very specific answers to my questions, in order, from federal reps in the past. 

One VERY good way to get the attention to your issue from a representative is to write a letter to the editor detailing your thoughts on a current issue like many people do but end it asking for your representatives, by name, to do something about it. They have staffers that dig through the opinion sections of every issue of every paper in their district, they will see it and will pay attention to it.  &gt;They have staffers that dig through the opinion sections of every issue of every paper in their district, they will see it and will pay attention to it.

More like a Google Alert that automatically notifies. Very much disagree. Honestly might not be a senator replying, but I've received very long emails talking about each point that I brought up. I'm sure it's an aide but regardless someone in their office is reading what I've sent, and I'm happy that I'm at least making an argument to someone in that senator's office.  huh, well that's a better rep than mine. usually it's just "Here's why the internet needs to be more secure, terrorism. Thanks for your concerns" When I wrote mine once he asked how my dad was and if I was still involved with scouting. I have an unusual last name and he has a good memory. He used to speak at Eagle ceremonies when his schedule permitted.

Visited his office a few years ago in D.C. and he took me to lunch in the Congressional dining room, that was pretty cool. Dear [CONSTITUENT],


Thank you for writing me about your concerns regarding [ISSUE].  We here at Senator Moneybags' office agree that [ISSUE] is an important issue affecting our country.  Thank you for your concern.


[LOL FUCK YOU, PEASANT],

Sentator Moneybags  Completely true. Form letters written by college students. Interning in a senator's office made me incredibly cynical about some of our elected officials. They're gonna acknowledge what you say just to get your vote, but gonna do what they want anyway.  I've always heard written letters are the best, but I'm not sure that's true. I'm pretty sure a phone call is more effective than email. I'm an intern for a State Rep, and we reply to both pretty evenly  How about non-Americans?

Obviously we cannot influence policy through political pressure (appropriately!) but many of us foreigners would love to help as well. 

^(As an aside, welcome aboard Lila! Hope you enjoy continuing the work at the foundation.) This is What i sent my reps:

Hello,

There are provisions in the Patriot Act that are about to expire in June. I urge you to let them expire, our civil rights are being violated by the NSA, and the patriot act is to blame. Not a single "terrorist" act have been thwarted by such surveillance, but it has resulted with our personal information being violated by the NSA. The Founding Fathers of these United States would never approve of such a behavior, and we have failed them!

The day we let fear dictate our way of life and freedom is the day we as nation would seize to exist.
I urge you to keep "Freedom" in mind when voting on Civil Liberties related propositions and acts.

Thank you for your time and your efforts,
 &gt; we as nation would *cease* to exist.

 It's not as bad as spelling your own name wrong on a message to the president.  A broader copy-edit. No offense to OP. Just, might as well get it right if tons of people will be sending in the same thing:

&gt;Dear [Mr./Ms. ______],

&gt;There are provisions in the USA Patriot Act that are due to expire in June. I urge you to let them expire: The NSA is violating our civil rights, using the Patriot Act as justification. The NSA's warrantless surveillance program has not thwarted a single "terrorist" act, but it *has* gathered large amounts of our private information. The Founding Fathers of these United States would have never approved of such behavior, and we have failed them!

&gt;The day we let fear dictate our way of life and freedom is the day we as a nation cease to exist. I urge you to keep freedom in mind when voting on legislation affecting our civil liberties.

&gt;Thank you for your time and your efforts,
&gt;_________

Also, if you send via snail mail, remember to address the envelope to "The Honorable ______". It's the proper style, and who knows, it might make them that much more willing to listen to you. And yes, it is properly "Mr./Ms." in the salutation, not "Senator" or "Congressman" or such. Cease* As an individual, or a non-lawyer, you can help make the internet more secure by raising awareness through your personal networks, using encryption and tools like HTTPS Everywhere and supporting organizations that support your rights on the internet. Talk about why privacy matters to your local or national politics to support privacy reform. 
 It's really important to understand that HTTPS doesn't secure you if the government can secretly force the certificate authorities to hand over their keys. Talk about it outside our usual tech/geek circles - make sure that people who ordinarily are prone to "fall for" silly rhetoric about terrorists and pedophiles are aware of the real issues.  A lot of politicians think that the general public doesn't care about this issue - we need to make sure the general public knows about and and that they do care about it - and that they make their voices heard. Get about 100,000 people in one place

March on the Bluffdale Utah data center

Force all the personnel out of the building

Smash everything and burn that motherfucker to the ground

Repeat at next datacenter.  What could possibly go wrong? getting on the nsa/cia list for this comment? I made their list back in the forties when my craft went down in NM. Shoulda seen their faces. Pffh... rookies.  What is the minimum acceptable outcome for your lawsuit? That the world is made perfect for everyone for the entire future of the world.  :-)

Seriously, from our complaint, here is the relief that we ask for in the lawsuit:

WHEREFORE Plaintiffs respectfully request that the Court:
1. Exercise jurisdiction over Plaintiffs Complaint;
2. Declare that Upstream surveillance violates 50 U.S.C.  1881a and 5 U.S.C.
 706;
3. Declare that Upstream surveillance is unconstitutional under the First and
Fourth Amendments, and under Article III;
4. Permanently enjoin Defendants from continuing Upstream surveillance;
5. Order Defendants to purge all records of Plaintiffs communications in their
possession obtained pursuant to Upstream surveillance;
6. Award Plaintiffs fees and costs pursuant to 28 U.S.C.  2412;
7. Grant such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper

The minimum acceptable for me personally would be #2 - finding that their activity violates the law as passed by Congress.  #3 is much better, of course, finding that it's actually unconstitutional. Number 3 would certainly be ideal, and I'm totally rooting for you.  Thanks! No, thank you Jimmy. This is an important fight, and I'm glad you and others are leading the charge.  the first name basis makes this so intimate It's a good day for justice, *and* the subjunctive mood! Just to add a couple more points, I think there's broad agreement that the government has a legitimate interest in monitoring the communications of suspected terrorists.  This kind of dragnet surveillance, though, constitutes a gross invasion of the privacy of innocent people, and it will inevitably have a chilling effect on the freedoms of speech and inquiry.  (There is some evidence that the NSAs surveillance activities are already having this effect.)  We dont think the NSA should be looking over innocent peoples shoulders when theyre surfing the web.  I should emphasize that the NSAs practice is to retain communications that include foreign-intelligence information, a term that is defined so broadly as to include, for example, any information relating to the foreign affairs of the United States.  No one should be under the misimpression that the NSA is interested in collecting information about terrorism and nothing else.  Former NSA director Michael Hayden has been forthcoming about this.  He said recently: NSA doesn't just listen to bad people. NSA listens to interesting people. People who are communicating information.  We would like the NSA's surveillance activities to be more narrowly focused on individuals who are actually and reasonably thought to present threats. For those interested, the report on the chilling effect of global mass surveillance was conducted by PEN, and can be read here: http://www.pen.org/sites/default/files/globalchilling_2015.pdf The chilling effect on inquiry is real.  I was a physics undergraduate in 2001 and it became common for classmates with certain ethnic backgrounds to ask white folks to rent the books on nuclear physics from the library so they could complete coursework without ending up on a watch list.  

I hope your efforts succeed wildly. &gt; There is some evidence that the NSAs surveillance activities are already having this effect.

Last week, I started to write an obviously-ironic comment about supporting ISIS on facebook, but then I remembered about the twitter joke trial and chickened out. I'm ashamed at my cowardice, but can you honestly say that it's unwarranted? There are many accounts of this and the overwhelming reality is that many internet users are self censoring. It is one of the most egregious effects of NSA surveillance and one of the biggest threats to freedom of speech in recent times.  do you feel there is a rationale for NSA in leveraging 'dragnet' surveillance to detect and identify threats, versus restricting their capabilities to monitoring known threats?  to what extent would their detection capabilities be blunted if what you are advocating comes to pass, and what would the impact of that blunting be?  "NSA doesn't just listen to bad people. NSA listens to interesting people. People who are communicating information."

That's chilling. Hayden is the same man who said "We kill people based on metadata."

 The NSA will end its unconstitutional surveillance practices. Filing this suit has raised awareness and continued a conversation about mass surveillance. 
 While I fully support your lawsuit, I am really pessimistic about the NSA ever stopping their unconstitutional surveillance. It's going to take more than just lawsuits to stop the NSA. It's going to take a monumental event in order to bring about true change. 

The reason I say this...
Do you really think the NSA is ever going to remove all the thousands of Narus STA 6400 fiber taps they've implanted in data centers throughout America? [Room 641a](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Room_641A)
Do you really think the NSA is ever going to stop subverting encryption standards?[Dual_EC_DRBG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dual_EC_DRBG)
Do you think the NSA is ever going to stop planting malware on our computers? 
Do you think the NSA will ever stop monitoring the content of our phone calls? 
Do you think the NSA will ever stop planting backdoors in our software, operating systems [NSAKEY](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NSAKEY), cell phone firmware, hard drive firmware, network devices etc? The list goes on and on. 

It's not only about the points you bring up in your lawsuit because the NSA does far more illegal stuff than just monitor the internet/Wikipedia. They hack into companies to steal super sensitive data like SIM card encryption keys which give them unlimited access to private cellular communications all over the globe. They do much more than just implement programs like PRISM to spy on users of Google and Facebook. The NSA uses the surveillance grid to prevent other countries from getting economic advantages over the US and the information extracted from [XKEYSCORE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XKeyscore) can easily be used to silence, frame or blackmail anyone that objects to these illegal actions. We know the NSA analysts abuse the data that the NSA collects. [LOVEINT?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LOVEINT) Besides all that, we now know they don't give a damn about not monitoring the communications of Americans. In fact they consider us the enemy. The fact that I pay taxes means that I'm basically funding my own tyranny. 

So you see, from my point of view, a lawsuit is great but make no illusions, to stop this illegal activities, the corruption and illegal activities at the NSA has to be fought with a different weapon than just lawsuits. Their mission is not to protect America but to stand above America controlling it along with all the people that live in it. The NSA is truly BIG BROTHER. 

All that being said, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your efforts to bring about this lawsuit. If it results in no change, at least it brought awareness which is the real weapon against this unconstitutional tyranny. 

I say all this KNOWING that my comments will be slurped up and added to my NSA dossier. Keep up the good fight. We the people need your help!  The thing I find hilarious about all of this is that 10 years ago most of us said that the people claiming the government spied needed tin foil hats. Now it's something that we all take seriously. &gt; Now it's something that we all take seriously.

Not "all", unfortunately.  If we step outside the echo chamber, you'll see a startling level of ignorance when it comes to this; from straight-up denial to if-you-have-nothing-to-hide fallacious reasoning.  This is part of the bigger issue; we need more people to be aware of what exactly is going on and what can realistically be done about it.  An educated voter is Congress' worst enemy, and apathy is its best friend.
 Can you explain the nothing to hide fallacy in a way my conservative roommate will agree? Say you're walking to your friend Jimmy's house, carrying a bag full of books and that awesome and totally legal adult dvd you borrowed from him last week.

A black van pulls up besides you, detains you, searches all your stuff, finds nothing illegal, returns it all to you and lets you on your way.

This is the current analogy for the surveillance.

Ten years later, you're running for office. In your campaign speech you reference those early years, studying with your good friend Jimmy. At which point an opposition member pipes up, just casually mentioning how you and your good friend Jimmy are godless deviants who mutually masturbated to filthy sinner-whores.

Thanks to information gathered 10 years ago and retained and groomed until you were someone worth character assassinating, your chance to positively affect government in the way you'd always hoped to do has been crushed, because even though almost EVERY GOD DAMN PERSON ON THE PLANET watches porn and it's no ones business but theirs, now everyone KNOWS that you do.

Clear enough? Ask her for all her passwords and access to all her private Facebook messages, as well as access to her iphone so you can install a recording device.  First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out
Because I was not a Socialist.

Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out 
Because I was not a Trade Unionist.

Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out 
Because I was not a Jew.

Then they came for meand there was no one left to speak for me.
-Martin Niemoller I gather the public at large is vaguely upset, and don't likely realize the full implications of what's been going on.  
How would you explain this issue to a neighbor who isn't an internet denizen? Would you like your phone to be tapped without a warrant? Today, your internet connection can be. Also, perhaps refer them to this Human Rights Watch / ACLU report, which documents the way that government surveillance is already inhibiting journalism that's crucial to open societies.  http://www.hrw.org/reports/2014/07/28/liberty-monitor-all-0  I'm not trying to be negative here but my criticism is meant to be constructive so please view it as such. If I sound hard then it is unintentional.

We need something better (in society in general, not just this issue in particular) than 'Go read this report'. Most people are not experts. Most people who use the internet won't even glance past the headlines, let alone spend time reading the entire report. Who knows how many people who **do** read it will fully comprehend it.

People who don't use the internet these days even less so on all of these fronts. When we have activism, we need a way of simultaneously dumbing stuff down for people (probably a poor choice of words) as well as raising up the lowest common denominator to a higher level of expertise. Let me rephrase that then. We need a better way of conveying information in digestible portions. People don't have the time to become experts in every single issue that they are told is a threat to them and their way of life.

We need fact sheets that address the financial argument. We need fact sheets that address the logical argument. And we need fact sheets that address the emotional argument. People cannot do this alone. We need an organized structure from whatever entity is taking the lead on each issue to begin the institutionalization of this sort of process so that it becomes the de facto norm.

At the same time we cannot expect everything to be spoon fed to us. We need some way of raising our own knowledge base and comprehension level up to that of an expert or a fully involved individual. This is a much more difficult problem in my opinion as it involves problems that I do not have the answer to. The only thing I can think of is that we need to improve our education system as a long term solution towards these sorts of things. But the fact sheets should be a good start.

There has to be some sort of change in how we seek to promote activism on an issue or else our attention spans will always fail us.

**TL;DR: This would defeat the purpose of my entire post.**

Edit: My first gold ever. Obligatory THANK YOU! I didn't expect this to be viewed to this extent but I am SO glad that it is. These are thoughts that have been mulled around inside my head for many of the years of my short adult life and I am glad to see others contribute to this discussion. This WAS the job of the news media before they turned to garbage. Man, that's really fucking depressing when you think about it.  Bread and circuses. No need to care about your internet being tapped or the genocides Boko Haram and Daesh commits or any of the thousand other travesties committed every hour of every day so long as there's reality TV.

Is Brave New World still on the high school curriculum? It should be. 1984 and Brave New World were both books we had to read this year as a senior in AP Literature. Really glad we were forced to read them because I wouldn't of known about them otherwise and they have great relevance to modern issues. Hamlet? Not so much.. Meh I think Hamlet has a timeless stance and importance as well as a relevance. Hamlet just deals with much more personal issues of failure and revenge as well as filial ties. BNW and 1984 deal with larger societal issue and are wonderful because of that but Hamlet has a personal message wich can have deep ramifications for many. This is also the logical conclusion to the system of media ownership that exists today. Students of politics usually emphasize the role of the media as a watchdog for the actions of government/the state/whatever, but the truth is that for-profit media outlets don't give a single shit about being a political watchdog if it doesn't make money. And if they can make more money with something that isn't related to watchdogging (totally sounds like a sex move but isn't, unless the journalist you're talking about is Bill O'Reilly with a falafel), they will do it at the expense of their imaginary social-political obligations. With the amount of media out there, I think the problem is more that the taste of media consumers has changed. The media organizations themselves are just responding to demand which is exactly what you'd expect them to do.  Looks like it won't be long before we start seeing actual internet police rather than corrupt mods. When I say this, I get the response: "We all know our phones have been tapped for years, so who cares?" I can't really say anything against that. At that point you pretty much have to show that the US government is not an inherently benevolent entity, and that if not kept in check it has very real danger of imposing its will on the people rather than the people imposing their will on the government. Make it clear to them that each individual has a responsibility to keep their governing bodies in check. The hard part is making the threat our government poses credible to them. People are very good at protecting themselves from threats on the outside, but very, very bad at even recognizing threats on the inside.

EDIT: [Here's a great reply providing another example of how it can be explained to people.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2zpkxx/we_are_jameel_jaffer_of_the_aclu_wikipedia/cpl62yz) Simply ask them if the government is immune to corruption or 100% competent. No one will say either.  From your article it looks like you have to overcome standing issues in order to get to the substantive issues.  What's the injury to wikimedia and how do you show it?  

I'm really happy to see wikimedia standing up to various governments using legal tools.  Is there anything to be done or that you plan on rolling out on the tech side to protect the identity of wikipedia editors in other countries?  

 I provided a more technical answer to the "standing" question in response to another questioner.  Cutting and pasting:

This is a good question.  As you probably know, in Clapper v. Amnesty, the U.S. Supreme Court held, in a 5-4 vote, that the ACLUs plaintiffs in that case lacked standing to challenge the constitutionality of the 2008 FISA Amendments Actthe same statute the government now invokes to justify the NSAs upstream surveillance.  The Court reasoned that the plaintiffs didnt have the right to challenge the statute because they couldnt show a sufficient likelihood that their communications were being monitored.  The plaintiffs couldnt make that showing, of course, because the government refused to disclose, even in the most general terms, how the statute was being used.  

I think Clapper v. Amnesty was wrongly decided (I argued the case, so this shouldnt be surprising), but more importantly, I dont think Clapper v. Amnesty forecloses our new case.  I say this for a few reasons.  First, thanks to Snowden, we know much more about the governments surveillance practices now than we did when Clapper v. Amnesty was argued and decided.  (It was argued in the fall of 2012 and decided in February 2013, just a few months before the first Snowden revelations began to appear in the Guardian and Washington Post.)  Second, the government itself has now acknowledged and confirmed many of the key facts about the NSAs upstream surveillance.  Third, the volume of Wikimedias communications is so incredibly large that there is simply no way the government could conduct upstream surveillance without sweeping up a substantial number of those communications.  

Im sure the government will argue that Clapper v. Amnesty forecloses this suit, but I dont think this will be a very compelling argument. A bit of fan mail for you - 

I've been a part of wikipedia for well over a decade and I feel really strongly that it's one of the most important and useful projects on the Internet.  As an attorney wikipedia editor, I'm jealous.  

Sounds like you're in an excellent position to write some case law.
 We take privacy and its protection seriously. People today often get their first -- and sometimes only identity -- online. It is critical that our users' sensitive information is protected, secure, and under end-user control. The Wikimedia Foundation is in a unique, neutral position to support this level of privacy online. We are definitely thinking about product and technical implications of this.
 If you had clear standing because you received national security letters that you believed were unconstitutionally improper because they lacked [probable cause](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cGhcECnWRGM), would you be allowed to say so in a public court pleading, or would you be required to ask that such a pleading be filed under seal because you can't talk about national security letters? Please answer this question.  I'm guessing wikimedia foundation received one of these letters. If your lawsuit is successful, do you believe the NSA will actually comply with the verdict? Is the NSA still under the control of the US government? Also, since the NSA has potentially infected the very hardware of the internet's infrastructure, how can we verify if they are being compliant? I'm an optimist.  I don't think there is any actual evidence that the NSA is not under the control of the US government.

And as to compliance, I think the key point is that if we are successful, it will be clear that what they are doing is not legal.  So if "infected" hardware is discovered, someone is going to be in big trouble, possibly jail.

I think it's unwise in life to become too cynical - cynicism can lead to paralysis under a theory that "well, we're all fucked anyway so why bother."  I think a lawsuit victory here will make a meaningful difference, even in an imperfect world. Thanks for the reminder to stay optimistic, and for what you're doing. It can be overwhelming to consider the strength of the forces against openness and transparency, but we won't get anywhere without people like you guys having the courage to challenge them. I don't think the NSA would refuse to comply.  I do think it would exploit ambiguities in any court order.  Which is part of why we're pressing Congress to require the NSA to be more transparent about its activities and to ensure that the NSA's activities are subject to meaningful judicial review on an ongoing basis.   Given that they call the papers that hold their mandate classified from even the bodies that are suppose to provide oversight... Let's not forget that NSA is actually an organization, which employs around ~40k people.

If the NSA is actually doing anything illegal or unconstitutional, it's easier for it's employees to disobey orders from it's superiors and even disclose the activities as whistleblowers.

Since the mentioned activities are illegal or unconstitutional under the hypothetical post-lawsuit circumstances, it should be much more difficult for the intelligence agencies to pursue such infringments on our rights. Except that whistleblowers are fucked over a vast majority of the time. Let's suppose this lawsuit is successful, and the NSA is legally barred from collecting upstream data.  What about controlling/regulating the same sort of data collection by corporate entities, and other governments (e.g., China)?  Does a successful outcome here protect privacy only with respect to the US government, or would it affect of influence privacy rights in other contexts? This suit is about surveillance by the US government.  The ACLU is involved in other efforts relating to surveillance by other governments--see, e.g., this case against the GCHQ in the UK: http://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2014/dec/05/uk-mass-surveillance-laws-human-rights-tribunal-gchq.  But the truth is that a more global solution to the problem of mass surveillance will require diplomacy, not just lawsuits.   But wouldn't it be safe to assume that if this suit proves a success, you would essentially be removing the head from the tail and the rest of the global surveillance programs would dissipate naturally? Or is the NSA, and the accusations against them, just a red herring for something more rooted?  What is different about this suit against the NSA's surveillance than the other lawsuits that have failed? This is a good question.  As you probably know, in Clapper v. Amnesty, the U.S. Supreme Court held, in a 5-4 vote, that the ACLUs plaintiffs in that case lacked standing to challenge the constitutionality of the 2008 FISA Amendments Actthe same statute the government now invokes to justify the NSAs upstream surveillance.  The Court reasoned that the plaintiffs didnt have the right to challenge the statute because they couldnt show a sufficient likelihood that their communications were being monitored.  The plaintiffs couldnt make that showing, of course, because the government refused to disclose, even in the most general terms, how the statute was being used.  

I think Clapper v. Amnesty was wrongly decided (I argued the case, so this shouldnt be surprising), but more importantly, I dont think Clapper v. Amnesty forecloses our new case.  I say this for a few reasons.  First, thanks to Snowden, we know much more about the governments surveillance practices now than we did when Clapper v. Amnesty was argued and decided.  (It was argued in the fall of 2012 and decided in February 2013, just a few months before the first Snowden revelations began to appear in the Guardian and Washington Post.)  Second, the government itself has now acknowledged and confirmed many of the key facts about the NSAs upstream surveillance.  Third, the volume of Wikimedias communications is so incredibly large that there is simply no way the government could conduct upstream surveillance without sweeping up a substantial number of those communications.  

Im sure the government will argue that Clapper v. Amnesty forecloses this suit, but I dont think this will be a very compelling argument. And now, presumably because of evidence Snowden released showing the Wikipedia logo, you believe that you have sufficient standing to challenge the statute? How do we, as privacy advocates, convince our fellow Americans that we should care about and protect the privacy of normal citizens in  other countries? In the age of the internet, we are all interconnected. If you dont have privacy in Brazil, you dont have privacy in the U.S. Our internet traffic doesnt respect national borders -- it crosses them millions of times a day. An email that starts in New York and is intended for someone in Miami may end up in Amsterdam along the way.

Its simple: we believe that universal human rights are universal. But our lawsuit isnt just about the privacy of normal citizens in other countries. Its also about the communications of American citizens. On the internet, we are all truly connected. These surveillance efforts exploit those connections, to collect communications from everywhere. In this instance, its clear that the interests of Americans and non-Americans are aligned.  Jimmy Wales: have you guys started banning police IPs that have been editing their own pages removing they're criticisms?  Not Jimmy, but I don't think any blocks have been implemented on NYPD'S IP block (and if they have, it's only a few). Here's [one of the IP editors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:206.212.134.12), for example, unblocked.

At the least, they've been marked and are being watched by editors now. We treat all IPs the same - if they misbehave then yes, they will ultimately get banned.  But we warn first and try to work with people to help them to understand the right way to approach Wikipedia.

I remember several years ago there was a news story when we temporarily banned the IP address of the US House of Representatives.  I joked then, and it was true as well, that we would treat them the same way we would treat any high school - if they behave they can stay. Thank you for the response and for continued support for Wikipedia. I've learned so much from it and I cannot tell you how much i appreciate it and how much it has changed the world Why haven't you made any claim that non-Americans have privacy rights?
Do you think Verdugo-Urquidez is incontestable, and a binding precedent for the rest of the world's privacy rights on the Internet?
If you win, and establish stronger but unequal rights only for Americans, that will further damage international human rights law based on equality without regard to national origin. Were deeply concerned about the governments indiscriminate surveillance of non-U.S. persons communications, and weve pressed this issue in other forums, including the Privacy &amp; Civil Liberties Oversight Board, the Inter-American Commission, and the U.N. Human Rights Committee.    Wikimedia and many of the other plaintiffs in this lawsuit share our concerns.  Weve focused on Americans international communications in this suit only because American law limits (unreasonably and unjustly, in our view) the kinds of claims we can bring on behalf of non-U.S. persons outside the United States.  But were hopeful that any new safeguards that the government is forced to adopt (or adopts of its own accord) as a result of this suit will have the effect of protecting everyone, not just Americans. True -- jurisdiction means that were litigating based on American law. But we believe this lawsuit will help protect the privacy of non-Americans too. Because the traffic is going over the backbone of the internet, all traffic is vulnerable and affected. Since the policies around in-country networks belong to local governments, we have to challenge legislation in its own jurisdiction. Governments can and do share intelligence with each other. Ensuring privacy protection in one country is a step towards helping the rest of the world.  
 Probably best for Jameel to answer this more formally, but I can speak to this in a general way.  Legal cases tend to focus quite narrowly on particular issues that are winnable in a particular context.  Not arguing for it doesn't mean that we don't agree with it, nor does it prejudice any future cases which may argue that.  We aren't going to get everything done in this case, which is a shame of course, but that's the way courts work. What role do tech giants such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, Amazon, Sony, Apple, and Facebook, as keepers of our most highly sensitive data, play in all of  this? And how will they be affected by the outcome? Another question: In an ideal ruling, other than remedying wikipedia's probkem, what binding precedent do you hope to set? That this type of behavior is not just illegal under current law, but actually unconstitutional. If the lawsuit fails--which it won't, of course--what are the next steps? 

Also, slightly off topic, but u/JimmyWales do you see end-user encryption of emails (and all traffic really) as a practical solution here? Blackphone? Or, maybe even, encrypted gMail? As Jameel said, were doing everything possible to win. But we are taking and will continue to take steps to protect our users privacy. We are constantly working on these issues from a technical and policy standpoint. This is just one of them.
 I think the end-to-end encryption of all communication is a very worthy goal.  We are seeing a strong trend towards it that is very exciting to me.  And politicians are predictably whining about it.  The PM of the United Kingdom recently suggested that it should be outlawed - and he was quite rightly universally laughed at for such a stupid idea. I've seen a lot of stuff about "talk to laymen about why internet privacy matters". While I completely agree that privacy is important, trying to explain why that is to someone can be difficult. Could you list off a few reasons/example that would be easy to rattle off to someone and make sure they get the idea?

Thanks for doing this AMA, keep up the great work, and best of luck in your lawsuit! In spirit of the First Amendment, we believe that privacy makes it possible for people to speak freely, or think freely. Imagine youre in a place where you disagree with popular public opinion: perhaps there is corruption in your government, but people are too intimidated to speak up. Privacy could give you the protection to blow the whistle. Perhaps you live in a religious community, but have questions. Privacy can protect your right to explore controversial ideas or other teachings. Maybe youre a member of a minority group that is discriminated against where you live. Privacy is a right that could allow you to seek resources or support. Privacy allows people to share information freely, without the fear of being watched, censored, or persecuted. This matters everywhere in the world, even in our own country. It's a really important question. I find this analogy that Bruce Schneier gave at SXSW a couple of days ago useful: Would you want a cop car driving next to you, watching you, at all times even if you weren't doing anything wrong? Would you want to remove all of the curtains or shutters in your home? The persistent monitoring of our communications by the government has the same effect, even if it seems less evident. There is too much information about innocent people in government databases - about their movements, whom they choose to talk to and associate with, and where they spend their time. This erodes the liberties we all take for granted. And I think someone already linked to this TED talk on the issue by Glenn Greenwald. I highly recommend it: http://www.ted.com/talks/glenn_greenwald_why_privacy_matters?language=en Someone needs to be making ads featuring the above concepts that could be spread through social media. (If they're already there, I haven't seen them) Bruce Schneier's new book, [Data and Goliath](https://www.schneier.com/book-dg.html), is also super, super accessible and wrought with great examples. I recommend it for further reading on the matter. His blog is also great, if you haven't seen it already. Alex Jones gave a couple very great examples in [his interview with William Binney](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zvOIMY2cZ0U&amp;t=239) a couple days ago -- same reason we don't leave our doors unlocked, same reason we don't leave our computer passwords out in the open. Just because the government is generally established as a tool for good does not mean there are not bad people participating with their own corrupt motives. Edit and the idea that "you have nothing to hide if you've done nothing wrong" is from Joseph Goebbels.
 I had no idea it was from the Nazi regime. People should point out that association more often. Now if only it were tied to communist Russia, it would never pass another American's lips Hi guys, 

Whenever I try to convince people around me that the surveillance going on is serious, a lot of responses I get are "I am okay with what the NSA does to protect us." Do you have any thought provoking responses I can parrot back?  For more than a decade, the NSA told the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court that its call-records program was not just effective but "the only effective means" of monitoring the calls of suspected terrorists.  After the Snowden revelations, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board and the President's Review Group both concluded that the program had never been pivotal in any investigation.  And the President himself acknowledged that the NSA could track terrorists' calls without collecting everyone's call records.  More: http://justsecurity.org/6159/privacy-board-debunks-justification/ 1. Why aren't Mozilla and the EFF involved in this? Were they not interested, or were they not even approached? It seems like something Mozilla and EFF would jump on.

2. How does this relate to the Wikimedia Foundation? I don't see anything at all relating to privacy in the WMF mission, so I'm confused why *they're* pursuing this lawsuit. [Not official statement, but I'm a WMF staff member/long term WP community member hence why this is written in terms of 'us']

Regarding #2:

The WMF has seen privacy as an important part of it's mission and traditional beliefs for a very long time (essentially since the start of the foundation). Part of this is our roots in the open source and knowledge culture that finds that important but also because we strongly believe that in order to truly have free knowledge in our context you NEED privacy and anonymity. We explain this in the complaint as well (and in our blog posts/NY Times oped) but some of the most important information to record and disseminate can be controversial or dangerous both in the United States and, especially abroad. If you are constantly worried that others can find out what you wrote on those subjects, especially governments, then many are less willing to contribute and that means that we are unable to spread that knowledge to others who desperately need it. EFF has been very supportive (and in fact EFF has filed its own challenge to upstream surveillance out in California).  I hope and expect that EFF will eventually appear as an amicus in our case.  And we will certainly reach out to tech companies, too, for amicus support.   How likely is this to succeed, and on a note I think is highly related, how much are you doing to grow press attention for this? It's a hard case.  But we wouldn't have brought it if we didn't think we had a real chance of convincing the courts to rule our way.  I think the Snowden revelations have led many people--including many judges--to realize for the first time that government surveillance has become a real threat not just to individual privacy but to the freedoms of speech, association, and inquiry as well.   Why do you let so many unethical editors push a clear agenda? Shouldn't the purpose of any Wikiepdia article be neutral and show both sides of an argument? Because that's not what we are seeing right now, especially when it comes to social issues. I've always seen Wikipedia as a valuable source, but if you continue to allow these people to run rampant, then I don't see much of a future for the Free Encyclopedia which doesn't seem to be very free at all. How long do you think the law suit will take until we will see some results? Are we talking month, years? I expect we'll be filing legal briefs over the next few months and that the district court in Maryland will hear oral argument in the fall. What are your favorite books? there are hundreds, but here are that come to mind this second
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6del,_Escher,_Bach
anything by https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_Vonnegut
russian/soviet literature: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Master_and_Margarita
 As an ACLU member passionate about privacy I thank you for fighting the good fight.

My question: Do you have additional evidence outside of the PowerPoint slide to establish standing or do you believe this alone is sufficient?  Someone else asked a very similar question, and I just answered it above.  (And thanks for your support!) [Here it is](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2zpkxx/we_are_jameel_jaffer_of_the_aclu_wikipedia/cpl3qro) I still got a reply from Jameel Jaffer :). But thanks! I think this issue is one of the most important modern day issues that we face.  My question is, how do we convince our friends, family, and neighbors of the importance?  

If I even bring up the ACLU doing something in my family they automatically support the opposite of it "because those commie ACLU bastards." Two more serious points.  First, the ACLU is a nonpartisan organization. We defend the Bill of Rights and the Constitution. In the fight against mass surveillance of innocent Americans, many of our most committed allies are conservative or libertarian.  Second, privacy is something everyone should care about.  Doesn't matter what your politics are.  If you want a society in which dissent is possible, you need to defend privacy.   I have a question for Jimmy. Do you still play RuneScape with your daughter?  No we moved on to Minecraft but lately we haven't been gaming as much.  :-) &gt; :-)

:-( Lila, Jimmy:

What will Wikipedia do to improve neutral coverage of controversial articles, such as gender politics related articles? How long has this lawsuit been in the works? Has it been thought about ever since the leaks, or has it only recently been thought of and worked on?

That being said, just wanted to say, thank you for standing up and doing this. When I woke up that morning and saw the announcement, I was surprised to say the least - it's a bold move. It's exciting and interesting to see Wikimedia stand up this way for itself, its readers and editors, and the right to privacy. We have cared for privacy for a long time. With recent revelations we decided to take a more active role (since last summer). Why would I trust Wikimedia, Wikipedia and Jimmy Wales with any 'action' regarding state surveillance considering their reputation for narrative pushing and their politically biased decision making? How can I as an ACLU member further help you in this cause? There are a lot of things you can do. For starters, we're planning a big fight against the reauthorization of Section 215 of the Patriot Act, which the government uses to conduct bulk surveillance of Americans' phone records. You can make clear to your representatives that you expect them to oppose reauthorization. Here's a petition you can sign: https://www.aclu.org/secure/stopnsa.  Thanks for your support! You said that you don't like Quora Credits.  But what about Reddit Karma?  I basically don't pay attention to "gamification" mechanisms pretty much ever. Hello y'all! Fantastic strategic move to sue. How do you see the standing argument shaping up? Will it matter from an organizational versus individual basis? How do you keep Jewell from happening again? We believe that Wikimedia's case is factually different from the Jewell decision (Jameel can speak more). One thing to note is that it is a question of scale. We have tens of billions of user requests every month that we are aiming to protect. * What do you guys make of the reported apathy of the public re: surveillance?
* For anyone/everyone: What's your very best life advice? People are trading privacy for convenience. All of our lives are now digital. More of our data online == more incentive to break into it == more end users care. You know Ms. PurpleUnicorn,

The more I read from you, the more I am impressed. Truly. Keep up the pressure. I'm not so sure that the public is all that apathetic.  I think and hope that it is a mistake for politicians to think that way, and that ending mass surveillance is a vote-getter.

My best life advice is this: wake up every day and do the most interesting thing that you can. What does the perfect internet look like for you? Here's a quick diagram:
http://imgs.sfgate.com/blogs/images/sfgate/inalameda/2010/06/01/ponies_and_rainbows.jpg

Ha.  Seriously though, a secure Internet (encryption everywhere) would be a good start. Hello, thank you for conducting this AMA on such an important and timely topic.

My question is how are you asserting that you have standing to challenge the surveillance given the precedent set by *Clapper v. Amnesty International* ? It is very encouraging for me to see an organization that means so much to me (Wikipedia) stand up to the government on such a clear case of overreach.

My question is: as voters, what can we do to make this issue of paramount importance in the next presidential election? How the hell do you plan on winning? This violates the First and Fourth Amendments. Also helps to have a rocking legal team. What will happen if your suit succeeds, and what if it fails? 

Why is the NSA still allowed to do this in the first place? 

Thank you all for what you are doing.  I commend you for your actions.  Having said that, I wonder if it's a wasted effort.  As long as the government has the ability to make laws and programs in secret, even if you win this lawsuit, can't they just create new secret programs outside of the law?

If they were to do so, we must rely on whistleblowers that are willing to become martyrs; meanwhile they are stepping up prosecutions and surveillance against possible whistleblowers.  My impression is that without personal accountability, there will not be an end to these unconstitutional actions.  For example, if James Clapper were prosecuted for lying to congress, that would give future NSA directors pause before lying in the future.

Do you disagree?  What is the result you are hoping to achieve with your lawsuit? I've never seen any mention of tortious interference regarding the NSA.  The relevant wording(ish) from contracts is an exception for "law enforcement."  The NSA is not a law enforcement agency.  

Are all NSA requests routed through a law enforcement agency such as the FBI?  

Or are all NSA requests accompanied by a warrant?  (that seems not to be the case)

Or is blanket national security the "only" thing allowing a breach of contract?

 Would you "push" for criminal charges on any government figure? If so who?

Also, how do you feel about the president believing that Edward Snowden should be charged with treason? As someone who likes net neutrality but is wary of government regulation, I have mixed feelings about the FCC's decision to reclassify the Internet as a public utility. Could this decision have an impact on how Internet usage data is surveilled and shared with spy agencies? This issue requires a longer answer than I can provide here.  But here's a recent blog post from one of my colleagues on this topic: https://www.aclu.org/blog/technology-and-liberty-free-speech/after-decades-fight-net-neutrality-huge-win-free-speech-onli  The FCC reclassified ISPs as common carriers, not public utilities, which is a different thing. So why should Wikipedia editors feel confident that company brass is doing whatever it can to avoid snooping?   Privacy is a core value for Wikimedia. This lawsuit is just one of many things the Foundation does to preserve the privacy of its users. Our transparency report, published bi-annually, details requests we receive for user data and content takedowns. We adhere to detailed, transparent guidelines for responding to user data requests and scrutinize each request carefully: the Wikimedia Foundation has fulfilled just 14% of requests for user data (lower than most sites of our size, see https://transparency.wikimedia.org) in the past two years. We believe that privacy goes hand-in-hand with transparency, and you can read about our privacy policy in full detail here. 

 Hi Jimmy. You said that the NSA must be more narrowly focused on dangerous individuals. 
How do you propose that the NSA distinguish between the two? Don't you think that a potential terrorist might slip through their fingers, given that most terrorist conversations are held in seemingly innocuous code words?
Don't you think that this undermines the US National Security agenda? Is it dissapointing that more tech companies didn't join the suit or aren't filing against the NSA for spying and hacking?  I am thinking Google, Apple, the SIM card company for example Why should we trust someone from Wikimedia given their favoritism and collusion in order to falsely represent extremist left-wing propaganda regarding false claims of misogyny and racism while purporting that males cannot be the subject of sexism and white people cannot be the subjects of racism? Everyone should check out /r/WikipediaInAction and /r/WikiInAction.

EDIT: Added the other subreddit which is more active, try that one instead. /r/WikiInAction also has a good collection of informative links. That sub is 55 subscribers and inactive, the other one is the active one Thanks, I didn't know of the other subreddit. I'll edit my post. Wikimedia is the umbrella organization that takes care of the site itself, not the contents. The content of wikipedia is created by the wikipedia community which is completely seperate from the Wikimedia organization.  
  
The problem lies with the administrators, moderators and editors who actually work on the wikipedia articles, not with the Wikimedia employees who actually do not work on the wikipedia articles itself, and merely provide for the website, legal issues, funding etc.  
  
Wikimedia workers are employees who get paid, and who work for a non-profit organization.  
  
Wikipedia administrators, moderators and editors are volunteers who are not connected to the Wikimedia organization and do not receive any pay for their work.  A cozy separation between admins/editors and Wikimedia is not credible in the wake of public statements on these issues by Wikimedia employees.

The fact remains: Extremists control entire sections of wikipedia for expressly political purposes and Wikimedia is content with this state of affairs, including when the misinformation and propaganda which results causes real harm to communities and industries.

I would like to believe that Wikimedia has the best interests of the internet as a whole in heart with these petitions and campaigns. But when I see the organization support the assault on internet culture, freedom, and communities, I cannot but be skeptical. Wikipedia has supported censorship and corruption when it has suited their political fancy and it is only a question of when either that fancy will change or the NSA will marshal enough PR so as to tickle those fancies. When that happens, Wikipedia and Wikimedia's support for this suit will be in serious question. My question is for Mr. Jaffer.

Why does the ACLU not fight Second Amendment cases? You fight for every imaginable civil right except gun ownership, is there is reason for this? Thank you all for doing this, what do you believe will be the biggest barrier in suing the government? What do you believe is the most corrosive element that exists within politics today, and how do we root it out? Well, we are suing them, so the barriers have already been overcome. :-)

As to the second question, I can answer in my personal capacity.  The most corrosive element in politics is a media more interested in click-bait (or viewer-bait) mock conflict about trivialities rather than serious journalism. Standing and state secrets have been hurdles in many other surveillance suits.  As I explained in response to other questions, though, we are optimistic that we will be able to overcome those hurdles here.  There is a lot more information in the public domain now than there was when those other surveillance cases were litigated. If you were to win the case, what would it mean in terms of more cyber privacy? It would be one step to protecting our personal liberties. There is much more work needed beyond that. How can I help the ACLU without a law degree? 
 1. Volunteer at your local affiliate (that's what I do).
2. Give whatever financial support you can--I started back in school with a 15 dollar one time donation. Hi,

What do you think of the idea of a UN treaty for ensuring privacy and freedom in modern communications?

Thank you. How strong do you think your case is in the corrupt justice system? It's pretty blatant that they are violating the constitution but that doesn't stop the NSA from constantly violating it. Are there any worries that the trial might be unfair? How would you make the Internet more Secure Free and Safe? Jimmy Wales - Hi! What were your main intentions when you first created Wikipedia? Are you happy with how it is currently? Where do you wish for it to be in the future?

Thanks for helping all is students everyday of our lives! We'd be screwed without Wikipedia :-) Well, a free encyclopedia for everyone on the planet in their own language was the intention, and still is.  I'm happy with how it is currently... at least in terms of "progress so far".  There is still a huge amount of work to do, especially in the languages of the developing world.

I want to see 250,000 articles in every language that has at least 1,000,000 native speakers... which is approximately 330 languages I believe.  We aren't there yet. Didn't you originally plan to have it be the free alternative to a higher quality paid encyclopedia you were going to make? But the Wikipedia took off and worked so well, you didn't need the commercial version? FYI, Jimmy didn't create wikipedia. That was Larry Sanger. Hi everyone, thanks for doing this AMA. I'd like to know what you believe will happen if you fail in your cause?
 Well, let me start by saying that we're going to do everything we can to win the case.  But we are pressing for reform on other fronts as well--including in Congress, before the U.N. Human Rights Committee, and before the U.N. Human Rights Council.  We are also urging technology companies to do more to protect their users' privacy--and some technology companies have started to respond to that call.   Do you think it's genuinely possible for anyone to be punished for this, or is it more about sending a message and getting people rallied?

What's the next step if this turn out like Edward Snowden, where the party in the obvious right sees no justice and gets a cold shoulder (or worse) from the administration? This is not about punishing, but about protecting our freedoms for ourselves and the next generation that is "born digital". What are some ways that the NSA can use private information to hurt people who are not breaking the law? A loaded question, I know, but there seems to be a growing sentiment that privacy is only important  for criminals. [Exes of NSA members, for a start.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LOVEINT)

For most people, [the databases of phone data compiled by police agencies](http://www.wired.com/2014/10/virginia-police-secretively-stockpiling-private-phone-records/) mean that [abuses are more likely.](http://www.startribune.com/local/131369128.html) So even if you win your case, what's to stop the NSA from continuing to do this surveillance? Excellent point. The NSA is above the laws and above the US government. When you have the power to blackmail congress, judges and even presidents who's to stop you. Specifically for Jimmy Wales: 

How often does it occur that Wikipedia pages about agencies like the NSA or government mass surveillance in general are edited from government IPs in order to give them a more positive or less harmful image? For example it was recently revealed NYPD was editing the page on Eric Garner's death and changing key phrases to benefit their perspective, so I wouldn't be surprised if it happend on a Federal level as well.

Also how well are these types of things monitored and moderated?

Thanks again for all your work on Wikipedia, it's a great resource. Do you ever fear for your life? Have you ever been threatened? While we are on the subject of privacy, I donated $20 to some guy in the ACLU while in Seattle. On my card. I gave no address and no phone number. Can you explain how the fuck you got both and now send me voicemails asking for further donations and newsletters in the mail?  If we lose this case, will the ACLU finally reconsider its stance on the second amendment? What if you're being paid by the government to become a martyr in the name of our last freedoms, to lose and make our arguments look bad by doing so? Making an entire generation give up on their rights? any of you dudes atheist? I would like to know why the ACLU is not partnering with the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) for this lawsuit?

Has the ACLU reached out to the EFF at all? Has the EFF reached out to the ACLU?  I do not understand why there is no partnership between the ACLU and EFF.  You would think ACLU and EFF combining resources and experiences would be necessary for such an unprecedented lawsuit. 

-Long Time EFF Supporter EFF is a super organization and we work together all the time.  For example, we're working together on Smith v. Obama, a challenge to the NSA's dragnet call-records program (see https://www.aclu.org/national-security/smith-v-obama-challenge-nsa-mass-call-tracking-program).  We're also working together in Klayman v. Obama (see https://www.eff.org/document/eff-and-aclu-amicus-brief-klayman).   Jameel,  you did not answer any of my questions.  Why is the ACLU and EFF not partnering on this specific case?  

I understand that the ACLU and EFF jointly file public opinions amicus briefs.  This is a much larger lawsuit.  I'll ask again, has the ACLU reached out to the EFF?  Has the EFF reached out to the ACLU?  Jameel, help me understand why you are not working together with the EFF for this specific case. Lawsuits don't work like legislative advocacy campaigns. It's not important for everyone who cares about an issue to be involved in every lawsuit about it. Sometimes there are sufficient cooks in the kitchen.

It's actually a good thing that ACLU and EFF both have the resources to do this kind of thing without necessarily teaming up every time. It means more work is getting done. Again, this is an unprecedented lawsuit against the government.  This is an issue near and dear to the EFF's heart.  Since Jewel v. NSA is going no where, I don't think it is unfair to ask why there is not any partnership, and what can we expect to see from the EFF on this issue.  Jameel answered that the EFF is expected to continue to support the ACLU by doing what the EFF always does, which is absolutely nothing.  EFF will write a public opinion amicus, and not ever see the inside of a courtroom.  Which is normal and typical of the EFF.  If I'm wrong please correct me. &gt; If I'm wrong please correct me.

You are wrong. It's not unfair to *ask* why there's no partnership, but it is unfair to assume that the lack of a partnership represents a morally or strategically bad choice by either ACLU or EFF. No lawyer or law student would think that.

Jameel Jaffer and the others at ACLU and EFF are at the top of their field. Nobody has any reason to doubt their talent or their commitment. The lack of partnership by the ACLU and EFF on such an overlapping case is very concerning to me.  I guess time will tell if Jameel Jaffer made a wise decision to not include the EFF on this unprecedented lawsuit. With such little experience the EFF has in a courtroom. I can understand the ACLU's decision not to include the EFF. If it's so understandable, why does it concern you?

I've also tagged you as "Absolute Nutter". How does it feel knowing that's the impression you left on the internet? I care. I expect EFF will eventually be involved as an amicus.  They've filed amicus briefs in our cases before, as we have in theirs.     I take it EPIC will also likely be involved as an amicus? So I guess what you are telling me Jameel, is that you don't want the EFF involved in this specific case, other than writing a public opinion amicus,  because EFF will hurt your lawsuit efforts.  I can understand that.
Good luck on your lawsuit.  I hope it isn't thrown out due to State Secrets Privilege, which is what I think everyone is expecting to happen.  It's almost like they're different organizations and can maybe focus on different lawsuits sometimes.  I don't get how you can say that, Jason Koebler from Vice motherboard.  This is clearly an overlap, and Jameel is clearly saying that EFF's help during this particular lawsuit is not wanted, except for writing a public opinion amicus.  Isn't that at all interesting to you?  I can tell you, as an activist seeking change, this is frustrating as hell. I clearly don't get how you can clearly see in those responses that they clearly don't want the EFF involved. You're clearly hyperbolising. Because it was clearly asked, and clearly not answered, both times. A clear conclusion was made based on the response and lack there of.  It's pretty obvious that ACLU doesn't want EFF's help.  That was the specific question asked. Your ad hominem attacks on a simple question and answer clearly shows you have no idea what you are talking about. Pointing out when you exaggerate is not an ad hominem attack. Gotta love the hypocrisy of your own ad hominem attacks against jkoebler ("Jason Koebler from VICE motherboard" as you keep repeating). At this point, I think you're a troll or at least not willing to consider other people's arguments. I don't see why that would be interesting. They're somewhat involved in this case and highly involved in other cases. I don't see what difference it would make if they were involved to a greater extent. No the EFF is not busy.  The EFF spent a total of 3+ hours in court for the entire year of 2014.  I think they have some free time.  It's clear the ACLU doesn't want the help from EFF.  Again, I can understand that.  Maybe the lack of actual time the EFF spends in a courtroom played into that decision. You said in an earlier comment that they wrote an amicus brief. You seem to think they should be doing more, but it's not clear to me why it is "interesting" that they are not. EFF has its own lawsuits against the NSA. I don't know that throwing a shitload of lawyers at one particular case is going to be any more effective than having lawyers from different groups push from different sides and angles and in different districts.  Are you are talking about Jewel v. NSA from 2008 which was squashed by state secrets privilege? Or are you taking about EFF v. NSA, ODNI - Vulnerabilities FOIA, which is a 2014 FOIA request? I'm not sure which failing case from the EFF you are referring to that I am supposed to be excited about.  Jason Koebler from VICE motherboard, if you are not going to help by getting the facts straight, then just stick to regurgitating wikipedia articles on CFAA, Drones, or whatever else is echoing that week. Fact is EFF spent more time brewing NSA beer then they have put into NSA lawsuits. There's Smith vs Obama; there's the 2014 FOIA case that is still really fucking important; there's First Unitarian vs the NSA. There's the push for reforming NSA with things like USA Freedom, the FOIAs that help push on transparency in general. Them not being involved in this case doesn't mean anything.

I don't try to hide who I am on here, but yes, the personal attacks are really helpful. But lol at regurgitating Wiki articles. OK. just FYI not that I disagree with some of the stuff you're saying but repeating someone's name that many times makes you seem like a crazy person Why is wikipedia involved in this? You are basically an encyclopedia, don't take a political stance. Remain an information source, not a biased company. Firstly, everyone has a bias. Secondly, the politics surrounding this involve how information is monitored and spread. As an information source, Wikipedia has a vested interest in the politics of information. Remember that the content on wiki is generated by people, and the content is managed by people, and these people all share a common goal of wanting to protect that content. These people have values and interests, and they use politics to defend those values and interests. Asking them not to take a political stance is essentially telling them that to trust that the government is going to keep those interests in mind without prompting or confrontation. Mass surveillance has nothing to do with protecting content, btw. Your argument is quite a stretch of logic. This is why I state that it isn't wikipedia's fight. Plus anyone with a little knowledge about IT security can bypass any and all snooping the NSA is doing. 

That aside, organizations like the ACLU are completely justified. If it is just Jimmy Wales and not the Wikipedia organization, fine, Im cool with that. My issue is we see that fund raiser message every year to keep wikipedia online, and is that money now being used to sue the NSA?? If so, that is a breach of trust and a misuse of donation money that I have contributed, because I do not back wikipedia in that fight. If I wanted to back that fight, I'd donate to the ACLU, or write my congressmen (I have). 
 &gt; Mass surveillance has nothing to do with protecting content, btw. Your argument is quite a stretch of logic.

Ah, but see here is where we disagree. I see mass surveillance as a threat to content, not because of the surveillance itself, but because of the psychological effect it can have on users. If people don't feel like they have a safe space to voice their opinions or share a controversial fact because of some looming entity, they're going to generate less content entirely. I guess what I'm trying to get at is that the fear of being watched has more powerful of an effect than the act of being watched itself. That effect on people's psyche will affect what content they produce and how they manage it. That's how I link the two ideas anyways.

&gt; My issue is we see that fund raiser message every year to keep wikipedia online, and is that money now being used to sue the NSA?? If so, that is a breach of trust and a misuse of donation money that I have contributed, because I do not back wikipedia in that fight. If I wanted to back that fight, I'd donate to the ACLU, or write my congressmen (I have). 

I acknowledge your point here; having Wikipedia claim to do one thing with your donation and then go and do something completely different is definitely grounds for some frustration.

&gt; Plus anyone with a little knowledge about IT security can bypass any and all snooping the NSA is doing. 

It's to my understanding that NSA snooping is fairly extensive, and that the average user *couldn't* get around it. Do you have some sources which say otherwise? Or for that matter, some links I could go to increase my IT security knowledge, as you put it? &gt; If people don't feel like they have a safe space to voice their opinions or share a controversial fact because of some looming entity, they're going to generate less content entirely.

Wikipedia content, from my understanding, isn't controversial or opinion based, by nature. It attempts to be encyclopedic with peer review.

As far as security goes, encrypt your data. Use off-the-record for instant message based conversation, services such as TOR for browsing, etc. The NSA does have ways around some encryption, but not everything. I don't have any links off hand, but you can just search for encryption software that the NSA can't crack and read up on some of the technologies. You clearly have no idea about what bulk Internet metadata collection means if you think using a proxy solves your woes.  I'm astounded you think that it could ever possibly do so against the NSA.  Hell, using a proxy lets you evade some corporate surveillance in exchange for making sure the NSA focuses on YOUR communications as a presumed foreigner. What proxy are you talking about, I don't recall mentioning a proxy. I mentioned encryption and TOR browsing. Oh and I know very well what bulk internet metadata collection is, maybe you don't have a clue what encryption is. I also know the NSA capabilities VERY well, thanks. I hold both a bachelors in comp sci, and masters in cybersecurity. Please tell me again what I don't know about. The NSA flat out admitted they have a difficult time with the TOR network in their internal documents. You should do more reading. Please excuse me for not treating you with any more respect by being associated with anything "cyber" related.  Anyone I've met in person who has proudly proclaimed themselves to be a "cybersecurity professional" have been among the most computer incompetent people I've ever had the displeasure of meeting.  People full of rhetoric but empty of substance.  They couldn't even set up a LAN party correctly for an international competition!

And I'm well aware the NSA has trouble with Tor.  And the NSA slide on Tor said that they won't be able to identify everyone all the time.  I'm aware of numerous threat models on de-identifying Tor users via monitoring endpoints (not to mention trying to set up a bunch of your own relays and just wait until your target happens to pick relays you control to route their traffic through).  Staying anonymous for an extended period of time via TOR requires meticulous OpSec.  Consistent behavior over an extended period of time, consistent websites visited, consistent times you use Tor, the language of the websites you go to being consistent, all of these things are bits of info that over an extended period of time, can correlate your activity back to you.

Also, Tor makes for a miserable browsing experience.  Not a practical replacement. Well, I can set up a LAN just fine. By trade I am a senior sys. admin for an organization supporting 6000 users, and my current focus is on SaaS architecture and SSO implementation using SAML, as well as managing our VMWare infrastructure. Before transitioning to this I was a network administrator.  Also, TOR routing isn't that hard to use, and it isn't that miserable if you want peace of mind. 

You also didn't indicate which proxy I said to use, as I don't recall stipulating a proxy. My advice was OTR for communication, and TOR for browsing, with private encryption (previously I would have recommended truecrypt). I mean, TOR is in a way a proxy, but your decrying of a proxy doesn't apply to TOR, as I can cite numerous cases citing its security.

So, you bitched that a proxy isn't effective vs the NSA, yet I didn't mention a proxy. Then you claim cybersecurity professionals are incompetent with computers based on your anecdotal experience, and say that TOR is a pain to use. I was merely offering methods of circumventing any NSA paranoia (which I don't really have). If it takes a bit more preparation for peace of mind, which seems to be what was wanted, I think it was an adequate solution.

Ironically, I almost went to work for the NSA prior to all this horseshit. I have had numerous debates with associates who do work within that sector, and I am not a fan of what they are doing, but both sides do make relevant points. It's nice to hear you have some tech competence. That said, I was saying my personal experience with "cybersecurity" professionals was disappointing to say the least.  I wasn't trying to implicate that all such professionals are incompetent, but that I have a small sample size and that sample size was less than impressive.

Tor does not provide me peace of mind given the increased likelihood of getting a virus on your computer due to rogue endpoints or a possibly egotistical attack, not to mention it's all but assumed that all endpoints are being thoroughly monitored.  Once encryption is more commonplace, I'll be more comfortable using Tor.

I apologize for assuming you meant a proxy when you were talking about simple measures that anyone can take to browse anonymously.

And I'm glad to hear you're not working for the NSA, not that I'd expect someone that works for the NSA to openly admit it. Not paranoia there, just pragmatism. Just as an FYI. TOR itself does not increase the likelihood of viruses. It is just routing obfuscation basically. Practice safe browsing habits and you will be fine. Rogue endpoints are an attack vector specifically for Tor users. If asked, how would you suggest NSA conducts surveillance/acquires information in a better,  non-invasive way, considering that they probably have good intentions but are going about it the wrong way? 
 I can give an approximate answer...

Probable cause, search warrants, subpoenas - basically - talk to a judge and do the right thing, don't treat everyone a priori as if they are terrorists deserving surveillance.

Remember, this fight is a new one only in terms of technology: the underlying human rights are the same. Yes, essentially we want the NSA's surveillance to be targeted, not indiscriminate.  The NSA has a legitimate interest in monitoring the communications of people who're reasonably thought to present threats.  It doesn't have a legitimate interest in monitoring *everyone's* communications, which is what it's doing through "upstream" surveillance.  &gt;  It doesn't have a legitimate interest in monitoring everyone's communications

We would all be "safer" if they spent their budget on *targeted* surveillance and not extremely broad surveillance. I'm sure you guys have heard of the troubling new CISA bill that passed in the senate intelligence committee. It's extremely troubling to see that the bill has not been made public, along with the TPP. What can we do to get some transparency so we can actually discuss these bills? Actually the full text has been released:
http://rt.com/usa/242369-senate-cyber-sharing-privacy/

 Why is this lawsuit only being presented now? What was the change that made it so you just took up the case? Why not earlier, especially when there was a higher public outcry against it back in 2013? This was an important decision for us. After the mass surveillance revelations, everyone became aware of the vastness of these programs. We began to think carefully about what this meant for the Wikimedia mission and community. We started conversations with the ACLU in May 2014 about the possibility of filing this suit against the NSA and other defendants.
 What's your favourite band? The Beatles And he actually influenced the Beatles which is super cool; 

per Rolling Stone magazine

"Who's gonna hear this shit?" Beach Boys singer Mike Love asked the band's resident genius, Brian Wilson, in 1966, as Wilson played him the new songs he was working on. "The ears of a dog?" But Love's contempt proved oddly useful: "Ironically," Wilson observed, "Mike's barb inspired the album's title." Barking dogs  Wilson's dog Banana among them, in fact  are prominent among the found sounds on the album. The Beatles made a point of echoing them on Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band  an acknowledgment that Pet Sounds was the inspiration for the Beatles' masterpiece. That gesture actually completed a circle of influence: Wilson initially conceived of Pet Sounds as an effort to top the Beatles' Rubber Soul."

"Read more: http://www.rollingstone.com/music/lists/500-greatest-albums-of-all-time-20120531/the-beach-boys-pet-sounds-20120524#ixzz3UtNv2eeh 
Follow us: @rollingstone on Twitter | RollingStone on Facebook Doing an AMA with Brian Wilson is like going back in history. Seriously...just look at some of videos, he was popular around the time of Kennedy or Vietnam, yet here he is speaking with us in 2015. 

I can't describe the feeling. I used to listen to the Beach Boys when I was a teenager and *that* was so long ago, and then I realize that he was making songs 50 years before I was a teenager. 

Wow. This world is a crazy place.  If Brian Wilson was making music 50 years before you were a teenager you can't have been not a teenager for very long... Stopped being a teenager about 5 minutes ago, I assume. A lot has been written about a rivalry between you and Lennon/McCartney, particularly about their desire to compete against Pet Sounds.  I know it's a long time ago, but did you feel the same level of competition with the Beatles? There was mutual admiration, competitiveness not a rivalry.  'Pet Sounds' inspired 'Sgt Pepper.' What inspired Pet Sounds? Rubber Soul. :-) what inspired rubber soul? Drugs Aand we're gonna call it a day right there fellas, thanks for coming  Day after day, alone on the hill

The man with the foolish grin is

 keeping perfectly still... [Marijiuana and Bob Dylan](http://ultimateclassicrock.com/bob-dylan-introduces-beatles-to-marijuana/) Who was your most memorable fan? When I was in Washington DC about 8 years ago receiving the Kennedy Center Honor, President Bush and I met - I said "Nice to meet you" and he said "I'm one of your fans."  I was thrilled I can totally see Bush smoking a j while jamming to the Beach Boys Planning an invasion while listening to Good Vibrations. Good gooood gooooooood, good invasions! Bomb bomb bomb, bomb bomb Iran. It's givin' me economic inflations.  What did you think the first time you heard the Barenaked Ladies song, "Brian Wilson?" I was honored that they would use my name but it embarrassed me a little bit because I was lying in bed a lot haha Lol.  Great reply, thanks. I came here just to hear/read a reference to "...Lyin' in bed, just like Brian Wilson did..."

Best of luck to ya, you Beachiest of Boys! I'm so glad someone asked this What is your favorite movie? The Birds by Alfred Hitchcock because it had a sense of humor.  Some guys car blew up and he got killed and it made me laugh for some reason running from the birds. Oh However, my favorite horror movie is Ace Ventura.  This is the greatest response to any question asked of a famous person on Reddit.  \\\_()_/ well okay then What's under Mike Love's baseball cap? A bald head. *California rekt* God only knows... Between that and "He's a dick", that's two typical answers for questions about Mike Love. What advice do you have to offer to new songwriters? And do you have a favorite Bob Dylan song? Blowin' In The Wind i like the lyrics.  I met Bob Dylan in an emergency hospital in Malibu..he accidentally had his thumb broken.  It was a cool place to meet him.  I'm a fan of his for sure I like that this implies people purposely break their thumbs.  Well with Bob Dylan you just don't know. How did you feel about seeing John Cusack and Paul Dano portraying you on film? Is it weird to see aspects of the life that you really lived acted out by others? Well..the movie is on my life and when I saw it it took me back to where I was back in the '60s and '80s.  It took me back to when I was young and all different places.  It was a thrill to see John and Paul portraying me, they did it very well. This is the first time I've heard the names John and Paul and it not be a Beatles reference.  If you could give any advice to yourself at age 18, what would it be?  Don't take drugs! You had a very well publicized battle with depression for a part of your life. What do you credit with helping you break out of it and getting your drive to make all that great music back?

Many thanks for all that music, Brian. My doctor turned me on to exercise, running was what helped break me out of my depression and get me back to songwriting.  That among other things.  run a lot, do a lot, never be lazy :)

edit: thanks for the gold! eat a lot, sleep a lot, brush 'em like crazy Yes! Thank you for mentioning this, Mr. Wilson. Aerobic exercise is a phenomenal way to combat depression. We used to think it had to do with just increasing brain endorphins, but we now know that it also has a lot to do with the production of a protein by aerobically exercising skeletal muscle, PGC-11, that appears to clear out a molecule linked to depression. Disclaimer: I'm not depressed, but I am a physician.    Could you describe your most vivid childhood memory? Musical or otherwise? The first time that my brothers and I saw the ocean.  My dad brought us there.  That was the most memorable part of my childhood. Hi Mr. Wilson,

I bought my first Beach Boys album at a yard sale in the early 70s. I've been a fan since then. Do you remember the first album/record you bought? The first album I bought was Four Freshmen and Five Trombones.  It changed my life. Sounds a little odd but google it and you'll immediately understand why. For the lazy:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J1h1l0437mw Oh wow, its wild how with some songs you can just feel the weight of history on them. I just want to know which freshman was playing two trombones.

 Those harmonies. So... 

Dam... 


Smooth....  That's the first porno I ever watched.

Edit: [My goodness](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sr0gNJ090JA&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=14) if I were Brian Wilson and you were me, what would you ask? I would ask you What does it feel like to have a number one record on the charts? What does it feel like? ["It's a great feeling it's a great honor it's an achievement"](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2zmbsv/i_am_brian_wilson_cofounder_of_the_beach_boys_amaa/cpk9tb0) This got meta in a way ama threads rarely do. Love your work Brian! Do you still maintain contact with Paul McCartney? He's always listen "God only knows" among his favourites I talk to Paul about once a year.  We get caught up on music &amp; family. The first time Paul McCartney heard *God Only Knows*, he was driving in his car to Pet Sounds and he pulled the car over during *God Only Knows* and wept. He also told a Japanese radio station that it was his favorite song of all-time. It's also my favourite song of all time.  I don't know why nobody ever mentions that. Hey next time I'm on Japanese radio I'll mention it. What does it feel like to have a number one record on the charts? It's a great feeling it's a great honor it's an achievement 
What one thing do you most want to say to the whole world? Good vibrations to you all! Wouldn't that be nice. God only knows Brian, what is your favorite track from the Beatles Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band album?  I mean, I realize you were in competition with the band at the time and things became very troubling around then... But it's a question I've long wondered.

Thank you, sir.  You're a legend. A Little Help From My Friends because of Ringos performance and John Lennons chords and melody How do you like your steak cooked? What's your favorite flavor of cake? Medium rare with ketchup on top and my favorite flavor of cake is cheesecake Ketchup? When you write Pet Sounds you can put whatever the fuck you want on your steak. Amen I know right!?! I prefer milk steak. I'm sure you still often get recognized by fans when out in public. How do you feel about fans approaching you? A little bit paranoid to be honest but I'm proud to be recognized Favourite place to go in London?  Picadilly Square Hi Brian, what's your biggest fear? Dying. Wow, thank you so much for your response. 

If it's any consolation, the monumental effect you've had on music will absolutely keep you immortal. To quote Woody Allen:

&gt;I don't want to achieve immortality through my work; I want to achieve immortality through not dying. I don't want to live on in the hearts of my countrymen; I want to live on in my apartment. What does it take to keep your voice in such amazing condition after years of singing amazingly? I sing at my piano and I practice every 2 or 3 days singing Beach Boys songs and thats how I keep my voice in good shape Hey Brian! What is your favorite song from the Love You album?

Thank you for all your music and Im really looking forward to your new album and movie! "Ding Dang" because I like my brother Carl's vocal Hi Brian! What songs or albums would you recommend to someone trying to get into the Beach Boys?  Darlin with Carl on lead and California Girls would be the two Hi Brian, what's been your favorite part about seeing Carnie and Wendy achieve their own success in the business? I'm most proud of their sound.  They sing like angels You are the greatest.  What musicians do you admire that have come along in the next generation?  Anyone that would surprise people? Al Blaine because of his great drumming.  He played on "California Girls." That should be "Hal" Blaine...prominently featured in the new Wrecking Crew documentary film. Hi Brian!

All I Wanna Do from Sunflower is one of my very favorite songs. Do you remember recording it? What were yours and Mike's contributions? It was truly ahead of its time.

Thank you for everything you do, you're an inspiration. I can't wait for No Pier Pressure, and I'll see you this summer in Boston! What song on No Pier Pressure do you enjoy the most?

 Sail Away because of Blondie's performance Mr Wilson, Brian, sir, or however you prefer to be called - hi! Ive been a massive Beach Boys fan ever since I was the age of 4 (Im 21 now). I grew up in Cornwall (UK) around the surf and as a youngster loved the obvious pop hits like Surfin USA, California Girls and Kokomo but since I hit my late teens and adult life where Ive suffered with depression at times, Til I Die is a song that Ive fell in love with.  So I thank you dearly for writing that song.

What I wonder is what made you decide to be so open and honest within the lyrics and the way you wrote Til I Die?  Because I was being humble when I said "I'm a rock on a landslide, I'm a cork on the ocean..."  It's a very humbling song. These things I'll be until I die... Any other Smile's sitting in your closet waiting to be released? No, Smile was a one of a kind. what is the greatest advice you have been given?  Follow through with my songs and don't stop halfway through the song.  Write the whole song. 50 to 100 years from now, what do you want people to take from your legacy of music?
 The timelessness of "California Girls" and "Surfer Girl," maybe who knows? California Girls was my favorite song when I was a kid!  I thought it was about all of the girls literally turning into the state of California and then all they boys could just hang out and be cool without any girls around.  

Later, I turned ten. God only knows?
 I sometimes don't think you know what you have done for generations of musicians because you are such a humble soul.
 Could you tell us the name of your favorite vegatables? Broccolli I love you most of all! My fav-or-ite...veggie-ta-ble  Hi Brian, you're the absolute best. 

Question: What's one little-known fact about you or your life that you'd like people to know? That I'm deaf in my right ear and that I used to do transcendental meditation at my house.  Most people don't know that. How was it filming with the cast of Full House? For some reason that's one of the only episodes I remember!  I've never been on Full House Nailed it.  Lol so glad I read deep enough to find this gold. I don't get it Uncle Jesse played with "The Beach Boys" one episode. 2 episodes. They came back to jam when he was feeling blue for being rejected by ~~Big~~ Fat Fish records and they gave him the rights Forever which he used to eventually hit #1 in Japan. But Brian wasn't in that episode, just the one where DJ wins the radio contest.  Right. But Uncle Jesse played with the Beach Boys in more than just 1 episode. May not of been all of them, but they jam'd!

I love me my Full House! John Stamos played drums on a tour when they came to Wisconsin a couple years ago. It was awesome.  Fat Fish Records. Jesus. Are you even Full House? Was he in the episode or not?! I NEED CLOSURE Here is for you.  https://fullhousereviewed.files.wordpress.com/2010/09/picture-123.png That's not Brian Wilson.  That's Wilson from Home Improvement. I wish they all could be Brian Wilson. Wilson Wilson. I'm Glad you said that. Came to say that the beach boys were on home improvement,  as Wilson's cousins.   [imdb](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0584108/) disagrees with you

[Picture](http://i.imgur.com/YGUzmfb.jpg)

There was also the whole [scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DOZ5dEiZYCo) at the concert at the end of the episode. Ahahhaha this is just like the Rick James Fuck yo couch bit on Chappelle's Show happening before our eyes. Cocaine is a hell of a drug. "I've never been on Full House. Yeah, I remember being on Full House."
 "My Homer is not a communist. He may be a liar, a pig, an idiot, or a communist, but he is *not* a porn star!" Those are some serious alphabet sweatpants.  They just don't make sweet 90s clothes like they used to.  I'm super curious now what Joey slipped into the Beach Boy's shirt pocket there at the end. Looks like a cassette tape. Was that last of the episode or his own personal action?  Plot twist it was explicit instructions on how all beach boys must never admit they were on full house or face the ultimate death. It was an Alanis Morrisette demo tape. "Check out my mixtape bruh." it was a jingle he and Jesse had written, I think they wanted the beach boys to sing on it or something. Poor Gibbler, always at the bottom. Bitch had stinky feet. Thanks for doing the AMA, Brian. I realize 1988 was a pretty rough year for you, but you were definitely on Full House. Not going to lie, though, you looked really, really out of it. How rude You got it, dude. [Cut. It. Out.](http://www.reactiongifs.us/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/cut_it_out_jimmy_fallon.gif)

EDIT: Adding [source](https://youtu.be/tW0SacO27Uk). wow dave coulier looks like a mom.  They JUST showed that episode last night on Nickelodeon! My wife finally believes me The Beach Boys were on Full House. 
   
I never knew Brian Wilson was on it because Mike Love kept hogging the camera. Too many drinks with Jesse at The Smash Club?   The creator of Full House, Jeff Franklin, currently lives at the address that Brian Wilson used to own. It was the place where the... unpleasantness occurred. If I remember correctly, I think I read somewhere that there may have been an issue here where Mike Love was making decisions for the Beach Boys and booking them to be on stuff like Full House that was really, really cheesy but had lots of viewers -- and Brian either didn't like it or people perceived that he was being used/manipulated into participating.  Basically, Mike Love was all about cashing in and selling out the Beach Boys.  In my eyes, this is exactly what was happening.  The Beach Boys were an extraordinary band, on par with the Beatles, and this kind of stuff sort of sullied that.  They didn't need to sink so low.

This could be why Brian denies it -- or he may genuinely not remember it given that he was sort of still going through some shit at the time. Mike Love has done this pretty much the entire time the Beach Boys have been around.

Fuck Mike Love. Yeah, I mean after all, it's not like the Beatles ever did any cheesy TV or movie tie-in appearances just for the money! I'm a young songwriter and you're a huge inspiration to my songwriting. I have 2 questions:

1) When writing some of The Beach Boys songs, specifically Pet Sounds/SMiLE era, did you have a melodic structure to follow or did the songs just come to you sitting on a piano or out of nowhere?

2) Do you have a favourite key to play/sing in? Any favourite chords to play/sing with? The songs came to me sitting at a piano and out of nowhere and came down from my brain and onto the keyboard.  My favorite key is B, the song "Darlin'" is in B.  No favorite chords, but I like Major chords. Wow, thank you so much for responding to me. You don't know how much it means, man. Really. What do you miss most about the 1960's? I miss the spirit of competition and all the cool restaurants and places we used to hang out. since this might be your last tour, will you consider coming to the UK?  Well...as I've said before this could be my last tour but of course I will try to get to the UK. how did you come up with the title "do you like worms"? Van dyke came up with that title.  I thought it was a strange strange title. what is your strongest memory about hanging out with Charles Manson? this is why brian said almost anything This was literally the first question that came to my mind. So disappointed that he didn't respond. We can't be the only ones. You're not. It was the first thing that popped into my head, too. I didn't expect him to answer it, though.  I think it was Dennis that was hanging out with Manson. Dude stayed over and had parties at his house!!! On your favourite hamburger, what toppings are on it?

I really hope to see your show in Toronto, I saw your show in Ottawa 4 years ago on the George Gershwin tour and it was delightful. Ketchup mustard onions and cheese What do you consider the best songs on Dennis' solo album? You and I that's my favorite because I liked his vocal.  Great vocal What makes you cringe when you hear a bad tune?  Any cliche's that bug you? It bugs me when people sing flat Hi Brian,    

I like The Beach Boys. 'Get Around' is my favourite and I have fond memories of an holiday on The Isle of Wight listening to it.

What's your favourite ice cream? Strawberry Thanks, I like vanilla. That's a wrap folks. Hey Brian. Big fan, obviously. 

My question is do you think the Beach Boy's Adult/Child album will ever be publicly released? Also what do you think of the sessions for that album retrospectively?

Also I'm waiting for when you're in England next! 
Thanks!  Mr. Wilson, are you a TV game show fan? Which one would you like to a contestant?  Wheel of Fortune I love game shows.  I watch Wheel of Fortune and Jeopardy everyday.  I would love to go on but I don't think I'd be very good haha Hey Brian, what do you think of Captain Beefheart, specially Trout Mask Replica?  I know the Beatles admired Beefheart a lot, but what are your opinions on him? Do you have a favourite concert venue that you like performing in the most? Royal Festival Hall in London because of the crowds and the sound of the room More or less clapping?

http://youtu.be/xYc4DT18EJg Is there any part of the movie ('Love &amp; Mercy') you feel wasn't accurate or exaggerated? Not Brian, but I do know that they cut David Marks and Bruce Johnston out of the story. That username though Haha I may or may not be a bit of a super fan.  Bitchin' name, homegirl. P.S. after checking out your userpage I'm pretty sure we're soulmates Holy shit you're even on r/tia, did we just become best friends?  I THINK SO imgur.com/oms5vwg.jpg http://i.imgur.com/lofZXbH.jpg Wow, that's really too bad. I know it's a biopic of Brian, but David and Bruce deserve to be recognized. David in particular always gets overlooked despite being a founding member. Not Brian either, but you're wrong. Bruce Johnston is in it. Is he? I've only seen the preview and read articles, but there was no mention of him when they announced casting.  I noticed they cut David Marks as well. Fail. He does LSD after he writes Pet Sounds in the movie.  In reality, from what I understand, he wrote California girls after his first trip.  Here's my review of the movie:  http://www.extablisment.com/#!crithollywood-love-and-mercy-brian-wils/cv6t Have you ever met John Lennon? He's the only Beatle I never met but I admire him, very much so.  I've spent time with both of his sons Sean and Julian. Alice Cooper says that he introduced you to John once. "YEAH, WELL HE A GOD-DAM...I mean, he's a liar, yo."  You don't remember meeting John Lennon backstage at the Grammys? This was a strange exchange  This and the Alice Cooper comment below. Don't take LSD kids or you'll forget you met John Lennon This dude was not prepared for the internet, where u can find anything in 1 sec Hang on a sec, you say you hadn't met him? See Alice Cooper's famous interview. 

I was sitting backstage after the 1974 Grammys with Bernie Taupin (Elton Johns lyricist) and John Lennon.  This was when Brian was really having some mental issues.  During the course of the conversation, I kept seeing Brian out of the corner of my eye, just kind of staring at us from different angles.  Finally, he came up to the table, bent down and whispered in my ear Hey Alice, introduce me to John Lennon.  I couldnt BELIEVE that these two men had never met!  They were virtually neck and neck in the 60s as the greatest bands on the planet, and Im SURE they must have crossed paths at some point.  But then I thought to myself, Wow, if they REALLY have never met, Im going to be the one to introduce them and become a part of rock history!  So I merely said, Brian Wilson, this is John Lennon.  John Lennon, this is Brian Wilson.  Lennon was very cordial and polite, saying things like Hello Brian, Ive always wanted to meet you.  Ive always admired your work, and Paul and I considered Pet Sounds one of the best albums ever made.  Brian thanked him and walked away, at which point Lennon went right back to his conversation like nothing had happened.  About ten minutes later, Brian came by our table again, leaned down and whispered something to Bernie, and all of a sudden, Bernie was saying Brian Wilson, this is John Lennon.  John Lennon, Brian Wilson.  Lennon was just as cordial and polite as the first time, saying essentially the same thing about always wanting to meet him.  As soon as Brian walked away, John looked at both of us and casually said in his typical Liverpudlian accent, Ive met him hundreds of times.  Hes not well, you know. Damn, that's depressing Nice to see Lennon be nice about it though.  Oh. Oh wow. I don't know what to believe. Alice is (and was) a good friend of Taupin, Lennon and Wilson, so it would strike me as very odd for him to make this up. Reading that and then reading his response got to me.  Thread starter is possibly a douchebag. Weird... This is so sad and revealing =[ A friend of mine has pannic-attacks (sorry for the spelling) and he sees people with burning heads while crossing the street.

What I mean is, if you're not OK, not healthy. It's like nothing happened. It's like you're high as fuck and you are talking to Kobe Bryant then somebody asks "have you ever talked to Kobe Bryant?". What would you say? I think you would say "No".

Or maybe Alice is lying. But *I think* that Alice is a cool guy. you couldn't have just taken the extra "n" out? Sorry... English is not my main language and I couldn't check. I wonder what its like to read something like this about yourself. horrifying. humiliating. excruciating.  And he still says he never met him. If you don't remember it, can you really say it happened subjectively? BW was mentally unstable and on lots of drugs (not creative ones) during this time. I'm amazed he's still around. Maybe it's true. Why would you lie about *not* meeting John Lennon?  I don't know what the truth is, but who would get more out of that lie?  Not Brian Wilson. Does anyone have a link to the interview? Check this out:
http://entertainment.blogs.foxnews.com/files/2011/08/BrianWilson.jpg

He looks like he's receiving instructions out of his Grammy. "Brian... don't be shy. Walk over and introduce yourself to Alice Cooper." This thread needs bestof I have to ask, did you ask this question allready knowing about the Alice cooper story?   Yeah, totally. I wanted to see if it were true because it's such a fascinating story. I don't want to say this confirms it, but it's definitely an intriguing answer. If he'd said, "I'm told I have, but I don't remember it" that would have confirmed it. Saying either "yes" or "no" on their own does nothing to confirm nor deny Alice Cooper's story. So we're where we were before Brian answered - left choosing to believe or not believe Cooper on his own merit.  Hey Brian, what made you make the decision to get back in touch with Blondie Chaplin? Personally I think it's a great reunion and I can't wait to hear all of "Sail Away" and see you guys on tour! Blondies voice was the only decision we needed he adds so much to the songs he's on.  Can't wait to go on tour with him! Hey Brian! Just want to say thanks for making some of my favorite music. 

What do you look at as your greatest accomplishment? You've done so much so it would be interesting to know what you're most proud of. 



Also: Pancakes or waffles?  Recording California Girls as well as Good Vibrations.  Pancakes for sure. Good vibrations is a brilliant song You seemed pretty confident about the fight. Did you know you had the guy beat during the weigh in? I knew I had better wrestling than him so the game plan was the clinch and take him to the ground. That plan went out the window! "Everyone has a plan until I punch them in their fucking face" - Mike Tyson I think he got that from Einstein. 

EDIT: Thanks you guys, I feel cheap seeing as it was meta.  What made you want to do MMA? Did you fight much as a kid inside and outside of the 'ring'? I was bullied when I was in middle school which lead me to taking up Tae Kwon Do at a young age. I loved martial arts and competing so MMA was just a natural progression.  Have you ever fought someone outside of competition? Did you ever fight a bully? Ever since I've take up martial arts, I haven't had to.  Funny how that works, isn't it?

The confidence in knowing you can handle yourself leads you to try and defuse situations before they get out of hand.

Never any shame in walking away.  Or handling shit if someone won't let you. That, and the fear that you might kill someone without meaning to. Personally, I hate it when I accidentally kill people.  g'dammit not again This is some Karate Kid shit.

&gt; Daniel: You ever get into fights when you were a kid?

&gt; Miyagi: Plenty.

&gt; Daniel: Yeah, but it wasn't like the problem I have, right?

&gt; Miyagi: Why? Fighting fighting. Same same.

&gt; Daniel: Yeah, but you knew karate.

&gt; Miyagi: Someone always know more.

&gt; Daniel: You mean there were times when you were scared to fight?

&gt; Miyagi: Always scare. Miyagi hate fighting.

&gt; Daniel: Yeah, but you like karate.

&gt; Miyagi: So?

&gt; Daniel: So, karate's fighting. You train to fight.

&gt; Miyagi: That what you think?

&gt; Daniel: No.

&gt; Miyagi: Then why train?

&gt; Daniel: So I won't have to fight.

edit: good look u/FILE_ID_DIZ &gt; ~~Daniel: You ever get into fights when you were a kid?~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: Plenty.~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: Yeah, but it wasn't like the problem I have, right?~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: Why? Fighting fighting. Same same.~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: Yeah, but you knew karate.~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: Someone always know more.~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: You mean there were times when you were scared to fight?~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: Always scare. Miyagi hate fighting.~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: Yeah, but you like karate.~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: So?~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: So, karate's fighting. You train to fight.~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: That what you think?~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: No.~~

&gt; ~~Miyagi: Then why train?~~

&gt; ~~Daniel: So I won't have to fight.~~

~~FTFY~~

---

edit: I got your back, /u/JustABuffyWatcher

---

**edit2: for those wondering, the quotes in these two posts are indeed identical. The formatting was off in OP's original post (no line breaks). OP since changed his post to match mine.** Ah the 80's, the simple time where we could trust our kids hanging out at old men's houses.  Did the little face-off before your fight intimidate you or did it work in your favour? Looks a lot like the latter to me. It was probably the best thing to happen to me TBH.  looking at your face while he was getting up close and personal, i couldnt contain my laughter

i could see the eagerness on your face

"just wait, just wait, *chuckle*, tomorrow isn't far away"

that force, great fight! I kind of interpreted his face as "lol are you serious bro?" Hey man, awesome work in that fight. Have there been many examples of this type of "intimidation" technique that you've gotten used to from the past, or have you just always been a badass? Any examples of other douchey behavior that you've learned how to handle outside of the ring? This was the first time I've encountered this type of behavior but I don't pay any attention to it. I've always looked up to Solid Snake from MGS and thought "wish I could be like him" or "what would Snake do in this situation".  You're my hero. He's no hero....

Never was...

Never will be... You haven't changed at all, Snake. Just an old killer hired to do some wet work... #WWSSD Tranq everyone and drag them into lockers Then hide in a box &gt;     IT'S JUST A BOX ! *"Huh? What was that?"* Better ship it to the helicopter pad.  Or just distract them with an empty mag. &gt; Or just distract them with a porno mag.

FTFY [Probably just defend himself.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hofzkqyJ9qA) this is the most solid answer I didn't expect. &gt;  "what would Snake do in this situation". 

I guess the video would be more awesome if you had any cardboard box at hand during the fight. Snake. Snake! Snaaaaaaaaaaake!!! [Dara O'Briain plays Metal Gear Solid](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWQXzGTzM1g) I'm always very refreshed at how well the audience receives this bit, speaks highly to this dude's abilities.  [**!**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2P5qbcRAXVk) Do you have any idea how hard this was to hit on mobile? I got you, mobile bro.

[MOBILE PHONE MIRROR](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2P5qbcRAXVk) This guy is going to break reddit with any more responses like this. I don't watch much MMA, but after this comment, no way am i going to miss any of your fights from now on.  Is it true that some of his tats was imprinted on the gloves after the fight? Haha That's a yes.  This video made me laugh so hard. What was going through your mind when he was acting that way?  "Just wait until tomorrow" Actions speak louder than attempted kisses. http://imgur.com/FcyUZGO.gifv aww so cute [This kiss is less cute.](http://i.imgur.com/0LVtPr9.gif) FENCING RESPONSE I SEEN IT you should see their children! So.. ^much.. ^^sportmansship..

It's too much for me.

( Check out /r/respectporn ) not to be confused with /r/respectfulporn, where the cumsluts wear top hats M'creampie.  I'm kind of sad this isn't a thing. not gunna lie, i was pretty disappointed that wasnt a thing [Doesn't always end that way](http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view/249264/kiss-boxing-o.gif) The UFC should start requiring every fight to begin this way. [Along with a special guest referee...](http://botcrawl.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Mike-Tyson-Now-Kith-Birds-Meme.jpg) You were laughing like you knew the whole time that that guy was a joke. I wish I had that confidence in those circumstances. Well done.  Man, you have great resolve... I don't know if I'd have the patience;  I am so glad you put that guy in his place though, he deserved it!  Him and his face tattoos. Great punch, Ben! Were you close to punching him at the weigh in? Because if you were, you hid it very well! Nice job! Not at all. I knew I had a lot of punching to do the next day :) Turns out you didn't need to do much punching after all. Did you feel like you had the advantage going into the fight? You seemed to be laughing a bit at the weigh in. We new he had heavy hands so the plan was to wrestle him but he stood so close in front of me so I just hit him until he went down.  Plan of the century here folks:
Hit him until he goes down.

Good job on the fight btw,I got such an awkward feeling watching that idiot lean into you like that. "Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the mouth"  -  Albert Einstein E equals mc square in the jaw, bitch!  MC Square was Einstein's rapper name. [Wow, he really said it](http://i.imgur.com/xIkLbY2.png) [deleted] [deleted] Yes, I go to bed with it at night!  You should tag him on Twitter with a bedroom selfie cuddling with his belt  /r/pettyrevenge :) What was going through your mind as he kept pushing you? Did you have any other prior incident with him? He talked a lot of trash up until the fight. I just remember thinking "keep cool Ben, save it for tomorrow". Thank god i did.  You reminded me of GSP.  How are personalities of other fighters?

Are there a lot of showy jerks like this or is it mostly folks just doing their jobs?

Anyone with an outstanding or notable personality? Many fighters like showy jerks but they have the ability to back it up. This guy didn't.  fkn REKT Which bikes do you ride? I'm glad you asked this question. 

Yamaha 2001 YZF-600r Thundercat

2006 R6

Now 2005 FZ6n(I commute an hour and half daily now, much more comfortable) Yamaha fan boy like myself. I love my FZ09. I really want a R6 for track days.  With UFC 193 being officially set in Melbourne, any chance that you'll be on that card? Being a local Aussie now with a 7 fight win streak I'd love to fight on that card! I would be rooting for you Doesn't rooting mean something a little different down under? Does it? I had no idea Sexing, I'd be sexing for you Meh, still works.
 I'd sex him. [No shame in my game](http://media.tumblr.com/e3cdb0dc6ea7f31c40f2acf9f0476a7a/tumblr_mfceu1t8n71ra22gmo1_500.gif) Keep working the social media. You know Dana loves local fighters that know how to self-promote and with that win-streak you could really get on the card. What's the most brutal fight you have been in?  Probably my fight in Canada years back. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lMROTueJLcw goodness I would not fight you, great fight I'd take him in Smash Bros
 you tryna smash brah? *Leans in pushing controller into face* Bro that was intense. Most people are embarrassed about their failures. HUGE props for being honest and even linking the video for your "most brutal fight". Respect. Calling that a failure is a stretch lol True. That was an awesome fight, and at any moment  I kept thinking he was going to win honestly lol. I guess "loss" would be more appropriate, even though most people see "loss" and "failure" as the same. I think you get what I mean though haha. I'm quite the patriotic Canadian but man was I pulling for you. Unreal fight and effort! that was amazing.......ly brutal. Ouuuuuch your leg was just dangling around toward the end. Awesome fight. How does it feel?  It was a big relief because I knew I had to prove this guy wrong.  Awesome attitude. Way to keep a clear head, and just do what you came to do. It serves as an inspiration for me to remember to handle myself well and keep my cool, no matter what I'm up against. 

Not only is it great that you get to celebrate a win, but hopefully that guy learned something from it. Ah, who am I kidding, his face is covered with tattoos, he seems pretty committed to being an ass.  Can you speak or read Vietnamese and have you ever been to Vietnam ? I'm a Vietnamese too :D  I speak about 50/50. I try to go back every year!  Yay! Nguyens for the win! I'm am also a Nguyen in the Midwest. There are dozens of us! Dozens! How'd you first get into MMA? I was put into Tae Kwon Do when I was 12. I loved martial arts and competing so MMA was just a natural progression.  Two questions:

1. How much of that pre-fight "thing" (sorry) was just playing for the camera? Was the other dude just trying to seduce you with his eyes?

2. What got you into MMA? Do you ever get concerned about riding and the potential to dereail your fighting career? 1. I'm not sure. He's done this in the past in his previous fights. 

2. I love riding so much that it doesn't bother me. I commute on a motorcycle on average about an hour and a half daily. I love it! My commute is 45 minutes one way on a street triple r. I love it too. What's your ride? Keep the rubber side down, brother :) What's your shoulder routine? 'Mirin Wrestle sweaty dudes and punch people in the face! But no seriously I don't do any weights. Just train my butt off.  I need to find me some sweaty dudes to wrestle, apparently. Just walk down this dark, secluded alleyway with me. THIS ISNT WRESTLING! THIS ISNT WRESTLIN... mooo^ooooooon ^riveeeerrrrr Wow.  Fletch reference? Has to be. Ever serve time? Yeah...breathe easy... Ahh!! Using the whole fist, Doc?! What weight of sweaty dude do you use? I like to use 150 pound sweaty dudes 5x5, and then 200 pound sweaty dudes 3x1.

Protip - It's best to use bisexual sweaty dudes. It adds to the muscle (and sexual) confusion.  http://imgur.com/hJN6JtR Have you had any negotiations with the UFC regarding a contract?  None so far. Fingers cross! Suggestion: .. contact Sean Shelby via Twitter ([@seanshelby](https://twitter.com/seanshelby)) .. send him everything .. the original video + this thread... The buzz alone might get you an audition - good luck :) Agreed, name recognition can go a long ways and this would make for  a beautiful highlight reel clip to show to hype you up. This is the best thing you could have done. Promotion is such a key part of the game. 

Good luck man and stay in shape. Stay active and listen about openings for the mark hunt card in may.  What's your favorite PC game?  CS, Starcraft, Mass Effect, League, Skyrim, RUNESCAPE! I can trim your amour for free if you want! You really wanna fuck with *this guy*? Let me get this straight. You think that your client, one of the wealthiest, most powerful men in the world, is secretly a vigilante who spends his nights beating criminals to a pulp with his bare hands; and your plan, is to *blackmail* this person?  Good luck ;) Ill pwn u in wildy m8 That's a relief, I thought I was going to have to open a can of whoop ass if you didn't say Runescape. Yay! Another Runescape player! &gt;Starcraft

What league and race are you in starcraft?! What disciplines do you train? Tae Kwon Do, Judo, Brazilian Jiu-Jitus, Muay Thai, Wrestling, and a little bit of Wing Chun. EVERYBODY WING CHUN TONIGHT how can I get into MMA training? google in your area for MMA gyms. If you're happy with a gym stay there and train your butt off. Definitely one of my passions.  how long have you been training? Professionally, for about 8 years now.  Aren't you the guy who didn't spell his name right? 

Edit: Link for the curious http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2x9zvi/president_obama_thanks_redditors_for_their_help/coyaibj :/ Third time I've seen this. Congrats, you will never live this down! Thanks? Informal AMA, Jstrydor, how does it feel to have created a gold train just by misspelling your own username? Well I personally like to think that President Obama gilded me himself because he appreciated me taking the time to hand write him a note. I also believe that President Obama was so flattered by this act that he overlooked the fact that I spelled my username wrong. Have you two met after the fight? If yes how did he acted?

Edit: spelling I haven't seen him since. Lol... How would Ronda Rousey do in a MMA fight against a man in her weight class? Ronda would crush them. She is all finesse, not strength!   Wait, so you [agree with Joe Rogan](http://larrybrownsports.com/mma/joe-rogan-ronda-rousey-could-beat-men/256512) that she could beat half the men in her weight class? I do not usually like to watch MMA, but you've got a new fan! For being a fellow Vietnamese-American and knocking out a douchey tatted up jerk.

Did you watch any Monkey King/Te Thien Dai Thanh growing up? Who do you look up to as a fighter? I'm pretty sure every 90s Vietnamese kid had experience Monkey King and it's millions VHS tapes stuffed into a clothes drawer. 

Kinda Cliche but Bruce Lee. Be like water my friend! I love kids. I love martial arts , competition, and putting in hard work to achieve a goal. My advise is to keep an open mind and NEVER give up! Have you ever experienced anyone getting physical (straight up hitting/kicking) at the weigh-ins? Not yet thankfully. Not sure what I would do in that situation. Maybe go to de-pants the guy. That's the best way to defuse a fight.  [Welp, it has been proven to work in the past!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVTWtjkrzUg)  
EDIT: Yup, it's a commercial. Still funny and relevant. Thanks Bongothan Damn that was awesome. Is there any context to this video? What is the guy yelling and why is he yelling? Ben, fantastic job. I just glossed at [your record and you're at 13-5 which is very respectable and this fight happened last year](http://www.sherdog.com/fighter/Ben-Nguyen-8183)? Have you heard from Bellator or UFC at all? Or possibly for "The Ultimate Fighter"? Have you been scouted? I don't know what the process is of them picking up guys like you but I think you should be given a shot. My management have been in contact with UFC. They know I'm on the radar and that is all I know. Hopefully soon.  Did you make this post just to be able to say

I AM AN MMA MAN AMA? Did you want to kiss him? No Did he want to kiss you? yes I mean, it's *ok* if you did Hey, aren't you that guy who misspelled his own name in that thing? :/ Didn't you spell your name wrong the other day :/ I wonder if your the next warlizard.  People are just gonna follow you around saying this every time you post. Yay motorcycles!

What do you enjoy riding the most, and where? (Track, motocamping, commuting, weekend rides, all of the above, etc)

Really enjoyed that fight. Thanks for the AMA! I really love my sport touring bike(FZ6n) because its versatile. It's good for commuting, touring, and twisties. I have a spot up in the mountains full of twisites I like to run. Here's a vid:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WMnGER264Ow Was the knockout out of anger or were you trying to help the guy out by smacking the stupid tattoos off his face?  Little bit of both ahah What is your opinion on beards? I sometimes wish I could grow one. They can look cool. It's a misconception that it pads your chin though! Can confirm. Beard hair getting dragged across your face by a grazing punch is painful. Have you ever watched Hajime no ippo? And if so what did you think of it? It's my favorite anime actually! My walk out song is "Inner Light". I've also cosplayed as Ippo at cons What BPM are the roads in Australia? Mind=blown Might be a odd question, but I've always wondered what a MMA fighters daily diet is like. Do you try to eat at least a certain amount of calories or do you try to cut back in order to stay in weight classes? I eat pretty clean but now I'm trying a low carb high fat diet which I haven't noticed much of a different. I miss carbs, mainly rice! I always thought mma fighters could benefit from a ketogenic diet, so glad to hear you're giving it a go.  Shout out to /r/keto. worst diet ever. but goddamn does it work.

source: am Asian. My stomach stuffed full of copious amounts of butter, meats, and cheeses strongly disagree. i need my rice. T____T I agree.  What's your favorite Vietnamese dish? And just because, favorite American meal? I'm hungry.. Beef pho and a medium rare ribeye! I lub da cow! Are you in love with the pho bowl? SRIRACHA SAUCE I GOT SRIRACHA SAUCE He got it for the low, low But do you love pho? pho pho sho Just like dem Hindus, but different ;) No love for Bnh xo? Haha Pho is the best!  Lub? Dude, don't do that to the cow! Chicken and da cow? CHICKEN AND DA COW??????? i want gold What is your opinion on Cross-Fit training?  It has a lot of negative press about it so I'm curious to see what someone who does training/fighting for a living feels about it.  I'm not a big fan on Crossfit. Olympic lifts are not designed to be done in many reps. All my MMA training is sports specific. The best way to get better at something to do that something.  Ben is not only dangerous in the ring he is intelligent as well. Good luck in your future fights! I read this in my head like Bruce Buffer. Suck his dick while youre at it, jesus christ this guy isnt jesus christ ::reads post::
::reads username::

post checks out! So you would suck Jesus Christ's dick ? I work with a physio who hates crossfit. The injuries and mentalities that come out of those gyms, is enough to grind anyone's gears. He's heavily involved in jujitsu and no doubt will love this AMA. Crossfit isn't any more dangerous than any other sport where intensity is high.  At least at a (good) CF gym you have coaching and form correction.  I got hurt all the time when I worked out at a globo gym.  "Here at Globo Gym we're better than you, and we know it!" True. However the problem is people who injure themself either rufuse to rest and recover or when they do go back, even after a few months of not training, they start with their original weight and re injure themselves. 

We also find trainers looking after a big group of people can't watch for proper form, which is when injures occur.  

Another problem can be the trainers themselves. Many do a weekend course, then work out if their garages and when there are injuries, they will google diagnose and refuse to listen to professionals. Of course this can happen with any sport but we see it most often in crossfit.

Sorry for formatting, on a mobile. No, the problem is doing goddamn deadlifts and snatches for reps &amp; time.

This breaks the Crossfitter. There are a lot of problems. And once you do anything already fatigued and against the clock form goes out the window; cue injuries. That's the core problem I find with Crossfit. AMRAP just leads to injuries. There are plenty of commendable aspects to Crossfit, but they are outweighed (IMO) by the short-sighted chasing of arbitrary standards that expose even the fittest people to abnormally high chances of injury.

Did you watch the Open last year? You see all the people who walked away injured from the deadlift portion? I view injuries during exercise as a failure, not as a badge to wear proudly.

Crossfit HQ loudly and proudly proclaims that many Special Operations and elite LEO groups use Crossfit as their primary training program. This might have been true 5 years ago, but this is no longer the case. They all found the rate of injury unacceptable. Never view injuries as a failure. Sometimes you push a little too hard; shit happens. They way you deal with it, is what matter the most. Of course injuries are not something to be proud of, especially if they could have been prevented. 

No I didn't watch the Open last year. I stick to main stream sports (haha) but I can imagine their smug faces limping bodies.  [I fear not the man who has practiced 10000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10000 times.](http://whowasbrucelee.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/I-fear-not-the-man-who-has-practiced-10000-kicks-once-but-I-fear-the-man-who-has-practiced-one-kick-10000-times.-Bruce-Lee.jpg)

\- Bruce Lee Aaand as a past sports medicine trainer I like you even more. Got a good head on your shoulders!  agreed How very Bruce Lee of you. I'm not trying to be the best at exercising.

-Kenny Powers I love this. Probably going to quote you in the future. Cross fitters are also more injury prone and who needs that?? &gt; The best way to get better at something to do that something.

EDIT: People obviously misunderstood why i quoted the guy, i quoted him because i liked the point in what he was saying, not because there was a writing error.

 He missed a single word, is. Give him break!  I know he did, but that's not why i quoted it, i quoted it because i found the sentence to be motivating and nice. I get the positivity, but unfortunately no not when it comes to training.  I do some powerlifting with some mediocre weights.  For us, it is all about the form rather than anything else.  
At my current weight, it is better to not work out than working out with improper forms.  
  *is &gt;What is your opinion on Cross-Fit training?  It has a lot of negative press lit so I'm curious to see what someone who does training/fighting for a living feels about it. 

 Whats your pc specs?  How long do you hope to do this for? 

Once you hang up the gloves do you see yourself going into coaching or teaching? Or will you find a completely different industry? Maybe for the next 5-10 years? I am definitely looking forward to coaching when I retire.  Big spoon or little spoon? OP pls answer we need to know. What does a weekly workout routine look line? I train around 12-24 hours Mon-Sat. Much of it depends on the schedule of the gym i'm training at, what stage I am at during my camp, ect.  What do you do for a living? Or do your sponsors take care of your living expenses? For a second I thought you meant everyday ; ) Mon - Sat is 6 days, so I'm guessing he means between 2 and 4 hours a day, 6 days a week.

Or else he means 12-24 hours per day, 6 days a week.  In which case that's fucking insane. Which muscles are the most important for wrestling? I hear it's legs/forearms, true? From the limited bit I know I would say your large muscle groups in the back, core and glutes/legs.  How do you recover from all of that then? Arent you always sore? could you go into more detail as to what your training involves?  12-24 hours total right? Not per day? Per day of course!  12-24 hours? How is that possible? Surely you're joking! He said he only trains (MMA) , unsurprisingly a lot of training   Have you fought him since then? If so, how'd it turn out? If not, would you like to? 2 KO's would be amazing to see against that smug face. 
Do you feel like Reddit's hero?  I did have a title defense I won. Didn't get the KO but much of it had to do with breaking my right hand on my opponets face in the first round. Here's the fight:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=odspmmaRxuE and it's gone... &gt; Wing Chun

Does anyone have a mirror that's not down in the US? Hate when that happens! Ouch, I've broken knuckles and that sucks.  How old are you? 26 https://imgur.com/SRLsoiu Even as an Asian it's hard to guess a fellow Asian's age. http://i.imgur.com/MBbBdDI.jpg

Did you know about how they'd be doing to cover ahead of time? When I got my copy in the mail, I couldn't stop laughing!  That's fantastic. http://www.pixar-planet.fr/dossiers/repliques/capture/mc/26.jpg What does it say in the top right? "Really jerry???" Hi Jim! Still in deep denial that parks is over. What did you take home from the set?  Aubrey Plaza [He's not kidding.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZQQfkJ7hZY&amp;t=42) Holy frikin hell... Here's Jim [explaining why/how] (http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/02/25/jim-oheir-aubrey-plaza-makeout_n_6753906.html) on HuffPost. "It was a little awkward when she left my hotel room this morning"
 "What a lucky girl." "So as we began, then I felt that tongue and was like, 'Let's go, baby. You've set that pace. Let's go. I got a monster in here. Welcome. Get a taste of this.' What a lucky girl." I thought they were faking it until I saw the close up.. I've never been so jealous of an actor. Aubrey is a lucky girl. I say god damn, get some. Does anyone else think Adam Scott looks super pissed off in that video? Like every time someone looks at him he just half smiles then goes back to frown isn't that just how he normally looks? I just want everyone to be happy ok Are we having fun yet??? When I was watching it, I guessed that it had something to do with Harris Wittels' death. He and Adam Scott seemed to be close and that was filmed less than a week afterwards. I imagine celebrating the end of the show so soon after the death of a close friend was hard. Shit, they just did "Not Farts and Procreation 4" right before he died, too.

Those two always had some great chemistry on CBB.  I'd find it hard to smile, too.

Shit, I never met Harris and I'm still upset about it. Maybe he just wasn't feeling the happy vibe on account of Harris Wittel's passing. This is like seeing Pam kiss anyone that isn't Jim... Except this is fucking Gary. This is why no one likes Gary [Say what?!](http://33.media.tumblr.com/bb11a3f6d420cfd54af86e281ada4616/tumblr_nels64g9mG1s48ibpo1_500.gif) I liked your mailman cameo in her zombie movie too.  Hi Jim :)
What was it like to make out with Aubrey Plaza on national television? Is she a good kisser? It was amazing.  She leaned over to me before the last break and said "do you want to make out during the song".  It took about .2 seconds to say YES!  It was great...I just hope I haven't ruined her for other guys.  ;) &gt; I just hope I haven't ruined her for other guys.  

You made a lot of guys envious, that's for sure.

 [Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZQQfkJ7hZY) You can tell on both their faces before they start that they're both thinking "I'm about to do crazy in a few seconds." Holy shit this is the funniest thing I've ever seen. &gt; I just hope I haven't ruined her for other guys. ;)

Well, it doesn't help that you have the largest penis the world has ever seen. I couldn't even watch them make out. I was distracted... by the *largest* penis I have ever seen. &gt; It took about .2 seconds to say YES!

Why the hesitation? He'd seen the videos What videos?  The ones of Aubrey, playing the lute. I am confused and can't find it.  It's for the best, son. Probably the same reason you can't spell your own name... Gary!! Who was the funniest person on set of parks and rec? Everybody is funny but Chris Pratt is killer.  He could break us up easily.  He never did the same thing twice.  I think he's a bit of a comic genius. ["The Comeback Story"](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MwPoQs_0FgU) outtake is my, and many others, favorite blooper from Parks. Chris Pratt is genuinely hilarious. Nick Offerman and your reactions are awesome. :D "It's like I'm wiping a marker."

I'll never not laugh at that take. I LOVE this particular blooper. The way Andy sets it up, how Leslie is trying to figure out what he's saying, the punchline, April smacking Andy, everyone losing it, and Jerry's laugh just tops it off.  Did you cry at all when they called you by your real name in Parks and Rec at Donna's wedding? For some reason that was insanely emotional for me because Gary's character deserved it after all that time.  I didn't cry then because I was saving it all up for the finally where I cried like a school girl.  lol Dammit Jerry! You spelled finale wrong. Is your name actually Tim, but someone called you Jim on your first day and you never corrected them? You might be right, Jewell.  ;) /u/Newell00 is, from here on out, known as /u/Jewell00 _ Typical Jewell00. Damnit Jerry. Look what you've done. Tagged as Jewell00. Dammit Jerry! Hi,
What's your favorite breakfast food? And would you like to enjoy some breakfast with me? ;) My favorite breakfast food is eggs.  I love all kinds of eggs.  And breakfast with you?  Why not.  Who's buying? Eggs, bacon, and toast. Eggs, bacon, and toast. Why don't you start your day, the Gergich way with eggs, bacon, and... Toast! ...toast. I'll buy but you're going to see me eat an embarrassing number of waffles. How many would be considered embarrassing?  More than two but less than a million? Watching a man eat one million and one waffles would be terrifying and impressive. Your math checks out. When you check your email, do you go to AltaVista and type "please go to yahoo.com"? Yes.  Is there another way? You don't deserve the internet! I think you might be right.  ;) [Dammit Jerry](https://41.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_md6kgy2Iu51qfdsmao1_500.png) Just kidding I love you, thanks for the reply. TIL altavista.com redirects to yahoo.com It actually didn't when they made that joke. Yahoo only shut down AltaVista in 2013, a decade after they acquired it. Hi Jim,

I was watching Friends a few days ago and saw you onto that and I was so shocked! How was that like acting and being on set for that show?  I loved doing an episode of Friends.  What I realized was that after all those years they really were friends.  I've worked a lot of shows where by the end the cast can barely tolerate each other.  It was a gift on Parks that we all loved each other and I think they definitely had that on Friends too.  A very warm and comfortable set. It makes me so happy to hear this. You always wonder if the friendliness you see between cast members is genuine. Even crazier is that episode also features Anna Farris, Chris Pratt's wife! Multiple episodes. She plays "dumb pregnant blonde" really well.

 I just watched this episode today and I feel bad because I thought the girl had picked the wrong couple for adoption because Jerry screwed up getting the right file to her.  Jim,
I'm super excited that I got to be here on time for this AMA, thanks for doing. Before I ask my questions I wanted to start by saying that your character on Parks and Recreation, Garry Gergich, is my favorite character on the whole show. Moreso than anyone, he was always excited and willing to participate. He took such a great amount of pleasure from everything in life, and I think that of all the characters in the show, yours is the best to emulate. Most people can't be Leslie or Ben. Not everyone can change the world, or lead others to do so. But everyone can be a Jerry Gergich. Everyone can show up, roll up their sleeves, and help. Even when they mess up, or make a fool of themselves, they can, like Larry, pick themselves up and move on. You played the most important character on the show because you showed that no matter who you relate to on the show, everyone can keep trying and trying, and that something good can come from that. That life is something to marvel at. Thanks. I hope others see your work on the show as being as uplifting as I do.

For my questions: Are there any moments that were cut involving Terry that you felt added to or expanded the character? Or moments that you just really enjoyed? Any word on what the box set of the whole series will look like or include? Maybe a stuffed Li'l Sebastian or a Pawnee parks guide?

Thanks for the AMA and the years of laughter on Parks and Recreation. First of all...WOW!!!  Thank you for such a sweet and insightful look into Jerry.  I really appreciate that.  I think you nailed it.

As far as scenes being cut, we shot so much more than people ever saw so we all lost scenes in every episode.  I think the producers/writers have to make tough decision but ultimately it's about keeping the story moving along.  I'm sure there's scenes I wish had made it in but I completely understand why they didn't.

I don't know about the box set but I can't wait to see it. I love how you slipped in every single nickname into your comment.  Jerry is the Hufflepuff of Parks and Rec http://i21.photobucket.com/albums/b267/samusxaran/joker-clap.gif Can I just say kudos, on using all his names from P&amp;R in that question.  What's your favorite part of your new role as Denny in Middle Man?  BOOM!  LOL  LENNY Damnit!  What I love about LENNY is that he's the polar opposite of any character I've played so far.  I think after seven seasons on Parks as Jerry I need to let people know I have other acting abilities.  Lenny is the Anti Jerry/Garry. Classic Denny Hello Jim, 

Do you have a favouite memory of Harris Wittels?

Thank you for taking the time to do this AMA My first memory of Harris was when I was reading Sarah Silverman's book.  There was a picture of a penis...it was Harris's.  I remember thinking that anyone who would be that bold to allow that is someone I could hang with.  Harris was always funny but more importantly...he was always kind.  He is and will be forever missed.   Wow. I need to get my dick published so I can start making friends. Thank you very much for the answer. You know, I made it through the Parks and Rec finale pretty well, until that last card came up "We miss you, Harris."

That did it for me. Same here.  I'm actually quite amazed as to how Harris's death has affected me.  I only really started knowing who he was and being able to recognize him a month or two ago from the various podcasts he has been on, and I thought he was frakking hilarious.  When I saw him in one of the last episodes I pointed at the tv and said, "Harris!" really loudly.  I think the reason why his death has affected me as much as it has is because he had so much potential.  The comedy he was going to create was going to be so good, and he was only 30, so it could have gone on for a long time.  Robin Williams death affected me a lot, but we have decades of movies to go back and watch.  We just don't have enough Harris Wittels comedy in the world.

Edit: And of course Harris seems like an awesome person in general. Comedy or not. So that, it itself, is a tragedy as well. Hi Jim! How often do random people walk up to you in public and say, 'damnit, Jerry!'? (P.s. - loved you on Parks and Rec. Thank you for the fantastic work) Awww...thanks for the kind words about Parks.  As far as people coming up to me and saying 'damnit, Jerry!'?  E-V-E-R-Y-D-A-Y!!!  And I love it.  :) You seem fun. I like you.  Will you go to prom with me? What kind of corsage do you want? Your reply LITERALLY has me crying tears of joy. Never change, Barry.  &gt;LITERALLY

..Chris?
 Annperkins? () () Chriiiis Traeger Hello Jim!
It's so nice of you to do an AMA. You are honestly, one of the best characters on the show. I feel like you and Garry are both super genuine.
What was your reaction to Garry's ending in the finale? I was so happy when Garry was chosen to be temporary mayor!
Also, what are some of the funniest moments that's happened off screen?
Have you had any Garry moments as Jim?
Did you have any improvised lines?
Was Aubrey Plaza a good kisser? (Whose idea was that?!)

Sorry for the loaded questions! I really love the show and I'm a big fan of your and everyone else's work! I couldn't have been happier with Garry becoming the mayor....not just temporarily but for the rest of his life.  Such an honor for the guy who was the schlameel and schlamazel of his office for 30 years.

I Garry/Jerry moments all the time.  I recently dropped my glasses into my dogs poop as I was picking it up.  That's a total Jerry moment.  lol

Aubrey was a good kisser...I like to think I taught her a thing or two.  lol Jim, thank you so much for taking time to respond your fans! You are super sweet and super genuine. It's super refreshing seeing someone so amazing and down to Earth in the Industry. I wish you the best of luck in your future projects! You and Garry/ Jerry are like, 5,000 candles in the wind! Great questions.  I have to tell you that when I saw the script for the final episode I got chills.  I feel that they gave me the perfect send off.  Not only did Garry become mayor for the rest of his life but he lived to be 100...and his wife was still hot.  Can't complain about that. So only 25 since born on a leap day? Hey Jim, thanks for doing this AMA.

I heard somewhere that you originally auditioned for the role of Ron Swanson, and after 7 seasons it seems so weird to think of you, Tim OHeir, or really anyone other than Nick Offerman playing Ron. So Kim, my question for you is if any other cast member on Parks and Rec were to play a different character, who would be the best fit in what role?
 Yes.  I did audition for Ron Swanson.  Tons of people auditioned for that role.  Luckily they saw something they liked and brought be back for Jerry.  I can't imagine ANYONE else playing Ron other than Nick.  Just makes no sense.

I think it would be interesting to see Amy play a sexual role like Retta did.  And Adam as Burt Macklin would make me laugh. &gt; Yes. I did audition for Ron Swanson

That would've been... different Hey, aren't you that guy who spells his name wrong from time to time? Is there anyone on the Parks and Rec set that caused you to burst out laughing mid-filming? I'm guessing Chris Pratt's improv parts would be difficult to sit through with a straight face.

Good luck on your new project! Did you see the outtake on YouTube where Pratt mentions the Kardashians?  If not...you have to check it out.  It will give you the answer to your question.  lol will check it out! 

thanks for reaffirming Chris Pratt's comedic genius

 http://youtu.be/r-7bVZYy_ds Because Larry/Jerry/Gerry was teased all the time, did you know that your character was going to be the punching bag when you auditioned for the role? I had no idea...and neither did the producers.  It wasn't until Season 2 when we shot an episode with Louis C.K.  We did a story line where the cast had to find dirt on each other.  It was revealed to me that my adoptive mother was a pot smoker...I didn't know I was adopted.  They knew right then and there that that's who I would be.  In many ways I think that one idea is what kept me on the show for seven seasons. Interesting. Thanks for answering. You're quite welcome. Wow, me and my friends love PandR, I recently posted a gif on the subreddit that just shows you and Aubrey kissing. How was that for you? Was that scripted? I thought it was so funny. If you want you can check it out here http://makeagif.com/tvrHuh#H8CxRurB6hjYS4Gu.16 
Thank you for taking the time out to make Parks and Rec and for doing this AMA!
Edit: Oh darn it, I pulled a Jerry. I just read through the comments and didn't realize someone already asked a related question. It's okay BS12398, it happens to the best of us. Hello, good sir! I already miss Parks &amp; Rec so much.

Although it was funny, I always felt so bad for Jerry/Garry/Larry, but I thought his ending was fantastic and well deserved. Were there ever any scenes you felt your poor character was treated too badly?

Do you have any more acting roles coming up?

What are some of your favourite movies? I was never bothered by how they treated my character.  The writers gave Jerry such a wonderful home life that it made up for the trouble at work.  I always say that when Jerry was in trouble his co workers always had his back.  I think Jerry really loved them and felt they loved him back.  There was once when Chris Pratt said "I feel terrible doing this to Jerry".  I was like...Go For It!  lol

I'll be starring in the film Middle Man.  You can see the link above.  If we hit our goals we'll be filming by the end of April. Beautiful wife and kids + this part:  

Dr. Harris - "That man has the largest penis I've ever seen. I actually don't even know if he has mumps. I forgot to look. I was distracted by the largest penis I've ever seen." That explains the slamming hot wife so much. Minor trivia, Christie Brinkley is nearly ten years older than Jim Oheir. 

Whatever planet she is from, I hope they invade.  [Also this.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIsxkiWE1M8) Hey Emo.  Thanks for the nice words about Parks.  It was the dream job for many years.  Beginning a film called Middle Man in April.  Please check it out at the top of my AMA - we hope to be in production by April! 
 As far as favorites movies...I've got tons.  But...Godfather is at the top of the list.  :) I'd love to see you in a comedy version of The Godfather as a clumsy Don. "they want to whack me? Oh jeez."

i can definitely see Jim as this. When you said Jim I imagined Jim Halpert...now I want to see John Krasinski as his right hand man giving that Jim look to the camera every time Jerry/Jim screws something up.  HA!  I love that idea.  :) every time I tweet at you and you tweet back, you seem like you remember me. I'm just wondering if you actually do (I'm the one that always calls you my best friend and teases my friend monika for not having a friendship like the one you and I have). but thanks for taking the time to actually respond to a lot of your fans' tweets :) Of course I remember.  I love chatting on Twitter.  You're one of my favs. smooth You are an angel. Hey Jim, it's Mike McCabe, how are you? I really loved the ending they gave you on parks and felt it was the most deserved of all the characters. Besides middle man, do you have anything exciting coming up in your career? Enjoy your time on here and thanks for always being a good guy
 Hey Mike.  Thanks for joining in.  I've guested on two shows since Parks ended...Hot In Cleveland and Austin and Ally.  I've got a cowboy moving that I'll be doing and I'm also going to be in a film called Halloweed that is pretty hysterical. OMG I need to gush. You were such a brilliant part of a brilliant series. You helped create such a funny, wonderful, loving character that I'm sure won't be forgotten anytime soon. I was always happy he wasn't portrayed as a total loser. He deserves his hot wife! 

The cast is literally my dream cast. There's not a single weak link in the show and that's incredible. I'm so excited to see you in something new. 

Was there anyone in particular in the cast that you shared a special bond with? 

And could you share a favorite/standout memory with them?  Thanks for such kind words about the show and cast.  I agree with all of it.  It was a special place with special people.  It's tough to find that in this crazy showbiz world.

As much as I love them all my girl is Retta.  We bonded pretty quickly and stayed tight...and will stay tight.  She's awesome and I love her. Hey Jim, I'm a huge Parks and Rec fan, thanks to you and the cast for keeping me laughing for 7 seasons. One of my favorite episodes is "Two Parties", with the group Bachelor Party. Which of your Parks castmates would you choose to throw you a real life bachelor party and why? I totally agree.  Definitely one of my favorite episodes too.  I would have to choose Pratt because it would be the craziest night of my life.  With Chris you never know what's going to happen next.   What was your favourite moment whilst filming Parks and Rec? I loved doing the Fart Attack.  I felt that the only way to make it funny was to play it very very real.  With craziness going on around me I knew that it would be the best way to handle it.  The problem was trying to keep it together when you have Aziz asking if I "ate farts for lunch".  lol I literally wept tears of laughter in that scene!
My wife and I rewound it and played twice more straight away! Well done! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EkmN5_AulNY When are you going to pop the question to Aubrey? I just bought the ring...just trying to get the nerve up to do it. Dammit Jerry!

Sorry Jim! I had to say it!

First of all, I just wanted to say a huge thank you to you for all of the work you put into P&amp;R! It's one of the only shows that I can LITERALLY say that I laughed at, I cried at and fell in love with all of the characters! It was so heart-warming, heart-breaking and just generally amazing! It started slow and really grew into its own! 

My question to you is which recurring character was your personal favourite? There are so many good ones to choose from!

If you could play any other character on the show, who would you want to play and why?

Again, thank you for all the laughs!  First of all...I'll never fault you for Dammit Jerry.  lol

Thanks for the kind words about Jerry and Parks.  I'm so honored to have been a part of a show that got people feeling.  Truly truly blessed.

I love Joan Calamezzo...Jean Ralphio...Gayle Gergich [deleted] The story of this comment is, it's about Perd.  This is the answer to a question that was asked. Hi, Jim!  Since you clearly have a "colorful" sense of humor (which I love, by the way), was it tough suppressing that to play the more naive and wholesome Jerry? HELL YES!!!  Great question.  Anyone who knows me will tell you that my sense of humor can be very dark.  Absolutely the opposite of Jerry. What's up Jim? You were by far my favorite character on P&amp;R and I love how you try to answer just about everyone who tweets you on Twitter. That's amazing and basically the only celeb I've ever seen do that. 

My question is are you guys all as close as you seem on the show? Also how different is it moving on to this new movie than working on a tv show? We are all very close.  If the show had continued I can guarantee that all of us would have been back.  It was the warmest place for an actor to be with the kindest people.  In front of the camera and behind.  

Movies and TV are very different.  There's a lot of down time when making a film so I'll be able to catch up on stuff.  TV moves much quicker.  Where in a film you might do two pages in a day....on a TV show you couldn't easily do 8. What do you imagine Jerry and Gale's sex life was like? Rabbits!!!!!!!! Honestly Garry seems like the greatest person in the world.  I like to think that you are just like in real life, and if you are not, please lie to me.  As for my question, If you had the opportunity to work with only one Parks and Rec cast member for the rest of your career, who would it be and why?  Thanks Jim!!! I am the greatest human being that has ever lived.  (was that convincing enough)  LOL

Only one?  Damn....I don't think I can answer that.  It's too depressing to think I would only work with one of them. Thank you so much for taking the time to respond!  I hope all of your future endeavors are as successful as Parks!!! Shut up, Larry HOW ABOUT YOU SHUT UP, PUNDO?! :D Jim! Thanks for constantly replying to my dumb tweets all the time.
 
Anyway, did you have a scene that you absolutely hated shooting on P&amp;R? NEVER hated shooting Parks.  Always loved it.  The only days I hated were when I wasn't scheduled to work.

I love your tweets.  No worries. What was the last day of shooting like? Lots of stories and tears.  I knew it would be a rough day but to be honest it was harder than I ever expected.  I turned into a crying bitch.  :) Hi Mr. O'Heir!

Jerry is my favorite P&amp;R character, long time fan from NY. Did you have any input on his flash forward in the finale? Did Jerry/Garry's story end the way you wanted it to?

Also, what moment from shooting the finale made you the most emotional?

Thank you! There's been many interviewers who have asked me what ending I would have wanted to Jerry/Garry.  I tell them...it was written already.  I think the send off they gave me was perfect and so respectful.  I think every character got a wonderful send off.  Hi Jim!
You've obviously spent years building upon Jerry/Garry/Larry's reputation as one of television's best bumbling buffoons (self-points for alliteration), so I'd like to know: who are some of your favorite goofy sidekicks? Great question.  I love Don Knott's from The Andy Griffith Show.  You might be too young to remember him but he was brilliant.  I love bumbling characters who are sweet.  That's what I loved most about what the writers did for Jerry...he was bumbling but ultimately sweet. Jim! Big fan, random question: what is the last thing you purchased online? I bought a book yesterday written by Marty Skovlund, Jr.  Violence of Action.  Marty's a VET with some amazing stories.  You should check it out.  :) Hey Jim, I know this is random but are you a fan of Kanye West?

Also, words cannot say how nice of a person you are and how your character made me happy through tough times. Wow.  Kanye?  Can't say that I am.  He's a little too much into himself for my taste.  But, apparently tons of people like him so that's great for him.

Thank you so much for your nice words about Jerry and Parks. That settles it. Jim is the only person in Reddit history to say he doesn't like Kanye and not get downvoted into oblivion. Now that P&amp;R is over... we must know... Was there ever a backstory to how/why Garry/Jerry/Etc. was married to Gayle? It's always a weird question to answer because unless I'm mistaken I am shockingly good looking.  Am I wrong?  I don't think so.  ;) I think it was because he had "the most massive penis I have ever seen" "I actually forgot to check for mumps. Because I was distracted. By the largest penis I have ever seen." Perfect. Everybody's going to respond with the quip about his penis, but I think the episode where him and Ben go on romantic adventures (meant for Ben &amp; Leslie), along with the episodes of him at home make it abundantly clear.

The guy is one helluva package.  He may not literally look like Chris Traeger, but he can dance, he can cook, he's a devoted family man, he's genuine and positive in every aspect of life.  He's the perfect example of the kind of guy that could charm a lady like Gayle, provided she had the opportunity to get to know him.

There's a lot that happens in Pawnee that's completely absurd.  But that was something I thought always made sense.  And the joke was Ben and others couldn't look past the punching bag to see the real story. Everyone seems to forget that Garry used to look like Chris before he had the kids... he mentioned it when Ann &amp; Chris told Jerry they were expecting  lots of secrets, eh? what's your 6th (or so) most scandalous secret? Let's just say it involves Li'l Sebastian. Hello good sir. Why are you in a cold pool? Because I'll do anything for a bit.  My nips are still at attention.  lol Hey Jim! I love parks and rec, my question is how close are the personality of the characters on the show to the personality of the actors outside of the show? Also, I just want you to know that DAMMIT LARRY has become a regular saying of mine. I love you Jim. You rock!

Also, DAMMIT LARRY I would say there's some of us in all of our characters.  The one closest to who he portrayed would be Nick.  The writers took a lot from his own life and gave it to Ron.  Nick is a brilliant craftsman with wood who also loves his booze and meat.

I love that Dammit Larry has become a regular saying.  I was told that "Damnit, Jerry" made the Urban Dictionary.  I couldn't be prouder.  :) Hey Jim! Long time fan of Parks &amp; Rec, and I was just curious what your favorite food is?  So many favorites...but..love me some Italian, Indian, Pizza, Chinese...apparently most things.  lol  Unfortunately because of a childhood incident I don't eat fish.  YUCK! &gt; love me some Italian

How do you feel about calzones? No one likes calzones.  It's just pizza that's hard to eat. Not if it's from the Lo-Cal Calzone Zone ... What did the fish do to you Jim? If you don't mind me asking.  In season 4 I believe, you were folding and lick sealing every envelope for leslie's campaign. After countless hours doing that, you find out you had to do them all over again. Next to you on the desk were a pack of envelope moisteners so you didn't have to lick every single envelope. But nothing was even said about it. Was that an intentional subliminal classic Larry joke? Hi Jim, 

I just want to say that Middle Man looks very badass, and I will be checking it out. 

My question is this - at the end of a long, hard day, what do you do to Treat Yo'Self? I love a good meal and awesome television.  I'm one of those people who has always loved TV and not ashamed of it.   Hey Jim! Not really question but more of a story. My mom and I one night decided to watch Parks and Rec together and when you showed up on screen she kept saying throughout the show "I swear I've seen Larry before" and sure enough she remembered you! Back in Chicago when my mom was working, you were her temp secretary. She even said that you were the best temp she's ever had and wanted to keep you full time but couldn't because of your acting career! So from my mom to you she says hey! And is very glad your acting career went so well! Cheers! Edit: comment was deleted because I didn't ask a question so here it is! From my mom: What was it like trying to balance your work life and acting life growing up?

Edit: It would be around the time you did the refrigerator commercial  Hi Jim! Thanks for doing this. I wanted to know what it was like to work alongside creative actors such as Amy Poehler, Chris Pratt, Rob Lowe etc. Do they often improv or take liberties with the script, and is it hard to keep up? It was always a pleasure to work with all of them.  After every scene was finished we would do a fun run.  That meant that we could improvise during the scene and see what we came up with.  I think it's one of the reasons we all stayed so close.  It let us play together every day.  Of course with improvisors like Amy it can be scary...there's nobody faster. What would be your ideal role now that Parks and Rec is over? Do you want to be in another show or just do movies? I've been a TV guy my whole life and would LOVE to do another series.  I'll be working on a film and that will be really exciting but I think there's something about me that screams TV and I'm just fine with that.   Hey Jim! Love you on parks and rec and your appearance on friends. My question is what happened that made everyone on parks hate you. I'm rewatching and so far in season 1, you just seem like any normal person in the office. What made the writers decide to have everyone turn on you? Some would say that every office needs that type of character to take the fall for everything that happens.  I don't know that there was one imparticular thing other than he did seem to spill and trip a lot. How does it feel now that you have forever renamed /u/Newell00 Jewell? _ shut up jewell Go away jewell What is your favorite movie? And what is a movie that you would of liked to be in?  I mentioned earlier that I love The Godfather.  I'm a big thriller and horror fan too.  I've seen Halloween twenty times and it still gets to me.  As far as movies I'd like to have been in...ALL OF THEM!  lol /Michael Meyers bursts into your room.

"Aw, geez." Hey Tim O'Hare,
How did a guy like Gary/Jerry/Larry/Terry Grgich/Gingrich get a girl like Gale? 
Thanks, Jim! Well, he did have literally the largest penis that one doctor had ever seen. How he got close enough to Gail to show it off without being a creep, now that one is a mystery. He got close enough because before they had kids, Larry looked a lot like Chris Traeger. I'm guessing it involved him bumbling out of his high school locker room without a towel. Hello Jim! Thank you for the many laughter! My question for you is How did you feel about your character's storyline and ending in the finale when you found out? I couldn't have been happier.  Truly.  Amy had given me a hint as to what they were thinking but a lot of times things change.  When I got the final script I couldn't believe that I was getting a dream ending for Jerry.  Even though he dies ... he's 100 years old and has been mayor for 30 years.  Such an awesome ending. Thanks for the reply to my question! My sister and I were very happy for Jerry!  Spoilers. Dammit Jerry! So he's actually 25 years old?  Paul Soter, what is inside of your calves? And when are you making potfest? For fuck's sake, Heffernan.  I'm sitting right across the table from you!  If you really wanted to ask, you could just look up from your goddamn laptop and ask me!  Plus, you KNOW what's in my calves!  Cookie dough!   Hello Broken Lizard, you guys are awesome! 

Question: How much beer was actually consumed during the shooting of Beerfest?  If the answer is more than "none", did anything unexpected, good or bad, result from it?

*P.S. [I made this for my first entry in](http://i.imgur.com/vbf3fKe.jpg) InvisibleBicycles and thought I'd share with you guys.  Thanks for the inspiration, I hope you enjoy it! :)* Im gonna take the lack of response to mean they all blacked out and dont remember anything from the filming Jay, how was it working on Arrested Development? It was special.  We felt we were shooting the best show on TV, though nobody was watching.  There was top level talent all through that show.  The Writers were stellar, the actors were phenomenal and the directing was, well that's up to you to decide. I love Super Troopers, Beefest, Slammin' Salmon, but nowhere near as much as my friend Rick.  Super Troopers is literally his favorite movie of all time.  Whenever we buy gifts for him, we buy Super Troopers stuff, and he quotes the movie on an almost daily basis.  He can't ask you anything because he's in Boston right now getting bone marrow treatment for Lymphoma, his third time having the cancer.  He actually checked into the hospital today and will be in there for three weeks.  I know the biggest surprise in the world to him would be a video message from you guys wishing him luck.  Is there a way to do that? Here you go. We wish him the best. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_74jn164PM&amp;feature=youtu.be Man, you guys are fuckin' awesome 'Thank you so much.  Just got the seduction package.  Good luck with the film! This is awesome. You guys are great people!  Holy shit. You're all adorable.  Coming in a sec! OH MY GOD YOU WILL MAKE HIS YEAR!
 Steve, can you grow a mustache anywhere on your body other than your lip? In a movie filled with great gags, one of my favorites in Super Troopers is when Foster buys a giant cotton candy and sends it to the Horseshoe-mustachioed Spurbury cop at the Little League game. It's the most creative, passive-aggressive, petty revenge move I've ever seen on film. Did this stem from a real-life incident? Who came up with it? Well, we're always looking out to get into the Guinness Book of World Records, so we wanted to make the largest cotton candy ever put on screen.  We hold that record, though I don't know if we've been included in the latest reprint of the book. Hmmm. I can't remember. Maybe someone else knows... I think Soter just loves cotton candy. For ST2 we are going to do a digital cotton candy the size of the Statue of Liberty. When you worked with Geoffrey Arend on ST, could you have ever imagined he would land someone like Christina Hendricks? Absolutely fucking not ever. [this is the guy who is banging Christina Hendricks](http://imgur.com/ApGegtK) there might still be a chance for me after all Fuck right off! *The snozzberries taste like snozberries!* CANDY BARS! I know!  He's really slumming.  That Christina Hendricks is like, woof, right? Absolutely. That dude is a stud. And he always was trying to get me to be a red head.  &gt; [Christina Hendricks?](http://www.reactiongifs.com/r/mog.gif)

 Hey guys. Thanks for doing this AMA.
You have some of the most quoted movies ever. What are the lines most people yell at you on a daily basis?

Also, Zjob? I get asked if I like Mexico a lot. Well, do you? I get called a chickenfucker all the time Let's go get sour on some krauts My favorite has to be Beerfest.

Looks like we got the brits in round one. We already kicked their ass in WW2, cherio lets do it again. Jim Tobleson's a fucking Chatty Cathy! If you have to ask, big man, you can't afford it.
 Mother of God Who wants a mustache ride? I do! I vant vun! You boys like Mexeeco!  When I'm driving, people are always yelling at me "Get off the road, asshole!"  I can't remember what movie that's from. Puddle Cruiser Pretty in Pink Schindler's List? I get asked if I like Mexico a lot. That will happen.  That will happen.  Double baco cheeseburger. It's for a cop. Hold the spit. Bear fucker, do you need assistance? In ST you fuck the bear. In ST2 The bear fucks you. www.supertroopers2movie.com You guys missed out on a real opportunity to call it "2pertroopers". Sup3rtroop3rs : Tokyo Drift. A little story: a few weeks ago at Penn State my friend took a lady friend into a stairwell for some private time. I walked into the stairwell and saw my friend completely pile driving this poor girl on what I can only assume are horrendously uncomfortable cement steps. As I was completely shitfaced, I could only think of one thing to say to them: "Attention bear fucker, do you need assistance?"     

Needless to say I killed the mood just a tad. Poor girl gets railed into some stairs then gets called a bear. That's rough. Super Troopers is my favorite comedy of all time, thanks for making it!

I was just wondering, have any of you chicken fuckers ever been recognized by a cop and gotten out of a ticket?  Meow. I got pulled over doing 120MPH. The cop looked in the car and said "mister, do you have any idea how fas-- Super Troopers??????"  He let me out of the ticket. laughed my ass off when i heard that story in your stand-up Honestly, quite a bit.  We originally thought cops would hate us, but the opposite is true.   Whenever I am forced to ride with a partner, for whatever special event I am assigned to, I always ask, "Team Ramrod?"

It's funnier when they have no fucking idea what I am talking about and have never seen the movie. It's CAR Ramrod! You FOOL! I wrote it on the paper! I was recognized.... but still got the ticket. Sad face emoticon. you shoulda showed him your leg and claimed it has a mind of its own.   Yeah, I was driving in San Diego going to a ballgame and cops pulled me over.  They asked if they could escort me to the game.  Please follow us meow sir. Did they make you eat the whole bag first? They ate it with me. Watch out for these guys! You have no idea how many Public Urination tickets I've gotten out of.  (It's not my fault!  I have a nervous bladder.) I know your movies are super quotable, but I'm curious if there are any quotes from your own movies that you find yourselves referencing even today? I still say Enhance... Enhance... Enhance... a lot. I say "I wouldn't worry about that little guy" from time to time. "Desperation is a stinky cologne."  I think that one a lot. Every 3 hrs I say "Nutella's hungry"  Slammin Salmon Can I have a moustache ride? Yes.  5 cents.  No weight limit.
 As long as you don't exceed [this limit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chandrasekhar_limit) for a price.  Meaning I'll pay you. Super Troopers was probably one of the most quoted movies with my friends when we were in college. Also led to the [greatest Halloween costume ever](http://i.imgur.com/kjzIn1Y.jpg).

I'm also a huge fan of Beerfest.  When you were filming that movie, how much beer did you guys drink?  I don't think you could have been actually hammered the whole time, but you guys must have had a nice buzz going on the whole time, right? We drank a lot in the afternoon. Really sorry to hear about Daniel von Bargen. Wondering about returning cast members from ST1? 

Erik: GO VIKES! Still figuring out who returns.  Gonna cost a lot just to bring back Chandrasekhar. Yeah, with me on the roster, the salary cap is pretty strained. Yeah, Daniel dying was tragic.  The dude was insanely funny.  And when we shot the film, he would take out the local cops, they'd smoke grass and get hammered.  We highway guys were never invited. I think I'm going to come back. Love you guys! Super Troopers was amazing...I kind of think of it as a documentary. How did you know that so many Vermonters have experienced the first 10 minutes of the movie?  We write what we know Because Vermonters are supreme burners who toke the kind ganja whenever possible, am I right? Sounds like you need Uber, Kathryn. i loved club dredd! it didnt get nearly as much attention as your other movies, why do you think that is?  Because people can't handle a little blood and gore with their comedy. Because the film opened the same weekend as THE PASSION OF THE CHRIST, which broke all records.  We got trampled.  But we love that film, too. What are the chances that Super Troopers 2 will re-create this scene?  Just imagine Thorny flying in on top of Car Ramrod.  https://www.facebook.com/video.php?v=475120265976048&amp;fref=nf  
  Holy shit. Fucking sweet.  There are Thorny's all over that shit. Wow.  I like that.  Sounds like we'll need some green screen. Any info on whether Brian Cox will be back for the sequel? We want him bad.  So if you see him walking down the street, say "Hey Coxy!  What's the fucking deal?" and then kiss him on the nose. Hopefully. Cant do a movie without the Cap!! Jay, when I was in medical school, I thought I [spotted you in my anatomy textbook.](http://i.imgur.com/xokfFZe.jpg) I didn't think anything of it, figuring I was just racist.

I now know this is you. Do you still do anatomic modeling for medical textbooks? Who came up with the name Broken Lizard and why? I did.  We spent three days smoking grass and choosing a name, which was between "Four Whites and and Injun" or "The Chocolate Speedo Bikini Team."  When i got to the poster designer's place, I randomly changed it to Broken Lizard because I wanted people to think about Monty Python when they thought about us.  Python begets Lizard. Whatever man, we know your junk's crooked. No fun story here! Is Potfest really happening? Please say yes!

Also, favorite beers? Beers - I'm a big fan of Summit, Laguanitas, Surly, Fulton, Dangerous man... to name a few If we can get ST2 made then we can focus on Pot Fest. Help us out! Willie Nelson doesn't have much time!  ST2 first!  Then weediest Few questions for you guys.  Assuming you actually enjoy beer,  especially after Beerfest.

 What are each of yours favorite beers?

This one is more directed towards the rookie. 

Will you still be the rookie? Can you grow a damn 'stache yet?  I love so many beers.  It depends on my mood.  For barbecue, Tecate.  For relaxing by the fire, Carlsberg.  For making love to my Labrador Retriever, probably a nice snifter of Chimay. Schnitzengiggle Hey ItTricky. It be tricky?? This is the rookie. Still the  youngest on the force, so unbelievable but still getting hazed. It's bullhoeey. Buy a ticket to see me get my butt waxed against my wishes. Still trying to grow stache. Only a sharpie seems to be working for me right now... My favorite beer is Bud Light.  I also like Sapporo, which is the Bud light of Japan.  I also like Bud. Hello, Broken lizard! Jay, I illustrated 
[this](http://imgur.com/a/nDRS9) Super Troopers print for Pensacon last month, and gave one to Erik. He said you dug the print, and I only have one copy left. Would you like it? If you PM me an address to have it shipped to, I'll send it out to you.
 
Also, is Pot Fest ever going to happen, or were you just fucking with us? Thanks, I can't wait for Super Troopers 2. I love that thing.  What's PM? I want that thing. It's yours, then. I'll send it out to you. [If you have to ask big man, you can't afford it.](https://youtu.be/gj3AgSZEXMo?t=7s)  Potfest next. First ST2 If you need any extras for Pot Fest, I would like to offer my services.

Where should I send my resume? Shutup, Farva I'm just going to cut &amp; paste my Pot Fest response from now on: If we can get Super Troopers 2 made then we can focus on Pot Fest. Help us out and make a contribution, pot head! For the syrup drinking race in Super Troopers, was there actually syrup in those bottles? It makes me gag a little every time I watch it. Also, more syrup in Super Troopers 2? Yes. That was real syrup. We tried to use soda but the "glug" wasn't slow enough. So we had to use the real stuff. It killed those guys. Definitely! Those pussies chugged 2 bottles each. I would have chugged 3.  We're gonna chug motor oil in #2 I tried this once, totally won the chug off (and remembered to cup the balls) Still the single greatest vomit of my life! Are you really a Pastor, Paul?  Pray for us.  And take all the money out of the donation basket and "divert" it over to www.supertroopers2movie.com
 How was it working with Michael Clarke Duncan (rest in peace) on the Slammin' Salmon? He was absolutely hysterical, and I can imagine it being difficult to keep a straight face during his shoots. Mike Duncan was phenomenal. Funny, funny dude. He played an intimidation game, where he said, "If I were to attack you right now, could you defend yourself?" Good fun.

 Phenomenal. We had no idea he was going to be as awesome as he was. He showed up and started improvising like a mother fucker! RIP! Dude was awesome.  Funny as shit and equally as scary in real life. I was afraid to ever yell "cut" for fear that he would kill me. WHATEVER MOTHAFUCKA!!! Super Troopers 2, Potfest, Slammin Salmon 2....i don't care I just want to see you guys on the big screen. There's nothing funnier out there. I've had to survive on stand up, shorts and podcasts from you guys need. It's like watching the birth of christ whenever you all get together. So my question is, if you could bukkake anyone dead or alive who would it be and why?  I would bukkake Farva. Dick Cheney. Bc I want to see him with a load on his face. I'd bukkake Heffernan because he deserves it. What the hell took so long?! About time!  Took years for me to grow my mustache. There's a lot of bullshit that needs to get sifted through. We're finally ready to go! Tell me about it! We've been trying to get this off the ground for years. We're excited to get to work. what's the name of that restaurant you like with all the goofy shit on the walls and the mozzarella sticks? Olive garden??
 http://i.imgur.com/5hWJf99.jpg Unlimited be ready at six You mean Bucca Di Beppo? Farva is gonna fall in love with a new restaurant in ST@.  Not kidding. Not revealing.  www.supertroopers2movie.com Please tell me the snozberry kid is coming back? The snozzberry kid is coming back. Cameo for his wife? Hey. Did you guys actually get to smoke with Willie Nelson during "Beer fest"? No. He doesn't smoke pot. You can't get within 50 feet of Willie without smoking.  Seriously, you get sucked in, whether you're interested or not.  He smokes a joint out of an apple, and he never lets you stop.  You literally have to get on your hands and knees and beg like a baby to get Willie to stop getting you high. Dukes of Hazzard Thanks for the AMA guys, how did you guys become a comic team? Are there any other comic groups that have been major influences for you? We were college friends and we did some sketch shows. They went really well so we started performing in NYC. -- Monty Python and Kids In The Hall were major inspirations. We all went to college together. Colgate University.  In the end we were the only ones who couldn't get other jobs. 

Love Monty Python, Kids in the Hall We first formed in College at Colgate University. We were heavily influenced by Monty Python and Kids in the Hall. 
 What made you decide to make a Super Troopers 2, aside from the fact that it's probably one of the most highly quoted and hysterical movies meowst of us have ever seen? We just wanted an opportunity to do horrible shit to Farva/Heffernan again. Does that mean we get another delousing scene? We were on a road trip in Vermont and saw that a cop had pulled over someone and we laughed about how tough everyone is when they talk about cops and how meek they are when actually pulled over.  And we were looking for a film idea that would be able to accommodate five guys. We came up with a great story and really wanted to tell it. We knew you would want to see it. Will you chug ketchup in ST2? I'd do that.  Yeah, I'd definitely do that. Guys!  I'm a HUGE fan of your movie.  My boyfriend is a cop, and I made this cross stitch for him for Christmas last year.  What do you guys think?  This is an original, by the way!

http://imgur.com/sGGwdEc VIDEO RESPONSE!!!

http://youtu.be/ZdPeyZV58dY How much meow will be in this movie?  Meow? We're working on a dog barking sketch, so... We've decided to plus up the Meow Game for the sequel.  It's now Jaguar Game.  WKOWCHOW!  (that's the sound a jaguar makes.)
 Congratulations.  You made me say "WKOWCHOW" out loud like a jaguar.

Now everyone in this funeral is looking at me weird. You put the fun in funeral. It is going to be a meow festival. I promise.
 We're going to do a Charlie Brown version where all the adults in the movie just say meow. Jay, what's up!? Thanks for doin' this thing here. Any advice for a brown actor from a successful fellow brown actor in terms of becoming a successful brown actor? Stay Brown.  I don't know.  Honestly, I'd learn to write.  The parts have to be created and that comes from writers.  At least, that's what I did. I thought you were Mexican  First just wanted to say you guys are hilarious. I saw your live show in Iowa City and it was awesome.
Jay, how was it working with the Jackass guys? Any cool stories from on set?
Also, Super Troopers 2! I remember that Iowa City show.  I will never forget how promiscuously the coeds were dressed.  I expected the girls to be wearing long, modest Amish dresses.  But no, it was like va-va-voom. Thanks for coming to the Iowa show. That was a blast. A guy puked on Kevin after the show!! Shooting Jackass 2 was fantastic.  Spike and Knoxville prepped me for 2 hours.  Some of my pubes were used for Aaron's beard.   I'm as proud of getting to be in Jackass 2 as anything else I've done.  Knoxville is a great dude, though you have to keep your balls covered in meetings or he'll punch them and laugh. Kevin, on behalf of the entire chew crew, will we get to see that winky again? I'm looking at it right now and it's not that good. You sure you want this? Depends on the budget.  Might need some winky enhancement. You guys always play such different characters in your movies, is there any role/character you think you would be unable to portray? I could never play Steve Lemme bc I'm not short enough. I'm not sure I could play Farva. My dick isn't small enough. The Vice Admiral in the Luxemborg Navy.  I would have a difficult time playing Jesus of Nazareth.  I have sensitive hands and those spikes would be, just, like, the worst. Love Super Troopers and Beer Fest. Gotta ask, though...

You have a string of movies, and moderate box office success with a ton of DVD sales. Why do I need to help you finance making a Super Troopers sequel? 

I'd imagine that you all have enough combined assets to put a film together, especially with the networks you should have been building the past ten years around Hollywood. Why do you need to get my money before the film is made, instead of making a film that encourages me to put my money into it at the theaters? 

Is IndieGoGo just a tool for you to raise money that you'll never have to pay back, whereas in the past getting a film financed meant that person had a stake in the profits? Yes.  You would think it wouldn't be hard to raise the money through an investor.  I thought so too.  I've been thinking that for 3 years now. We've run into a lot of obstacles getting it made.  Basically a lot of the powers that be don't understand how much people are fans of the first one and want to see a new one.  We need help showing that there is an appetite.   Honestly we're just regular guys.  We don't have a network TV show, you don't see us in big movies. We like to make our own stuff.   Indiegogo is a grassroots way we can get this made.   Don't shut up, Farva. Beerfest is one of my husband and I's favorite movies. So I'm super excited to have you guys here!

Who's one actor/actress/entertainer you would like to work with in one of your films that you haven't yet? Nicole Kidman.  I have a thing for Australian red heads...named Nicole...Kidman. Bill Murray. Kevin Spacey. Vladamir Putin.
 Kevin Kline! Bill Murray!   Do you need any xtras for Super Troopers 2? I will die a happy man if I'm in it!!!!! Hey! Fellow Colgate grad here. Beerfest was the first Broken Lizard movie I saw (when I was a freshman there), and when I looked up the movie and found out that you went to Colgate, I was like, "Yep, that makes sense!"

I'm a writer, so I was wondering about how you write as a group. Do you divvy things up somehow? Dear Princess Jellyshoes, we spend 3 weeks on an outline, then split up the points of the outline.  Then one person is the point man and they make it all consistent.  Then we meet for three weeks on each draft and then rewrite out sections.  By draft 4, the point man takes over and takes all notes and makes all changes.  Then we do about 20 drafts before we shoot. Thank you for responding! It makes sense to have a system like that to keep everything cohesive. I've never written in a team before, and it seems like in a lot of ways it's probably harder than writing alone.

Best of luck with Super Troopers 2. Can't wait to see it! :) Is this common practice for comedy writing?

I am interested in writing sketch and stand-up, but really have no idea where to start. Strangers tell me that I'm pretty hilarious so I started writing stuff down, but none of it makes sense when I sober up. Do you have this problem? That's why you should write with a designated writer. I can't read his handwriting. If you're ever looking for a chubby ginger chick to be the butt of a joke, you can find me here on reddit, all day everyday.  Yep. One guy is the point man. Everyone takes a section of the first draft so we can bang it out quickly. Then the point man becomes... "The Bitch." Thanks for the response! That seems like the best way to do it. 

Looking forward to Super Troopers 2! :) point man please! &gt; one is when they talk about cops and how meek they are when actually pulled over. And we were looking for a film idea that would be able to accommodate five guys.

What act of manliness is used to determine "The Bitch"? Winner of chugging maple syrup of course. You can't put a price on what you learn at Colgate Yep, I went there too.  I used to have your guys' composite in my room at 88 broad.  Keep up the good work gents. -kai- After four years there, my liver is ironclad. Or maybe just numb. 