A light entertainment guy? Just read his Wikipedia page to get a small sample of how wrong you are. That's Phil Helens, I love his work. I though I could not love Mr Fry more.

I was wrong. I feel like there are a lot of groups underrepresented in congress, like women or children or unmarried people or vegetarians or athletes or scholars /r/titlegore I don't think Gay Byrne is that kind of guy. He fought hard against the Catholic Church in Ireland to get contraceptives accepted as a positive thing back in the 70's, he's not exactly known for being super religious.  Most people don't use their full vocabluary out of the fear of sounding like elitists &gt; And you know, if Stephen Fry did go to heaven and meet God 

Imposiible. He'd still crying in corner from all that hitchslapping. You're the one that's making a joke of yourself.. you're showing your naivety of historical anarchism and anarchism as a political theory. You don't fall into any of the free market camps. You're some weird hodgepodge using your own made up definitions. Satan as a punisher of sinners is itself just an invention of pop-culture, doesn't show up in the bible at all. Biblical stan is trapped down in hell with all the other damned people.  They do equate those 2. Read the back of any dollar bill ew They wasn't baptists or catholic neither. &gt;A woman should learn in quietness and full submission. I do not permit a woman to teach or to assume authority over a man; she must be quiet. Still ovating.  You must practice.  It's really that simple.  Find a way to practice it. Woah, come on, let's be realistic here. Honestly, i was not being condescending, forgive me for coming across as such.
When i was a child i believed Santa came down my chimney.
I believed growing up Jesus forgave my sins.
Now i believe neither have a place in reality.
Fine. 
But saying "i was a Christian," is taking a word (that has more to it than mental assent,) and redefining it through the lense of atheism. If we are to assume there is a god then we have to assume that he is all knowing and powerful. This being the case then surely he is able to keep up with what he is doing. If he has forgotten about us then he is not much of a god and as such would not resonably expect or love or adulation. Your "theory" makes no sense. Calvary is a pretty cool movie that touches on it a little... not in a massive scale but at a more personal one. Reading also makes you a better writer.  Read stuff that isn't dumbed down though if the goal is increased vocabulary.  It also helps if it's entertaining.  Read LITERATURE not blogs or websites.  Reading V.S. Naipaul got me hooked on reading again personally.  But maybe for you (OP) it's scifi or another genre that interests you so start there.   To be fair the Pope and other key religious leaders are starting to highlight climate change as a major issue and are ahead of many politicians...  Your laws suggest differently.  It seems you have serious popular support for some pretty old school stuff, even though it may be eroding.

I'd suggest that maybe your social circles aren't a perfect cross-section of society.  Because you're on Reddit I can say you're probably young and probably mostly associate with other young people, and people tend to be more old fashioned on questions of religion the older they are, for instance. Gay Byrne a "light entertainment" guy? Dude, at least google this stuff before you want to dismiss the guy who is one of the most intelligent and progressive talk show host out there. This is the guy who had open discussions about homosexuality and abortion on his show in the *80's*, who fought the catholic church to have contraceptives presented in a positive light to the Irish public. 

 This isn't a debate show, it's a show where celebrities come and share their views about religion and philosophy. He's doing a great job as host, giving facial cues to keep Fry going once he got on something good, and lightening the mood with a quip when he had clearly finished.  Admittedly, the whole idea of asking Stephen Fry what he would say to God were he to meet God in heaven is a bizarre and impossible situation to hypothesize.  Christopher Hitchens and his various allies in the new atheist movement have shown conclusively that there can be no such being.  It makes no sense. They're not my definitions numbnutt. It's Robert Anton Wilson (RAW).

Do you advocate homesteading and contract transfer to establish ownership of property? What the hell ? Are things that bad where you live ?

You make it sound like you're about to tell your friends and family you're a rampant sex maniac homosexual who has a fetish for dwarves or something. 

Not that there's anything wrong with that either btw.

How about just telling them that after using your brain and considering all the factual information available and even that which can be theorised, you've come to the scientific conclusion that god does not exist and that religion, all religion, is complete and utter bollocks.

You can threaten them that you'll marry a gay dwarf if they annoy you too much about it.
 The First Tiger hunts. She hunts the world. She hunts until her hunger is sated, then sleeps. The world quakes with her purr, her belly full and content. When she sleeps, the Bright comes out of hiding, it warms the rocks to keep her asleep. But when The First Tiger awakes, the Bright flees once more. The Lesser creatures, they cannot see without the Bright. They hide too.

The First Tiger stalks. Her breath ruffles our fur, yet we cannot see her. Her roar quakes the world. And her eye stares from the Black, slowly tracking the World. Her teeth and claws rake the horizon, pierce the Land, her spit flows throughout the land as her mouth waters.

One day her Hunt will end. She will roar once more and call all her children. And then, the Tigers will feast. On the Four-Legs. On the Two-Legs. All the Lesser will be our prey. And then we will sleep eternally, our bellies full and our purrs drowning all of creation. Canada actually.  That's my favourite too when a religious woman wants to tell me something. I mean, I'm only quoting *your* scripture. He is one louder  I did, and it got me a reputation as 'that angry atheist guy who brings it up all the time'.  They weren't really able to process how frequently they talked/promoted their religion in the workplace, I believe, as it was just a normal part of their conversations.  So when I would bring up anything challenging that, it seemed like it came out of nowhere and I was the aggressor.  Add to that the fact that in their eyes I got personal, confrontational, and fired-up even though I was trying to stay friendly, conversational, and calm due to feeling like they were being attacked as individuals rather than having the points they were discussing or premises they were forwarding questioned, and you can see we're not really dealing with people who are used to or comfortable having somebody question their beliefs.

  This was also military, particularly within a deployed environment, so rank and the general ease of interacting with each other is a significant factor.  

  Bear in mind, these co-workers generally saw me as the 'go-to' person for any trivia questions/discussions, explanation of difficult concepts, or settling of arguments of anything remotely academic; I was the token intellectual.  As soon as it came to religious matters, they would mentally shift to where I was an ignorant asshole and they were the clever ones.  It was weird to see.  I was also one of the larger, more-athletic members of that unit, to the point that people would constantly joke about me crushing them or being glad they've never seen me angry; suddenly, all of that recognition would disappear and some would adopt overtly confrontational body language and disrespect for personal space if you ever questioned a point that they associated with their personal beliefs.  Some people's method of practicing their faith just turns off their logic.

  Glad to be out of that unit. :D

P.S. Enjoy the vonnegut reference in the username. Unfortunately this was the wrong answer to give here, because it accepted the premise of the question so thoroughly. All a believer is going to hear here is: Stephen Fry hates God for bringing evil into the world. They have standard platitudes for that, so it's not going to convince anyone. The point that it's moot because there are no pearly gates, which is the real position of atheism on this, gets utterly buried by his admittedly very eloquent takedown of the morality of the Christian God. It was the wrong answer for the situation. At the very least the pitch was poorly judged for the situation. Well if Gay Byrne is not that kind of guy, I am not sure why he asked that question.  It is certainly not a question that I would ask of an atheist.  Why ask what an atheist would do if he or she found out that God actually exists?  God does not exist, and no atheist is every going to find out that He does.  But purely as a thought experiment, Stephen Fry did come up with a very logical response to an impossible situation. Also, why dwarves? LOL GET REKT M8

^^^I'm  ^^^sorry, ^^^I ^^^had ^^^to. &gt; I can't 100% reject the notion that there is a god, because no one can.
&gt; Yes, I can.

Just for the record, so can I.  And everyone with critical thinking skills that exceed a second grader can also figure this out.  Anyone that can't is pretty fucking stupid.  There goes my prejudice showing again I guess :) sorry dude. Have edited.

I just seen Texas and skipped over that it was just a reference to it. Mine was more of a " if you're born in in the middle east, you're likely to grow up muslim. If you're born in the far east, either hindu or buddhist. It has more to do with where you're born than anything else "

My ex's grandmother who was a southern baptist did not appreciate my logic. Especially when I spat out my coke when she and the mother said they didn't believe dinosaurs existed and oil wasn't fossils Oh no need to apologize. Nothing in Canada when it comes to religion can compare to what happens in America. As far as I know I haven't seen religious hate groups like the Westboro Baptist Church in Canada anyways. What you will always have are your memories of him, what he taught you and meant to you. He's not watching over you, but his legacy is within you.  Only if there is a chance that such a god exists in the first place. Which seems unlikely unless your only criteria for calling something god is "was the beginning of the universe". http://www.buzzfeed.com/timstelloh/john-wayne-gacy-cold-case-files?s=mobile I was genuinely upset when I heard Stephen Fry married his partner. Not because I'm opposed to gay marriage, but because it was only after I Googled it that I learned he's into younger guys and I might have had a chance... I would totally turn for this man. Just give me his head in a jar  la Futurama and I'd be a happy man. Isn't the point of GMO foods that you don't need pesticides...? I thought he said semen. Because his job, the purpose of the show, is to explore the beliefs and philosophies of celebrities and intellectuals. It was a question, a thought experiment, designed to get fry talking about his views on god and religion in more depth, from a different angle than he normally would, and it clearly worked exactly as intended.  Still ovulating Dunno, I was watching game of thrones earlier, just popped into my head I guess. Actually it was /u/Tech46... Exactly. That's why I'm going to worship myself instead. 

Because I'm awesome, and I will smite any arse hole that disagrees with my +1 down vote. I looked at the reviews, and one of the reviews mentioned the author basically says to stay in a relationship with domestic abuse... So while a book would help, I'm thinking this one may be counter productive. Absolutely, so either he's just letting millions of people live in ignorance, praying to nothing, which still makes him an asshole.
Or it's all just the same thing, and he/she doesn't care too much about the name - God, Allah, Jehova - but then he lets us kill each other over this minor detail. Their "belief" can be summarised in two (related) points.  
1) using your holy book to come up with excuses for your own failings  
2) using your holy book to justify your hate and bigotry against others   
  
There are few things in this world that are as immoral and perfidious as the above combo.    "Posca! Fetch the dogs!"

"Yes, domina." Kinda makes on wonder what goes on at the tens of thousands of Koran "schools" all over the world. Omniscient and omnipotent.

I assume this means that he can see the future, then.

Why does he allow evil?

He knew "the serpent" was going to tempt Eve.  He knew that this would lead directly to him killing everyone on the planet, except one man and his family.  He knew this would lead directly to him having to be tortured and killed.

And yet?


Does your god have a plan? &gt; The link shows republican politicians denying climate change 

Which is, again, not supportive of your argument.

&gt; So you agree with 97% of scientist global warming is real and were on path of irreparable damage to environment?

I could answer this question, but it's NOT RELEVANT TO THE DISCUSSION.  It would be like someone saying Hitler was a bad guy because he was German, and me pointing out that's a terrible argument because not all Germans are bad.  And then you saying, "DON'T YOU AGREE THAT HITLER WAS BAD?"  That's really rather beside the point.  Just because he is bad for OTHER reasons doesn't mean he's bad for the PARTICULAR reasons given.

&gt; Its a false equivalent in many ways

No, it's not.

&gt; it assumes that the bible recommends we live "good, moral lives"

Yes, and the original argument assumes that the changes listed make for a "better world"!  This is precisely why it's equivalent.

The same applies to all of the rest of your objections.  Please THINK before you write, instead of blindly jerking out a response again.
 No.. I don't believe in private property/land ownership.. no real anarchist does. Anarchism is a socialist political theory. http://i.imgur.com/OFYnCzI.gif Just read, just like the other posters said. Anything will do: non-fiction, fiction... A good vocab develops over time. Practice it too, it's fun bamboozling your loved ones with a new word. =) I understand what you're saying, but starting out a conversation with a hardcore christian with "god doesn't exist" will put them in fight or flight mode.   Never thought I'd upvote something in this sub but fuck it. That was brilliant.  it's called going to a posh school 

 It still seems like an odd choice of question to me.  If I had the chance to interview a noted atheist such as Stephen Fry, or let us say Richard Dawkins (since I already know Stephen Fry's answer) I would not ask him what he would do if he were to die and then to unexpectedly go to heaven and meet God.  I would consider that to be a pointless speculation about something that obviously cannot happen.  It would be like interviewing Simon Wiesenthal and asking him, but what if you find out that the Nazis were right, and that the Jews (including yourself) actually are an evil, sub-human race who must be exterminated for the good of humanity?  What would you do then?  It is ridiculous to consider that possibility (and very insulting as well).

However, given that the question did provoke a very interesting reply, the interview must be considered a success.  So it may be that Gay Byrne knew what he was doing.  Obviously I have no way to know what his actual intentions were.  I still say that it sounds like the kind of question a religious person would ask in the attempt to test an atheist's convictions.  What if you find out that you were wrong?  What then?  I mean, it does sound like an embarrassing position to be in, having spoken publicly against belief in God only to eventually wind up meeting God.  Could be very awkward. people who leave school with this amount of knowledge are the ones that realise not everyone should have this amount of knowledge as its bad for society  I can accept that. You pretty much just summed up every Irish family there.. We went regularly to church right up to my confirmation then it just kind of stopped. My Mam still believes but I don't  think even she knows why any more. Probably because her parents are dead. Some of the stories my Dad tells me about the grip the church used to have on the country is shocking. Like having to stop and bow to priest on the road. And if they showed up randomly at your house you'd have to give them something like food, money or even lend a kid to give a hand(makes me feel sick to think what some priests might have got up to!!!). In the words of Father Ted "*Fascists dress in black and go around telling people what to do, whereas...priests... More drink!*" Your assumption is good but none the less wrong, I'm not all that young. 

Have you ever been here? ( we're just next door after all ;) a lot of the older generation give about as much of a damn as the younger generation

However the laws are the problem as you mentioned, as is the government , it seems to want to represent a (practicing) catholic majority that doesn't exist  Depending on how flexible your definition of eloquence is, that could count. The stories are so much better, too. Greek theology is basically a sitcom with a ton of side-stories. I'm going out on a limb here and guessing that you don't actually own any land. You're thinking of a different country - Northern Ireland, as in part of the UK In the U.S. we have that problem because the religious are much more diligent voters than the non-religious for a variety of reasons, perhaps that has something to do with it there? "the borders" and what about the orange walk etc. Gay Byrne? More like gay burn, am I rite guys? *"...see... see... We are being persecuted by the gob'ment!"*

 I've only ever been to Dublin and the borders. My cousin was not allowed to marry a Catholic boy in a Catholic church because she was protestant.  Helter skelter He *is* a light entertainment guy. I don't need to google it. I am Irish, I have lived all my life in Ireland, I have been familiar with Gay Byrne on television and radio for more than 40 years. He *is* a light entertainment guy. 

Yes, it's true that his *Late, Late Show* (and to a lesser extent his *Gay Byrne Hour* on radio) were highly significant for raising subjects that had been taboo, but his level of engagement with the subject-matter was never high. Yes, in some ways he was progressive, but I can assure you that most Irish people who have grown up, as I have, with an omnipresent Gay Byrne would get a good chuckle out of the assertion that he is "one of the most intelligent" talk show hosts. Unless, of course, you mean to say that talk show hosts in the main are a pretty dim lot. True, but the point i am poorly articulating is that someone who "who was a Christian" should know true christianity is more than mental assent/belief.  A cursory look at the teachings of Christ should reveal he was talking in another realm than the natural.  Becoming his follower was something way beyond the crowds understanding of just wanting to see something miraculous or a food hand out. I'm not familiar with how animal testing is done these days, but I am with how it was done in the 80's, when I was young.

There was a lot of cosmetic testing going on back then, which really is not necessary for anything. 

We need to ween ourselves off burning oil for energy. It's very wasteful and we need oil to create several products that have no good other alternative, such as high-temperature lubricants.  [Here you go.](https://gfycat.com/PlasticSoftBagworm) I don't think Fry would give a fuck Do you sincerely believe that?

 I depends where you look really. Support of gay marriage is higher in Ireland than the UK/US, but not yet legal (until May anyway). The latest poll I've seen (WIN-Gallup) shows Ireland in the top 10 most atheist countries in the world. On the otherhand abortion is much more restricted. Equally you could point to the UK having bishops in the house of lords, or the head of state as a religious leader. Basically, it's complicated  So, why are so many famous atheists British? (or more specifically English)

Stephen Fry

Charles Darwin

Christopher Hitchens 

Richard Dawkins 

Leader of the British opposition party (Labour party)

The Deputy Prime Minister

Britain has seemingly by far promoted atheism more than any other country. I know it's not the most atheistic country, but it seems the most key figures of atheism are either British or work in Britain on a regular basis, even American atheists seem to spend a lot of time in Britain. As do I. America has all of those things. Absence of evidence indicates evidence of absence, yes. 

As I have also already shown, there is also positive evidence. Souls cannot exist because physics doesn't work like that. 

 I got stuck in Dublin not to long ago when there were marches going on. I was told not to go to various areas of the city. There is no evidence Jesus existed.  &gt;  talk show hosts in the main are a pretty dim lot.

Wasn't my original intent, but... Yeah, I could agree to that. He's certainly nowhere near the bottom of the pile.  Here are some [recommendations from ehow] (http://www.ehow.com/info_8116027_novels-improve-vocabulary.html)
and as you're interested in psychology I'd suggest  Chesterton's [Father Brown stories] (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/204/204-h/204-h.htm), not only for his mastery of the English language but also for their great insight into the mental processes of the theistic mind.  I woke up with a start this morning, I knew something wasn't quite right. I logged on to Reddit and found the karma had been stolen while I was asleep. Ha ha!

 Seriously though, thanks for the shout out. Great clip, I think it's a bit edited to show Auntie Gaybo's face like that for the lolz. I think that makes it funnier to be honest. Except of course for the *radioactive* waste.  I'm not religious, but I also don't think Stephen Fry's answer is a good one.

There's a simple rebuttal to it. God can create a world with such misery for the same reason that we can spray or step on cockroaches and do other horrible things to life forms we consider below us. After all, Christians believe God created us in his image, so is it not reasonable to believe these behaviors descended from his own? Don't be a drama queen. Of course they do. I am a long time atheist and I don't think I have ever encountered anyone who was particularly interested in my religious thoughts. I don't think that most people have a lot of energy to give much thought to what other people think for long. Don't make an announcement. Just say whatever you have to say casually when the the subject comes up. If someone reacts like your opinion is a big deal just refuse to take the bait. You should really collect all these drawings and publish them in a collection, the Big Book Of Muhammad (except that religious lunatics would then hunt you down and kill you). Ah, I'm happy to hear I wasn't completely imagining things!

I think it wouldn't bother me so much if it weren't for the fact that theist apologists will readily use any ambiguous statement against us. They've interpreted Richard Dawkins' less-than-100% rejection of the possibility of God (a sensible position for a scientist and skeptic) as meaning that he's not really an atheist, and this kind of musing is sure to generate claims like "even atheists like Sam Harris thinks there's an afterlife!"

You and I know what's really going on, but I dread having to argue about bullshit like this. That said, I take your point about controversy. Things might be a bit creepy if we were all perfect conformists. &gt; It still seems like an odd choice of question to me.

If that's your position then there is nothing I can do to change that. I've explained that the show is a fairly light entertainment series from the national broacaster aimed at a mass audience. It seems to be you're just determined to find offence where none exists. I found Fry's answer enlightening, not only is he rejecting the idea of a god but even if he found out there was a god it wouldn't be a god he could follow.  Incidentally, I have a degree in evolutionary psychology (as well as engineering oddly enough), so I do know what the term means. Do you know what it means? Kinda misleading title. He isn't a gift to just US atheists, he is a real gift for the world!  Who doesn't access to medical care in America? Medicaid, Medicare, Obamacare, etc.  Or pretty much Kim Jong-Un, forces his people to bow to him or they don't get jack shit and they die. I believe most use the "fingers in the ears, screaming la la la approach".  That certainly sums up the situation.  I have noted this tendency in many religions, to complain that they are being discriminated against when someone objects to their discriminatory practices.  Mormonism is being grotesquely hypocritical. I'm pretty sure that's what they were supposed to be. I doubt there was much stories and books going around (especially since most of the people couldn't read right?)

So this is all to keep people entertained. It was never meant to teach huge life lessons (although there are some good ones to be found) Yes, to an atheist a theist's position is stupid, no argument.  The while reason for my original thought as i said was the facilitate better communication.

Do you know the location our time period of the first person or group of persons that were called atheists?   How far am i going to get if since i don't agree with thier position i interpret the word according to my feelings or experiences?  This is precisely what "former" Christians do when they get burned by the "church." (generally speaking.) Stephen supplies such brilliant answers to such vague simplistic questions that people of religion throw at him constantly, what do they expect Stephan to say. 

"Well if i was in that situation, i would ask for forgiveness for being the man I am" NO! I find the way atheism is becoming to be a good thing. I'm sorry, but I don't think we should remain skulking in the shadows. Things will never change if we do. Idk about you but I'm quite relax about it. No one is trying to deconvert anyone. Hell idc if people want to be religious, I just hate that we Atheists have to hide.  Non-existence means something doesn't exist. If there's no money in your wallet it doesn't mean money doesn't exist. "Money does not exist in my wallet" is a nonsense phrase. If you could use words correctly you would say "there is no money in my wallet". Then you would open your wallet and prove there is no money in it. Well done. 

It is really painful to watch someone construct an argument solely by using words wrong. See "evolution is just a theory" for another example of what you are doing right now. 



 This is very inspiring.  I feel spiritually uplifted, contemplating this work of art. In theory, but firms like Monsanto found that it was easier and cheaper toi make plants resistant to pesticides and then use stronger pesticides  We have very high young voter turn out here, higher than most countries in fact, including the US as far as I know, the problem is the parties are out of step with the population on issues like abortion ( much like in America ) 

However we wouldn't go as far as to deny contraception as has been allowed in certain states in America,  you also can't be homophobic on "religious" grounds, it's illegal , we have a vote on gay marriage in May that will pass by a large margin 

But my original reply was to the poster from the UK whose post I found a bit odd considering the UK and Ireland are essentially two peas in a pod as far as the general populations attitude to religion goes  Marches for what exactly? Water charges perhaps? The words I would like to express in that situation would fail me, I'd forget what I was trying to say. I'd be unable to put into words the thoughts in my head. I'd would demand to know why I was made with a brain that does not work properly.

What did I do before I was born that I'm being punished for?

Was I made wrong to punish my parents for some reason? If so. that seems a demonstrably evil act to make me suffer to punish them for something that was not my fault.

Am I being punished for something that I **will** do, because apparent god knows everything and can plan ahead (or not because he keeps having to correct mistakes). Then that means my life is already planned out and everything I do is pre-destined, so I'm being punished for something I have no choice over. The culture of Britian values and promotes independent thought. 

Darwin however was not an atheist. He struggled for a long time if he should publish his book, because he saw it could give trouble for the church in which he was almost ordained when he was younger. He only published in the end because someone else was about to do so with roughly the same idea, only not as thoroughly researched.  I am not determined to find offense.  Saying it is an odd choice of question does not mean that I am offended that he asked that question.  It is a question that I would not choose to ask of an atheist but it did elicit an interesting answer, so it turned out to be a useful question after all, odd though it was. http://i.imgur.com/ohPFDCt.jpg I disagree with your last sentence. We have created thousands of gods, only a very few of whom are omniscient.  If I wasn't an atheist, Stephen Fry would be my God. Late to this, but I am an actor and voiceover artist of sorts.  

Read things aloud.  All sorts of things.  Fiction, textbooks, poetry, plays, magazines, whatever. 

Concentrate on pace, honoring punctuation, and comprehension.  Record yourself.  Play it back.  Be honest in your critique of your voice, but also learn to accept that you hear your voice differently to everyone around you.   Thor? Odin? Pan? &gt; Forgive me if this sounds condescending in text form, not my intention: is it not reasonable that we should go back to the beginning to get a better grasp of a definition?

It's not reasonable. Words do change their meaning all the time. Christianity was unite once, but now is clearly divided. There are differences between denominations which definitely weren't the case in the beginning. 

And besides if were hadn't changed definition of disease from "manifestation of malicious spirit within one's body" to "Germs causing our body to react a certain way" we would be living in a much worse world. Byrne made a I smell doodoo face.  The "troubles" were due to one lot of terrorists, who wanted Northern Ireland to be a part of a unified Ireland, killing people to try and force through their aims; and another set of terrorists who wanted Northern Ireland to remain a part of the United Kingdom - and killed people to achieve their aims.

The religious affiliations of these two groups was purely incidental.

Tl;dr - They weren't killing each other because of their religious differences, they were killing each other because of their diametrically opposed political desires. Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn. You know deep down inside you want more Christians on here to rib and have fun with.  This kind of classy response is what leads to long bouts of boredom on these discussion sites.  No offense taken, really, but for your own personal fulfillment this is self defeating. Loquaciously eloquent indeed. I am occasionally discombobulated when listening to Stephen Fry and his vast vocabulary, but he explains himself so well. I'm sorry for your loss. It can be hard to reconcile that you've lost someone. I lost my dad and did struggle a bit knowing I would never see him again, but I was happy he was no longer in pain or suffering. He knew I loved him and he taught me lots. He lives on through that. It helps to focus on that.  My logic *does not* conclude that. Your desperate attempts to be superior to atheists caused you to make that up.

Your entire argument hinges on a lie that you yourself invented.

Edit: You claim to have come here because you're sick of atheists making assumptions about you. How 'bout you stop making assumptions about atheists? Also, learn the difference between atheism and nihilism. We also can't completely rule out leprechauns or unicorns, that doesn't mean I'm going to sit here and entertain alternate theories about where they're hiding. 

Humans invent all kinds of stupid shit, they don't ask merit serous thought.  You have comically missed the point.

If we aren't going to call ourselves "former Christians" on the basis that we now don't believe we ever had been born again, then we should also never call any other Christian a "current Christian" on our same not believing that they have been born again.

Which is of course, not how the language works. And so your point is invalid. We were former Christians. They are current Christians.

That they happen to be wrong and I happen to hold that belief is irrelevant to the usage of the word. This refutes your central premise.

I did used to be a Christian just like them. Just like them, I believed I was born again. Just like them, I was wrong. Just like them, I didn't know I was wrong. "they" as in the early disciples?  Of course.. what are you getting at? No, that's not reasonable. 

We must hold god to a higher standard than that, first because of the descriptions given of him which include various ways of saying perfect and second, why worship a god that is no better than that guy down the street I hate? I'd say you handled it well.  A lot of people are saying reading and while that is a great way to increase your vocabulary, I think and even more effective way is to surround yourself by other people who speak like that. Listen to BBC, or podcasts or go watch QI with Stephen Fry. The more you hear those words being used, the more your likely to use them. No you haven't answered it. And highly unlikely does not equal miracle. There are whole segments of society here in the States that look down on you when you use that "fancy" language or have the audacity (oh, sorry, fancy word) to get a college degree.    Give yourself time. I can't help, except to point out that the word you are looking for is 'articulate', not 'articulated'. Assume for one second humans have no damn clue about anything in this universe.

The concept of "god" is man made. If there is some kind of creator No I don't think he forgot about us. I think its distancing its self from us. I don't mean it has feelings or whatever, I would think of it more as a scientist in a lab cultivating bacteria. You cant Nit pick a Petri dish. you have to let it build up. That is the first problem I have with this. The scientist does not forget he has a culture going, Just cant bug it all the time. Still this is a pitiful human analogy and Not fitting for anything that I would consider a god.

Next There is no "builder" We are NOT just a "grain of cement" We are human, and in the grand big that's not much. But to me Its a lot. Im repeating the concept of god is 100% man made. There is no "Heaven" there is no such thing as perfect. And if we want a Happy world for our friends and family WE HAVE TO BUILD IT!

Now, You're being arrogant in thinking your feelings mater in this universe. They mater to only you honestly (and I guess me enough to type this) . That does not take them away. its only understanding who and what you are. I love my family, and friends so much and would do almost anything for them. but understanding that things are just out side of mine/your control is a part of life and a sign of maturity. 

You have a lot of ideas in your head about God, if there is such a think understand the simple fact that you will never ever even come close to understand what it is. Also did you really just preject the idea of a nuclei-family on to God? no Just no. Not Even Close! Its beyond you. Full Fucking Stop.

Im going to end with this. I can not 100% reject the potential of god, I agree with you there. However Today I can choose to believe that there is none. I base this on lack of evidence. Simple as that. Oh fuck, someone get Dream in here. Corinthian's on the loose again. I only know one and we don't see each other at all during school  Are you an American? How does that generally work out for you? Did you get my answer to this? I answered it yesterday but I don't see it now. I see it all about profit, just like the title.  The look the interviewer makes when Stephen is talking about how sick God would be; what the fuck. Why are so many religious people unable to step back from a knee-jerk reaction. If someone insults my beliefs I don't scoff and roll my eyes - I welcome that criticism. Yet religious people take offence first and only after that do they seem to react.

It is a truly bizarre mindset. I think you forgot your sarcasm tag? Much of what Stephen Fry is saying at the beginning parrots Ivan Fyodorovich Karamazov from the book The Brothers Karamazov. I'm not saying he isn't incredibly well spoken or intelligent but if you wanted to read more into this argument read chapter four (the rebellion) of the Brothers Karamazov. &gt;But if the generally accepted definition of a Christian is one who became born again as Jesus said,

No that's not the generally accepted definition of Christian.

The generally accepted definition of Christian is someone who calls themselves a Christian and, if not culturally Christian, believes in the existence of the Christian god and probably believes in some version of Christianity and probably follows some version of the Christian bible.

 Thanks :) They aren't really obligated to use that money however you see fit. It's an investment (perhaps lavish) that is designed by people a lot more successful than you. To play devils advocate Id argue that you cant PROVE that there is a god just as you cant PROVE that there is not a god

So while Im 99.9% sure that there is no god, it cant be proven and thus should not be discarded as a possibility.
 Read your bible, that will help you understand atheists I really don't know about that. Everybody can go to a library. Thanks - looked up more when reading this and am now slightly less stupid. The only reason archaic religious laws still exist in Ireland is due to the fact that it requires a national referendum to change our constitution. Those are very expensive, yet still long overdue.
Believe me, practically nobody under the age of 60 in Ireland believes in God. Religion is far more alive in the US and Britain (I've been to both for long periods of time)  Join us at /r/modernhellenism where the gods don't give a shit about you &gt; my dad did an interview with him over 30 years ago

What for? Brought to you by Carl's Junior... Study English literature at Cambridge. Fry is one of many British comedians whose education and eloquence were honed at that university.  lol I am a trial attorney with over 100 jury trial under his belt and can absolutely confirm this. Seminars are constantly reminding us how badly most Americans hate anyone they perceive as being highly educated or intelligent and about how we need to be sure to use the language of the people we are trying to convince. That is NOT accomplished by showing off a big vocabulary in Texas, USA.   I started out with science fiction. It just blew my mind that this kind of books of even existed. I have since greatly expanded on my repertoire and i read all manner of books.

If I had all the money I needed to keep this body alive, fed and decently housed, I would devote my life to reading and writing. Isn't that kind of dividing by zero? But nothing in society will place you in one if you live in a low-income enviroment, with social pressures telling you that nothing in your shitty education system and broken school matters. Where none of your friends care for your 'erudite' knowledge or philosophers. Where your parents could want you to get a 'real job'.

Acting like everyone has the reasonable capacity to self-educate in their socioeconomic environment is silly. That's why I said Communism implies atheism, and not the other way around. Non-Atheist Gnostic here. As in a follower of Gnosticism. I believe and my church teaches that the God who made this world was at best less than competent and at worst evil. It drives me nuts that when people discuss or debate god there is never deviation from the standard Abrahamic view. I am a theist who essentially believes that God can pretty much be all powerful, all good, or omnipresent BUT not all three. It might be one or none, but two at most.

It saddens me that in debates there is never really discussion of any God that differs greatly from that of well recognized faiths. I worry about anti-theism because I consider it directed partly at my church and I think its only because people have a specific conception of what God can be. 

We abhor faith and think the way to salvation is directed by a direct experience of God. There are some who understand it as pure metaphor and others who take it quite literally. We make no claim of exclusivity you will not be denied salvation for not joining us, and you are not guaranteed it by joining.  

We believe what was salvific about Christ was his message of love and the rituals he instructed his disciples in and his death on the cross was nothing more than a tragedy that occurred because of the chaotic nature of the world. 

I agree almost 100% with Fry yet am a strong theist. I get scared when God gets put in a box because it encourages antitheism. 

We are not a charity but we are a group of like minded individuals that have formed a formal group for weekly discussion. Our clergy are self-supporting ie not salaried. We struggle to pay our rent, taxing churches would tax us out of existence. Ironically we have an affiliated secular society of mostly the same members which is funny because it would be able to survive and pass on our teachings, but we couldn't actively practice them. 

Really the biggest problem I see atheists having with our faith is "Turtles All the Way Down". God above God where does it end? Its a bit of a cliche but I feel I can confidently say to a large number of atheists that I don't believe in the same God you don't believe in. Sort of a reverse of "Christians disbelieve in thousands of Gods and atheists just disbelieve in one more.  Why not?  That seems like an interesting question to ask an atheist, the answer he got was also equally intriguing.   that wasnt very much Charles Darwin wasn't an atheist, dude.

I think we're more atheistic because religion is predominantly benign in our country. God doesn't dictate our laws or how we live. The Church of England is practically atheist - it has one rule as far as I can see - 
'Be excellent to each other'. I haven't read his book the god delusion, but assuming from the title it's probably about what OP is asking. Take your pick they are all equally as silly and I laugh at the equally. I did this all throughout school. 

Ironically, school seems to be the one place where people encounter the most hostility towards expressions of intelligence, whether overt or reserved. I quickly learned to either make myself sound like an idiot when talking to people, or simply say nothing at all.

Even now, I get little pings of anxiety whenever I use an uncommon word in conversation.

TL;DR school done fucked me up but good. Perhaps tomorrow i will grab some examples, its 4am for me and i have to go to work soon.  

Saying i believed i was born again is accurate.  However, this is not the attitude of many atheists.  As demonstrated in various replies in this thread:  when you "were a Christian" your definition of a Christian was different, your  (read, ones) understanding of the mechanics of "salvation" were (hopefully) an inward spiritual operation.  For that's what the words mean!  If a Christian is one who "resembles Christ" and you claim to have had a mental persuasion now in retrospect since it didn't work (and cannot work) then you cannot adopt an  atheistic  interpretation of those words after the fact. Its moving the goal post. &gt;Gay Byrne Yeah. Santa was a huge lesson in skepticism for me. I was 100% sure Santa was real. I truly believed in him. Needless to say I was disappointed to find out that my parents had been putting presents under our tree all these years. 

I find it ironic how many religious people laugh at how children believe so fervently in Santa. But they can't see that they are displaying that same sort of irrational believe in their deity.
 Man I don't know, that sounds like you want to be able to go off on someone.  For me my beliefs are my own, if anyone questions it then I just tell them to mind their own business.   I think it was used to keep people in line. Like when pigs were often diseased to stop people from eating pigs. I think that's the whole reason for religion, it's a way of taking control. lol. Just like a kid with an ant farm. After a few weeks it's just not fun any more so the kid starts building something else in the basement and forgets all about the ants. But they soldier on without him.

I wonder if the angels feel kind of left out. God has us as his new toy and he ignores his old ones.

This should have been posted to r/writingprompts. You might have had some good fan fiction there. Amen!
 Wait a minute....  You're not /u/Tech42 !!! who the hell said he created the world let alone anything mankind can think of [Am I Right?](http://imgur.com/a/cV3qu#0) &gt;-Survival of the fittest is very wrong, the strongest do not survive. The most adapted survives. Through a variety of selections.

Yeah, I know. No where did I suggest that physical strength had anything to do with it.

&gt;-survival of the fittest and by extenstion social darwinism was made up by Herbert Spencer not Darwin.

Cool. That's not relevant.

-Are you implying that equality within a society of a social species is a bad thing?

It is a bad thing when you think that people are all inherently equal and therefore deserve equal outcomes.  People who have righteous indignation against God are like a child thinking the doctor is a "bad man" because he gives him shots. Yes, to the child all the doctor represents is pain and "suffering." He has no concept of immunity, disease and health. All he focuses on is solely the pain of the current moment. 

That's just what Frye is doing. He's mad at God for the suffering he sees without any understanding of exactly who God is and what His motivations are. People will applaud Frye for being intelligent and profound, when he's actually taking a very immature and simplistic view of the nature and person of God. &gt; Perhaps tomorrow i will grab some examples,

Would you mind not?

We already believe you're full of shit. We don't need you to supply more evidence to prove it further. Cool you got the joke. [However this girl would if she got the chance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w1bXy5pSGJE). Gay burn indeed. Didn't know about the parasitic insect ocular burrowing. I'd say it's eye opening, but it'd seem inappropriate. Instead, I'll say that while that is the longest answer to the qustion the interviewer has ever gotten, it's one of the most succinct explanations I've ever heard towards atheism. It makes it out to be more than former religious people with an antagonistic mindset, or attackers of something beautiful, out of jealousy. It shows that atheists strive for something, and indeed it's quite a bit more promising and freeing than any argument I've heard on the subject of faith.  Very reminiscent of a Hitchens style answer. http://thedailyshow.cc.com/videos/3v7epb/discriminatory-diner-discounts 
good example of how ignorance just fucks up everything for everyone  Just a comment. 

My wife is Irish, and after meeting her family, friends and visiting Ireland, I tend to agree with you. 

But I observed that they viewed their Catholism more as a tradition than a religion. 

 Your bible says that other gods exist. 

"Though shall have no other gods before me" means they exist, but don't worship them. Otherwise, it would read "There are no other gods; I am the only one."

Therefore, you need to prove that your miracles, which you still haven't described, are from your God and not from Coyote--since you're the one claiming they're from your god and only your god. The thing is, Fry was a notorious blow-off, casual criminal, drug user, got thrown out of school multiple times. What this man is now is a product of a life long passion for language and knowledge, and a great deal of narcissism - not necessarily a success or failure of the school system.  Tech42 passes himself off as me on /r/Ireland. I am the original OP. Reminds me of the show Rome. I suspect there is a much more intellectual reference I am not privy to. http://imgur.com/OGe7SJf  

That is all A I don't think you can really force someone to believe without proper evidence if they don't. Sorry for you loss.

Honestly it isn't easy. Time does a good job of making it easier, though.

But you have to remind yourself of the good times and be glad that you had the opportunity to spend them with your granddad, because a person isn't truly dead until they are forgotten.

And raise a glass to him next time. Zero comments on the YouTube video. What is this sorcery! So the idea that everyone is pretty much equal is a fact just like Newton's laws? And I'm the stupid one? Exactly like I get how children are suppose to ask questions about everything but when asking religious people about God they get different answers or at least that's what I got but when it came to Santa or the tooth fairy it was all the same.  The life we live on earth is temporary...a blink of an eye, or as the Bible says it's a vapor,  gone before you even realize. God did not set all of this up for us to live happy perfect lives on earth, The happy perfect lives are in heaven.  Without an array of things detrimental to humans, imagine how long we would live and how overpopulated the earth would have become.  It is barely sustainable with the population growth that we have, everyone is so hung up on the fact that because we have pain there is no God, which is to me, funny in itself. People have often commented I have a wide vocabulary, and I don't try to over or under use it. People do occasionally get testy with me and complain I'm trying to be bombastic or elitist, which I just find confusing. I'm just talking. It says more about the listener than the speaker.  I've never met two believers with the same definition of their deity, so I'd have to ask first what you mean by god.

But every definition I've heard from believers so far have either been logically impossible or not worth worshipping. i have a good idea that time isn't linear, we live many lives simultaneously(until we figure out how to jump off that carousel ride), so, still there, just not here....also, the people closest to us, the people we meet that feel like we already know them- maybe we do! drawn to the same people, over and over, always in our lives, part of our families- and all this can be happening, right now, without any religion's god supporting it- just naturally occurring cosmic grooviness. i hope this helps you, someone you love passing sucks, no matter what happens after Just so much Yes!! Yes and they'd immediately think I'm an atheist--I've already been accused of being "too critical of the bible" I'm gonna byrne so many gays tomorrow because there's no god to tell me I can't. The last ditch defense of religion, even after an atheist has demonstrated that religion is illogical and cannot reasonably be believed, is to try to create a seed of doubt on the basis that if atheism does turn out to be wrong, it is going to be a horrible embarrassment.  What will you do when you have to confront God Himself in heaven and explain why you always argued that God does not exist?  I mean, if you claimed that God does not exist and it turns out that God does exist, then you have made a rather serious mistake.  And much like the famous theological argument of Pascal's Wager, this argument suggests that perhaps you should not take the risk of being wrong.  And many people are susceptible to a superstitious fear that there might be a God after all.  That is why we get this old saying, there are no atheists in foxholes.  Leaving aside the witty explanation that atheists are too smart to get into foxholes, it is true that some people will have sudden doubts of their own religious skepticism when they are faced with death.  This is your last chance to change your mind, folks, before you literally meet your maker.  Do you want to show up in heaven as an atheist?  All the angels will laugh at you.  This is the kind of thinking that could easily follow from that line of questioning.  But as I have already conceded in my previous answers, I can accept that there was actually a valid reason to ask the question.  It is not what I would have asked if I were doing the interview, but it did elicit an interesting response. Serious:

I am confused. How can an atheist make a claim that anything is "wrong"? Isn't it just his opinion and preference what is wrong and right since, according to him, there is no absolute standard of right and wrong?

Why is it wrong? Yes, but not Clinton &gt;You know deep down inside you want more Christians on here

More? I'm still waiting to see the first one...  because according to your definition of what a Christian is I don't believe I have ever seen one. You are just repeating things about evolution that are not important to the conversation. I never said anyone was more highly evolved. And "social Darwinism" isn't goal-driven but outcome driven. The Holocaust was goal-driven. Doing away with welfare dependency is not. It's like someone shit'um ryone The atheist meet up it was going to was awesome. 15-20 people age 25-40.... Mostly singles... Our meet ups were never strictly organized, always just at a pub or restaurant or art gallery.... I miss it so muh :( Then why do you have your panties in such a twist ? This interaction offers an excellent study which shows us why atheists in/from the UK (such as Dawkins and Hitchens) are so hard-nosed. It's because right next door to the UK is an authentically religious state - Ireland. Nearly all the government-funded elementary ("primary" in UK lingo) schools are run by the Catholic Church. That's how deeply pious the country is.

I think it's a brilliant response from Stephen Fry, and it's equally interesting to see the response in the interviewer's gaze as he rolls his eyes up to the ceiling. Yeah, this, I have to act like I'm a Christian around my family and bow my head at work when someone prays for the food (yeah, prayer at work) Yeah, Greek mythology is sweet, it has all the patricide and betrayals of the modern religions but it has love affairs, transformations, curses, heroes, and monsters on top of that. At least in the bible belt it is :( I like how he was allowed to finish his response. A lot of interviewers these days would just start talking over him  when things got inconvenient. Morality is inate in humans and comes from compassion and empathy. 

Morality does not and cannot come from god. It requires introspection. Obedience cannot be morality because it does not come from inside oneself.  You got a problem with God's plan? How the fuck are your supposed to have identity then? Do you not consider yourself to be anything at all? I suppose you'll say personality is bad next.  And she's pretty cool too. It's good to have friends like these.  Or a dictator...or both.. Then explain parasitic wasps.  I don't think I would but the possibility scares me.  Almost everyone here is an ultra right wing republican christian and they're very vocal.  For example, when we have lunch provided for whatever reason everyone bows their head while the manager prays so I just play along. are you asking me what i would say? Well, I wish for more wishes. Lol what is this from? I don't understand why you guys need to 'come out'. My dad is clearly an atheist and my mom is non practicing muslim and grandparents are all religious but I've never thought of coming out. All i do is celebrate religious holidays with my family  for fun and not talking about how god is injustice. Like when my grandma says I've prayed for you, all i say is thanks grandma or my grandpa asks me to go mosque with him i accept to make them happy, no big deal. I assume it would be easier for christian families since there is not much practicing as in islam.

 Satan is a very misinterpreted part of the Bible. He is no more than a prisoner himself because he got butthurt that god wanted him to love humans more than god. He is a prisoner. An expansion of [The Non Existence of God](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kyYS-GzBSIg) My issue has never even been the existence of evil though. Having grown up in a Christian home I can even allow a theist to, for the sake of argument, establish that humanity somehow tripped its way into permanently cursing the world with sin and evil.

But ***even if*** that's true, that ***still*** doesn't excuse any of the blatant, objective evils that God has directly perpetrated himself (or compelled his followers to do) throughout history.  The Bible is a horrorshow of what happens when God doesn't think he's being worshipped the right way, or he likes one group of people over another, or he simply doesn't like the way you wear your clothes or who you sleep with.

Fry's wording is spot on: God is a monstrous maniac. I once thought reza was rather level-headed and sensible... That changed fast :( "The Bible, thats Gods book. As far as I know the Devil hasnt brought out a book, we dont know his side of the argument. If you ask me the Devil and God are having an argument and the Devil is being the bigger man." - Jim Jefferies I'll be in my bunk. Honestly, his response is really a refusal to except the premise of the question. 

The man said, if God does exist. They both know the question concerns an all good and all powerful God. Fry's response is to question the positive nature of an all powerful entity that allows innocents to suffer. This is to question the legitimacy of the premise; and we already knew he didn't believe in God. 

If you were faced with the knowledge that such a God did exist, you would have to accept the fact that you could not comprehend his intentions in allowing innocents to suffer. 

---
This many down-votes on a thought out, logical observation really make you guys look emotional and close-minded....  Not just that, but Cambridge University as well: the place is  heaving with clever people, and rubbing up against them in debate or just diurnal intercourse would hone anyone's eloquence. Religions that claim to like some of what Christ taught are divided, yes.  But, if you and i want to understand "christianity" we will at least need to be familiar with what the original meanings of words and their concepts were really all about.  Atheists would be able to make tons of "converts" -for lack of a better word- if they only studied church history and could be more articulate with how far this modern understanding of "christianity" differs from the real thing.  Just look at how many ex "christians" are on here--believe me, 98% of Christians only have a tradition that had been handed down to them and nothing resembling what Christs disciples had.  Shocks me how many of them stay in churches yrs and yrs on end. If you think Gay was genuinely shocked by Fry's answer - you don't know Gay Byrne. Incredible interviewer and an absolute credit to Ireland. Any reaction from his is only a means to keep the interview going and put the guest at ease.  Labels aren't always about fear, they're about understanding. We like them so we can quickly categorize the world rather than waste time analyzing everything we encounter for accuracy to three decimal points. I don't measure my friends on the Kinsey scale to see where their sexual orientation is at any given moment, it's easier for me to recognize that my friend (one label) is bisexual (another label) and her partner (another label) who is also my friend (another label) is homosexual (another label).

We often misuse these labels out of fear, often hasty conclusions from them, but they're still mental shortcuts to allow us to move on with our day without too much fuss. In saying this, you're saying that the only reason you don't run screaming into the night hacking heads off, raping babies, and setting fire to everything in your path, is because you believe that God is watching. Which is quite unsettling. 

Morality comes from developing empathy and introspective reasoning, not a magic sky wizard.   What's the usefulness of " identity " if it brings so much suffering?  Yes, stop working there. You work for a private school affiliated with a religion. Flip the script; you would get pissed if something catholic was slipped into a secular motto/badge. It's not just human suffering either; animals and insects live significantly lower quality lives than we do. Though, I don't think they're even on Heaven's guest list. I guess they just vanish. Welcome to /r/atheism. What did you think of [our FAQ?](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/faq#wiki_do_you_consider_moderate_beliefs_to_be_better_than_fundamentalist_beliefs.3F) I never claimed obedience was morality. I agree it is innate in human beings.

But what you're saying is morality is subjective and merely ones opinion or preference. What is right yesterday may be wrong tomorrow? To you. What about the rest of us?

If I say it's morally right to take your things, and you say it is morally wrong. Who is right? If the claim is, "The universe was created by an omnipotent and beneficent divine being," then the question of whether or not the creation is itself moral is incredibly important.

It's why the Greek pantheon would be more congruent with the world we all know, since they were depicted as being fickle, capricious, and cruel (yet also beautiful). This is probably one of the best comments on the subject.

Learning how to express oneself was sorely missing in my education, and while my vocabulary very rarely fails me when reading/listening to these things, making it work to my advantage when I'm writing/talking is much harder.

Looking back at my education, I've often wondered why your class is called English rather than "English literature" (substitute the language as needed), as that seems to the be the primary purpose of those classes.

Why not teach students how to properly communicate? One thing I **hated** during my later studies (IT), was how often I heard other people say "*grammar isn't important*", when dealing with reports, which is insane on multiple levels, as these are people who can understand using indentation as nesting and various C-pointers, but can't get their heads around "*its*" and "*it's*".

Learning how to communicate properly (not just grammar, but eloquence) is vital, and it is sadly lacking in education, and all of us suffer as a consequence. http://gfycat.com/FreeTastyAssassinbug Bwahahaha, I remember that moment. Religion was specifically recreated to be subservient to the state - and from there it became almost public service orientated.

Couple that with the long history of strife caused by religion, and nobody really wanted much to do with it - outside acting as MC at events.

So it's no surprise that with the end of empire came the end of taking religion seriously. It simply doesn't count - we don't do religion. God botherers are seen as weird nutcases (which is why we laugh at the bible belt amercians).

Post religious. &gt;The problem occurs though when you tell someone that they can not have said belief (as long as its not detrimental to others, like actually believing in killing ppl just for the sake of doing so and breaking laws of common societal shit), and that what they believe is wrong and should change


No, the *problem* occurs when the religious (gods chosen people) decide that they will pass laws that treat everyone else as second class citizens.  The problem occurs due to the religious peoples innate sense of entitlement.

Atheists are already well acquainted with not having the majority opinion, and making compromises for others religious views-its time for the religious to reciprocate. Powerful? It's short sighted if anything.

You know why there is pain and suffering? Because without pain and suffering, there would be no pleasure and happiness. Without one, there would be no other. 

If you work your ass in the field till your hands bleed, it's pleasure to sit back and relax in the evening. If you sat back and relaxed the whole time, you would get bored, unsatisfied, depressed etc etc. Wondering what the world is like. What's it like to do a good job and be happy with yourself. Without knowing one of these, there would be no knowing of the other.

This is precisely why there can be poor people that are happier than rich people who commit suicide. Because they don't know what true suffering is. They lived their whole life in comfort and can't appreciate what they have. And some minor discomfort can flip their world upside down. Yet the people who know serious suffering can be happier by just making a ball out of a rag and kicking it around.


The world is much more complicated than just "It's unfair, it had to be created by a maniac". You need an action to have a reaction.

So you see, life is not about acquiring all the pleasure. As I said before, if you eat sweet sweet honey all the time, you'll get sick of it. The world is about experience. And whether you like it or not, you can't experience comfort without discomfort. Acceptance without rejection. Creation without destruction. 

------------


And before you start bashing me, yes, there are extreme cases. There are people who live their whole life in pain and suffering and die a terrible death. But that's just the way it is. In every lake, there is a shore. But don't think of it as necessarily a bad thing. 

The suffering of one man can show many other people how lucky and happy they are. And they should use this knowledge to improve themselves and help others understand this. Let people know, they are lucky to be healthy. They are lucky to be alive and loved. This pushes the boundary of what is considered good/bad and makes people experience more of life as good.

Alright, that's about enough blabbering. And for the love of god, don't assume I'm christian because I believe world is actually an amazing place, even when it's dark and scary. His comment was 

&gt;"And yes this is historic but not in a good way. Never in the history of mankind has a culture survived that promotes sodomy. Heterosexual behavior creates life - homosexual behavior leads to death."

Fuck that guy.  Seen someone who truly resembles Christ?  Not very many of us have.  Imposters? Dime a hundred dozen. While I utterly disagree with that assertion, it is nonetheless useful that you have asserted it, because this illustrates something I was trying to say, which is that even if Stepeh Fry shows up in heaven and puts these rather difficult questions to God, it might still be that God will respect Stephen Fry's honesty and that God will have an answer to Stephen Fry's questions, which would presumably be an answer very much like the one you have just stated.  

However, I am going to argue with you anyway.  The idea that our lives here on Earth are filled with deadly peril and suffering because God in His infinite wisdom has taken steps to prevent overpopulation, is not at all reasonable.  God can do anything.  He doesn't have to do things the hard way.  He could have just reduced human fertility, if He was so concerned about overpopulation.  I will also say that even if it is true (which I do not believe) that our existence here on Earth is nothing more than a very brief prelude to our perfect lives in heaven, it is still true that there is far too much suffering here on Earth.  You may imagine that without suffering here on Earth we would be less appreciative of the lack of suffering that we will later enjoy in heaven, but the severity of suffering on Earth is far too great to justify in that manner.  When we see the miserable and desperate lives lived by so many people, the disease, disability, early death, the tragedies which are so abundant, the earthquakes and volcanoes and tsunamis and droughts and floods, innocent children whose legs are blown off by landmines, and so on endlessly, it hardly seems as if this is what we really need to prepare us for a better appreciation of heaven.  As Stephen Fry pointed out, there is a parasitic wasp that eats people's eyeballs, causing unbelievable pain as well as blindness; did God really need to create this species of wasp?  Is this something that helps to make life on Earth complete?  Only a viciously cruel and sadistic deity would deliberately create such a thing.  To say nothing of smallpox, polio, tuberculosis, malaria, HIV, ebola, etc.  This is not a well designed world for humans to live in. That's not at all what I said. I said you cannot justify why it is right or wrong. You say it's wrong because you think it's wrong. Why is your subjective morality any more important than his, Ghandi, Stalin, or mine?

Why is empathy important? The person whose opinion is the least harmful to the least amount of humans is right. 

The opinion which most adheres to the golden rule is right.  You know... I highly doubt that it isn't his own reaction. If it isn't, it's absolutely phenomenal acting, and he should be auditioning in Los Angeles and later winning an Academy Award for best actor. Clearly, the interviewer believes Fry has totally run off the rails when it comes to the "social script" that is typical in Ireland when it comes to this particular discussion. Assuming what you say is true, the rolling of the eyes at the very least reflects the kind of reaction that he sees to be socially appropriate and expected behavior in the social milieu of the Catholic nation of Ireland.  I try to follow Christ and I don't believe in that God either. Labels are a part of our language, but language isn't the ultimate reality. If we mistake a description of the world through words as the ultimate reality. Well that is the problem.                                                                                                         And I believe that the more you can make your mind silent the better, that brings you closer to reality and away from judgemental labeling process which cloud the thought process. Our advice is [don't do it.](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/w/comingout) It isn't worth the risk of having your family punish you for what they may deem an act of rebellion rather than honest disagreement. Maybe your family will be different, but others have thought the same and been unpleasantly surprised. Dude, don't be a dick. Op meant *us Atheists* as in us people, we Atheists here. Not *US Atheists*. Zero actually.  That's the problem with your definition. When will we learn to use paragraphs? Sounds like the priest was being a dick, I know of 4 couples where one is catholic and the other is protestant who are married, maybe the priest was a bit more old fashioned  Why can't I use the 'mysterious ways' excuse when I'm being an arsehole? 

*(Kicks guy in bollocks)*

'AW FUCK. What the hell, man? You're fucking de-'

'Calm down, calm down.. Frankeh works in mysterious ways.'

'Ha, I guess you're right.' Source? I want to see where my country is :D Sounds like Parkinson in England and Denton in Australia - both fantastic interviewers. Wonder who the American equivalent would be...? Stephen Fry, the stupid person's smart person. I fucking love it! Alright chief
 &gt; Except, this deity-child can (supposedly) inflict disaster and suffering on their people.

It reminds me of the movie (name escapes me - help me reddit), where a kid can read people's minds and then turns them into (I think) toys, scare crows etc. if they think something he doesn't approve of. It's a trivial truth, at best. And boring.

Anybody here not get "religious people are hypocrites" yet? Raise your hands. Anybody? Bueller? Bueller? Of course language isn't reality, it's a symbol we learn to help us understand and communicate reality. But you're not going to get anyone to stop using it just because you object. It's too useful.

Your only alternative that I can see is to come up with a functional replacement for language that's more efficient and accurate. Good luck with that. That is a question that has been debated for centuries.  I'm just not buying the logic of "I'm so thankful for all the rapes and murders to remind me of how happy I am not to be currently being raped and murdered" I'm in wv, but a very conservative area, full of fundies. Skirt people, even holy rollers and snake handlers. I also had a parent call earlier in the year because a little boy asked if I was "saved," and I told him I don't discuss that at work. His dad was mad because the kid was worried about me going to hell, and I wouldn't let the child "witness" to me. 

This is a school where teachers regularly lead classes in prayer.  What about them needs explanation? According to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Latin_phrases_(full) (because those silly Catholics just love their dead languages)

The University of Chicago's motto is:
"**crescat scientia vita excolatur**"

Which means "let knowledge grow, let life be enriched".

Or "**ex scientia vera**", from Middle Tennessee State University, meaning "From knowledge, truth".

Frankly the best you can probably hope for with a Catholic school is a motto focused on knowledge or learning with no mention of their imaginary friend, rather that something explicitly atheist. That's the first time I boned up for a gay man. I think that Stephen Fry's approach is more broadly applicable than a biblical approach.  We do not *know* that anything said in the bible is true, and God may have little if any resemblance to the petty tyrant depicted in the bible.  But we do know that there is far too much evil in the world, and therefore if there is a deity who rules the universe, that deity is not doing a good job.  That would be an inevitable conclusion, whether we accept the bible as a true historical account or not.  But yes, for biblical literalists, their concept of God is even more ridiculous.  A biblical God is a terrible being, completely egocentric and lacking in compassion of any sort, as bad as the worst despot on Earth, comparable to Kim Jong Il of North Korea. Take the risk of thinking for yourself. Even then the echo and mispronunciation would be too great. Humans would simply have to relatively slow down time to be that eloquent. &gt;The reason we got to where we are is because we formed tribes in which members sacrificed for one another.

You've mistaken "working together toward a common objective" with sacrifice. It wasn't sacrifice to go out and hunt for food for everyone in your tribe. You did it because you wanted the leather skins and shelter that other tribesmen created. If you simply refused to do it and contributed nothing, I highly doubt that everyone would have sacrificed for you. Who makes him the poster child of atheism? I've never seen anyone make him out as that.

As you mentioned, Hitchens, Dawkins and Harris are/were much more prominent in atheist activism in recent times. But a lot of atheists will still see Neil deGrasse Tyson as an idol since they share a views on a lot of things with him.  Alright deluded person who goes to church and thinks they are a Christian. Is that really how you want atheists to use the word Christian? I'm just trying to show others how dangerous it is to mistake symbols as the ultimate reality. And if you understand this you can use language better, even though its limited:-) And most kids have access to them yet dont learn like this. Does this mean your initial point doesnt work or is it not clear that there is more to education than materials available. WIN-Gallup poll here http://www.wingia.com/web/files/news/14/file/14.pdf

If you're talking about the gay marriage data (which I don't think you  are) I looked at polls listed on wikipedia  You don't get to change the laws of probability to suit your argument. This is why nobody is taking you seriously here. Like? In a perfect world that would be a valid assumption. Obviously this is not a perfect world and many children do have these exceptionally negative influences in their lives.

If your greatest worry is whether there will be food on the table that day and whether mom didn't get hold of her dealer and will be zonked out of her head for the rest of the night, a question on whether there will be any good books to read is nothing but a cruel joke, to be sure. It's not only resources. It's also the fact that major scientific discoveries have been fought by religious people. How do you raise scientists in a society were the vast majority does not believe in evolution, that the earth revolves around the sun, that the universe is billions years old etc. It's pretty hard to study science in very religious countries. &gt;  Christopher Hitchens and his various allies in the new atheist movement have shown conclusively that there can be no such being.

No. You cannot disprove the existence of a supreme being. At most you can prove that the accounts we *have* of any supreme beings are extremely influenced by the cultures that made those accounts, which makes it likely that they are simply describing a mixture of laws, traditions, suggestions and superstitions.

If there are any supreme beings and an afterlife, it is unlikely to match anything described by any human, ever. That is absolutely a valid point. He was not the most easy young person to get  along with. If you're in the Buffalo, NY area and you're up for a few good drinks while hanging out with your godless brethren, the Drinking Skeptically events are a great monthly meet up.  We're getting a few people together tonight in fact.
http://www.meetup.com/Drinking-Skeptically-Buffalo/

 Before I decided to get an engineering degree, I got a degree in evolutionary psychology. I've more than likely read more Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, and Christopher Hitchens than you have. &gt;It wasn't quite "right, well we all don't believe now", but it was a pretty dramatic relaxing of the anal sphincter, letting all the shit out.

The priests had been forcing it back up there for a while... I wonder how people outside Ireland pronounce "Byrne"   &gt; I mean if everyone were atheist we would prolly live in a world where it be illegal even be religious, who knows.

Because it is clearly illegal to be a unicorn right now, since none of us are unicorns.

&gt; I just want a day where im not judged for liking science and believing in god or where a friend is opposed because he dosent.

How about if we praise you for the true things you believe, and judge you for the false things you believe. That sounds like a fair tradeoff. And if you don't like that, you can change the false things you believe so they become true instead.

&gt; If someone wants to believe in a flying spaghetti monster, let them. If someone wants to believe a virgin gave birth to a creators child, let them. if someone dosent want to believe in anything but numbers or dildos, let them.

If someone wants to believe they should wish at their ceiling instead of taking their child to the hospital to treat their ruptured appendix, let them! If someone believes they should pass laws allowing gays to be killed in the streets, let them! If someone believes their holy mission is to blow up themselves and others for the glory of Allah, let them!

How about no. How about we correct the false beliefs others have, before they do something stupid that harms themselves and others.

&gt; The problem occurs though when you tell someone that they can not have said belief (as long as its not detrimental to others, like actually believing in killing ppl just for the sake of doing so and breaking laws of common societal shit), and that what they believe is wrong and should change.

Religion is detrimental to others. Then you must spend equal time with all of the non-proved gods, Jupiter, Zeus, Odin, Maui, and hundreds upon hundreds of non-proved gods...just to play devil's advocate - then you will now need thousands of hours to defend the notion of a devil.....  I used to believe in god. i used to be a christian. I now dont. Now Im an atheist. Its that simple. But what bill will protect students from being taught creationism? This has *nothing* to do with atheism at all. Children need a mentor, an erudite. Someone who can be a beacon in their lives. Someone to flick their ears when they need it, and tersely nod some appreciation for when they do seem to be learning something in spite of their juvenile dispositions.

In my universe mentorship would be a coveted social badge of honor.  Toastmasters People like you give us a bad name. No, violence and coercion cause suffering, identity is what makes us who we are. Would you like a dystopian We/1984/Brave New World type society where humans are reduced to numbers and letters, and we lose all semblance of identity and personality? No. Identity might correlate to violence, but it isn't the cause, and it also happens to coincide with all good things that happen.

Also, as a side point, all fascist and Communist totalitarian dictatorships stress the importance of social and national identity over personal identity, so your point is actually doubly wrong. Identity is a safeguard against violence, not a cause. They ended up getting married in a water mill just outside of Dublin - was amazing in the end - just left a sour taste of Ireland is all. Actually Gaybo (as he is often known) is a deeply religious man, and very serious about it - something that I completely disagree about obviously.
But he has fought against the backward policies of the Church and old Ireland all his life - so he carries a lot of respect for that.
Way back in the 60s and 70s he used his incredibly popular morning radio show and Saturday talk show (both nearly three hours long) to single handedly waging a war on the plight of Irish women who were denied contraception of any kind, divorce and protection against rampant domestic violence.
He shocked the nation when he repeatedly read out on air letters he would receive from women all around the country, and forced Ireland the Irish authorities to face up to their plight.
I grew up with his shows and the man deserves a National Medal of Honour for that he did and achieved. He was and still is a consumate host and interviewer.
Along the way he was fleeced by a corrupt accountant who ran off with all of his accumulated earnings and he had to start again.
In recent years his advancing age has clearly caused him to become more and more reflective and more and more spiritual and religious and he has been involved in a number of tv programs and series that reflect this, as ell as his obsessional support of authoritarian road safety.. I don't like any of it but he is who he is and in my view has earned it. This was beautiful. No one. Are you agreeing with me? no it's what they believe because power needs to control its not good when you have educated people they challenge the status quo  I cannot upvote this enough. The look on the priest face made my year...so far I think he responded like that because he couldn't come up with a decent answer to his arguments. Fry is one of the smartest debaters I have ever seen. Yeah, I just don't want my parents to think their son is going to hell. There is a degree of truth in the idea that the experience of suffering makes us more appreciative of pleasure and happiness.  But really, there is far too much of it.  You say that if you work your ass off in the field until your hands bleed, you will better enjoy your relaxation in the evening.  But should you really work until your hands bleed?  That is unhealthy.  And when your hands bleed, they are susceptible to infection.  You could wind up with gangrene or flesh eating disease and need to have your hands amputated.  And this is not wild speculation, this does happen to some people.  So what then of their happy evening relaxation?  And despite your charming metaphor, every lake has a shore, so human happiness must have its boundary too, that does not alter the fact that if God created this world for us to live in, He could have done a much better job.  There are many features in this world which really seem unnecessarily cruel.  Stephen Fry mentioned one of them, the parasitic wasp that eats human eyeballs.  But there are tons more.  Did we really need to live in a world with mosquitoes and fleas and lice and ticks and bedbugs and tapeworm and liver flukes and malaria and tuberculosis and polio and smallpox and HIV and ebola and earthquakes and hurricanes and floods and droughts etc., just so that we could appreciate the difference between happiness and sorrow?  That is really going too far, much too far.  Honestly, is this the world that you would have created if you personally were in charge?  Is this the best of all possible worlds?  I hardly think so. I disagree, to me it was the perfect answer. Fry is accepting the premise as true only to do a *reducto ad absurdum* through the socratic method to show the hypothesis assumed in question is ridiculouss and has terrible implications if a god does exists. It doesnt matter how outrageous the claim you originally accept is , applying the scientific method will discredit its validity on its own.

 As for usefulness this is exactly the kind of exercise that got me to question things I dogmatically accepted as true such as my religion.  Don't worry I thought the exact same thing  [Gay Byrne](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gay_Byrne) is not a priest... he's like Jay Leno, or David Letterman - a popular Irish television presenter. Nah, he will just go over the max value, and turnicate to -1 Your "born again" definition of a Christian is NOT the definition that most denominations of Christianity use.  Many Christians consider belief in the tenets of the Nicene Creed to be the defining quality of a Christian--no "born again" moment necessary--and still other denominations do not believe all of the Nicene Creed but do consider themselves Christian.  

I think it's fair to let anyone who considers himself/herself to be a Christian to call himself/herself Christian.

I was raised Christian within the Roman Catholic Church.  I was told that I was "born again" in baptism.  (I was baptised in infancy.). I believed everything I was taught about my religion, and I *was* a true-believing Christian--until I was about 12.  My doubts multiplied, and I was an atheist within a few years.

TL;DR:  I was a Christian; I am an atheist. Why do you think hes a priest?  Haha. He is the shows host and the most famous face in Ireland So you're saying that there are little to no "real Christians" in the wolrd? No, you are really confused. How is every war fought?                             Identity vs identity, so there is obviously something wrong in how we identify ourselves. War/identity has through humans, killed over 100 million of the same species, just this past century. Thought experiment: put aside all thoughts of objective right and wrong and just ask yourself what sort of world youd like to live in. How would you prefer people to behave? Would you want the freedom to rape and pillage, but live in a world where everyone else can too? No? Then its wrong for you to do so.

This may not be the deepest philosophical answer but as a test for what is good and bad, it serves. It also shows you dont need gods or ancient texts to tell you whats right and wrong. You know.
 1:42 mark http://imgur.com/fwzIkyv Well, maybe... /r/retiredgif   &gt;first because of the descriptions given of him which include various ways of saying perfect 

How kind and moral is a bacterium? What about a fish? What about your dog? It doesn't matter that God behaves similar to us, he is still more kind and more moral for the same reason we consider our dogs more kind and more moral than a bacterium.

Also if you bother to open a dictionary you'd find that 'perfect' doesn't mean a complete absence of negative traits.

&gt;Perfect: having all the required or desirable elements, qualities, or characteristics; as good as it is possible to be.

Since Christians view God as the ultimate life form, he quite easily fits the definition of "as good as it is possible to be" simply because there can be nothing better than him.

&gt;why worship a god that is no better than that guy down the street I hate

Why did you listen to your mother as a child when she is not necessarily a better person than the billions of others around the world? Probably because you lived in her house and under her rules, and also she created you. The same applies to God. (interesting side note which i am sure will endear myself even more.  But for those who are open minded: original definition, the greek word for "church " means "a group of called out people."  Never in the collection of books that make up the Bible is the word church used in the sense of a building or a place you go. But since you are not deluded you already knew that.  Aaand now you can call me a smart a**!) That's why it comes from compassion and empathy, if you think stealing someone's things is right then you are lacking in both, as you can't see the hurt and pain you cause in others. You're right to an extent in claiming it's subjective, but there are also extremes that are not subjective, they just are wrong (coldblooded murder, rape, and torture spring to mind).  I would agree, but OP is too un-sophisticated to get this, so I would guess s/he is also too retarded to get your complaint about my sentence.   That's utterly tragic. Flaunt it in all aspects not relating to work! Some of us enjoy it. 

-New Braunfels with no friends Everybody is going to hell according to someone else's religion. They left that for the satanists ;) *"When i die, and i find out there is a god responsible for it all, then he will have to beg for MY forgiveness."* That answer, that look is precious. Bloody hell, I've spent a bit of time in texas and I knew it was religious but not to the extent that you couldn't be fairly open about it.  Someone should send him the memo that god works in mysterious ways. That should clear up his questions. We have very sound arguments showing that it is not reasonable to believe in God.  Even if we speculate that there is some kind of deity who as you put it does not match anything described by any human ever, we also have no reason to believe that such a being exists.  Why would we believe in God or any kind of supreme being, or indeed any serious assertion about anything, without evidence?  I could describe a civilization of intelligent lobsters who live on a planet 67,000 light years away from Earth, and you could not prove that it doesn't exist, but you certainly have no reason to think that it does.   With Don Knotts as Teiresias. As a Brit I'm heartily sick of Fry trotting out a load of boring rubbish camouflaged by long words. Much of the time people fall for this.

That said I loved his reply here and it's reminded me of the opinion I held many years ago of him. No only can he say things well - sometimes they are worth hearing. Ah, I was wondering to myself 'Hmm isn't it about time Fox News embarrass themselves?' and BOOM there it is Why do you want to do it? You say they don't force you to practice, so what's the big deal? I'm in a muslim society, slighlty more atheistic than yours, even then I avoid the religious discussions with people. Most of the time, both parties don't have the communication skills to express themselves without hurting each other, so i think it's better to avoid them. Try to be cool with little religious things your family may ask you to do, just to make them happy and roll with it my friend.
 Stephen Fry is one of those that I would definitely use as my answer to the question of who I would have lunch with if I could do so with anyone still alive. He's funny, intelligent, kind and just plain interesting as fuck. Its like watching a sitcom. Like Roseanne. Maybe the pig reference influenced me... Don't forget to thank the stupid commenters, too - we need some love. Which one?  Abilene Christian?  Harding?  David Lipscomb? &gt;Who makes him the poster child of atheism?

How about /r/atheism itself? Every time I come here there's always one or two posts in the front page about Black Science Man, and rarely do I see posts about Dawkins or Sam Harris or Ayaan Hirsi Ali or Michael Shermer or David Silverman or even youtube personalities like Jaclyn Glenn or Dusty or Amazing Atheist, yet these people talk about atheism far more than Black Science Man has ever done.

&gt;But a lot of atheists will still see Neil deGrasse Tyson as an idol since they share a views on a lot of things with him.

What views? What has he said about religious freedom? What has he said about LGBT rights? What has he said about the various problems within religion and it's negative effects in society? What has he said about the common arguments against religion? All he ever talks about is science, and by extension being anti-creationist. That's the extent of his views that he publicly made known. He never talks about atheism, he never talks about civil rights, he never even criticizes religion.  they do this shit in europe too. i see posters for this sort of thing in the buses here in dublin. Ah, the all-encompassing response. Why do you need to know the intentions of somebody whose actions have terrible consequences in your life or your loved ones?  Do you really need to care for that?   Have you read the book "The Family" by Jeff Sharlet?  That's exactly what they believe.  Capitalism =Jesus. So edit your original post then, or do you want atheists to use a definition of the word church that you don't agree with?

Get your story straight. &gt;but we can't know a God doesn't exist with certainty.

but we can't know unicorns doesn't exist with certainty.

but we can't know a teapot orbiting around one of the Kepler planets doesn't exist with certainty.

etc etc

 This is on its face anti-constitutional as it writes into law promotion of religion in public schools. Still ovating. Carl's Junior. Fuck you, I'm eating!  I'm in Kentucky, thanks for the offer though :) &gt; finite is a illusion, look there's only 1 gummy bear left.. holy shit I just found another package.. damn finite was a bad description :P

Unfortunately it's not an illusion (neither is man-made climate change) - I would know because I have a BS in earth science.  You'll find out in the next 30 years.

You can't fix people whose brains are physically damaged by either genetics or in-utero processes.

We will not eliminate violence, but we can reduce its likelihood. Looking at the news, I would say many people are currently living in hell, or at least a lesser-hell. So in the united states (where i live) reasearch says 45% of Americans claim to be born again, (barna research.)  Anyone who has read the history of the early church as an example (when countless thousands were bring martyred by Rome, and later the Roman catholic "church") would have to see a glaring disparity. What did Stan do to deserve that? Beg to differ - (assuming OP is young, which it sounds like) as soon as OP can support himself, he can cut that shit out of his life.

Not saying that's the appropriate solution in this situation, but if it is, that's always an option.  Family is where you make it. I have tried this approach with my Rabbis when I was still struggling with my religion. You get the usual "free will", "bigger picture",etc, arguments. For example, when asked about bone cancer in children, the rabbi might give an answer like "how do we know that perhaps this child would have grown up to be a murderer and killed 7 people. By giving him cancer, god was not only sparing those seven lives, he was sparing this young boys soul from hell - god is great!" - its a horrible and disgusting explanation, but that is what I got through 12 years of yeshivah. like i said, it is peoples misinterpretation that fuck the system up. most religions, at least the major ones out right tell you mistreat others or force them to believe in what your thoughts. it is how people misread the message that problems occur. I mean America said freedom for all and equality for and history tells us that never happened, but there are good ppl who still believe in that message and have fought to instill it present and past. i just want the hate speech to stop, atheist are supposed to be open minded, not closed. i would expect there to be more of a bashing on ignorance rather than labeling it as the entire spectrum. would you call MLK wrong his beliefs and other a like. there are good people out there, just want a better representation, cause that leads to understanding seeing religion as any other reality.
 To be far, he didn't interrupt or try to stop Fry from speaking, if anything his reaction is fairly subdued considering how other people react.  You don't fucking believe all wars are based on identity do you? I'm going to assume you've never studied history, I'll explain how wars have been fought since the invention of the state: state vs state, for strategic and economic goals. Identity was important only in prehistory, when we lived without the state superstructure. And Frankeh's nut shot gives you cancer. That's a human failing, not an atheist one. Have you posted this to /r/Christianity and /r/Islam as well? You *were* being condescending; you just don't recognize it.  It is condescending to tell other people what they do or do not believe. .... This still goes against your comment about libraries. Most of us are happy if someone gives us head. I love to read and have read 1000's of books. I still don't have the skill to articulate so eloquently, that is a talent of it's own. On the other hand I can understand the spoken word for the most part. Stephen Fry was brilliant! I agree. There is no heaven or hell except what we make the world to be. There is no evidence Jesus was talking in any other realm other than this one.  There is no evidence of any kind for supernaturality.  We don't actually know what Jesus said or did for certain because there are no historical records to the time giving accounts.  What religious people choose to believe and what actually happened are two very different things. Thank you for using Do Not Link on this You make a rational argument... until the last line, which ironically serves as an example for why ridicule often fails at provoking change in thought and belief. 

- It ends the rational conversation abruptly, and only strengthens the [backfire effect.]( http://youarenotsosmart.com/2011/06/10/the-backfire-effect/ ) I was going to say terrible efficiency, but yeah I guess that goes away with infinite space.

Never mind. Wow, the amount of protestants is frightening, I consider it one of the most dangerous sects ever exited. Exactly. When I was in high school, I can't even begin to recall how many girls hated hating getting good grades because then the boys wouldn't like them. Depressing.

And why is it whenever I try to type god it autocorrects to good but when I tried to write good up there it autocorrected to god? A kid could still, in spite of all the shit going on in their lives, and there sadly are too many kids with too much shit they should not have to deal with at their age, find themselves in a library and open a book that changes their lives.

I have no illusion that it would happen to even one in a thousand kids but for some it might mean salvation of the mind if they could at long last find something more than the everyday misery in their lives. There is some great reaction gif potential in the interviewer's reactions. Reading help to some degree but at your age you need to actively practice. No one learn to play a musical instrument by listening only, you have to actually practice  playing rudiments. Eloquence is not much different than music virtuosity. For a long time now, I have been bringing my own reading material if I expect to be in a waiting room for any length of time. The stuff they have is usually crap.

What kind of diversity are you looking for? Sounds like you want religious but non-Christian. Surely there is a better subreddit than /r/atheism to ask this.

All atheists need is something secular, and there are tons of secular magazines out there. Or are you also looking for something free? I get it sort of, but at the same time why would God create an existence free from strife? That isn't real life, is it? Isn't that heaven? There are, and let's not be coy about it, very many bad books. You want to read the good stuff.

Even then, it's practice, practice, practice. Reality is not subject to personal opinion. Thiest here. God does have a place where injustice and suffering doesn't happen, eternally too, not just a 'lifetime'. 


While i would love and i work towards the goal of minimising suffering and injustice, but i do understand why its there, to test us.



 I really enjoyed the R.A. Salvatore books, Legacy of the Drow that follow Drizzt, thats what got me back into reading, currently im reading The Divine Comedy and some of the sutff is just bloody hard to understand the way its written but the book is soo good :D There are even those who think that many of their own religion/denomination are going to hell for not being as "good" as themselves! Notice that not all countries are represented on that report - the UK isn't, for example. &gt;I fail to see how this happens to someone, but it has.

It is mind boggling isn't it?! Keep at it.

Currently reading "Bill Bryson At Home". On how the rooms in the houses came to be the way they are. A fascinatingly complex story on the development of society. ITS 2:24 STOP LYING WHY ARE YOU DOING THISSSS &gt;All Im saying is religion is the same as any other institution, it when people start misreading its true purpose where it fucks up.

How do you know that you aren't misreading religion and all those other people aren't reading it correctly?

That's one of the big problems with religions, they are so vague and unclear that they can be used to justify multiple positions, some of which are often contradictory. Do the NYT crossword every day.  Yes, but most wont... because most cant... which still makes your comment make no sense in the context.  library clearly isnt a solution as you're even saying now. He is one eloquenter.  And for me it is allmost imposible to understand how you can concieve of such a god and not consider that god the most vile abhorently evil creature ever.? [a baphomet statue would look fantastic there](http://www.vice.com/read/oklahomas-satanic-statue-is-coming-along-nicely) You push against religion and i'm gonna pull people closer.  And religion isn't necessarily the problem, but people using it for their fucked up agendas.  Get rid of it and people would just use some other way to fuck shit up.  You need to change people at a deeper level. I hate sitcoms and I would totally watch that. 

Especially if there was another sitcom about the Aesir and occasionally they did crossovers. "...I've known since you were a tiny, little boy that you were gay...You made a choice..."

Apparently, not only can religion destroy families, but it fosters abject stupidity. Mainly because you can't come back to that. Fry could have walked out and there would be 5 minutes of dead air while the guy tried to un mind fuck himself Bad ideas deserve ridicule amd derision. You're making a lot of assumptions.  First, you're assuming I mean some sort of centralized institution.  What I mean is do we have structured ways for people to develop morally without religion?  I would say that for many subcultures in the developed world the answer is definitely no.  Does that mean religion is a requirement? Of course not. 

This highlights the next assumption, which is that because similar morals developed out of the past, they will continue to do so in the future.  Human knowledge and culture is vastly different from the way it was in the past when it was relatively homogenous in terms of the ways humans could possibly interact with each other and with technology.  That is vastly more complex now, whereas in the distant past even hunter gatherers spread in separate communities globally had a relatively common set of challenges.  That is not the case today. 

Also, to say that individual morality does not depend on authority of some kind is ridiculous.  The problem is when the authority is too centralized and does not change and evolve.  Put simply,  moral development does not occur in a vacuum. You had parents who were an authority, you had teachers, older kids, elders, community and national leaders, role models, etc all who shaped and continue to shape how you form your morals as you grew up and grow as a person.

When you change those authorities, it's not trivial. Many of the stone tablets with the 10 commandments at state capitol buildings were donated in the  50 ' s by the studio that made the movie "The 10 Commandments. "  My mother was a little girl when this one was erected and remembers seeing a newsreel about it.   I wouldn't say anyone MUST do anything. 

I would agree that each of all the religions have more or less the same chance of being true: close to 0 With all due respect, read this page top to bottom and then tell me i am the one being condescending.  I have been nothing but polite and respectful.  true or false? I wish Fry was god. We would live in such a nice world. And I would totally be willing to worship him. something about not seeing the "bigger picture" - I hated that answer. Way to doom someone! good thing police aren't imaginary! No true scotsman fallacy much?

If you want to define a Christian as someone who never stops believing in christianity then go ahead, not many people will agree with you though. Your response is just a wordier way of saying "wooooooooo god works in mysterious ways o0o0o0o0o."

&gt;you would have to accept the fact that you could not comprehend his intentions in allowing innocents to suffer.

Absolutely not. This is precisely Fry's point, that he completely rejects this "god" despite his seemingly mysterious ways. No one should accept it; it doesn't matter how complex his actions are, they result in death, pain, suffering and are wholly unacceptable. If god is omnipotent and good, and his incomprehensible actions still beget all of these horrors, then he's a fucking loser. Fry says your life improves the moment you remove that fucker from your mind, and he's 100% correct.

Good thing the premise that god exists is false. I came of age in a rural, southern US town.  What you say is certainly true of my anecdotal experience.

I mourn the slow death of the English language on a near daily basis. There's a very  interesting book  

*Cosmos, Chaos, and the World to Come*, by Norman Cohn

Cohn  says that  the  earliest  organized  religions (e.g.  Egypt and the Middle East) imagined a  world  in  which  history  wasn't   "going anywhere"  -  stuff happened,  and  if  necessary  the  gods  intervened  to  set things  right,  but  we  should  assume that that  state  of  afairs  was  going to  continue  ad  infinitum.

By  contrast the  Zoroastrians  imagined that  eventually  history was  going to get  down to the Final Conflict  between  Good and  Evil,  Good  was  going to  win,  and  the  world as  we  know it was  going to come to an  end.  

&gt;The ultimate source of all this millennial speculation among both Jews and Christians is, Cohn believes, Zoroastrianism. 

&gt;The Pharisees were the mainstream group in post-exilic Judaism who adopted the greatest amount of Zoroastrian ideas; for example, the notion that after death all souls would be punished or rewarded in heaven or hell and would be reunited with their bodies at the end of time for a final judgement. 

&gt;However, they did not accept the belief in the Devil as a serious challenger to God. 

&gt;The groups who did accept this belief include the Qumran sect and the Jesus sect. 

&gt;Christianity continued to maintain this modified form of dualism down to our own time. It also, of course, preserves the Pharisaic eschatology.  

http://www.acampbell.org.uk/bookreviews/r/cohn.html

http://www.yalebooks.com/book.asp?isbn=9780300090888  

In  other  words,  that  Zoroastrian ideas  were  an  important  foundation  for  Christian  ideas.

I  couldn't  figure  out  whether /u/ SexThrowaway1125 was  referencing this  idea  or  not,   and  so far he  seems  to  have  declined  to  clarify. 
 Too bad none of it is true either way. I think you're slightly exaggerating how much he is on the front page. I come here almost daily and don't see him all that often. 

I do agree with you on that point actually. I do believe that those people you mentioned should be featured quite a bit more on here.

I wasn't talking about views on religion but views on science and life in general. One of the reasons he doesn't really talk about Atheism, is that he isn't (at least he doesn't say he is) an atheist.   He has stated before that he is an agnostic. He *only* talks about science because he is a scientist and that's what he likes and wants to talk about and has said that he has no interest in being part of the atheist community. And that's the reason why he doesn't talk about those subjects. When you know as much about the [English language](http://youtu.be/MSyIhapMdI8) as Stephen Fry does it's difficult not to be eloquent. nah dude bigotry is, you kind find the same examples with atheists as well. i know plenty who hate gay ppl.  I dont get why there has to be hate because someone wants to live differently. have you read the quran, no where in it does it say to kill others especially in the name of their god. that kind of action only comes from extremist schools of thought and make it into action. does it say in the American constitution to subjugate and oppress minorities, no, but shit still happens because extremist with those ideals control the system.  do atheism inspire communist states and mass murders, no, but hey Stalin did it. there is bad everywhere man religion is not the problem, people are. I'd like to preface this by saying that I'm not a religious person, but what if a god's sense of morality is entirely different from our own?  What if, in the eyes of a god, the bug Fry mentions is just as deserving of life as the child? People judge. Coming out will make you look like 'edgy'. Try to avoid such heavy religious discussions. It's not only religious people, we atheists judge too. If you have no other option, try to adapt the situation you are in.
 &gt;I mean if everyone were atheist we would prolly live in a world where it be illegal even be religious, who knows. 

Nonsense. Atheists are generally champions of freedom.

&gt;All Im saying is religion is the same as any other institution, it when people start misreading its true purpose where it fucks up.

Also nonsense. Anything with falsehoods as it's basis is problematic. And all three Abrahamic religions are based on supernatural beliefs and evidence that wouldn't be allowed in any court of law.

&gt;I mean no one knows the truth about this universe we live in really.

Sigh. Also nonsense. While saying no one knows *everything* about the universe is true, it *is* certainly possible to know what *isn't* true AND we've learned tremendous amounts about the universe. Read some Steve Hawkings.

 If he ever (in the very unlikely event) became a politician, I'd vote for him in a heartbeat. Also congrats to him on marrying his partner Somehow I just get the feeling that he is not *ahem* firmly behind homosexuality.  Just increase the gain 3dB Brilliant.  Couldn't have said it better! You're  right,  and  (no  sarcasm  intended)  your friend  and  ~ 3 billion theists are wrong.  "Santa's not going to bring you any presents since you tried to have your imaginary friend wish me into Azkaban." I used to be a Christian, but I didn't belong to a sect that emphasized being "born again." I took it quite seriously, too.

I don't care if you think I was never a "true Christian." That's just another piece of crap that some Christians believe. The good ones like baby jesus fighting dragons were taken out of the bible and others like the two sorcerers that were so powerful god and no other option than to kill them and bring them to heaven aren't talked about much.  Say what you will about the Oxbridge system but one of its outcomes is that its student tend to be able to talk in paragraphs - a series of sentences that coherently argue a point. The very best, like Fry and Christopher Hitchens, argue in verbal essays and that is truly devastating. Audiobooks are the perfect middle ground to me. The best of both worlds :P It's a show in Ireland that asks people about the meaning of life. It's great. This episode hasn't aired yet.  &gt; But my mom, dad and everyone else said to act right or I won't get into heaven. 

That's *not* what the bible says. If you believed the biblical god was real and you simply decided not to follow it, you'd be a fool.  Think about that.  Stubbornness can lead to great acts of stupidity.

Aside from that, you know it's not real, so let it go.  Your friend is delusional and will travel his own path of hard knocks.  Let it go.  Enjoy him for the things you have in common. Atheism per-se doesn't pose a life-threat in Pakistan. Criticism over deities and prophets sure does, unfortunately. Don't forget the bestiality! &gt;it is peoples misinterpretation that fuck the system up

And under which "misinterpretation" are atheists operating? &gt;Although religion makes no sense to me, I can't 100% reject the notion that there is a god, because no one can. 

Define "God" and watch me. Yahweh is a definition of "God" that I reject 100%. That's a pretty dumb way to think about it. Just because someone believes in god doesn't mean that they're stupid or mean.

You can't judge a book by its cover. samething with government man, thats why it takes common sense to understand the world around you and how to apply it. Stalin wanted an atheist communist state and he killed millions in the name for that.  &gt; have you read the quran,

Yes, I have.

&gt; no where in it does it say to kill others especially in the name of their god.

And *you haven't*.

&gt; there is bad everywhere man religion is not the problem, people are.

Some people are good. Some people are bad.

Some people are only made slightly worse by religion, and stay mostly good, by ignoring most of the religion and its book.

Some people are made very worse by religion, and actually do what it says because they read the book and know what it says.

Religion is bad. Hit me back, just to chat, truly yours, your biggest fan, this is Stan.  No, the problem occurs when those with a belief, any belief, religious or not, decide that everyone must adhere to their belief as well.  Other than that, I'm good with live and let live. &gt; So in the united states (where i live) reasearch says 45% of Americans claim to be born again

I blelive that's not the only thing that distance modern Christians from early disciples. At least from the clip, koodos to the presenter for handling the answer without losing his cool. I 100% reject every god i have ever heard of... especially yours. So, your answer is that you *don't* know that you aren't misreading religion and that those you're criticising are reading it right?

&gt;samething with government man, thats why it takes common sense to understand the world around you and how to apply it. Stalin wanted an atheist communist state and he killed millions in the name for that. 

Just because other things have similar problems doesn't make it ok that it exists in religion. This is why I consider those who claim to be rational and religious as flawed. This is surely the only conclusion you can come to when looking at the whole situation. Anyone who fails to simply lacks the required objectivity. 
 Ugh, it's agitating when people pull this kind of thing, even more so when they succeed.  Didn't some miner guy just win a legal case last week?

Cut-and-dry: 

Company policy says don't do X

Employee does X

Employee gets fired

Employee whines that X is part of his religious freedom

If you have a problem with company policy, bring it up immediately, or pursue a different job.  Don't expect your opinion to take precedence over the rules which bind everyone else. Yes, you have kept your tone polite and respectful.  But it is inherently condescending to tell other people what they do or do not believe.  When you say, "You weren't really a Christian," to someone who believed in Christianity, you are being condescending even if you are trying to be polite while saying it. Well obviously at 12 i don't don't your sincerity.  Perhaps you were more mature than me at that age.  It want until i was older than that when i began to research the "church" due to the confusing divisions.  The fact is the catholic groups have a long a colorful past.  Its said the catholic church has killed more true Christians than any other group.  If a Christian is one who resembles Christ, and of he said to love our enemies, then any one burning thousands at the stake clearly missed the boat--obviously not true of every catholic.  For the sake of argument i won't go on.  I am not trying to disprove your belief in God as a boy, merely raising thoughts on where we draw foundations from.
 Worth noting also that going to heaven when you die is not something from the bible, nor is going to hell when you die as a bad person, so plainly the interviewer does not follow the Word of God either. The heaven/hell stuff has been bolted onto Christianity later and...

...oh fuck it, it's all utter bollocks anyway. Based on the conversation you're having with the other user and the description you've been given, I assume that the format is similar to *Inside the Actor's Studio*, meaning that the same, or nearly the same, questions are asked of everyone who appears on the show.  If that is the case, it doesn't seem to me that it would be an odd choice of question if it follows the show's format.

I have to be honest, though, I find the whole thread slightly baffling.  [This is not the first time that Stephen Fry has answered this question in this way](http://youtu.be/_7sp4dW-Zoo?t=3m23s).  As a matter of fact, a lot of atheists have answered this question in a similar manner.  The concept is not new. The bone cancer intro was *already* stolen from Bertrand Russell iirc, he said something like "You can't believe in a God once you've seen a child die from bone cancer".  The rest, apart from the insect bit, seems incredibly similar, almost pieced together, from Christopher Hitchens' arguments on why he wouldn't want a God to exist. Introduce your friend to Stephen Fry's response to Gay Byrne, which is a little further down this page (view = New). It's positively brilliant. So gays get rights, and I get to have (finally!) sex with a horse.  

What's the problem?

...you're not worried that I might hurt the horse, are you?  

Because that's awful sweet of you to think.

;)
 He has an ideal name to be a priest... I did post this on Facebook. Time to start rattling some cages.  I can imagine but that's just the church and the same could have happened in any other country  That was pretty epic.   Tbh I wouldn't come out ever, if I was in your position,  I'd be too dang scared. As I understand it, 'apostates' (anyone leaving islam) are supposed to be killed, even when you were born into it and never got a choice. It wouldn't be so bad if there weren't some homicidal zelots about who might actually do it if they found out.

Good luck with whichever path you choose fellow! It's some sort of homoerotic horror story. I'm in the Louisville atheists as well :)

Sat next to you on Wednesday actually. 

Even though my family is atheist (now) and I don't really know anyone who would mind, I still find the group a huge relief because it offers similar minds. The thing I've found about religious people is that it doesn't really matter if they reject me or not. I still feel alienated even if they don't. I have nothing to say to them. Its not a smart answer though so not sure what your point is. Its a clear and logical response to a stupid question. You should read Norse theology, shit's hilarious. I've always thought that belief in supernatural entities but no belief in gods is a funny combination. All I want in life is to wake up every day, have a shower, dress smartly then go to the local caf, sit on my usual table and say: Good morning, Mr Fry! Good morning to you too, Mr Attenborough! What shall we discuss today... There are these Church of England schools in Britain, probably the schools he attended, that pride themselves on intelligent debate. They are the 'old boys club' style schools. I don't really know how to describe them but I was lucky enough to go to one of these, a mixed-sex school (which was all boys from ages 11-16 and had a mixed-sex upper sixth), as a teenage girl when I was studying towards my A-Levels. It was a grammar school that I attended from 16-18, it had the best philosophy classes that would arm you for life with great arguments and a wider view on the world. It was considered cool to be clever and although the school was Church of England you were shaped to make your own decisions in life without a god. I also feel that religious education classes in the UK (not sure if they are still offered?), give young people a solid way to develop critical thinking and understanding of all religions and ethical believes in the world. 

So basically get yourself enrolled in a philosophy class or even religious education classes (there are probably more examples I'm sure). You'll be forced to debate subjects and give your pros and cons. You'll also be forced to disagree with others and form your own arguments this would hopefully help you develop your vocabulary. Don't forget to ready many books, not Tom Clancy - but something old with lots of social undertones, possibly Chaucer. An advanced literature class may be a good investment, depending on the texts you study.

Also, you're only 20... when you're his age you'll be wiser and have a more extensive vocabulary.  I was also not sold on the idea from a very young age. As a quite logically minded person, hearing first that God was supposedly somewhere above the clouds, I wondered how we have not seen him when we have planes and such. If I then got told, "well, God is just everywhere!" I now already question the validity of this "story" because I have two different interpretations. It's not like in math, 1+1 is sometimes equal to 2 and sometimes equal to 3, there is a definitive answer. I have reached the conclusion now that many people just like to believe so they have something they can take comfort in. Only in some denominations is believed in "becoming born again". You can not make this as a attribute of being a True Christian^tm. Everything is a religious issue to the religious. I'm not wrong. I've explained myself elsewhere in this thread. I'm Irish, have lived here all my life, and Gay Byrne has been part of the cultural furniture here during all of those five decades. Believe me when I tell you that no-one has ever accused him of being an intellectual. In fact his very success comes in large part from the fact that he takes a plain man's stance, asks a plain man's questions, doesn't let his interviewees get all heady and intellectual. I say it again: when it comes to complex questions, he is simply out of his depth. All I see in his reactions in Mason Verger from Hannibal. Like Porn, divorce, anger, jealousy, materialism, self righteousness, hypocrisy,  ad nauseam. "For most of my life I've thought the general concept of the devil, as in Satan, was kind of a dumb idea. [...] strictly from a secular analytical, narrative perspective why does an all powerful deity need or even have a vastly less powerful arch-nemesis? [...] He's basically a snarky minion who got demoted to VP of discipline management and acts out by making mischief on earth like a glib, middle-managing Loki. He's not exactly Lex Luthor, he's not even Vegeta, he's Starscream."

-Bob Chipman Why apply strife to those who cannot comprehend it. That seems like a difficult choice to make. How do you reconcile the two? I dont plan on stopping at all, im a bit under halfway through, any suggestions for books after im done with the divine comedy? i mean i am physics major, also if you champions of freedom you wouldn't tell someone they shouldnt have religion, you bash the negatives instead of the positives. and the american court of law is based on supernatural beliefs as well, justice is always served and all men created equal. Tell that to any poor person or minority throughout history. When I was younger I loved Greek mythology and considered converting. But I couldn't find a temple to Zeus in my area so I gave up.   I was brought the same .It's funny I'm from a big family who have all been catholics from birth but only two of my siblings and my mother are still devote .from disgussing with my other siblings ,we lost faith because we just knew people are not followers who must stick to foolish hypocrisy we were being feed and all around the age of 13 or so .
 &gt;God moves in mysterious ways.

The smarter ones will counter with the free will argument, I think? The bible.  In defence of Ireland belief is dropping like a stone and accelerated by the public outcry over child abuse in the Irish church.  That's about as shallow a thought as I expected.   &gt; I understand why a Christian would think atheism is harmful, because they believe in a hell and that's what their religion tells them.

As the flip-side, "hell" doesn't cause harm. Even aside from whether it is "real", it is a consequence of actions. Hell is very much worth it to be a good person, but - again, assuming I go to hell - it is not something I impose on anyone else. At best, it is something God imposes. That's where you're wrong.  

What makes you think morality comes from your belief in a god?

 Obvious troll is obvious.  &gt; We have very high young voter turn out here, higher than most countries in fact

meh, I'd say the **vast** majority are pretty non pulsed by politics. If that's true then other countries must really not care   I took it from here: http://www.people-press.org/ While I'm a stage 3 ultraatheist myself, I find this answer very appealing to me.  The current top atheism post: Stephen Fry talking to God

[This is what you should talk about to your friend.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-suvkwNYSQo)

OR/AND talk to him about the Bible. Tell him that he doesn't know shit about it, because the priest he listens to, picks and chooses. Tell him he's ignorant because he never actually read the Bible. Your friend says "It's just misinterpreted", then go through the Bible together, and show him the horrors that have no interpretation whatsoever.

Edit: One last thing if nothing works, show him the hypocrisy, that no one at the Church he goes is going to heaven. Tell him that he has to give everything he owns, *everything*, so he can follow Jesus to paradise.  Well if you need a sky fairy to tell you its wrong you have serious problems. - Godel, Escher, Bach - An Eternal Golden Braid

- Cryptonomicon - Neil Stephenson

- The Black Swan - Nassim Taleb

- The Prince - Machiavelli

- On War - Carl von Clausewitz

- Dune - Frank Herbert

To start with. Come back for more when you're done with those ;-) I think we need people to vote for first.  I think more atheists need to run for office I was an altar boy, boy scout, all Catholic schools etc.  Catholic Irish family. No red meat on Fridays and mass every Sunday without an opt out.
Once I figured Santa wasn't real around age 8 I kept shut for fear of Christmas getting canceled but questioned everything. 
Agnostic aged 9 I reckon. Debated every teacher,  brother and priest throughout secondary school. 
 Don't flaunt it. Use it if it's appropriate. Nerf Ermeriker? It still wouldn't be a mistake IMO, since I would have lived a moral life.

"God" and "belief" shouldn't be mistaken with "moral", and I will not be bullied into believing because some angels would laugh at me in heaven. Hell, I'll laugh back at them for following a tyrant. No, his job is not to debate anyone. His job is to get really interesting answers to questions, which he succeeded at very well. 

His quip allowed him to rebalance the interview and take it into any direction he wanted. Byrne was still in control, not Fry. I'm going to find watching the entire show fascinating. thanks doc :D The schools are still a bastion of Catholic supremacy though. There is a small sector of Educate Together schools at primary level but basically 95% of Irish schools are religious. Having had three children go through the system the discrimination against non catholics and non theists is sickening. Yeah you could look at it that way , it's like wallpaper on the wall that's always just been there, no one cares for it, we just watch it slowly peel away until we can be bothered to paint over, seems the appetite to paint over has grown stronger lately (thankfully)  The same thing happened in Quebec in the 1960s.  Virtually overnight the immense power of the Catholic Church just ended.  It's referred to as the Quiet Revolution. agreed and largely due to the death of the boomers.  by 2050, I predict that more than 50% of Americans will be non-believers I was a kid in the 80s, born in the mid 70s. I remember the hold the clergy had on people, it was dysfunctional and incredibly unhealthy and it was fueled by their hold on the education system. Once people stared going to secular universities and passing their own morality onto their children things started to change, and change they did, by gum. Well as it's a hypothetical question, you can still address it. You don't have to, but you can.  I would rather hear a judgement on the idea of God over a simple statement of belief. You can believe whatever you want, it really doesn't matter. But to make a judgement on God takes a little more thinking.  I used this argument against my climate-denying father. He was endlessly pissed off.
 You sound lucky. My dad is a huge religious nut. The gay hating kind. Exactly, so born agains aren't real Christians either, right? [Impossible!](http://youtu.be/yUS96YyisoE?t=27m53s) My students are always shocked to find out I'm an atheist.  I hear things like:

== "but you're so nice"

== "there's no symbols of satan around your office"
 Would you follow God if you found out he was real? I certainly wouldn't and I don't think that's foolish.  Well, by the looks of it I'd say they got ripped off. Considering it's a thread with 0 points and a vast majority of replies disagreeing with OP, one could coyly suggest you're reaching and scraping the bottom of the Muslim hate-on barrel in /r/atheism. So yeah, quality post, thanks for submitting!

Also, did you know that atheists [condone child abuse](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2rfl3k/pat_robertson_beat_nonreligious_kids_on_christmas/cng47tg):

&gt;Spanking your fucking child is NOT corporal punishments. The logical flaw in this argument is the assumption that pain, misery, and injustice are "bad". perhaps, but i was an atheist when was younger, but today i am not going to reserve the right to hold an opinion on what a true athiest is.  If i say i only respect r. Dawkins because he despises the word atheist because it has the word theist in it and he doesn't want to be labeled with something that doesn't exist, and all you atheists who don't call yourselves rationalists are not true atheists, and i was an atheist when i was younger.  
You would be obligated to better inform me, true?  Look up narcissistic personality disorder, or better yet, visit /raisedbynarcissists. At least he's not eating anything yet.  Maybe you did.  I do not vote for non-secular candidates.

 Everything is too polarized these days, most people have the "if you're not with us, you're against us" mentality.  Huh. So that's where Christopher's spirit went. I'm not going to sit here fingerpoking the keyboard, casually solving society's massive problems. I'm vain but not in that way.

A library can be that, but it won't be that for most people because most people can't do, won't do the hard work of reading books.

Some people, given that they have the time, the means and ready access to books, will never read them. Some people cannot be made to read. It's one of those 'you either are or you're not'. Being a reader is very much that.

The reader cannot be stopped from reading. The non-reader won't read if it could save his life. For those people a cathedral made of books wouldn't make a shred of difference. That asshole needs to stand up for this one

 It's more than that. No one asks because no one cares. It's an absolute non issue in till someone starts wearing their religion on their sleeve and at that even then it's the religious person that tends to get frowned upon. Evangelical street preachers don't bother us because they don't get any sort of a reaction. They're just background noise to us and because no one reacts to them negatively their victim complex doesn't get validated so they just sort of, I dunno ... go away. Could you do a "Where is Wally?" where Wally is surrounded by Muhammads?

("Where is Wally?" in French is "O est Charlie?")

Edit:  Actually, Muhammad surrounded by Wallys might be better If it's only the threat of a god's punishment that is stopping you from doing horrible things then your are the worst kind of person I could imagine. Shame on you. The two change sides in between lines (right to left), there's a clearly a hidden quote in a transition slide we are missing.  You are joking, right?  I think there's more to this story...like it probably wasn't limited to a one time comment. This guy has likely been  spouting his religious opinions for a long time. It shouldn't have a negative effect, but it does. People think less of you around here if you don't believe in God. Atheists where I'm from have a stigma of being immoral or just bad people in general.  Think of medieval christianity and the fear of god. Catholic priest had a lot of power and influence because they made people fear god so that they would listen to them. The obvious lalala im not listening to the heretic bullshit that christians would just defend this with aside, how the hell do you honestly refute this in an adult manner as someone who strongly believes in god, the argument is impeccable. Sorry but "well god gave that child cancer and eye burrowing worms as as gift so they would die in pain then enter heaven appreciating it more" is just bollocks. Religious Studies really helped shape the way I think about the world too. I was lucky to be in a class full of students that took it seriously and not a doss like the rest of my year  Oh I agree. I don't think we should have religious schools. I was just highlighting that change is beginning to happen. You too dok ;-) Bullshit.

35% of the homeless do not have access to shelters. 39% of the homeless are under the age of 18, with 50% of those without any shelter. 25% of the remaining homeless are under 24. There are yet more who may have a "home", but live in abject poverty.

Just yesterday, I saw a homeless child; she couldn't have been more than 14 or 15. Granted that's rare... Not homeless children, but **seeing** homeless children. Society puts a great deal of effort into hiding, but not solving, hunger and deprivation.

The idea that America guarantees healthcare is just absurdly false.  Or paraphrasing Stephen Fry: "Thanks for these balls, God, because the first thing I have to say to you is **HOW DARE YOU!!**" A lot of people here are misinterpreting Gay Byrnes reaction - perhaps projecting the anger they would envisage US media hosts like Bill O' Reilly would display. Gay Byrne would have loved Stephen Frys response even while disagreeing with it. That is the kind of interviewer he is. And no other single person in Ireland is more responsible for undermining the choke hold the RCC had on Ireland than that man - despite him being a Catholic himself.  A couple factors to consider:

1.  Baby Boomers (1946 - 1964) Are predominantly Christian.  

2.  American Birth Rate is 1.88% (a country needs a birth rate of 2.25 to sustain growth)

By 2050, the American population will be less than 200 million, unless something is done about immigration.

 no matter where I sit Stephen Fry's nose is facing me If God has an ineffable plan and as the bible describes the end of days and the outcome of the battle (why fight it if he knows he will win) then really the concept of free will is false. The only free will the bible allows is you can choose the way you get to where you where always going to be. "lettice" ? So clever.  

But seriously, I thought, what he pronounced, like a decade ago, and moved on, and I'm not as old as him.

So I'm not just saying what he thought was shallow, I'm saying what I thought, and what is often thought, is shallow.  Let's go deeper people.
 FYI: it looks like you might have replied to the wrong person. I try to explain this to my family that attends a super church. If every member donated a dollar only on Sundays (so not Wednesday meetings or any special events), that's $35,000 + A WEEK. That's a little more than my salary for the year. There's a lot of rich people that donate a lot, though, so I know it's more.

They are buying buildings and businesses for space, building new additions every year, repaving the highway to make it more easily accessible from both sides and across the road.

Sure they send a few people to some poor country to teach them how to build wicker baskets. Not farm, not business, medicine, math, science, reading, technology, or anything useful. Only  wicker baskets. 

Other than that, they just say they spend all their money on church services. That's the biggest load of crap. Is there a ELI5, cartoon, or comic book on Greek theology?  I avoided all that shit during school because it seemed extremely boring and confusing. I cited an eye witness account by Luke, Acts, are you saying since we don't have the original document he penned and only an extremely close copy to the time of the original that the whole thing is suspect of the origin of the word Christian? "All Im saying is religion is the same as any other institution..."

Um...wrong! 
 If you need a fairytale to not murder your sick. We lock people like you away. Byrne all the gays! Thank you. And then the people who don't believe it are expected to explain themselves. I only read a few stories here and there. All I know is that Zeus fucks everything with a hole and a pulse, Hera doesn't like it, and that Prometheus is the Bro of Mankind. &gt;i mean i am physics major

Apparently not a very good one then.

&gt;also if you champions of freedom you wouldn't tell someone they shouldnt have religion

How is criticizing religion denying anyone their freedom. You do realize that Christians walk the face of this earth essentially telling most of it that they are doomed to hell, right?

&gt; and the american court of law is based on supernatural beliefs

That is laughably stupid. What possible source do you think your have to support *that* nonsense.

Clearly all men are not created equal. We are all very different and our talents (or lack of) vary widely. Justice is served when we are *considered* equal in the eyes of the law... and *that* is an important development that absolutely flies in the face of Abrahamic religion which gives us hierarchies where women are property and there are monarchies.

&gt;Tell that to any poor person or minority throughout history.

Tell *what* to any poor person or minority?


Ho

 "If there is a god, he will have to beg my forgiveness."

- Jewish Holocaust survivor  didnt say that, just showed an example how these fuck up happen everywhere and that you cant blame system, but the extremist who are within it you can. Ha! Agreed. The expected finish date is fall of this year. I just can't see it happening.  One of the best clips I've seen in a long time.  Nailed it. It would look like that to someone unfamiliar with gay Byrne. That's the jokey way he acts with all guests. If it was a debate he'd chime in if he disagreed with anything. He's been interviewing people for way too long to have no answers.  I think "In God We Trust" did appear on coins starting around the Civil War? Your pride is worth burning alive forever? Its arguments like stephen's why I know for nearly 100% certainty that the portrayal of god by christians is wrong, he simply cant be the way they make him out to be, if there is a god is he far more malevolent than they think.  Should there be a god, its more likely to be one of the other interpretations out there, the christian bible is purely a book of bullshit. http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/physics/newton-alchemist-newman.html

Newton thought the Greek myths were alchemy formulas &gt;didnt say that,

What didn't you say? It's unclear what part of my comment you are referring to.

&gt;just showed an example how these fuck up happen everywhere and that you cant blame system, but the extremist who are within it you can.

And that's exactly the attitude I was responding to with:

"Just because other things have similar problems doesn't make it ok that it exists in religion." Would be even more ironic if they tore down a homeless shelter to build it True, but an argument against a fundamentalist god is really more practically useful than a broader argument that could be made against any all-powerful being.  I don't usually have to debate the morality of Thor. :)

But, to the point of allowing evil, I don't shelter my children from every possible bad thing that could happen, even when some of those bad things might be within my power to stop.  That doesn't make me an evil parent.  What makes me evil is when I commit evil, or compel my children to do evil.  That's why I think the "allowing evil" argument is fundamentally weaker.  There are some legitimate reasons for allowing a universe to exist the way that ours does.  

Of course, if you throw the "power of prayer", or special treatment for God's chosen people into it then you have another beast entirely. Religion is how the first nerds took control of the first jocks. Let me ask you, do miracles happen today? Meh.... at least they let her show her ankles... and face. Valid point. byrne baby byrne! There still might be a reason, I wouldn't be surprised if asking him those questions yields "it's random you idiot! I didn't specifically made your child sick, I work at quantum level, but if playing around yields conciusness I have a duty to preserve them, now go trough the golden gate and do whatever" finally, someone who gets it. you literally just said what wrote in two sentences. fuck entitlement and just live.  &gt;Now shut up and drink your posca.

As a foodie I'm kinda depressed that no known recipe has survived. One thing that I've found helps enormously is writing. When you write about something, you have to spend time condensing and refining your ideas so that they are simply expressed. When you write it allows you all the time you need to think of precisely the right words that you want to use to explain your ideas. You'll then find when you talk to someone about what you wrote about, you'll be a lot better at communicating what you want to say because you have already essentially 'rehearsed' it. I'm not a great speaker by any measure, but I do spend a lot of time writing about topics that interest me and sometimes I've been amazed at how well I've been able to communicate something because I've written about it.

In my opinion, a very worthwhile subject to look into on this point is classical rhetoric. Rhetoric is the art of persuasion. Two of my favourite speakers include Christopher Hitchens and Stephen Fry, and both of them share this quality of being amazingly persuasive. Every word you listen to you almost can't help think, well 'of course'. They are both extremely persuasive, and probably both studied rhetoric. Rhetoric gives you pretty much all the angles you can use in speaking that will make your argument *feel* persuasive. Obviously it needs to do more than just feel persuasive, it ought to be logically sound, but human beings often need more than just logic used against them in order to have their mind changed - something anyone in /r/atheism can understand. You have to appeal to other aspects of our make up too. You just now figured this out? Better late than never I guess... &gt; I'm not going to sit here fingerpoking the keyboard, casually solving society's massive problems. I'm vain but not in that way.

You did however, with the library comment.

&gt;A library can be that, but it won't be that for most people because most people can't do, won't do the hard work of reading books.


Then a library isnt the solution you claimed it to be. Which is all of my point. It's not real. &gt;I didnt want to make a big scene and I was already embarrassed that she said anything..."

There's the problem. Granted she's 16, so I'm don't mean to blame the victim...

I'm not one to troll about "how's that about ~~religion~~ atheism", but this quote draws the correlation perfectly. If anyone offers criticism, religion teaches to be embarrassed. I imagine my daughter would have politely told the woman she did not have a shawl, and wasn't cold so didn't need a jacket, thank you very much, appreciate the concern, excuse me, I'd like a drink....

My son would start an argument, leave, and sneak in the back just to prove a point. Never gets old You're a physics major? From your spelling, grammar, and writing style I seriously thought you were a freshman in high school. I have never heard this point expressed so eloquently,well said Mr Fry.  Try being an educated Englishman living in the US. The elocution scale is quite positively off the proverbial hook.  Join a debating club - a few years of practicing will get you up to speed. But at first you'll spend a lot of time pulling your foot out of your mouth. Yeah, I've heard of this before.  I kinda saw it as the re-joining of church and state. My wife and I attend meetups in Southern Illinois as well as Missouri and they go well. I/we recommend. No one should accept that premise. For god to be god, he has to be the all powerful, all knowing and all benevolent creator of the universe. That is the Christian claim at least as I have heard it in church. I am willing to accept without evidence that he is all powerful and all knowing creator of the universe because I don't know the origins of the universe nor it's creator. And really it doesn't matter. But we all can make a judgement on the creator based on its creation.  While the universe is pretty awesome, it has a lot of bad things in it that must be accounted for.  Try Mark Twain's "Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven." It is a longish short story.  

As a side note, this is a fun thing to recommend to theists because they don't realized Mark Twain was basically an atheist. &gt;My friend is apostolic Pentecostal Christian.

Aquaintance would be the most I could muster.

 Sounds so weird to me that you have to "come out" as an atheist. If you told people over here you were and atheist they would be like "Yeah... and?". Maybe I cannot relate, since I've grown up in a non-religious family.. [Huh?](http://i.imgur.com/8GsvPek.gif) Yeah I know that.

I might of misunderstood you but I thought you meant if God was real and you didn't follow Him it would make you foolish? I love that man! I'm saving this for the next time someone ask why I don't believe in god. as a matter of fact, I think I'll go try to my family reunion this year.. &gt;;-P Any animal testing done with animals that can be proven to be cognitively unaware of their pain with it just being a reactionary mechanism can be used in tests, or eaten for that matter. But any scientist supports using Chimpanzees or other higher animals to extort for profits just so humans can find well being is a terrible human being.  [Then again....](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GdvD4Fhc_K8) &gt;"foster an inclusive and supportive atmosphere within Ford for LGBT persons."

fixed that for ya ford! something something fuck the patriarchy? Wouldn't a counter-argument for the insects and other biological ideas be that the evils are necessary for the good? At least for the insects you can argue a line of food chain logic, right?

Though I do sstrongly agree with his point of a selfish God who requires constant praise. I suppose you could also argue that a just God would have found a way to create a similar life without the burdens of biology or humanity. Yikes. Sounds like he's slumped into a depressive episode. (Drinking, fear of death, bring ok with friends being hurt.) Do you guys have a sport or game you like? Biking or anything? Ignore his bullshit and get out and do friend things. He's got some real fear happening inside his head now. Hmm, perhaps I wasn't clear myself. The problem is Fry's tone. He comes across as angry at God, which is the only thing Christians are going to pick up on. In fact, he's so convincing he has me wondering if he's actually an atheist. Being angry at God accepts the premise of the question, which is that there is a God. Its very much a matter of quality, not just quantity, when it comes to learning almost anything. As one of the most basic things Jesus said, the original name probably would not have applied to such groups could they be transported back in time.
Out of curiosity, which denominations are you referring to? lol no it doesn't. Riiiiight. So you think that religion isn't the primary causal factor in making religious people commit heinous acts, in the name of their religion?

What's important is WHY people do what they do. Dismissing it as "Well they're just crazy, and there will always be crazy people." or... "Ahhh, well they're probably using their religion to ad-hoc justify their detrimental beliefs!", this is flippant and naive at best.

Damn, I would have loved to hear this shit 70yrs ago. Oh guys, the Nazis arn't bad because of Nazism! They're just using it as a platform for their fucked up agendas! It's not because that ideology pollutes the minds of the gulliable, uneducated or brain-washed. Nahhh, those Nazis would have been crazy anyway!

Why is it that we don't also see many Atheist-terrorists? Or Atheists killing their kids because they think the apocalypse is coming? Or being pro-life? Or wanting mandatory prayer in school? Or beheading hostages? etc etc etc. I could go on forever.

This accommodationalist attitude really makes me weep. Why can't we all just get along, you say? Because people don't get along. Religion is pervasive. When people keep that shit to themselves, maybe we'll try your approach. But I'm not going to play nice-nice when people want to teach their kids that burning forever in the most excruciating way possible is a fit punishment for not believing. Or for being gay. Or for... numerous other traits listed in the Bible.

YOU can try this 'love thy enemies' thing at your own risk. Don't expect me to do the same. Also, for clarity? I want to destroy bad ideas, not bad people. You conflate the two in your first sentence. Religious people usually deserve compassion and empathy too. My condolences. Keep him in your memories as that is the only place he exists now. Mourn him and grieve. That is better than lying to yourself so that you don't have to. For managing to do trip around Ireland without any money. I'm saving this video.
I have questions...so many questions. I feel I'm stuck on the border and I'm not sure which step to take.
And this..THIS...just adds more.
I don't know. I don't know why I'm typing this.
Fuck. Just....fuck. Has very little to do with pride. The Biblical God is clearly a very evil God. It would be like following Hitler just because he was going to murder me. You may call it foolishness, I call it not being a coward. I mean, I understand you don't believe any of it all anyways but it's worth noting the devil being the king of the underworld laughing while torturing any human that ever died with unconfessed baggage is never mentioned in the bible.  

In the bible, the devil is basically trying to take as many of us with him as possible to hell and later the lake of fire.  And there's some debate on this exactly but generally, God already has a takedown time set for all of this and it might be when a specific amount of people are saved.  Once that number gets hit that only God knows, then all that revelation stuff goes down.  Building an army against God isn't really on the agenda (well it was when the devil took a third of the angels in a fight against God and lost way before humans).  

And who's in charge of all the bad that happens in the world?  Us.  Free will.  There's powers (demons and such) at work nudging us in the wrong direction and God nudging us in the right direction but ultimately, we make the choices that doom the world's inhabitants everyday.  From evil dictators to hypocrites (really the only time Jesus got frustrated was at people who said were believers but were really just self serving) to regular people to good people who just don't do enough, we make the final decisions. 

For what it's worth, the bible's a bit more interesting than most people give it credit for.   Craig Ferguson did at least two shows with Stephen as the only guest. One of which was done with no audience in the "old school" Tom Snyder fashion. Both very good interviews.

Here is the 2010 episode with no audience:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9teqCuLL-4

2013 episode with audience:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2MoPsBg6m0 Show me your evidence I learned this from REO Speedwagon's song '157 Riverside Avenue'  Kevin Cronin tells us that you have to talk to people in a language they understand.  He then tries to imitate a guitar with mixed results.   And our government is made up of people of more religions than Christianity. Problem is I think they try not to offend anyone, no matter how small the minority when it comes to (stupid) laws that MIGHT  give some religious nut an excuse to complain. Nobody is happy about the way they handle anything but as long as they think they're right.... Our government or laws don't represent the people's opinions. Think its a school thing here, there is no religious culture anymore except in highly religious schools specifically for highly religious families, theres no middle ground anymore, the people in the middle dont tend to give a shit about it leaving just the completely religious ones to fight it out.  

Least that was the case when I went to school, it was generally the case if you were religious you would be mocked and outcast in no time. Jesuits. They hate Gale and are trying to destroy the Church of Gale. ahhh, i get it. so technology made weapons, and weapons have a negative affect on people too. so science and technology created guns, so that promoted war and then that promoted science to make bombs, so science made nuclear ware fare, not to mention school shooting as well because of guns. so science and technology is bad. you have to be really dumb with a mindset like that man.   And if you buy the holy oil you get a whole bunch of HOLY SHIT with it.... use it and you will never have diarrhea again  The two of them shared many Spirits over the years. Particularly the spirit of Johnnie Walker.  &gt;Perfection means sameness.

Sums it up. The other 9 is either saying the same thing, or contradicting it. *Everything* would be whatever it is that best matches the standard of perfection. Literally, by any meaningful standard, everything would have to be *exactly the same*. "Perfection is sterile, in every sense of the word." Not every ovulation has to end up with fuck. We are not catholics or something. We can ovate during ovulation, for example. Well I lied. I can't ovulate. But I can give a fuck! I think its similar with anyone that has strong beliefs in something will always be a bit taken back by such a strong statement as stephen's.  If you said Yorkshire pudding tastes like shit I would pull the same face as that guy, right before shaking my head and walking out calling you a fucking heathen.  But yes, it is quite a bizarre mindset. I think it's more of a privacy thing, some people prefer not being publicly known for their religion. I'm pretty sure, as in 90% sure, that you read that wrong =D Hilariously wrong. Tears-in-my-eyes, stomach aching, laugh-out-too-loudly wrong. I think the simplistic view of god is that he is all good. What it seems to me is you are saying that God is not all good, but rather that he is NET good, meaning what he does has bad an good in it, but more good comes out than bad.  This.  A 1000x this. &gt; That sure is the longest answer to that question that I've ever gotten in this entire series.

Well, no shit, it's because Fry has clearly *thought about it.* The teacher probably thought that of she gave the kids a little bit of information they would be satisfied and stop asking. *you* might feel that way, but voter turn out says otherwise, yeah maybe other countries don't care as much, but that's changing thankfully, people,  In particular young people seem to be more switched on to politics than ever before which is great  Except the bible absolutely in black and white forbids homosexuality. To be gay and christian is by definition hypothetical. &gt;vast majority of replies disagreeing with OP

Not only are you clearly an illiterate, but most of those who 'disagree' with OP are actually non-muslims. 

&gt;scraping the bottom of the Muslim hate-on barrel in /r/atheism

Are you one of those cunts who think criticizing Islam and Muslims somehow makes a person a racist bigot? .. whoosh. nah dude its reddit, no need to be formal with you guys to the max, your not my lab profs. plus coming off an all nighter. Religion feeds on fear and uncertainty.  Looks like he bought into it. I'll be honest. I read the line, 'Why would I want to rent or sell a gun and hand ammunition to someone who aligns himself with a religion that commands him to kill me?' and thought, "she's got a point." 

However, though the article doesn't specify it, we all know she is a bible-thumping Christian. The hypocrisy somewhat ruins her argument.   Well according to the fairy tale, there already was a paradise here on earth, with two inhabitants and one rule.  Didn't take them long to fuck that up.  They had one rule.  And JW's want to see that recreated, simply delusional. +10000000. Sick reference! No, you don't get it. Not even a little bit. These things aren't symmetrical because technology doesn't make people any worse than they otherwise would be, and it makes quite a lot of them better than they would be.

Truth is actually better than lying, friend.

Learning is better than ignorance.

Knowledge is better than faith. &gt; It's pretty clear God is an incredibly petty deity.

But that would contradict to God being omnibenevolent and just. This He would disappear in logical paradox. I hadn't considered that. I wonder if I'll still be alive when that finally becomes a reality I don't know whether your pc just now figured that out, but we're all still holding on to the hope you'll learn to read and understand a comment before replying with snark. A  recent post,  possibly  of  help  -

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2u5c9q/question_from_a_christian/co5b70m so very true. Can you provide an example of a religious leader telling people not to masturbate?  I went to church all my life until my 30's and never once did anybody ever mention masturbation.  Way too taboo a subject to be brought up in "God's house".  To me it kinda seems like that was something Atheists made up to persuade people to their side.    Are you also agnostic about Santa Claus, the Tooth Fairy, and AUifhikhjsgfdhigd8763547683 the sentient cheese from the 9th dimension that I just made up? They all occupy the same fictional plane that any god does. Why would the concept of a god get special pleading of "we just don't know"? Now here I believe that when the rights of the two conflict, the mother wins. (Of course I believe it should be legal anyway.) But if there is a reason for a later term abortion I'm glad to hear there is a painless way to do it.  I have seen no credible, verifiable and peer reviewed evidence for the existence of god.  Absent that, what anyone "believes" is irrelevant. &gt;Recently we were talking about religion and how flawed it is in the Bible, to which he always replies "It's just misinterpreted". 

If a sociology or psychology or even philosophy textbook needed to be "just interpreted" to be right, would you want to have it used in a classroom?

&gt;He also said that since my other friends and I are atheists we are doomed to go to Hell. 

Unfortunatly for him, he needs to "interpret" his way around:

&gt;"...whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven; they are guilty of an eternal sin.

Mark 3:28  [God, I pray to thee, please use your almighty penis to fuck the Holy Spirit in its holy ass. Amen.]

As an atheist, no doubt he blasphemed the Holy Spirit at some point.

&gt;Even if God is real, I'm not following him. Anyone who sends my friends/ loved ones to infinite hell torture is no God of mine.

I always address the question of "Why is god relevant," before "Does god exist". From a pragmatic stance, Christian apologists aren't as well equipped to deal with it. From a philosophical stance, it always comes first, there's just no distinction between relevance and evidence for any context other than religion.

I agree with /u/stillragin. Doesn't sound like the typical "born again" experience where someone may be getting value out of the structure or social aspects of religious observance. Don't confront; it may make things worse. &gt; Unfortunately it's not an illusion (neither is man-made climate change) - I would know because I have a BS in earth science. You'll find out in the next 30 years.

Did your BS in earth science *tell you* that the earth was going through a natural warming cycle? accelerated by man-made gasses?

I heard a very good rumor.. that.. Apparently this natural warming cycle will end in 2050 but sea levels will be 35-50 feet higher then.. (gonna be interesting know?) and then we go back into a cooling cycle again.. :) (and a quicker one then normal)

&gt; You can't fix people whose brains are physically damaged by either genetics or in-utero processes.
We will not eliminate violence, but we can reduce its likelihood.

Your quite the **pessimist**.. apparently I have too much *advanced* information for you to process.. so throw me in your crazy pile.. and good day to you! :) Why intentionally cause suffering? There is no excuse. No mysterious way. Not even "cuz Im god" excuses this behavior. Either god is a monster, or there is no god.  I think you're right about what you said except about the narcissism. He's bi-polar, or "bi-polar lite" as he sometimes describes it and actually harbours a lot of self-hatred. Self-obsession also, but self-obsession does not mean self-love even if it might look like it at first. I'm not saying he's devoid of any level of narcissism. Everyone has to have a certain level of self-love to be emotionally healthy, but I would think Stephen's level narcissism is actually probably on the lower side. It makes you wonder how much more eloquent you could be and the answer is none. None more eloquent. Im starting to think Idiocracy is isn't a comedy but a time travelling documentary. People keep taking his reactions out of context. He has always acted like that. It's like saying "ooooh, some people won't like THAT answer, haha" without any words. Gay Byrne doesn't give a fuck what anyone's answer to that question is. That isn't his job. He's there to get people's opinions on shit like this, not to have one himself. Whelp!  I'm out!  &lt;slams a handful of coins down on the table&gt; The "love" story between Attia and Marc Anthony in that show is one of my very favorites in all of television. I kind of hated that Cleopatra came between them, but it made Anthony's suicide that much more tragic in the end.  Im also a Texan and I meet plenty of atheists. I don't live in a progressive part of the state either. It helps that I'm still in college though. Not to kick a dead horse..
My point was as people coming together to discuss ideas, would it not be beneficial to practice proper etymology and whether it benefits our agenda or not, seek to better understand words and the conveyors they try to communicate?
Its a historical fact there were a group of people called Christians.  Its a further fact that the word "Christian" used today that gets thrown around has lost its identity and is used in wildly different ways by politicians, convicts, hypocrites, pharisees, you name it!  Lets be educated and know the roots. I think he is indeed angry, but not at god. He is angry at people who worship and believe in something that even if it did exist would t be worth worshipping.  **http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/faq#wiki_should_i_come_out_to_my_parents_as_being_an_atheist.3F** yeah that's not my experience at all so I'd be interested to see the stats on that. Personally I think votings not as important as many make it out to be in that the options available are pretty limited, I feel that contacting your local MP directly about things is probably better. Who knows.  Apologies if I haven't seemed completely on target there. I'm in a few comment conversations right now and I'm also doing something else.

I did not mean to be incoherent (though it happens).

I believe, I do, that libraries can be great vectors for social awareness when used right. They are not a one-size-fits-all solution. That just does not exist anywhere. For libraries to work better the people living around them should at least be lifted out of desperate poverty. &gt; then clearly you're an illiterate


An illiterate what?


Look, it's clear that the ones that support and heavily in the minority here. Hahahaha! Hahahaha! If you want people to love you, surely the easiest and nicest way to do it, if you have the power is to give everyone a perfect life full of love and happiness and free from pain, misery, and tragedy.

Either God's all powerful and can do this, and chooses not to, or he's not all powerful and not the God we were told about. No, that does not fly for reasons already given. There is no way to weasel out of this.

Your god is a monster and wholly undeserving of worship. 

Your god did not create me. It is a fictional character and does not have the power to do so.  I can see why you would think that, i used to be in the same boat! If you read through the countless posts in r/atheism you can see many examples of how and why people identify themselves as atheist / agnostic / whatever else.

 Then explain child slavery. 

You cannot hold that your god is moral, righteous and just. One look at the world shows that this cannot be the case and the descriptions of him make him a monster.  No, I'm not saying that at all. What I'm saying is that we are in no intellectual position to judge God on what He does and doesn't do, just as a child isn't in any intellectual position to declare that the doctor is a bad, bad man because he causes pain. We as limited beings, trapped in finite space and time haven't a fraction of the context and knowledge that God has. It's ultimately arrogant and immature of us to say, "How dare you, God!" when we can't possibly know the motives of a supreme being like God. Nobody looks at a child who hates the doctor and says, "What an enlightened and profound opinion." Yet that's the exact reaction Frye's comments garnished here. I LOVE the Greeks Myths!

It was better than comic books when I was kid.  There was one book I had that was a collection of myths.  Short ones, great for one sitting.  I can't seem to find it, I've looked several times but I don't remember the name of it. [Most Atheists here are Agnostic, too.](http://lh3.ggpht.com/-q2d4A4N5arw/TmEoB9jCjOI/AAAAAAAAC5k/daRnstnWPJE/Agnostic%252520v%252520Gnostic%252520v%252520Atheist%252520v%252520Theist.png?imgmax=800)  So ones sexual orientation invalidates their opinions? Or are you so offended and shaken to the core by Stephen's eloquent logic that your only response is to flail and take an immature jab at his love life? You've made no point. Stephen Fry is an amazing man and I'd be honored just to have the oportunity to meet him in person. His partner gets to do that almost every day, and he is a lucky man. But that's irrelevant. The point is, you've made no point.  Because our understanding is pretty limited, the idea of God isn't limited to those presented within religious texts. I'm pretty certain that Santa isn't real.  Its all about the sky cake. Biologists that study biotopes tell us we could wipe out mosquitos and it would have no adverse effect on any other species. 

Except for the diseases they carry and I don't think we should worry about malaria's right to propagate.  
I think most atheist are atheist agnostic meaning that they do not believe in God because there is no proof. If you were to give some scientific data to lend some credibility many would change their minds. It's like saying there is a my little pony universe but unless there is something to back it up why pretend that ridiculous notion is a real thing.  




 Stephen Fry is almost channelling his old friend Hitch with the word "capricious". Never heard Hitch not use the word when describing god(s) That sounds...like a terribly limited argument, actually.  I haven't ever seen peer reviewed evidence for the assertion that peanut butter is tasty to me, but I believe it nonetheless.  While I am all for limiting one's belief to what the evidence supports, limiting the available evidence to publications verified in a certain way seems artificial. I don't doubt that there are plenty of lunatic politicians, but I think there's a line to be drawn between the desires of politicians and the desires of politician's constituents.  

Politicians will typically vote in a way that will make their constituents happy, even if it is counter to their personal beliefs, because the only way politicians can stay in power is keeping their constituents happy.   That's a very nice thought. I'm not sure why so many seem bent on finding holes in your post and arguing. You posit a simple "Imagine if" scenario. You aren't making an "if......then" claim. Would, but I'm an atheist. Hard to believe in 12 gods when I don't believe in one. Why would you say that's probably what he's thinking? Are you Irish? If not and you're not familiar with the interviewer then you're definitely taking his reactions out of context.  Put it on HBO GoT style and I would watch the fuck out of that! Among other things, there are a number of people who believe that a god does exist.  Provided that we have some non-zero confidence in the reasoning ability of the average human, the god claim has at least been elevated to our attention - yes, it's weird, and yes, it's unsupported, but it bears examining. And yet in this very thread they try. 

They indeed use bollocks arguments such as "We cannot understand his goodness, diseases are part of the greater good." and "You are like a child thinking the doctor is a bad man because he gives you a shot."  That needs a sarcasm tag like a bonfire needs a "Caution hot" sign. Exactly. The only thing better than that would be to write a book with them.  Do you think it's possible to know anything? I don't disagree with you, necessarily - but I often wonder, to what end?  *Why* do they want us to believe these things?  

If your typical Fox pundit doesn't believe the... *words* coming out of their mouth, what would be the intent of these people (who simply chose a career in television broadcasting and are not any better or brighter than anyone else) to influence the public to ideas they disagree with?  What's the end-game? We're as in all of reddit? I doubt that many people will read my comment but that is flattering, thanks! Because its not the same at all.

God trying to explain his reasoning is like a human trying to explain his reasoning to ants.

No matter how hard you try, ants aren't going to understand why you hired an exterminator.

At least that would be the reasoning theists use. That's just a cop-out that does not explain anything. 

The eye-burrowing worm is not mysterious at all. It's a horror that no kind god would permit.  This cuts both ways really? I don't think that believing something is enough to say something is true either Why create them, for one? Why create polio? Why create leukemia or deadly viruses? Why purposely create anything that serves no purpose but to create suffering. Why allow for child sex trafficking? There are children, babies even, being raped right this minute all over the world. Wouldn't a loving god put an end to such pain? Can you imagine being 5 years old and being repeatedly raped? Or losing your only child to cancer? There is absolutely no purpose for any of it and if it's part of someone's "Devine plan" then that's just fucking sick. This type of creator deserves no respect, and certainly no worship.  It's Ireland, not the US. Nobody here is religious anymore. I never said anyone should or shouldn't accept the premise. My point stands. His response to the question is the equivalent of stating he doesn't believe in God, and we already knew that.  Were you there when I made my account?! We have enough evidence to disprove *some* gods, but not *all* gods, much in the same way that I am pretty certain that my house is not filled with hydrogen chloride gas but I cannot at this time confirm that it is not being infiltrated by a small quantity of noble gases.

The space of possible hypotheses is vast.  There is some argument to be made that there is *something* beyond our comprehension - Aquinas's arguments say that much correctly (i.e. the world works a certain way; the world cannot have begun under the rules by which we now believe it works; therefore there must be something or some concept at the world's beginning that is outside of our current knowledge of how the world works).  Whether or not we call that something "god" is less important than what it actually is. I guess that's one way to do it. "Parents, I feel so passionate about this topic, I want you to watch this 2 minute video of someone else giving an answer to a question you didn't ask".

I imagine after the video they will be so moved and convinced that  they may even click the "like" button for the video. It kind of comes off as ungrateful to me.

I have issues with creation, therefore God is terrible.

I have issues with the school system.  Doesn't make the principle an evil person.  It doesn't make graduation worthless.

*downvotes* I knew about the dragons in the cave apocrypha, but care to link the other one? &gt;  I'm pretty certain that Santa isn't real. 

And I'm pretty certain gods aren't real. &gt;There is no way to weasel out of this.

Yet you're weaseling out because you have no rebuttal whatsoever to anything I said. What I've said does "fly" unless you don't see any reason to respect your mother and don't understand what the word perfect means.

&gt;Your god is a monster and wholly undeserving of worship.

If you want to debate religion you should probably work on reading comprehension first considering most religions are based on holy texts. I've already told you I'm not religious. I'm just playing 'devil's advocate' because no one else has mentioned the flaws in Stephen Fry's argument and how easily it's refuted. I'll help them smear oil on their tires. &gt; I don't think that believing something is enough to say something is true either

That's corrent. That's why we have science. &gt;I think most atheist are atheist agnostic meaning that they do not believe in God because there is no proof

Not even entertaining something because there's no proof seems pretty small minded IMO. 

People who carry out things that effect others should have proof as well, this is a two way thing.  &gt; I mean if everyone were atheist we would prolly live in a world where it be illegal even be religious, who knows.

That's.... really close to contradictory, or self-serving. If everyone is atheist - as actual belief - there would be no need for laws against religion. If everyone were *forced* to be "atheist", then the laws would already exist.

&gt; All Im saying is religion is the same as any other institution, it when people start misreading its true purpose where it fucks up.

The issue is that's how it starts, and you can't avoid it. Even if some religion is in some way correct, someone gets to decide which one, which part and how to apply it - and in turn, all the ones that are wrong. Since there's no way to demonstrate who is right, the only way to convince others is through indoctrination, or death.

Consider... What other belief is complete pure conjecture?

&gt;The problem occurs though when you tell someone that they can not have said belief (as long as its not detrimental to others, like actually believing in killing ppl just for the sake of doing so and breaking laws of common societal shit), and that what they believe is wrong and should change.

First, you yourself have put a caveat of "its not detrimental to others". ***BELIEFS*** are not "detrimental". Actions and behavior are, which are driven by beliefs. Is it a problem to tell someone they can't be right if they believe global warming isn't happening? Is it a problem to tell them they are absolutely *wrong*?

People may try to shape beliefs... Education, debate, discourse, indoctrination, oppression... But you can not *enforce* belief. No one, ever, has been able to do that. At best (worst), people have banned *expression* of certain beliefs. However, this really doesn't occur except within radical religions - the Puritans, ISIS, etc. The only society that comes close for atheism would be under Stalin or other Marxist dictators, but even Stalin did not ban "religion", rather [potential political opposition presented by people leading] religious practices. (And it's easy enough to find things Stalin did that was bad.) ok, so if were talking serius, you do know Muslims follow the koran, and the laws we Call Sharia Are absolute, and muslims must submit.

The punishments are quite Clear, and these rules cannot be challenged by a muslim.. and muslims who doesnt uphold the laws arnt moderates they arnt following their religion and that is punishable!
 You misunderstand. I don't presume to know where morality comes from. Please have another read of my last reply.

Religious beliefs have nothing to do with whether a political figure represents my views. Especially; atheist politicians who are characterised by their lack of belief on a god and nothing else are no more likely to represent my views than those that do no believe in the tooth fairy. 

I comment on the fact that people who do not believe in the tooth fairy might use that same reason in other parts of their philosophy, and so I might agree with them. As I might agree with those who use reason and logic when approaching religion and are therefore atheist.

If you still disagree with my views please elaborate on the parts you believe to be wrong. Please, can we not soil one of my Favorite comic strips with "Prophets"? We are in no intellectual position? so that's it then? End all dialogue because we're too stupid to understand what were talking about anyway? And if atheists are in no intellectual position to judge this god concept then what puts people like pastors and priests and imams in the position to preach it to us? If we as a human race are too fucking stupid to grasp any if it then apply it across the board and everyone just needs to stop discussing it or believing it or debating it on preaching it, period. Because we all don't know shit. Unless of course you mean people who view this god character negatively don't understand it and people who view it positively are so above us all that they are grasping concepts the rest of us just can't fathom.  I think that either you don't know much about Unitarians or you're just letting your cynicism get the best of you. There isn't a real unifying belief among Unitarians other than thought that every life means something and deserves dignity. Is that a feel good, means nothing belief? Sure it is unless it actually spurs you into action. 

The congregation I'm a part of in Dallas is involved in all sorts of social work to help solve the problems you mention and more. Just a few weeks ago I was with a big group that volunteered at a thrift shop whose proceeds go to keeping families on the brink of homelessness in an apartment with food to eat. Our congregation has been involved in fighting for a living wage, setting up scholarships for students in low income areas, fighting for marriage equality, fighting against racial inequality, and so on and so forth. On the first Sunday of the month all the collections go to a charity that has a mission in line with the goals I've mentioned. [This is a list of the different social justice groups at my church.](http://www.dallasuu.org/Information/social-justice.html) 

You're absolutely right that feelings mean nothing but the church has provided me an opportunity to turn those feelings into action. I don't need a big hug and to someone to tell me that god loves me, what I need is a group of people that actually want to make a difference, and that's what the Unitarian church has given me. Could I work on my own for these goals? Absolutely, but there's strength in numbers.  The very first page of the bible.  Holy shit guys!  He's done it!  He actually went through an entire sentence and gave it enough time to comprehend each detail!

I'd give you gold for your achievement if you weren't an ass. I'm not sure really. Probably not completely if I'm answering properly. Though one has to make certain generalisations in order to make life manageable, I don't trip strangers up though I can't say for sure one of them doesn't have a life long urge for this to happen to them.  How about both of them, writing a book about you... yep, science is pretty cool. Philosophy is also valuable though.  The Friendly Atheist just did a podcast with Katherine Stewart, author of "The Good News Club: The Christian Rights Stealth Assault on Americas Children." 36 minutes and worth a listen.

It was interesting when she said that churches near the school offered space, but the club refused because they want to be in the school.

[Friendly Atheist Podcast Ep. 39](http://www.patheos.com/blogs/friendlyatheist/2015/01/26/friendly-atheist-podcast-episode-39-katherine-stewart-author-of-the-good-news-club) Implying religious people never commit horrendous crimes because they are afraid of sky daddy punishing them? Nope, you got it right :) Contraception is legal in every U.S. state in the modern day.  Attempts to ban it are always overruled because of a U.S. Supreme Court ruling from fifty years ago called Griswold v. Connecticut.  Legislatures do it anyway because most people don't know that they don't actually have the power to ban it and it gins up votes. Too Many Gods what are you doing posting in /r/climateskeptics ? "Anything to get rid of this fucking headache." I always enjoyed the story of the Apple of Discord:

&gt;The Golden Apple of Discord on which, according to Greek mythology, the goddess Eris (Gr. , "Strife") inscribed "to the fairest" and tossed in the midst of the feast of the gods at the wedding of Peleus and Thetis, thus sparking a vanity-fueled dispute among Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite that eventually led to the Trojan War.

It kinda reads like a plot summary to some classic sitcom episode. Khalil Gibran - The Prophet

 I believe both I and Stephen Fry would chicken out and beg for forgiveness if this ever happened, but that would only prove gods cruelty not excuse it.
 Or you know... a god who is so similar to us that he has absolutely no empathy or mercy for beings so insignificant and beneath him like humans.

Humans who are angry at the cruelty of gods should take a long hard look at how we treat the planet and each other.

What sane god could consider humanity as anything else than vermin? Define "God," then, or else everything you're saying is meaningless. Define "God," then give us a reason why we should take his possible existence more seriously than the possible existence of leprechauns who control our thoughts on Wednesdays.

EDIT: Oh, and make sure your definition is less vague than the word "God" itself. For example, "a higher intelligence" needs further defining, too. Specifics, now. Yep.  &gt;Philosophy is also valuable though.

Not really. When "We might all just be brains in vats" is taken seriously by philosophy, that shows you how pretty much useless it is. Cool, good to see you again!  I had a great time there and can't wait for next Wednesday!  If you don't mind me asking, how long have you been a part of the group? I know, it's a common problem amongst people who think that they have rationality. They don't understand that doubting is not the same as objecting and criticize instead of saying what they find interesting and bad about something. At least they are trying to point something out unlike other parts of reddit where people just insult you when they disagree. This is accurate.

https://i.imgur.com/mDMcx.png OP seems to live in a very privileged bubble.  Then again, most libertarians do since it never occurs to them that they may need to use the social safety net themselves.    &gt;The reader chooses which of these they want to live their life by, so when someone quotes a religious text as justification for condemnation of a homosexual or whatever, it's them not the book that's at fault

If a person is quoting scripture as a basis for their beliefs, then then what they are doing is holding that book up as an authority.  

If you told me that something was *true* because **RonaldReagen said so**, then you don't get to disavow other things that he has said, right?  =&gt;I mean, if your basis of truth is that "RR said it";Then anything that he said gets to be true, too, right? 

So, how do we apportion the blame in that instance if it turns out to not be true?  Is it the believers fault? Is it the source?

It turns out that the fault lies with the source for being wrong, and you for uncritically accepting it.
___
Additionally, if an instructional document contradicts itself then-by definition-**that document is faulty**
 He's not your friend. Byrne Gays in the...

fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire fire
 [Word cloud out of all the comments.](http://i.imgur.com/5Tbr6OT.png)

Don't like this? Message me! That doesn't really make any sense. We already know Fry's opinion on the existence of God. This question isn't about that. The question is about Fry's hypothetical response to the knowledge that this God does indeed exist. He attempts to respond by questioning the "good" nature of this entity. However, both men know that the hypothetical God in question is "all good" and so on. So Fry is not answering the question, he is rejecting it and restating his belief, and we already knew that.

If confronted with the knowledge that this God did exist, one would have to accept the fact that one a was not capable of comprehending his intentions and the suffering of the world.   I said "*probably*". That means I know I can be wrong. Man I love Stephen Fry, he's such a decent guy. Someone with skills should update this cartoon to say that "If I train and pray hard enough I think I'd make the major league. But if I don't make it, then god works in mysterious ways and I'll have to settle for being a mediocre player based solely on my training."  

Then his friend would say "If you were an atheist like me, then you'd train harder to see what you could accomplish or accept your limits and enjoy other aspects of life." Why does god expect imperfect humans to spread his perfect message? Why doesn't he spread his message himself?  A book about me would be thoroughly uninteresting. I'd rather write some epic scifi or fantasy novel. The only thing I would add is, when you accept that reality is random, rather than purposeful, that the injustices seem like problems to be solved, rather than built in features of existence. I wish I could upvote this twice. ... and by *literally*, you seem to mean **literally!**

That's novel. Fry, you beautiful bastard! My rebuttal was two replies hence. That reading comprehension is not your thing is hardly my problem.  Ah, but then why does god command we love him if we cannot judge him? What good is love if it is spread equally on the deserving and undeserving both? &gt;Not even entertaining something because there's no proof

What do you mean by "entertaining"? Taking an idea seriously? Do you have any standards at all for what ideas you take seriously and which ones you don't? Indeed. I think the idea of combatting certainty with certanty just doesn't make sense. I mean, Science is meant to be about evidence and such, but how is one meant to gather evidence about something that's essentially beyond comprehension? That's as crazy as someone claiming to know what such an entity wants others to do *God says give me money blah blah* Pff!

 Sorry, but... you're* This is what I was thinking as well. If I could get all of my unorthodox and unconventional beliefs or convictions across in a manner like Stephen Fry did here, people would understand more easily where I was coming from. Except the doctor is actually helping the child in the end. If you're comparing god to a doctor then how does a child dying a slow painful death from bone cancer in any way beneficial for the child?  I don't think he was debating him. I don't think these are mutually exclusive, nor do I think narcissism is necessarily a bad thing. What I meant was: eloquency and being a fantastic public speaker in my mind require a certain amount of narcisissm, of loving to hear yourself speak and explain, which Stephen Fry clearly does.

Then again, psych-evaluating strangers on an internet disussion board is not my strength. &gt; Though one has to make certain generalisations in order to make life manageable

Exactly, we can only "know" things in practical terms. Now, with the practical knowledge that we generally have to apply to reality (even if we can't reach 100% certainty), none of it supports a god claim. None.  Just see them as human archetypes, rather than beings with an objective existence.

After all, it makes sense. There are deities attributed to all archetypal facets of human experience. Love, War, Wisdom, Sleep, Death, etc etc. His argument was for if it was all fake. He wasn't denying anything.  Are you saying that most people in Texas are stupid? Why do atheists assume that if God were to exist it would be the abrahamic God? Obviously that story is completely whacked out - arguing against it is like taking the easy way out. Well that image is gonna stick with me for the rest of the day.  Thanks? He didn't take offense, that's just it. This clip is making the interviewer look like if he were 137 years younger, why, he'd challenge him to fisticuffs at dusk. 
He isn't like that at all. His reaction is like saying that he knows that some of the audience would get offended. He's there to ask questions about famous people's personal beliefs, not argue with them about anything. 
He isn't even like that outside of the studio. &gt;It is a bad thing when you think that people are all inherently equal and therefore deserve equal outcomes.

Inherently equal and therefore deserve equal treatment and opportunity, not outcome.

As long as you know that social darwinism and survival of the fittest is bullshit and has nothing to do with evolution or atheism this conversation can continue. I suspect that when the bible was first created, it was just a really book of some great stories from their times.

However, when darker times arose, people began to worship the book to preserve what they learned from it. The Worship brewed the Dogma of christ, which resulted in Cults that then formed the Religion which bolstered the cultural anti-spiral of the Dark Ages. 

To this day, that same Dogma still carries the darkness of that time into the future, a place such darkness probably shouldn't color with it's value. Throw (new EloquenceOverflowException); Ireland is changing. your welcome? &gt;Though reticent about his religious views, in 1879 he responded that he had never been an atheist in the sense of denying the existence of a god, and that generally "an Agnostic would be the more correct description of my state of mind."

From Wikipedia's page on [Religious views of Charles Darwin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religious_views_of_Charles_Darwin), citing the Darwin Correspondence Project.

&gt;In his autobiography written in 1876 Darwin reviewed questions about Christianity in relation to other religions and how "the more we know of the fixed laws of nature the more incredible do miracles become". Though "very unwilling to give up my belief", he found that "disbelief crept over me at a very slow rate, but was at last complete. The rate was so slow that I felt no distress, and have never since doubted even for a single second that my conclusion was correct."

From later down that page, citing to his *Autobiography.*
 My 8yo is a fan of "Family Circus."

(I know... I hope he grows out of it, but anyway...)

He noticed that the FC in last sunday's paper is a flat-out COPY of one in a book of collected comics from **1970**.

The artist/author redrew it in a new style, but kept the scene about IDENTICAL: bedroom with dresser, mirror, toys on dresser, pants over chair back, dog on floor... 

The innovative part? Instead of Dolly complaining about Jeffy putting snow down her dress, it was ice cubes. Thank you for posting this! It's really satisfying to see a public figure like Stephen Fry talk about God so eloquently like this because this is one of the main arguments I have against religion and why I would not want anything to do with worshiping an entity like "God." And hot bitches! -Honestly I wouldn't be surprised. And Tony Robbins is like a guru with a following, just Deepak is. They've got proverbial blood on their hands. My family all call me a know-it-all but you know what, I don't give a fuck. Utilizing this language is a challenging and fun undertaking. Peoples opinions are wind.  Grrr.


So then  you admit then, that proper learning conditions are needed and not just access to a library, which is the entire point Im making in response to your comment in rebuttal to a response boasting about better means for education? Same thing. Use one well placed word and you get called out for using it.  12? Hardly. There are like hundreds. I thought atheists claimed to be smarter than everyone else. Why would a god be beyond comprehension?  your icon's green! I think it is more of an explanation of why he doesn't believe. Because the concept is paradoxical.  There's no proof of the my little pony universe are you small minded for not entertaining that? Also I believe everyone has entertained the possibility of a God at one point.  Labelling is irrelevant, if it makes a medical claim, eg cures, relieves some symptoms, then it legally requires a DIN, making it a drug.  It matters not if it's for human consumption, same rules apply for animal products.   
Source: worked 15 years for multinational pharmaceutical contract manufacturer. so, whats to stop the sweet sweet honey of heaven from becoming sickeningly cloying in an eternity of happiness? Or are there random murders to remind people of how good they have it? &gt; I'm 20 and in my fourth year of mechanical engineering, I've jumped a grade, and completed IB Psychology and English (i.e. university level courses during high school for which you get credit). I would say I am a decently intelligent and rational human, yet I simply do not have a large enough vocabulary to express myself eloquently and intelligently, and often find myself stumbling to try to properly express what is in my head through the words at my disposal.

Yeah but you can build a robot, which is much cooler than being well-spoken. Yes of course, though I admit I entertain some notions that might be a bit silly, can dogs be racist or other such notions whilst driving somewhere. 

Standards for what I take seriously, yeah I think so. I also think that I'm pretty open to taking anything seriously, whether or not I act on it is another thing altogether. I take people imposing their will on others doing no harm in a violent manner seriously because they think God wants them to seriously. Point taken partially about the success or failure of the school system. However he was kicked out of school at 15 and at 17 had a run in with the law for theft of a credit card of a family friend. By all accounts he had completely turned his behavior around by the time he had reached adulthood and his college education by his own admission had a huge impact on his life. And as for being a casual drug user...a vast majority of us could have that levied against us, especially if we were going back to our teenage years to find incidences of drug use or experimentation. Unless he is an entirely different person today in real life than he appears in T.V., books, radio interviews, and the like, it seems a bit unfair to admonish a man in his 50's for his behavior as a teenager.  Agnostic is not a position, it's a measure of knowledge. Someone who is an agnostic flat earther thinks that the earth is flat but doesn't clain to know with certainty for example.  
You can't just say "I'm an agnostic": that is literally meaningless. I think that Philosophy is extremely valuable and encourage you to make a post in /r/philosophy stating your opinion on the subject, I'm sure you will learn a few things (if learning appeals to you that is) If you think that's bad I recommend that you do not check out kidnapped by Christ.  What if God just wants people to love life and themselves? If it was all *good* would we even know it? I always understood heaven to be dependent on our perspectives, which is formed on Earth. If our lives were all good, all the time, they would no longer be good. We wouldn't know the difference between good or bad because there would be no perspective. Right? &gt; Among other things, there are a number of people who believe that a god does exist.

Millions of children believe the same of the Tooth Fairy and Santa Claus. That doesn't lend their concepts any more credence than that of a god.

&gt; Provided that we have some non-zero confidence in the reasoning ability of the average human, the god claim has at least been elevated to our attention - yes, it's weird, and yes, it's unsupported, but it bears examining.

Then so do Tooth Fairies, Santa Clauses and anything else we might conjure up.

The fact that god concepts get special pleading is asinine. &gt; which denominations are you referring to?

Some of evangelical protestantism only, as I know. Again, you're only focusing on the suffering that you can observe yourself. Just like the child is only focusing on the pain in his arm. The child does not and cannot understand the complexities of immunity and vaccinations, just as we cannot understand the complexities of God and how He chooses to do things. 

Asking me to explain how God does good by allowing children to die of bone cancer is like a two-year old asking another two-year-old why the bad doctor hurts him. I don't know why God does what He does. I just know I'm too ignorant and limited to judge God based entirely on my experience and what I can see. LMAO!

"I know I made a tv somewhere around here. I distinctly remember smashing it with a mighty flood of blows with a baseball bat for being naughty, but I was pretty sure I replaced it....??"

&gt;Imagine a builder building a house. When he's finished building, sure, he's happy about the house, but he doesn't go back to every piece of cement and check on them regularly. 

Imagine a builder building a house he doesn't need to live in, and he builds it with perfection. Why would he need to ever visit the building at all? Bear in mind, this person - being the perfect builder - has a complete and perfect memory of the building (even *before* having built it).

Of course, since this builder must have the conception of what the perfect building is prior to ever having built it, and could imagine any and every detail with perfection. Why build it to begin with?

More to the point, if this builder can build a perfect building, why it make this shitty hovel we live in? Since there's no indication that this building even remotely approaches something built using intelligence, why would we assume there is some god somewhere who did not build it, but rather is sitting on it's imaginary toilet imagining some building around the imaginary toilet? Amen, brother. &gt;Standards for what I take seriously, yeah I think so.

Okay, so if there are things you don't take seriously because they don't meet these standards, why does a god claim meet them?

&gt;I also think that I'm pretty open to taking anything seriously, whether or not I act on it is another thing altogether.

So if I said that a gang of Spanish-speaking leprechauns that rides magical invisible alligators and lives on the other side of Neptune and controls our thoughts on Wednesdays, you're open to taking that seriously?

There's a saying that goes something like, "Be open minded, but not so open minded that your brain falls out." &gt;Its a historical fact there were a group of people called Christians.

Not according to your definition of the word Christian. You don't even use your own flawed definition but you want atheists to?  No thanks. Perhaps the idea of Santa Claus isn't confined to the fun myth children believe. I mean, what with all the supposed magic powers.

It can go both ways, and yet you're pretty certain 1 thing doesn't exist while able to entertain (seriously) the irrationality of the other despite them both being basically the same.

Special. Pleading. So if it's impossible to know anything why are you even bothering with a conversation about knowing if deities exist? The answer is a foregone conclusion to you. Huh? What do they believe in? So for me to have a stance I need to be able to provide definition without any ambiguity? I think I'd struggle to provide such a definition for everyday objects, let alone something such as God. 

The whole premise is based on the limits of human understanding, so if you're expecting a concise bullet point list spelling it out you're missing the point.  The reply to your argument is already in what Stephen Fry says.

If God is real, what he does, and what he is, is so appalling that I don't want to worship him. Even if he did create the universe etc.

It's the contrast between what he logically is, and how the religious describe him, that makes me convinced that he does not exist at all. Well as long as it's completed before the second coming of jesus it will be money well spent. Or sports events. I can't enjoy my sky cake if there is sky pie and sky baklava! Spaghetti monsters tho?  Without evil there can be no good. Without the choice to do wrong we cannot have the choice to do good. Evil is necessary for free will to exist. Everyone hates this answer, but truly love cannot exist without free will and free will does not exist without choice. Damn imagine how this would've gone if bill o'reilly was doing this interview. Stephen wouldn't be able to get a word in Not one penny. Then I will vote based on THOSE policies, which will likely not be secret. Well I have conversations about lots of things that don't have definite answers, they're often the best conversations :)

 &gt;For what it's worth, the bible's a bit more interesting than most people give it credit for.

Star Trek TNG is better. And JL Picard actually can be a role model. I go to /r/philosophy a lot, just to see if anything over there is worth reading, and most of it is pretty silly. For example, there are two posts on the front page right now about the "Problem of Induction." This "Problem" is a hypothetical that is just as silly as the brain in a vat argument. "Just because the laws of physics have held all this time doesn't mean they will tomorrow! Just because rocks fall every time we drop them doesn't mean they will tomorrow!" That's silly. People who take that seriously are silly. If we can't use observations about the world to come to conclusions about the world and call it "reality," what can we use? This is related to the impracticality of "100% certainty" as we discussed elsewhere in this thread. This video illustrates the exact problem I have with atheists. I believe most atheists think this way. I find this view ignorant, arrogant, and short-sighted.

1. He assumes God is some guy who is sitting around "deciding things." As if God was an old Jewish man in a workshop inventing parasites to 'eat the eyes of children,' or a mad scientist in a lab.

2. He thinks God wants to be worshipped for his own amusement and ego, rather than keeping humanity humble. In all fairness, the Bible flat out says God is a 'jealous' God... but then again, the bible was written by men.

3. He doesn't take into account that God didn't create something like 'bone cancer.' Maybe Satan created it? Maybe we created it? Obviously, God could stop it [if He did exist], but what if He doesn't stop these things because He is infinitely wise? What if you can't have life and death without cancer?

**To Summarize:** I don't have a problem when atheists like Christopher Hitchens say they don't believe in God because there is simply no scientific evidence. I think that's a legitimate opinion. I don't think it's 'legit' to say:

a. "I don't believe in God because I've figured out He is an idiot and a mad man and I am much smarter and morally superior to Him."

b. "I don't believe in God because religion is bullshit." I rememeber being forced to read the bible 3 times through when I was sick with UC. It was so boring and ridiculous. Even then I caught on to the contradictions, but "took it all by faiageith". Then an "overly christian" friend of my moms (that raised the youth pastor, and youth pastor's main assistant. And another son. Who "saved themselves" until marriage. 1 didnt even have a girlfriend until 33) had a greek mythology book. I borrowed books from her all the time so I took it. It was fun and enjoyable to read for a change. Especially as a 14year old or whatever. Then my mom told her friend how interested I was in it and if she had anymore and she responding with something like "Oh, no! I got that years ago due to needing to understand some type of teaching. It's *evil*! I can't believe you've let him read it. I should've thrown it away as soon as I was done!" So my mom, convinced it was written by the devil himself, burned it in a fire. Then scolded me for not telling her how "evil" it was.




Later on. after I grew up, I got to read more. But I always wished the bible was more like it They're cowards and liars.  They should fit right in with the rest of congress. Millions of *adults* believe in god.  Unless we have a comprehensive explanation* for why these people not only believe as they do, but can continue to believe even after subjecting their arguments to debate, it seems reasonable to assume that this claim is at least worth examining, if not more credible.

* And no, "they're all idiots" is not a comprehensive explanation.  A hypothesis that explains how otherwise intelligent people can believe would be a start. Life is neither soft nor hard, evil or good, easy or difficult. Life is the refinery of the soul and the experience of the individual varies in the refinement process. Demanding that we all get a soft life of happiness and contentment does not forge quality souls anymore than that type of softness forges good and sturdy people capable of rational thought and practical action.

Fry's argument falls flat because he attaches softness to god and expects favour instead of the forge that life is.
 as an optimistic plumber, eat more fibre and don't worry I'm sure one will turn up any second now. Elisha and Elijah story.  Brilliant! I don't have an answer for you. I'm an ignorant 2-year-old compared to God's infinite Doctorate in Medicine, just like you. You asking me is like a child asking another child to explain why the bad doctor causes his arm to hurt. To a child the shot serves no other purpose than pain either, because that's all the child can understand and it's what the child experiences. Another child isn't going to be able to make him understand the complexities of immunity and vaccinations. We're in the same boat vis a vis God. It's not out of enlightenment or knowledge that we question God's motives; it's out of ignorance and our limited capacity to understand the nature of God that we declare that he is not worthy of respect or worship. The word "atheism" doesn't hold any word view in it, so no one can represent atheism. &gt;However, I feel that Agnostic is the only real position that one can have and actually make sense.

I feel so too, but the thing is you can't just be "agnostic". You're either a theist or an atheist. Agnostism comes after that, not as a sole "label". This is a simple yes or no question, how strongly you might believe plays no role.

&gt;I feel that religious texts are a reflection on the people who read it, just like a mirror.

But that's not what the texts themselves say.

&gt;I doubt anyone has studied ethics enough to have a handle on what's objectively right and wrong.

Nobody has, since the whole concept is subjective dy definition.

&gt;And the whole point of the Atheist argument seems to stress that there's no evidence.

Yes, that's pretty much what atheism means: rejecting a claim (of a god) that has no proof of any kind behind it.

&gt;there's surely not enough evidence to say definitely that there's no God.

That's why nobody claims there's no god of any kind. But you're just shifting the burden of proof here. I'd think you're better than that.

&gt;religion isn't really equal to God IMO.

So claiming there's a god wouldn't mean there's a god? That doesn't really make any sense. I don't have an answer for you. I'm an ignorant 2-year-old compared to God's infinite Doctorate in Medicine, just like you. You asking me is like a child asking another child to explain why the bad doctor causes his arm to hurt. To a child the shot serves no other purpose than pain either, because that's all the child can understand and it's what the child experiences. Another child isn't going to be able to make him understand the complexities of immunity and vaccinations. We're in the same boat vis a vis God. It's not out of enlightenment or knowledge that we question God's motives; it's out of ignorance and our limited capacity to understand the nature of God that we declare he's a monster and that He cannot be good and moral. I didn't know off the top of my head, but others answered here.  John Darby in the 1800's basing it from a few lines from the bible. Gay Byrne got fried! I graduated from an IB school myself, and along with the advice you've gotten here, I'll add: write. I know, I know, that terrible suffering at the end of IB makes you never want to write again, but do it anyway. I've written two actual books so far, both in the fiction and non-fiction realms, and it definitely helps.

Staring at a thesaurus, trying to find *just the right word* for something you want to express, definitely has an appreciable impact. I wrote through IB, above and beyond what the requirements demanded. Poems, short stories, diatribes, rambling, you name it. Many of the results of that dabbling have persisted, even if the original impetus has faded with time.

If nothing else, it builds a convincing facade. My wife always tells me I'm one of the smartest people she knows, even though she's getting her Ph.D. soon, and I'm a lowly IT guy. What she doesn't know won't hurt her. ;) &gt;I've never voted (28 next week) so I'm part of the problem. 

So... What are you planning on doing about that? In UK he is a national treasure. The article, as written, makes Moore seem like the straw atheist most people assume exist as the majority: people embittered by misfortune, who proceed to blame and hate god, and thus choose not to believe in Him out of spite.

I'm sure Moore's stance is more nuanced  she is briefly quoted about imposing artificial order on the world  but the author did her an injustice with this summary. No, it's an adult asking a child. 

You do not want to know, because that would inevitably lead to the conclusion that your god is a monster unworthy of worship. So in order to preserve your delusion you pretend you do not understand it.  It's on an individual level. And that's nearly impossible to codify. It's meeting the bare-minimum needs for *an* individual to have a meaningful learning experience.

'proper learning conditions', I'm not even going there.

Proper learning conditions, for me, are:

- the family does not live in abject poverty

- the living environment is (reasonably) safe

- parents are available and stimulate a good attitude towards learning

- the child gets very many impulses to learn, is taught how to learn and gets routine follow-up on progress

- sufficient materials are available to have a meaningful pedagogic impact

- the school environment is as free from impediments to learning as  is possible (sufficient funding, good teachers, safe environment, good teaching methods)

- the child can interact with other learners in their peer group and they stimulate each other to learn as much as possible

Those, for me, are proper learning conditions. I'm not even touching that.

My idea is that the child, through literally whatever means possible, finds a way to do a minimum of learning at least, no matter how bad their personal situation is. Lots of kids will sadly never get there. Access to a library might be the last, precarious toehold they can reach to find a pause of inner quiet to feed the mind. 

 Except in the case of GOd, it's not that it doesn't have a definite answer, it's that there's essentially nothing to talk about.

"What if a god exists?"

"Oh, cool, let's talk about that! Well, what would properties of this god be?"

"I dunno, it's beyond our comprehension."

"....okay....."

"Good talk." I should also say that many (most?) Christians do not believe that the rapture will happen.  It makes for good TV so televangelists tend to go this route. I'm not sure what kind of God you think that I'm putting forward here. I'm certainly not an advocate for the practices of most religions, It just doesn't make sense to me. But the idea of there being a something else, another plane of consciousness or understanding, even life form, yeah, I think that could be the case. I'm not going to start wearing tie dye t-shirts and cotton trousers for it, but the certainty of those who say that there isn't such entities because they haven't seen them doesn't make sense to me. 

 "Essentially beyond comprehension" seems a lot like an attempt to avoid addressing the argument.  It is possible to hypothesize gods that are beyond comprehension - "this god acts totally randomly and in ways that are undetectable by definition" - but it is also pointless to speculate about such entities, as we can learn nothing about them and, indeed, it doesn't really matter if they exist.

Much like the hypothesis "there is an invisible, intangible, inaudible dragon in my garage", the hypothesis "there is an undetectable god" is pointless, unprovable, and totally irrelevant to human experience. He may have in opening chapter of God is not great. Need to check but can't be arsed. The difference here is that claiming any gods exist as real self aware entities is not a philosophical claim.  If you claim it affects reality in any way, it becomes a testable, measurable claim.  The utter absence of any evidence for a god and the inability for believers to describe so much as one testable attribute for said being allows us to write it off as existing in any practical manner.  I have no problem with deists for that reason.  A god that started the universe but has not interfered since that time is effectively nonexistent. Some say the Greeks wrote/composed the new testament circa 325 and started enforcing it to people.  This is so satisfying. Imagine the feeling of the patient who just got a 19 cm worm removed from his eye. The cake is a lie I think the question here is, "How much more eloquent could he be?" And the answer is "none. None more eloquent." I read a lot of fantasy and non-fiction adventure, but I absolutely was entranced by Ender's Game.  Care to share some of your favourite Science Fiction novels? I just finished a book I need some new ones to pick up!
 Souls don't exist and life is not a forge.   This Kong's one hell of a guy! ^^HUH!  Does it take American Express? That's quite some statements and opinions for someone who is claiming to be too stupid  (as we all are, apparently) to have an open dialogue about the god concept. I guess this is the end of all discussio then. Wouldn't want to be ignorant and keep thinking about the logic of it all. I'm too hurrdurr to think for myself.  Looks like sombody wrote in god we trust afterwards as it doesnt quite follow the design :S  (just my opinion plz dont downvote me) Absolutely love him! Admonish? I am very, very jealous of Stephen Fry's adolescence and college years. :U &gt;I think I'd struggle to provide such a definition for everyday objects

What? You wouldn't know how to describe a television, or a lamp, or a taco?

&gt;So for me to have a stance I need to be able to provide definition without any ambiguity?

I never said that. Just give us some properties of what a "god" would entail, even if you are not describing every single attribute of this thing with 100% accuracy. How can we have a discussion about something that hasn't even begun to be defined? What's the difference between discussing "a god" and discussing "a forthngnaxxth," if we haven't even begun defining either one? /r/atheism/wiki/gems He has bipolar disorder which was a big influence on his formative years.  I can't help but imagine how rich I'd be if I could somehow convince the religious to spend it on me. &gt;So if I said that a gang of Spanish-speaking leprechauns that rides magical invisible alligators and lives on the other side of Neptune and controls our thoughts on Wednesdays, you're open to taking that seriously?


Well yeah, it doesn't really affect me does it? I wouldn't believe it, and if you said "Oh I was talking to the leprechauns and they want you to give me some money" I want a damn site more that your word. This is a real problem with religion, I don't support that in any sense. But it's a separate issue to God. Also, I'd probably encourage you to look into the reasons that you believe in these Spanish-speaking leprechauns. 

The more I read "Spanish-speaking leprechauns that rides magical invisible alligators and lives on the other side of Neptune and controls our thoughts on Wednesdays" the more I kind of like it though ha.  Just waiting for that generation to die out really. There is a massive chasm between my grandparents and my parents (who are in their 50s) in terms of their mindset. Ireland went from being a very poor country to hugely rich (only to lose it all again) all in the space of a generation. People in their 20s, 30s, 40s, and even some older than that tend to be very liberal and not at all religious. We have a very high level of university education too which has contributed towards that greatly. The older generations tend to be the ones most interested in politics and their the big voters so that's who the politicians are catering for. Also, our politicians are complete cowards when it comes to change. The country is crying out for referendums on gay marriage and abortion but they keep putting it off because they don't want to anger any one group. 
 I was a virgin until 30, until I get married. I have a lot of friends who are same. Because in our culture, sex before marriage is not a virtue. None of us went out of control around women. 

If somebody cannot control their sexual desire, they have bigger issues than phedophiliya. &gt;  another plane of consciousness or understanding, 

What does this mean? 

&gt;even life form

What would make another life form a "god" instead of just an alien?

 In my analogy, a divine entity like God is the adult, and we humans are children. You asking me to explain is like a child asking a child to justify the actions of an adult.

So unless you're an all-powerful and all-knowing being, you don't qualify as an adult within the analogy. You're just another limited and ignorant child like me asking me to explain why the doctor does things that make you hurt and then calling me a "poopy head" when I simply reply, "I don't know why, but he says it's for our good." I feel ya, I don't believe in worship.

Worship and Belief are different. Gods can be real, just like the flying spaghetti monster. Belief doesn't change that, it just attempts to affirm it.

I believe: worship eventually invokes quasi-psychological(meta-physical) voids within the mind(soul). These voids require more worship to fill them, but will not dissolve unless remedied otherwise.

The size, count and severity of such voids can all be exacerbated with continuous malpractice of worship. Eventually, the worship becomes an addition of the mind. 

These people stricken with such voids become addicted to worship. They feel like there is nothing but emptiness to the world when the idol which they worship is taken from them. 

They will fight and destroy existence itself to force their idol back into reality so they may worship again. A void is endless by nature, no matter how small, and can eventually consume the mind whole.

Religions of Worship (a.k.a. all religions) require an exit strategy to safely heal such voids. If one is freed otherwise, we end up merely liberating people into emptiness.

But... this active-existence and our localized-reality is far from empty. The voids in their hearts merely be filled with the real and the spirits that we can generate and harness both within us and from the people around us. Well this is the same as me not allowing Girls into my Club (policy was changed later on, Girls can join my Club).. but nothing was stopping me when i was younger from not allowing Girls in my Club when i was 7.

Tought today i only allow Girls in my Club and no guys.

Times change, whatever Works for the business Works, and i assume this is a private Company so why should anyone else have a Word in what customers it wants to have. /r/atheism/wiki/comingout Since September or August I think. Also I've been going to Socrates Cafe on Mondays. A few other people from LAAF go there. classic Stan Yeah. Not only that, but your imagined scenario makes sense to me; if science and rationality were coveted then smart, scientifically minded folks would have more offspring as they would be a more desirable mate. Their kids would be smarter than average and so on. Evolution and our ability to artificially select would come into play and the species would get smarter. Even just looking at averages and probability your scenario makes sense; look at all the women who, as a result of religion, are denied education. If all those minds were harnessed and put to good use, which a society that held science and rationality in high esteem would naturally do, the sheer number of minds working on our problems would increase substantially and we all know that, like with typical R&amp;D, the more resources we're able to devote to solving a problem, the faster it will be solved. Haha. That'd be the greatest thing to use at a party, if I were ever invited to a party, or ever invited to a party where I could use a line like that. But seriously, that's brilliant.  Accept my challenge to battle *this instant* or you will never make it to Valhalla! He's a maniac, maniac on the floor

And he's smiting like he's never smote before

He's a maniac, maniac on the floor

And he's smiting like he's never smote before



As soon as he said "He's a maniac" I immediately heard this in my head.

*edited for formatting  Actually, Im from Galveston. The distant second place when it comes to mardi gras.  Worse than "The Interview"?  Related subject found after the fact? sure. Part of the original post? No. 

I could find religious nuts against anything if I put my mind to it.  I know a lot of you might look at Gay Byrne from a foreign perspective based on that uncomfortable reaction and think that he must be the stereotypical old bigoted Irish man but you'd be wrong.

He is responsible for so much social change in this country that I can only ever respect him. He put gays on his show (a show that most weeks was watched by about a 1/3 of Ireland's population) in the 1980s - when sodomy was still illegal in Ireland - and presented them as real people and let them confront the small minded people in the audience. Now 71% of Ireland's population say they're going to vote yes in May to marriage equality.  

He talked about abortion, divorce and criticised the Catholic Church in the 1970s. His influence was one of the first things that made us wake up from our collective conservative, religious trance from the previous 60 years and he is not the man he comes across in this video.

In fact, this show is brilliant. He talks to all kinds of international celebrities about their beliefs (no matter how whacky) and respects them and doesn't try to debate them. It's a show I can't imagine you could put on prime time tv in the States. &gt;There are undoubtedly good things in them just as there are monstrosities. The reader chooses which of these they want to live their life by

That's not true. There could be a religion with purely nice things written in their books, or purely horrible things. It's completely arbitrary. That's the problem.

Every monstrosity is a monstrosity that's unnecesarrily harmful. And every good thing is something that ought to be accepted on non-magical grounds. Is it? Have you any links to that? There seem to be a few definitions but It seems that my use of it is generally supported. Cheers I'm bisexual and my entire family is completely accepting of my fianc and me (we are both women). However, I'm afraid to tell them I'm an atheist because I think they would disown me.  
&gt;* And no, "they're all idiots" is not a comprehensive explanation.  A hypothesis that explains how otherwise intelligent people can believe would be a start.
 

That can be explained by 2000 years of indoctrinating every available person with one of humanity's most insidious and resilient memes. Teach them young so they don't doubt. Teach everybody to create a culture where belief is normal and expected. Forbid questions to keep it unopposed. Consider religion to be a large-scale, long-term *brainwashing* project and a lot can be explained. 
 I guess I would wonder what you mean by "taking it seriously." To me, "taking it seriously" would mean "considering it a legitimate possibility."

But, in regards to the topic, are you agnostic about these leprechauns in the same way you're agnostic about God? If not, why not? Neither one can be known with 100% certainty, after all. Interesting fella. But I don't want to be a cynic when it comes to Mardi Gras. Cynicism is for the rest of the year. as long as said robot is not voice activated, then there could be a problem. Thanks for the suggestion, just posted there. Umm, well I've entertained it just now, how long I've given the matter is a different matter I guess. I would say that being so specific about something so abstract might be a possible flaw, and that it might make more sense to scale it back to the investigation of other universes before claiming anything about a my little pony universe.  &gt; The problem occurs though when you tell someone that they can not have said belief (as long as its not detrimental to others, like actually believing in killing ppl just for the sake of doing so and breaking laws of common societal shit), and that what they believe is wrong and should change.

But we're still at that point. They typically aren't behaving properly. In many states we're still recovering from the recent spate of laws (passed by majorities) making gay marriage and even civil unions illegal. In Russia, it's worse and it's praised by the Orthodox. I'm sure as the "war with Islam" heats up, we'll see more frantic nonsense - at least the spotlight won't be on the gays.

At some point in the future when their beliefs are harmless, we might need to talk about toleration. When we've had a chance to breathe, then we'll talk. But for the moment, no - they're still trying to impose their vision of reality on the rest of us and nothing like toleration is sensible. If your current situation allows for it, you might consider making a move. I'm sure living in another, less "god-fearing" area, would greatly reduce your stress about this. 

Here's a recent post that might help:  
http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2tys56/the_most_and_least_religious_places_in_america/ First off, in the supposed heaven, Our emotions are gone, we are gone, Our objective is just to praise the lord forever and ever, while we are in a state of absolute happyness forever, not careing for anything exept worshipping.

And that seems like a fitting ending to the Earth life were we must praise him, and live by his vauge laws (that we dont realy do, sabbath anyone?, OT laws? and so on).. but the god only wants those who are absolute gullable, take it completely on faith. [Link to post](http://www.reddit.com/r/ireland/comments/2u5ael/stephen_fry_on_god_the_meaning_of_life_rt%C3%A9_one/) I have a very close friend that is a believer. On the whole he is a great guy but due to some circumstances during his life he has decided to believe in a sky fairy. We in no way agree on everything and he has some ideas I find repulsive but that all makes for some truly wonderful "discussions". While I am confident he will never change his mind that doesn't mean I'm not going to occasionally give it a red hot go :-). The same goes for him to me. There was a time when we car pooled to work, 1.5 hours each way, and with discussions like gay marriage and abortion the last .5 of an hour was sometimes in silence.....that didn't mean we didn't started it all over again next trip :-) Life is a forge for many things beyond the soul. This is a figurative statement.
If we even look at the practical chemistry and physics of things.
We have:

Matter changes but energy is never lost. - This is a fact. You, as a human being go through physical change as far as your matter is concerned, but your energy is in fact, never lost. This is the physics.

Creation(birth), growth, entropy, destruction, transformation. - This is the chemical process and truth of your physical being as well.

It is not a far leap to understand the mind and soul within the vessel of your body.

You may of course believe what you like, but the physics and chemistry of the reality of each of us as individuals is difficult to deny as it is observed, quantified and qualified over and over again throughout time.
 Millions of adults believed that the earth was the center of the universe.  Millions of adults believed that killing women who had never had sexual intercourse would please god.  Millions of adults believe that one group, their group, had special dispensation from god.  The number of people who "believe" something is not relevant to its veracity. If you tithe to your church isn't that tax deductible? Probably just a misunderstanding on my part about the nature of the post. It appeared to me to try and link his teenage self with a man of almost 60. I think your point about the success or failure of the school system is well made. The school system did not overcome whatever it was that drove his destructive behavior early in life however it was schooling in the form of college that seemed to begin to nurture the desire for knowledge and curiosity about the world that he tended within himself.  &gt; So using your definition, and from my perspective, Christianity is evil. 

I would not disagree here.

&gt; Your god hides jewelry in a secret place and beats my kids if they couldnt locate it when asked. God has all the answers  we do not. And yet we can be punished eternally for giving the wrong answer to the god question. Watching people go through mental loop de loops of justifying this makes me understand how good people can stand idly by why humans are thrust into ovens in concentration camps. We as a species create incredible justifications for the most unjustified things.

&gt; I hope you find what you're looking for, I really do. Perhaps consider it's not with Jesus. 

I'm an atheist. I'm not sure what gave you the impression I was a theist, let alone a Christian. OP does not make an "if...then" claim. He/she throws out a simple "imagine if" scenario. Your friend's "composition fallacy" does not apply.  Why is there never any News about Christians who kill or bomb or whatever they do. As someone who was once very religious, I tend to see the origins of religion as nothing more than people coming together to try and best describe the world around them. I don't think it started out as something malevolent.

Like your example, people realized that pigs just weren't safe to eat with their methods. Someone may have inferred that pigs are just 'unclean' and this was because the gods said so, just as the gods told the sun to rise and set and the seasons to change. Of course, eventually, people found out how useful religion was for control over others, Wow, this is a great reply. Really top notch stuff. Perhaps you are the saint I should honor: Saint Ontas of r/atheism, the wise and thorough.  &gt; But the idea of there being a something else, another plane of consciousness or understanding, even life form, yeah, I think that could be the case.

If the definition you are using has nothing to do with the widely accepted concepts of god, why are you clinging to use this label, it is just misleading. As an Atheist you are perfectly fine to say, there is a lot of stuff we don't know (yet) and may never know. Calling yourself an Atheist is also just a reaction to a positive claim. In general it means rejecting the god of Abrahamic religions (that intervenes and listens to prayer), if someone defines the universe as god, sure I believe in his god, but it is a silly god, because his only purpose is to replace a label that needs no replacement. 

 I told I my friend that last night. Agnosticism is for people that don't want to say *it* yet or are too lazy to do the research. I have finally found a subreddit of likeminded people. Jesus Christ, I live this sub. I think you're misguided in how valuable your perspective is on the conversation between atheists and theists. The point of contention is not the matter of living in a shared reality; that's actually the common ground (for the majority of conversations that I've seen.) So you offering the very well-known 'we can't know anything' perspective is actually a step backwards in the dialogue and the thing that makes it annoying to me is the frequency of it happening when talking about deities. Read the FAQ,  being an atheist doesn't necessarily mean you think you know there is no God It might not be eventually. I mean, perhaps the fact we're discussing it means that it is to a certain extent? But I don't think that we can currently I'm not saying we can't have a dialogue about the "god concept." I'm strictly saying it's position of ignorance and immaturity to judge God and declare Him evil, immoral and/or not worthy of worship because we can observe and don't understand suffering. 

I don't mind people discussing whether or not God exists, whether there is proof of Him or whether He was simply a way for primitive man to explain natural phenomena. I usually don't reply to r/atheist posts because they're usually just a matter of opinion.

But assuming there is a God (which is what the interviewer asked Frye), I think it's naive and arrogant for him and others to have righteous indignation toward God because, in their limited view of everything, they don't like what they see and make sweeping conclusions based on incomplete data. Lol shes the ideal true Atheist according to christian, due she hates god (she still belives in him) so i Guess shes a Theist Atheist :) &gt;a comprehensive explanation.

Indoctrination, wishful thinking, groupthink, confirmation bias; all motivated by a desire for it to be true. 

As far as evidence or actual reasoning go, nothing. Absolutely everyone on earth suffers. Everyone. And god made it that way, if he exists. I think that calls for some anger or at least an explanation.  I just wonder if anyone tried to retort with something like "Well, just sell half your building!.." Well only those that prove themself in combat may be chosen by a Valkyrie to become a enherjar to help in the Battle of ragnarok. Maybe Johnny Carson? I feel like all the talk show hosts that came after him still pay him homage, and none of them have really come to singlehandedly personify the genre as he did.  There's actually not much evidence of early Hebrew tribes being any healthier than their neighbors for not eating pig. Which "The Interview"?

* The Interview (II) (2014) Rating: 7.0/10
* The Interview (1998) Rating: 7.5/10
* The Interview (I) (2011) (Short) Rating: 8.7/10
* Interview (I) (2007) Rating: 6.9/10
* The Interview (I) (2013) Rating: 5.4/10
* Interview (2003) Rating: 7.0/10
* The Interview (VIII) (2012) Rating: 6.6/10

Keep in mind the lowest rating is 1, so it's not really out of 10, it's -1 from how it's rated, out of 9.

It doesn't matter though. The answer is yes, it's worse.

* Saving Christmas (2014) Rating: 1.5/10

Setting yourself on fire and sitting in a metal folding chair to watch yourself burn in front of a full length mirror is more enjoyable than this film. And more convincing that there is a god. Energy is not a thing, it is a property of things. Energy is defined as the potential of a physical system to perform work. 

There is nothing beyond the material. 

Souls do not exist.  Mr. Deity did a great serious comedy sketch on free will about this: http://youtu.be/vWpO_dymCZ8  

The writers are so intelligent even I don't get all the subtle jokes in all the episodes. Yeah, I don't live my life to any thought of what a God would want me to. I just go about my business and generally try to be nice I guess.  Sweet, I went to the meetup with the former minister in November but wasn't able to go again until recently due to school and work eating up my time but now that I only have two classes and a grad project left I should have more than enough time to be a regular attendee thankfully!  What's the Socrates Cafe like?  I saw it a couple days ago but didn't really look into it.  Is it similar to Wednesday meetings where you just sit down and talk casually or is it more structured like Sundays or monthly meetings? Well, here's the first definition from Google:

* a person who believes that nothing is known or can be known of the existence or nature of God or of anything beyond material phenomena;

This can apply to both theists and atheists; that they can believe or disbelieve in a god, but don't claim to *know* for a *fact* that it does or doesn't exist.

* a person who claims neither faith nor disbelief in God.

This is incoherent. Belief is binary; either you hold a belief or you don't. To say you don't believe something but you also don't *not* believe something is like saying you aren't holding a bag of chips right now but you also aren't *not* holding a bag of chips right now. It's one or the other. Yup... A lot more successful in fishing money from their neighbours' pockets. Just like Jesus wanted. =P

And no, they're not obligated to use money however I see fit, but I think they are obligated to spend it according to their holy books... &gt; It's meeting the bare-minimum needs for an individual to have a meaningful learning experience.

Well then you're ignoring food shelter, a proper home life, being vague with defining meaningful etc. 


No matter how you phrase it, library is not an acceptable response particularly given the context in which you commented it given that it was about learning to  a higher level than normal. No, you don't get to call me a child when I attempt to explain something and you refuse to understand it because you do not want to damage your belief that fairy tales are really real.  &gt; I'm not sure what kind of God you think that I'm putting forward here. 

*Any* god.

&gt; I'm certainly not an advocate for the practices of most religions, It just doesn't make sense to me.

Cool, I just add whatever deity you've tailor made to your own personal specifications on top of that pile. 

&gt;  But the idea of there being a something else, another plane of consciousness or understanding, even life form, yeah, I think that could be the case.

No evidence for any of the first 2, however the math does support the chance that there is life on other worlds in some form.

&gt;  I'm not going to start wearing tie dye t-shirts and cotton trousers for it, but the certainty of those who say that there isn't such entities because they haven't seen them doesn't make sense to me.

Same with Santa Claus and the Tooth Fairy then.  What he says and what his views show is 2 different things. You have to understand that he's 1.) American 2.) a public figure who is trying to 3.) Promote science to 4.) Those who are least likely to adopt it. Given that his goal is make science more "cool" and accepted, he has to be careful about what he says. The word atheist is very taboo in the US, so it would be suicide for his career to claim that he is one. He's got nothing to gain by saying it and he would only alienate his following. He would immediately lose lots of his following because it would become "about science vs. religion" as opposed to "science is implicitly good and here's why." The latter is the dialogue he's trying to foster. But he's repeatedly claimed (in as nice a way as possible) that he believes the Bible, the Quran, etc. are all full of inaccuracies. He's done this while praising Christian and Muslim scientist. So you see, he's being political and SMART. But if you were to look at what he actually believes, it's crystal clear that he's closer to the "atheist" side of agnosticism more than the "theist" side.  [Well I never.](http://i.imgur.com/QNueqNQ.gifv) Drove his car over a bridge and had his girlfriend in the trunk, and she was pregnant with his kid. they don't make tv like that anymore. bah humbug etc. etc. My dollar bill has it there too. Exactly. He is just responding to the question with an explanation of his belief, rather than really answering the question itself.  I found God  today (not jesus).

Im not kidding, it was a image of GOD himself on my toast!

The evidence is gone, due i ate it. More importantly, read out loud... get the feel for the words in your mouth. I made the mistake of reading hundreds of books in silence, for years. Then, when I spoke the words that I hadn't spoken aloud, they felt alien in my mouth. If you come across new words that you haven't seen before, or words that you've read 100s of times, but haven't said out loud, then speak them out loud, put them into random sentences. Then, the next time you use them, they'll easily come to you in conversation, and you won't stumble while looking for the right word.  So what you're essentially saying is that the less defined something is, the more seriously we should take the claim?

Do you also realize tat the less defined something is, the less coherent it is?

What if I asked you if you believe a glorgnux exists?

You'd say, "Well what is that?" 

And I'd say, "Oh, well it's beyond our comprehension."

What good is the concept of a glorgnux, then? What does it mean? Of what use is having the discussion now? &gt; Ironically, school seems to be the one place where people encounter the most hostility towards expressions of intelligence, whether overt or reserved.

That's simply aggressive jealousy. When some individuals are unable to perform mentally and or physically they will scoff and attempt to belittle the subject to person excelling.

... or to put it in basic terms ... they hate you cause they ain't you. "In physics, energy is a property of objects, transferable among them via fundamental interactions, which can be converted into different forms but not created or destroyed."

Is the word "soul" offensive to you? Would you rather use scientific terminology to describe what you really are?

IE: energy is a property of your physical body. It is converted in the same way that your matter decays, but is never destroyed.

Soul is not consciousness. Consciousness is acquired through physicality. the jug that contains the water, defines the shape the water will adhere to, until the jug is transformed to dust and the water returns to the flow.

A soul is merely that property. &gt; Millions of adults believe in god.

A concept no less ridiculous than Santa Claus or the Tooth Fairy.

&gt; Unless we have a comprehensive explanation* for why these people not only believe as they do, but can continue to believe even after subjecting their arguments to debate, it seems reasonable to assume that this claim is at least worth examining, if not more credible.

Why? Again, their gods inhabit the same plane of absurdity as childhood fairy tales. How is their myth more substantial or worthy of examination?

&gt; And no, "they're all idiots" is not a comprehensive explanation. A hypothesis that explains how otherwise intelligent people can believe would be a start.

Compartmentalization, fear of death, need for hierarchy, myth indoctrination etc etc... all easily explained psychological impulses. Actually isn't the major flaw with the Satan argument that Satan himself is God's creation? If God is both omniscient and omnipotent, then you must consider that God created the angels. Lucifer the fallen angel rebelled against God. He saw God as a tyrant. Well God would have known exactly what creating him would do. He would know exactly what Lucifer would be like, how he would feel, and what he would do. And if he's omnipotent then he should be able to destroy Lucifer just as easily. But apparently he hasn't and is content to let him run free and be the source of all evil.

If he didn't know what Lucifer would be then he's not omniscient. If he can't stop Lucifer then he's not omniscient. If he's neither omniscient nor omnipotent then he is not Godly. If he's both then he's wicked.

This is why you have the cop out answer "God moves in mysterious ways." It's there because you can't reconcile these points logically.

Milton's 'Paradise Lost' has a beautiful portrayal of Lucifer. Lucifer as a character is much more inspiring, and human, and flawed, and understandable than God. God is completely unrelatable. 

Some of the gems attributable to Lucifer from Paradise Lost:

Better to reign in Hell, than to serve in Heaven.
-Basically one of Christopher Hitchen's main objections to monotheism. The idea that if it was true, it would mean the ruin of human dignity. It's total negation. That we are nothing more than slaves, despicable wretches that are created sick and commanded to be well, and in failing to do so we are condemned, hopelessly with no chance of retaliation or defense. We are doomed.

Who overcomes
By force, hath overcome but half his foe. 
Again on that point, that God has only 'defeated' Lucifer to the extent of his banishment. His mind and spirit are indomitable and he'll never accept tyranny.

Questioning the circumstances of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden:
Knowledge forbidden?
Suspicious, reasonless. Why should their Lord
Envy them that? Can it be a sin to know?
Can it be death? 
He detests the principle that we creatures (humans) should be mindless - the exact thing religion asks us to be. It insists we should surrender our minds, discard what we already know, give up the one thing that elevates us above animals, the best thing we have, in order to be unquestioning and faithful to God. 

The Paradise Lost Lucifer is an amazing literary figure and is so sympathetic. He gives epic speeches and will win you over. Definitely the most difficult book I've ever read. The language is so old that it requires a huge amount of work to get through but God damn is worth it. cheers Before you spend the next few months reading *Catcher in the Rye*, *War and Peace*, and *A Tale of Two Cities*, remember that the average bloke communicates at a 10th grade level.

In other words, know your audience. Wonderful, just wonderful. That's why I love Mr Fry; so eloquent, thoughtful and a beautifully reasoned argument.   I'm sure those guys will make an epic out of your life story... Your idea that 'some kids do, some kids don't, oh well' smacks of a severe ignorance of educational systems and the factual impact of extra-curricular circumstances. 

It's more important that kids have encouragement, support, challenges, adult role models, clear goals, and peers with similar advantages, than if they have some innate drive to educate themselves. That is an absurdly unrealistic expectation of people, and I can only assume willfully ignorant of the fact that environment, background, parental involvement, and poverty are, by a wide margin, more important than whether or not some kid 'wants it enough.' That seems to be your fundamental argument here. 

No, there is no gold standard that will help 100% of children succeed. But to point at an outlier who achieves despite poverty or a missing father, and to malign kids who don't do the same, is woefully misunderstanding the relevant issues in public education.  considering how almost everyone there disagreed with the method, no they don't at all. I think you're the illiterate one here Idaho has more Mormons per capita than Utah. Here's the Mormon corridor, affectionately known as Morridor to exmo's.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mormon_Corridor That's not what's being discussed right now. What's being discussed right now is if there's any reason to take the god claim more seriously than claims that leprechauns exist. Are you agnostic about leprechauns who control our thoughts?  How in the HELL have I never seen this show before? Here on reddit too.

/r/Iamverysmart Yeah this is why I was skeptical about religion as well. I talked to a priest about this issue and he said something like men brought misery upon themselves and if they have stayed in the garden everything would be perfect... lol Some good info about problems with Mormonism: 

Heres the links to the essays released from November 2013 - October 2014. They are all, as you can see from the links, on lds.org. If, after reading these, you feel like exploring some of these problems more I recommend cesletter.com (not on lds.org)

If we have the truth, it cannot be harmed by investigation.
If we have not the truth, it ought to be harmed.
 President J. Reuben Clark 



First vision accounts: https://www.lds.org/topics/first-vision-accounts?lang=eng

Are Mormons Christian: https://www.lds.org/topics/christians

Race and the Priesthood: https://www.lds.org/topics/race-and-the-priesthood?lang=eng

Plural marriage and families in early Utah: https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-and-families-in-early-utah?lang=eng

Book of Mormon translation: https://www.lds.org/topics/book-of-mormon-translation?lang=eng

Book of Mormon and DNA studies: https://www.lds.org/topics/book-of-mormon-and-dna-studies?lang=eng

Becoming like God: https://www.lds.org/topics/becoming-like-god?lang=eng

Peace and violence among 19th century Latter Day Saints: https://www.lds.org/topics/peace-and-violence-among-19th-century-latter-day-saints?lang=eng

Translation and historicity of the Book of Abraham: https://www.lds.org/topics/translation-and-historicity-of-the-book-of-abraham

Plural marriage in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-in-the-church-of-jesus-christ-of-latter-day-saints?lang=eng

Plural marriage in Kirkland and Nauvoo: https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-in-kirtland-and-nauvoo?lang=eng

The Manifesto and the end of plural marriage: https://www.lds.org/topics/the-manifesto-and-the-end-of-plural-marriage?lang=eng
 "You too old to be believing in evolution with your stupid motherfucking ass"

"You could do a lot worse than Christianity"

It says "Certified Funny" - well, the certified part seems right. 
 What are you talking about? If Ireland was like that, and it's not the 1950s, so it isn't, then that would absolutely not be the reason they're like that. 
The reason Ireland was ever like that in the  first place was BECAUSE of the UK. If you knew anything about why Ireland was so staunchly catholic in the first place then you'd know it was because nobody was going to let a bunch of murderous foreigners dictate Irish life at every single level. Said foreigners tried to destroy every aspect of Irish culture over centuries and as soon as the church of england was invented for a fat king's selfish reasons they tried to eradicate Catholicism too in Ireland as well as in the UK. It was made illegal to practice it at anytime or anywhere so people had to do it in secret. It was also illegal for Irish people to learn, believe it or not, and it also had to be done in secret. It was oppression on a huge scale because unlike other countries raped by the empire, Ireland was extremely hard to keep control of. So what they did, as was the "justification" of the first violent invasion by people from britian, was create lies and stereotypes which still survive today. This way they wouldn't have to feel so bad about the atrocities. Sound familiar? 

Now as soon as Ireland regained the freedom to live there was a huge resurgence of Irish language and culture and because religion was of the things people weren't allowed to express, the catholic church became an unfortunate powerhouse and then controlled virtually everything. But that was a very long time ago and the church doesn't control a thing anymore. The only people they still have any sway with are old people raised in that era and those few that genuinely believe. 

The people you think that are so anti religion because of Ireland know that Ireland isn't like that and are people who have formed their own independent, educated opinions, just like the people in Ireland do, But the stereotypes are apparently still alive and well and influencing those outsiders that are unable to do so themselves.


  Please answer my question. You seem to be implying that if a god exists, it is currently beyond our comprehension. Why would it be?

&gt;perhaps the fact we're discussing it means that it is to a certain extent? 

We discuss lots of things that we can comprehend. We can comprehend Santa Claus, who doesn't exist, and we talk about him. Why would a god be beyond our comprehension? Atheists don't make any claims beyond the definition of atheism. What's so bad about a church accepting science and progress? \s You've constructed your own, idiosyncratic definition of "Christianity" (one not shared by most of the English-speaking world), and now you're here to tell us that we'll be better understood by the masses if only we would adopt your definition... but you provide no evidence in support of that claim.

I remain unconvinced. Atheism is the only proper stance towards the existence of gods because it's unreasonable to believe that something exists until you have a good reason to. We use language to imperfectly abstract objects.  We know those abstractions aren't perfect.  "A man" only covers a few attributes of a male human but if I tell you that "A man is about to knock on your door" then you'll have a rough idea of what to expect.  You wouldn't expect to open your door and see an octopus, or a floating sphere.

So whether or not you can define a god perfectly isn't really the point.  You've obviously got some traits in mind for what a god is, just as "a man" tells you that something is human, adult, and male.  Figure out what those traits are, and list some of them.  What does it take for an entity to count as a god?

Keep in mind that there are many many definitions of gods.  Not just the classic definitions that correspond to beings of immense powers that treat mortals as their playthings.  Deistic gods, pantheistic gods, simulator gods, and the like don't have the same definitions.

Most atheists are fairly comfortable saying that for the broad swath of definitions, we don't believe any actually exist.  But a gnostic stance of being able to assert non-existence is usually reserved for particularly nonsensical definitions.  For instance, I believe all Abrahamic gods are logically impossible due to contradictions in their attributes as described by their dogma. Shame on you Atheists, you gave NOTHING!

This is a Photographic evidence that Christians gives more than Atheists!

Oh and Nihilists wins, we just give from pure love. Energy is not a thing, it is a property of things. It has no discreet existence.

The same as how red is not a thing but a property of things, how heavy is not a thing but a property of things and how tasty is not a thing but a property of things. 

Souls do not exist.  Its been over 8 hours, may I sit now? I'm with you on the 'we can't know everything' stance being frustrating. I sometimes have silly conversations with no belief behind them with friends that I'd never have in a formal or serious context, we both know I'm talking balls and we go along with it for the sake of it. 

More serious conversations with no absolute answer that I think are worth others time are ones around ethics and such. Old classic's like 'there's a tram heading for someone, do you pull the switch and have it kill one person or do nothing and have it kill 4' are interesting and I think healthy to think about. The idea of an absolute right / wrong is generally misguided. 

I think you're right about this stance potentially muddying the water in regards to religion, in that perhaps it comes across as 'softy softy don't hurt anyones feelings', which I don't really mean it to be. I don't think that major religions are right, I don't think that the way they live is healthy and certainly disagree with it having an impact on others. But I meant for this to be around the notion of God and to find others stances in regards to it rather than specifically about religion. 

Sorry If I've missed your point there :/  The call is seldom for proof. The call is primarily for evidence. One piece of evidence is enough to keep a hypothesis in play. None of that explains the eye-eating parasites or bone cancer. &gt; What if you can't have life and death without cancer?

I believe omnipotent God can make cancer a requirement for life and death. Actually, omnipotent God can create anything, the question is, why? Whatever is his goal, he can instantly reach it. And if he can, why he didn't? And if he did, what's happening now? Sorry forgot its not r/exmormon. True believing mormon. Where are you from? You're lack of knowledge on the subject of religion in Ireland and of gay Byrne and his trademark reactions is astounding.
 I'm sure you're right, but he hasn't made that point clearly. Atheists are going to hear that, but Christians won't. Consequently, I think this answer was poorly judged.

Of course we enjoyed it, so it's good for his brand and Stephen Fry,  Inc. I suspect he'll be happier with that outcome than changing anybody's mind.  I'm not really clinging to the label, I'm just saying that it's there and I can't really deny it. 

Generally I agree with your post though, perhaps a more appropriate label for myself would be Agnostic Atheist.  looks like a urin sample to me is it synthetic ? is that an environment fee ? [I think you may be right.](http://i.imgur.com/fcoEbbE.jpg) http://lmgtfy.com/?q=kempt Everyone on earth also feels happy at some point.  Everyone.

Absolutely everyone on earth is gifted with consciousnesses, everyone.

There isn't much that separates us from the rocks and trees, yet we are blessed still.

Negative aspects of existence do not completely negate the good things.

Also, why do we deserve an explanation?  Why do we have a right to be angry?  Does a cockroach deserve an explanation as to why we squish them.  Do weeds have a right to anger when we pull them?

The problem with you line of thinking is that it assumes people can understand God's reasoning.  No where in the bible does it imply this is possible.  God communicates to us when he choses to, we don't discover God's plan.

I'm not saying this is a perfect answer.  I'm just trying to respond how a theist would. There are many many things still outside of our understanding. Science is like a flight of stairs. Sometimes you can skip one or two steps, but mostly you have to follow the path and build the next discovery on the last I believe I've explained that to you already in my last post. Like I said, believe what you like, but you cannot disbelieve the scientific fact. Energy exists. Property of things or not.

The energy that is you, is in fact your living soul. the matter that is you, is in fact the vessel of the conscious and aware self.

Property of not, energy exists. Gaybo transforms into the awkward seal meme. Obviously you're struggling with the concept of an analogy, so I think we're at an impasse. 

I've always found it amusing that atheists don't believe in God, but they're extremely angry at Him as well. Then the answer would just be shocked silence. Or maybe a , "Hmmph, didn't see this coming" Free will is an illusion. If we can explain why we choose one thing over the other, it's logic. If we can't, it's random. Brilliant.

Imagine a world populated by these 2....

Humor, love, respect.  Same, tbh. No I'm not agnostic about them in the same way I am about God, because they are so much more specific. I'm not as agnostic to people talking tongues when they're channeling God either. Fuck that guy. He's trying to start a fight that's won by $$$ where he gets to be the beneficiary. I hope somebody pisses in all his ballot bowls.   people paid him money It depends; I think that even if a religious person had a beard, it could be requested of them to trim it neatly, if it's all shaggy and tangled looking. 

I would add that if yours looks like that, it's probably not a good look, even outside of the work place. If you're going to wear a beard, you want it to look more like [this](http://i.imgur.com/2dQDtAt.jpg), not [this.](http://i.imgur.com/WaWMTH7.jpg)

&gt;kemp

kempt* Really? Was it really worth it for a misspelled word. What the fuck kind of church is this?! &gt;This is incoherent. Belief is binary; either you hold a belief or you don't.

I think the biggest misconception is that you have to justify your position of belief, you don't. If someone says he believes in god because he had a personal revelation or he just feels that way, he is just honest about his feelings. As long as he makes no claims, that god can be proven in nature, there is no place for an argument.

If someone lacks a belief in god he is an Atheist. Asking:"But how can you know for sure?" is completely irrelevant to the question asked, because it is not a claim about knowledge, it is just an honest statement about your world view.   There is no sarcasm here. You can ask me questions about life here, nows your chance.  This should have been said to relate to the main religions, I think that most of them have a bit of both. I don't think that the notion people who do good in the name of religion aren't good is a valid one though, as they could do wrong from the same text yet choose not to, they are the ones that have made the call in that situation really.  And while we are dreaming...I wish I had a pony. Wifi as in internet. I was wifi-ing as in I was interneting. Because that's usually the one people are asking about in the english speaking world. It could be thousands of gods but the abrahamic one seems to be one of the few that is all seeing demands worship but is claimed to be without flaw while is bizarre and pity. See if he's dumb enough to put that in writing! Why does how specific they are make a difference? Why would a god exist but these leprechauns wouldn't? I've pointed out in other replies how the idea that "the less defined something is, the more likely it is to be true" is flawed thinking. The less defined something is, the less coherent the idea is. If you need evil to see good... that would be because God chose to make you unable to appreciate good without evil... which doesn't really resolve the problem, does it? It would have been past the point of the question posed, as the assumption is that God does exist, but to his point can go further. Once you get past the need of a god existing, the same horrors you find in the world around us still are horrible, but are much more understandable in context. Parasites, cancer, terrible events, all are not made to punish or torture us by some sick cosmic mind, but are just part of the natural world. The way i originally worded my post had kemp in quote marks because that's the way my manager repeatedly said it but no one was really to know that. It's definitely more like the first image, bit bigger but it's close to my face it's not stringy, shaggy or tangled.   Woops, though to be fair I haven't slept in like 36 hours so I'm a bit woozy How I learned to stop worrying and love abhorent evil! Actually, the atmospheric scientists told all of us that the warming of the earth's atmosphere has long since departed any natural warming/cooling trend.  Psssst (aliens aren't real either)!

As an FYI, I placed in you in the crazy pile with my first post. It means that there might be things that we can neither measure, understand or see that have had an impact on the lives we live. 

Alien would be fair  in some contexts, perhaps in the sense of the catalyst for the Universe as we know it. I mean, Alien can be just as broad as the notion of God can't it really, mayyybe aliens are all controlling us via really good bluetooth remotes etc etc Also 'kemp' was in quote marks in the original wording of this post because that's the way my manager said it, hence the quote marks, but you weren't to know that, still no need to be an arsehole. If God was real, given that there are so many different versions of what that God would be, I would choose to believe the least harmful of the bunch. you're picking nits. Call yourself agnostic if you like, pretty sure nobody fucking cares. Again, very hard to give a definition. But perhaps something that creates the laws of physics or universal constructs along those lines might be an idea of a God. Dude in a cloud would probably be low on the list of possible definitions.  Sometimes you just present the argument and let it stand. Any argument can be dismissed without reason. Most are, in my experience. Sometimes I make arguments just to hear the counter arguments. It helps me examine my premises and see if I am missing something. As the interviewer really had no response, we don't know how far down this particular rabbit hole Fry was prepared to go. If Fry had said this to a theist in an arguing mood, I am sure that the conversation could go on for a long time.  I imagine what would the best form of government be, that treated everyone equally, kept out of people's business but provided and protected at the right times. I imagine the kingdom of heaven is that government and Christ is Aragorn/Obama, the Holy Spirit is TED+Bill Gates, and God is Thomas Jefferson.

Augustine apparently said 'Love God and do as you please'. It's a short step to say 'Do as you please', but I think everyone lives with provisos. 'Do as you please as long as...' you fill in the space. The space for me is Love God.

Thanks for asking. &gt;but we can't know a teapot orbiting around one of the Kepler planets doesn't exist with certainty.

Yeah, we can't. Like I said, doesn't mean it's particularly likely, my point is though that "you can't prove God doesn't exist" is not a particularly great argument against theists because they just shoot back with "you can't prove he *doesn't* exist. 

Obviously I, along with most reasonable people, like to assume the most logical explanation is likely the correct one (i.e. God does not exist), but if atheists pull the "you can't prove he exists", we also have to be prepared to accept that we can't prove he *doesn't* exist either.

Just an interesting thought. &gt;almost everyone there disagreed

Then clearly you're illiterate, because if you read it carefully, most who disagreed are not muslims. Also, it doesn't make it any better that you're a Muslim who apologizes for Islam in DebateReligion. It is the Flying Spaghetti Monster, who boiled for our sins.

Our pasta, who art in a colander, draining be your noodles. Thy noodle come, Thy sauce be yum, on top some grated Parmesan. Give us this day our garlic bread, and forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trample on our lawns. And lead us not into vegetarianism, but deliver us some pizza, for thine is the meatball, the onion, and the bay leaves, forever and ever. R'Amen. Oh, one caveat one what I wrote though, but if I see an immorality in play I need to speak to that (someone causing harm, even to a family member or friend).  I believe that while we are here we should all reduce emotional and physical suffering, and a lot of that unfortunately seems to stem from religion. I live in 'Muricah where "God" means Yahweh and if you say you're agnostic it is assumed that means you leave room for Yahweh to exist. I don't believe in *any* "god" I've ever heard of and so I'm atheist (which is *literally* not theist... which is someone who *believes* in the existence of "god(s)".

I'm an agnostic atheist however, since I don't try to claim that there isn't a possible definition of "god" that might yet be conjured that I could believe in or evidence found. However, for me the term "god" must include omniscience and omnipotence and those are very high hurdles.  Ahh, yes.  Thank you.  I was thinking that or Jannes and Jambres maybe, but wondering if there was some awesome apocrypha I've missed. I wonder why no one has try to make a Greek gods sitcom. That was strangely beautiful, thanks for sharing.  If everyone were atheist, it would be like Star Trek.  We would be flying out into space, making mind-bending scientific discoveries.  We would build colonies on other worlds.  Every scientist on earth would come together because there wouldn't be religion or socio-political differences.  And they would cure disease.  They would map the cosmos.  They would improve life.

But, right now, god-zombies won't allow any of this.  I wouldn't mind them having a right to believe in any fairytale they want, but they don't seem to understand that their rights end at my nose.  When they push to make laws to force everybody to follow what they personally believe, there isn't going to be any more live and let live.  People are going to push back.  So, maybe, you'd better get used to it. Until a student comes home and tells mom and pop that the universe was created by a flying spaghetti monster. I think it is not about right and wrong, it is about using clear definitions for having a fruitful discussion. Putting a weak deist (who basically just says the universe exists because X caused it) in the same camp as a young earth creationist (who personally talks to god and lives by rules written down in an ancient book) is just madness. Their definitions of god are so far appart that it becomes a useless term. For me a weak Deist and an Atheist have much more in common, because a belief in god has no effect on their decision making and how they live their lifes in general.  &gt;It means that there might be things that we can neither measure, understand or see that have had an impact on the lives we live.

And there might be leprechauns. We have no reason to believe in either. [Good god, what have I done.](http://i.imgur.com/cye8sAF.jpg) &gt;just diurnal intercourse would hone anyone's eloquence.

can I hone my eloquence without the sex in the men's room? He's funny and knows his audience.  Hard to agree with absolute moron. You would do well to learn the concepts of "cognitive dissonance"  and "confirmation bias". These two concepts explain full well why people continue to believe even after subjecting their arguments to debate. All religions are harmful if taken seriously. Language doesn't die. It evolves and diversifies. Nothing about it is static. &gt; The utter absence of any evidence for a god and the inability for believers to describe so much as one testable attribute for said being allows us to write it off as existing in any practical manner

I agree, I don't think that there's any evidence that should weight the way that we live our lives. But the evidence for a God or being (I'm not sure what to refer to this as at the moment) might be around us, or in some kind of way we cant access / understand. 

Taking the above and saying ' so maybe gay's are wrong ? ' would be so far out of line though, I mean, to me that kind of notion is insane. And Theists certainly have the burden of proof just as anyone working within Science does.  &gt; meaning that the same, or nearly the same, questions are asked of everyone who appears on the show.

Bingo! This question is the final one asked of every interviewee regardless of their religious faith. It's usually used as an opportunity for a light-hearted quip. &gt; something that creates the laws of physics or universal constructs along those lines might be an idea of a God. 

See, when you have to get specific, it starts become as silly as the idea of mind-controlling leprechauns. To stay back in the "safe zone" of not defining it is useless since the term doesn't mean anything back there. To actually define it brings it into the realm of silliness.  As long as we're wishing things, I wish for unlimited clean energy technology and highly controllable energy-to-matter technology (replicators). http://paleofuture.gizmodo.com/idiocracy-is-a-cruel-movie-and-you-should-be-ashamed-fo-1553344189 Right. Those are legit questions that YOU don't know the answer to... but He does [maybe]. That then becomes a question of trust and faith, etc. I think it's arrogant to claim to know the answer to those questions and to then judge and condemn God based on that arrogant decision. Why give your fellow man the benefit of the doubt but not afford that same courtesy to God... if He exists?

So, I don't have an argument for you, I actually agree with you. For me, it's not remotely the reason I'm an atheist; I don't care about the ethical stuff, as a good god, an evil god, and an utterly indifferent god are of little difference to me. I'm more interested in how compelling the metaphysical arguments for/against god are. Thanks for answering. I think it sounds like you are following a model of goodness, and that is admirable.  Only God can do that. That was really well done, thanks for the link. And what makes a secularly subjective value superior to a theistic subjective value? If you're not going to strive to lead a better, more thoughtful, more conscious life, then there's really no point in shrugging off the so-called evils of religion.  Greek theology is just a high stakes Seinfeld  When will hollywood put in some Scientology reps? was operation snow white a failure? &gt;Life is neither soft nor hard, evil or good, easy or difficult. Life is the refinery of the soul and the experience of the individual varies in the refinement process. Demanding that we all get a soft life of happiness and contentment does not forge quality souls anymore than that type of softness forges good and sturdy people capable of rational thought and practical action.

Non of that had anything to do with the conversation in the video.  That is one huge fucken strawman.

&gt;Fry's argument falls flat because he attaches softness to god and expects favour instead of the forge that life is.

And you burn the strawman. oh man, it's been a while since I've eaten a good word salad. A militant or radical vision of atheism in the future isn't out of the realm of possibility. If you're easily butthurt, you'll be sure to enjoy my pointing out that your last sentence should have "[affect](https://www.google.de/search?q=define%3A+affect&amp;oq=define%3A+affect&amp;aqs=chrome..69i57j69i58.4970j0j7&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;es_sm=122&amp;ie=UTF-8)" where you wrote "[effect](https://www.google.de/search?q=define%3A+affect&amp;oq=define%3A+affect&amp;aqs=chrome..69i57j69i58.4970j0j7&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;es_sm=122&amp;ie=UTF-8#safe=off&amp;q=define:+effect)."

&amp;mdash; NukeThePope, Diction Arsehole Probably watching you get your as kicked by Bill Nye.  What reason do we have to believe any of that to be the case? The more you try and rationalize god, the more he comes off sounding like a petulant child that doesn't know what he's doing. 

I doubt Stephen Fry would worship a god that creates a universe and humanity just to treat them like cockroaches.

&gt;No where in the bible does it imply this is possible. 

I take it you haven't read the bible.  Ah, so Muslims who disagree aren't Muslims. Gotcha. idiot At least one [Israeli news source](http://www.haaretz.com/jewish-world/jewish-world-news/.premium-1.639330) has noticed the whole hate group thing. The world that we lived in is not created by good but Humans. Our Ideas, Our Dogmas all are created in the minds of Humans. We can't see the world of God.  &gt; He assumes God is some guy who is sitting around "deciding things."

He didn't say that at all.  He was talking about creating things.

The thing I hate about religious people is that they just make up shit that doesn't exist. Fry seems like a smart bro. Then I guess my assumptions are pretty safe about you. judging by the Dawkins appearances on Irish TV I've seen that's just not true Christians do horrible things in subtle ways and they're good at keeping it a secret. Yeah I agree, honestly. I think that really applies to people who do things motivated by religion. The burden of proof should be on all parties. Some what hypocritically I guess this really should be a non issue. In regards to the ability to research it and provide evidence supporting / disproving it. The leap from there being the possibility of a God and saying 'yeah God's Christian' is insanely huge in my opinion. The possibility of there being a God should probably be no more than a 'yeah, who knows ay!'  "I'm not gonna debate with you on this, Jerry! I'm not gonna debate!" You know it was written by George R. R. Martin, right? One could argue that it's a failure of the school system, that a person so interested in learning things should find no value in school. In my part of the world schools are very much aimed at the lower half of the class, offering little for the really bright students. Are there any others?

When you say God, it implies an Abrahamic God. Not "A God", but "The God", the lord of lords, the king of kings, the all-knowing sky father.

So when you say God, we have the Torah. When you say Christ, we have Catholic doctrine. When you say Islam, we have the Kabala.

One could say God in a Mormon temple and have a completely different expectation than in a Baptist Church.

You can posit that "A God" exists who created everything, but now you have even "less proof" than even the most backwoods Christian - you are left with just a *feeling* and no history upon which to base your thesis.

In short, the utterance of the word God invokes the Abrahamic Sky Father simply because we are not a 4th century Norse tribe. The older I get, the more I'm convinced the porn industry could only dream of objectifying women to the level religion does.  Isn't intercession a large part of catholic theology? I don't think you're a catdog. . .  Whatevs, illiterati. It's unfortunate that parents invest so much in the personal ideals of their children, to the point that they take personally take offence to any transgression of their own ideals. Children are individuals that are entitled to their own beliefs and way of life, regardless of what their parents wish. If all talks of God were like that It might be a good thing really. I guess part of the point is that there isn't conclusive evidence, but all parties should bear the burden of proof. And when people say with such confidence that there's no such thing it seems a bit over sure to me.  You say that books are giving off a bad impression on christians making them look like idiots. The thing is maybe you're just seeing the truth, if I said there's a spaghetti monster floating around the universe and he'll kill us all and spread that around and someone made a book about it would I look stupid or will it sound like propaganda? I think you're starting to realise that form a scientific point of view that all this christian stuff really doesn't make sense. Yes, it has everything to do with it from the point where Fry assumes the position of having a conversation with an entity whereby he calls it evil for giving bone cancer to babies.

You are of course entitled to your viewpoint. I'm curious as to what culture your in. Everyone I've encountered has massive problems trying to control their libido for a few months.

This is without masturbation, of course. 

And I agree, self-control is by all means, a virtue. Sad that so many lack it. That made a little bit of sick come up. What a load of meaningless, sanctimonious shite. Is that what you think is some sort of counter-argument?  Yeah, I get this from god-zombies all the time.  "Well, you weren't a REAL christian.  Anyone who was a real christian would never stop believing."  I spent 30 years of my life in the church.  That was real.  I taught sunday school and played piano.  That was real, too.  I did puppet shows and sang in the choir.  I even wrote several songs of praise for the god I just KNEW was there.  That was real.  I studied the parts of the bible approved by my SS teacher and pastor.  It wasn't until I read it front-to-back in it's entirety that I became an atheist.  And when ignorant morons tell me I wasn't a "real" christian, I have to resist the impulse to slam them to the ground with my 25 lb. purse. I would ask why he gave me intelligence that led me to the conclusion he didn't exist and never gave me a reason to think otherwise. If God exists and is truly intelligent then he would have to be most proud of non-believers. If you had children, which one would you be more proud of? The one that uses logic and bases their conclusions on evidence and what we can observe, or the kid who believed in magic and mythical beings with no evidence whatsoever to prove they exist?  I don't know dude, if my school principal was implanting burrowing insects in the eyes of children I'd probably find a different school district. Where were you where I was doing my English A-Levels? I could of used a spellchecker such as yourself. Well, this cartoonist has insulted Atheism and so we must drag him from his bed and drown him.

(Disclaimer: JOKE. not even remotely serious. Don't kill cartoonists guys. This bit's serious. The first paragraph is not. Drowning = bad. got that? okay. Just so we're all clear here) Atheism means not believing in any specific god or gods. That means you may or may not believe in anything else because those other things are not specified. Imo he was torn between instant regret and being so uncomfortable that his body was trying to climb backwards over the headrest of the chair, but his willpower was keeping him in it. god moves in mysterious ways - got it. Instead of using the term "God" with him, try using "Yahweh".  This puts it more into perspective that his god is just like the other thousands of man-made gods out there.

I don't believe in the supernatural but I believe that God is real (in the pantheistic sense http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/God).  In pantheism, God is simply the universe.

Maybe there's something else going on with his life.  How's his family life?  Any abuse?  If he had a bad upbringing, he may start clinging to religion as a way to channel hatred and put himself above other people. Define "spiritual". Oh don't forget Adam's first wife, Lilith! Your post here is hypocritical. Do you offer an argument or are you merely going to be reviled by an opinion and insulting to someone who has one that is different than yours?

I posited a position and opinion. I assume you have a mind. Make your point fellow human. I am not interested in your offense by my statement, but I am as open as anyone else when presented with data that can sway.

So, what have you got? The irony of him saying you shouldn't believe shit just because someone says it with a straight face is beyond me. Look at his sweat and hair. He has clearly lost his damn mind.  *you'reself &gt;The goal of the Spiritual Atheism project is not to provide a specific spiritual philosophy (that is your own responsibility); but, rather, to unify all Spiritual Atheists, regardless of their particular philosophies and points of view.

Unify them for what? This seems to make very little sense.  I hope you have read a the definition of spiritual atheism on this site, and hope we could have an interesting conversation about spirituality and atheism.. 

here is a post from a self-proclaimed spiritual atheist (capy/pasted from this site) 

It had always seemed contradictory that, whilst an atheist, I had always had strong feelings of connectedness and the desire to be part of something bigger. Having read this site, I can see that there is no contradiction. The desire to find a meaning for one's small part in the huge, wonderful universe does not have to go hand-in-hand with a need for a myth of why it all exists. Ironically, it was finding out more about science that has proved the most spiritual discovery of the last few years. Facts such as all matter in the universe being connected, having a shared origin in the Big Bang. Or the fact that the atoms that make us up are billions of years old and will live for billions more years. Or even the fact that, as carbon-based beings, we are all made from the dust from exploding stars. There is more than enough wonder in nature and in reality to sustain me. - Paul Yeah. Atheists don't do that at all, do they?

We all make shit up. It's in our nature. 

I think we should all focus on rejecting the people who **force** their made-up shit on each other [e.g. religion - man's "made-up" explanation of God]. There's nothing wrong with sharing ideas, discussing them, and maybe even having a profound influence on people who agree upon a point of view or enlightenment. There is something wrong when you push those beliefs on people and force them to behave accordingly. You are very fortunate that your family is at least tolerant and respectful of your ideals, as you are of theirs, but many other families are not so forgiving when their child transgresses their beliefs. Many youth face physical harm and banishment from their family home for having beliefs that differ from their parents, whether they be religious, gender, sexual, etc.

It's saddening that many parents can't love a child for who they are and instead will go to great lengths to control their thoughts and lives to the detriment of the child. &gt; If confronted with the knowledge that this God did exist, one would have to accept the fact that one a was not capable of comprehending his intentions and the suffering of the world.

No, that would only change the existence of such a being and that entity created us (with real evidence mind you).  In turn, that would in fact prove not that we were not capable of understanding his intentions for the suffering in the world, but that the premises or tenants of faith were in fact wrong and that he/she/it is not good or moral by any sane definition of his creations. You're missing the point.

"Do you believe that at least one god exists?" is a yes-no question. Unless you're mentally defective, you're competent to tell us the state of your mind, so "I don't know" is not a valid answer. Your still talking like you watched another video.  Can you not just type the truth.  You are writing as if the hypothetical situation was about a generic god rather than the Christian God.  In fact you are writing like it wasn't a hypothetical situation (weird).

Your full of shit. People claim this aspect of a person is private, then people go asking about it. The proverbial feces hits the fan when they discover that the person in question doesn't share the same delusion as their community. The difference is that ANY sexual contact with a child is rape, whether the child consents or not.

I grant that I may have painted with too wide a brush there, though.  Certainly, there are those who need to be kept away from children at all times.  There are others who may be able to maintain control under all circumstances.

The problem is that this is something we know very little about.  Those who are pedophiles and who are capable of suppressing their urges will naturally avoid telling anyone, so the only ones we hear about are the ones who get caught molesting children.  Who knows?  One in ten people might feel sexual desires for children, and we'd never know it because they stay quiet about it. He's 160 years old, he could also have been having a senior moment. hey /u/ThisIsNotMyTrueForm , 

&gt;I feel so too, but the thing is you can't just be "agnostic". You're either a theist or an atheist. Agnostism comes after that, not as a sole "label". This is a simple yes or no question, how strongly you might believe plays no role.

Had that a couple of times actually, I have read a few things that seem to support my use of the word, but I might be abusing it. Perhaps Atheist Agnostic would be a more correct stance

&gt;That's why nobody claims there's no god of any kind. But you're just shifting the burden of proof here. I'd think you're better than that.


I'm not meaning to shift the burden as such, more emphasise that everyone is bound by it, and that writing something off completely doesn't really make sense to me. 

&gt;So claiming there's a god wouldn't mean there's a god? That doesn't really make any sense.


I meant to form a distinction between the idea of there being a God and having a book about God. I don't really agree with religions, I think that Church can be good for people and in many cases it's just a community thing which is cool but in the main I'm really not a fan of them.  Good one. Well, Stephen's opinion on people being offended is pretty well known, summed up as "So fucking what if you're offended?"

Sometimes blunt force (so to speak) is needed to shake someone from their comforting lies. * you're

I do not subscribe to the christian trinity god. But that is beside the point. What is your point? So, how many gods do you believe to exist?

&gt;In regards to God being wicked or immoral, I don't really see that as a proper stance either. I mean, I doubt anyone has studied ethics enough to have a handle on what's objectively right and wrong.

I'm pretty sure genocide is wrong, but that's just me.

&gt;I mean, how does anyone KNOW that theres no God?

Usually because of the logical contradictions.  Just like you can't have a square triangle.  It's completely absurd and an abuse of words. Rodrigo looked cooler before. Once again underlining what an awesome man Stephen Fry really is. I think you're sort of right.  You don't have to be a "Agnostic Atheist" or an "Agnostic Theist" though.

You can simply be "Agnostic."

For instance, me.  I am just "Agnostic."  I do not claim to know that a god does or does not exist. That doesn't mean I do not believe any 'god' exists, it also does not mean that I do believe any 'god' exists.  So on the thing you linked, I do not fall into either the orange, or green box - I fall directly on the blue line 'Agnostic" , at least in my opinion. &gt; but the two combined are actually very dangerous because the modified food will hold the pesticides. That's why GMO food is banned in Europe.

This is a ridiculous statement. GMO is banned in Europe because of fear-mongering and ignorance. Also please point to the research showing that GMOs "hold" pesticides, because I have never seen any study indicating such. omg people with cells must get cancer, let's all freak out because, people with cell get cancer, oh, god why, why.  

Like, how dare he apply the same standard to people with cells, that he would apply to people with cells.   

 Still, I'd love to see you post there and state that philosophy isn't valuable and why. I think it'd be a good thread to read and would be interested to hear the responses.    It isn't just that all that time and effort is spent on religion, but that it is spent fighting and suppressing science. It does have a bad impact.  Well if the christians are preparing for the second coming of jesus I say we do as well. 
We'll modernize the crucifix and forge it from stainless steel. Not sure how he'll drag it but that's not really my problem. And I suppose we'd have to solder him on there this time but I'm not sure of it'll stick to skin. Perhaps ancient meets modern - nails first then solder. 
I actually can't believe how horrible that sounds rereading it. I mean, cold steel on your bare back? I can barely handle a leather couch. That's absolutely ridiculous. If the agreed "common good" required people be burned at the stake on counts of witchcraft and heresy it wouldn't make it any less unethical, immoral, or objectively stifling to human flourishing. I legitimately cannot believe the tripe coming out of supposedly thinking peoples.  South asian.

&gt;This is without masturbation.
Now I have to imagine that you are a lier. Because I have never met a male who doesnt materbat. Heck, I even materbate while my wife is around. (Sex is tiring and wife is not in mood always) No, I haven't sit down and read it cover to cover, but I have read, and taken courses that covered ~80% of it.

If you can show me the part of the bible where it says we are expected to understand God's intentions, without him expressly telling us, I would be intrigued. ahh, the Gandhi principal. Yeah, that's what I was thinking. I don't know much about Kat Williams so for me it's hard to tell if he genuinely believes what he is saying or if he is simply pandering to his target audience.  How do you respond to the question "Do you believe that a god exists?" Because that's the ultimate evil?

Why shouldn't the burrowing insects be given a chance?  We are an ecosystem.  I don't blame a tiger for eating the deer. Be sure to check my site for more reviews and for an extended two-part review of this work.

http://jwwartick.com/ In a limited capacity.  When I was growing up in the 70s, while the Apollo program was still going, then winding down, I was sure we'd have huge space station(s) and a moon base by now.  Imagine my disappointment. &gt; In summary, SPIRITUAL ATHEISTS are people who are:
&gt;
&gt;    1) ATHEISTS             
&gt;
&gt;    Spiritual Atheists do not believe in the existence of an entity external to the universe that supposedly created and rules the universe.
&gt;
&gt;    2) SPIRITUAL          
&gt;
&gt; Spiritual Atheists believe that the entire universe is, in some way, connected; even if only by the mysterious flow of cause and effect at every scale. Therefore, Spiritual Atheists generally feel that as they go about their lives striving to be personally healthy and happy, they should also be striving to help the world around them be healthy and happy! ("Wholistic Ethics")

I'm OK with this.

Here's [my view.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i2nfXfTg92E) &gt; what anyone "believes" is irrelevant.

Beliefs inform peoples actions, so I think you should perhaps care a bit more. Mendez: May the Blessings of the Bomb Almighty, and the Fellowship of the Holy Fallout, descend upon us all. This day and forever more.

Congregation: [singing] Amen!
 &gt;"Being disgusted by ignorance may be a common emotional response, but it is certainly irrational."

It's wrong to look down upon the primitive writers of the creation tale for their ignorance - Science was virtually nonexistent and the only alternative was to admit ignorance, which meant to turn power over to those with answers.

And it's wrong to look down upon people who believe the creation tale today because they've had no opportunity to acquire a decent education and know nothing of science through no fault of their own.

But most of the creationists in our society today, particularly those in positions of political power, **do** deserve our sincere disgust. The knowledge is there, the evidence is there, and they have no excuse to summarily reject it all, especially when they're not content to simply be ignorant but insist upon spreading their ignorance around. Is it a parody or does he actually believe what he's saying? To do so, you need to start your own church, just like L. Ron Hubbard did.  Not only rake in the dough, but do so tax-free (at least in the US). Yup, US politics. Hilarious. :D I don't know how many people actually think that any theists really follow their religious texts literally.  Some may follow it more literally than others, but all of them cherry pick those parts that make the most sense to their circumstances at any given point in time.  When asked how many believe that the bible is literally true, sure you can get large numbers, but it's not the actual bible they believe in, but their cherry picked version that they literally believe in.    
You seem worried that /atheism will miss some of the subtleties of why people choose their particular brand of religion, because we are too busy lumping them all together.  Well IMHO, atheists group religious people together mostly on one common pillar, all theists believe in some type of fairy tale, and they sometimes allow their beliefs to infringe on other peoples rights.  Individually they may not infringe, but certainly as a part of a group they have and will continue to do so, until the power of theism is erradicated. And he didn't even bother to formulate it in a way that may sound religious. It's just "Homosexuality has always been bad, if you're gay you die". i agree that this site is not perfect .. but they do explain well how 'spiritual atheism' is not a religion or a philosophy, "Instead, it is a critical addition to the common God-based philosophical classification system"  

 who ever made that site is not a guru, master, or not even that good in philosophy .. but he, or she, at least intended to write down what many other people feel.. that we are part of something bigger than us, where everything is somehow connected, etc.. "  but still do not believe in any religious beliefs, do not believe in supernatural powers or invisible being, etc..  &gt; So, how many gods do you believe to exist?

No idea.

&gt;I'm pretty sure genocide is wrong, but that's just me.

For us yes, for the people who were subject to the genocide yes. It should be possible to see the benefits of getting rid of lots of people in certain conditions though. I'm really hoping its not just you that think's it's wrong :)

&gt;Usually because of the logical contradictions. Just like you can't have a square triangle. It's completely absurd and an abuse of words

Logical contradictions - are you meaning in reference to the God's presented by Christianity and the other larger ones? 

cheers &gt;I do not subscribe to the christian trinity god. But that is beside the point.

Why did you state that then?

&gt;What is your point?

My point is that you are debating an incorrect statement in a video from which you haven't correctly comprehended most (if not all of what was said.  You are a waste of time. &gt;The difference is that ANY sexual contact with a child is rape, &gt;whether the child consents or not.

Nobody argued otherwise.

&gt;The problem is that this is something we know very little about. 

When we say things like "Phdophils should be shunned from society" understanding them become very easy. /s  Mm... love the fedora I don't think the collection plate would be - how would you get a tax receipt?

I'm not sure - never been to church - so maybe someone else can chime in.  What appearances? What was the context of the interview? Was it a debate? Did they involve the kind of religious nuts spouting bollocks that are present in every country?

I have nothing but respect for Richard Dawkins, probably to the point of taking his word as gospel, heh, but a generalization of an entire country based on incorrect information on a certain subject can't be allowed to be spread as fact. I know two people who believe in a god. My mother and my aunt. Nobody else. Tell me that's not true.   Lookup the world spiritual in the dictionary... you won't find it there. Undescribable bullshit. "So, you worship a god that is okay with torturing me forever just because I don't believe in him/follow Jesus/ect?"

"Yup."

"You're fucked up man, worshipping a monster like that!" Well said. Lots of religious people claim to believe their books are literally true, but their behaviour suggests otherwise.

 Your insulting comment is indicative of your lack of counterargument and emotional instability when confronted with a differing opinion.

I find that interesting. You are entitled to your viewpoint. I don't share it with you. Isaac Asimov wrote that this passage is a remnant of an older, polytheistic version of Judaism. I'm going to struggle to define something I'm stating is beyond comprehension, I think I deserve a tea for trying. It needs you to meet in the middle to a certain extent I guess, perhaps because typing things isn't the most natural means of communication IDK

Ask me about calculus, I'm going to start sounding pretty daft pretty quickly on that too.
  Your central point seems to hinge on the misconception that things should have meaning irrespective of the mind considering it. That is false, and refutes your entire presentation.

Meaning is not derived, it is inflicted. When you desire to stay warm, and you see a stick, you are the one that imbues that stick with meaning and purpose, to become your firewood.

Your preacher's meaning for you is for you to be his firewood, that he can collect your tithe and not have to do any meaningful work at all in his entire life. To this end, he tells you your purpose is divine.

Try having your own goals, and see what purpose your life ends up with. &gt; On materialistic [I use materialism and physicalism interchangeably, as is common in philosophy today] atheism, all we are is matter in motion.

While we are matter in motion, I think most of us would take exception to that simplification being "all we are".  We happen to be very complex matter in very complex motion. Agreed. I just skimmed.

Correction to your title: Everything is *objectively* meaningless and valueless.

However, things have meaning and a value to people *subjectively.*

Theists need to get over the idea that if things aren't *objectively* meaningful, then they have "no meaning."

Also, there is no objective meaning even if a god exists, so there's that. My ex-wife was from southern WV.  She once cried when I said I believed in evolution - and I wasn't even an atheist then. Lol, but he gave us a bunch of dudes in a desert and a book of their ramblings 2000 years ago. And then allowed a pernicious power structure to be built on top of that. Clearly he is giving us all the evidence we need. You say meaningless and valueless as if those are *bad* things. You're basically arguing that god isn't all powerful and has very strict limits in his abilities.

Also, in your view heaven can't exist. Either it's full of evil, making it no better than earth, or humans are stripped of their free will when they enter.  I guess we can take your child off of these life support machines then since it's the prayers working and not the science You don't have a viewpoint on this topic.  You have a viewpoint on some other video.  That is what makes this frustrating and why you come across as a complete cock. Our matter in motion creates its own meaning. The universe might not have a grand overarching purpose but that doesn't mean we meatbags can't create our own.

The universe is uncaring, brutal and terrifying.. and it's also wondrous, beautiful and in at least one instance, able to succor our particular material in motion. Were you hired with your current facial hair?  What is in your employee handbook about facial hair? Well this I was planning on voting, I took time off work etc., then I found out too late I wasn't registered in the county I'm in (moved in mid 2013), so I couldn't. 

Honestly I think this is sort of part of the problem. I get why we have to have some structure to the voting process, but I think in this age of instant gratification and online shopping and stuff...it could definitely be better.

I'm not trying to absolve myself of responsibility. If I truly cared I would have registered the day I moved to my current location. I think at the time I couldn't  care less, so I never registered. Then when the time came I was too late to the party. 

I guess I need to register to vote :). I am bookmarking the hell out of this, and I'm going to try and put together a transcript so I can memorize it. Steven Fry FTW. Do they still sell those tickets to heaven like back in the day? &gt;For me a weak Deist and an Atheist have much more in common, because a belief in god has no effect on their decision making and how they live their lifes in general

I definitely think that this is a better way to live ones life.  Holy shit, from OP's history:

&gt;God exists because God cannot not exist (by definition). Since this is a coherent statement, it's true.

Leprechauns exist because I have defined them as little green men that cannot not exist. Since this is a coherent statement, it's true.

What an idiot. I disagree with you that this view is bleak.

I find it exciting, because it means that our lives are our own.  My meaning isn't predetermined by some deity who knew, before I was born, every decision I'd ever make.  Rather I get to create my own purpose in my life.

To be honest, I find the theistic worldview to be rather depressing.   Not at all. If you maintain the distance between religion and non-adults over 3 generations the job is done. No contact at all until 18 years of age and you will encounter later adult people who maintains that distance. Few things erk me more than people giving credit to god for mans hard work.  Fine, if god is so damn great, don't get the surgery and let god heal your baby.  Don't tell me about faith when it involves having learned men of science do all the work.  OP, looks like you're a Christian.

Christianity is the belief in a perfectly just God who demands the death of an innocent life to pay for crimes of others.

*How on Earth does punishing somebody for something he didn't do meet any imaginable definition of justice?*

You will probably say, "God requires perfect justice, and sin deserves punishment, so somebody had to take the punishment." No, *sin* doesn't deserve punishment; *sinners* would deserve it. We don't punish *crimes*, we punish *criminals* for *committing* crimes. We don't just pull somebody off the street and punish them for a crime that occurred if we can't solve the crime just because a punishment has to happen for it, whether it's the actual criminal or somebody else - and if there were a country that *did* that, you would surely call that unjust, right? It's only justice if the *actual offending criminal* is the one being punished.

You might say, "But Jesus volunteered for it!"

Okay, then lets' take this scenario: Somebody rapes and kills your closest female family member, and gets away never to be caught. You will say, "But I want justice for this crime!" So, your next closest family member (daresay your son?) says, "Hey, I will volunteer to take this murderer's crime upon myself, and I will go to prison in his place. This way, the penalty has been paid, justice served." Would you accept that and call it justice? Of course not. No sane person would. It makes no sense, in any context, to punish an innocent person for the crimes of another. Yet this is exactly the scenario with the Jesus sacrifice. The only thing Christians try to pull in response to this is usually, "We can't understand God's ways, his standards of justice may be different from ours" and when they do that, they're admitting that they don't care whether or not their beliefs make sense, and *also* that they think God's justice is lesser than human justice, because they aren't in favor of a "punishing the innocent" policy on Earth. If it's perfect justice, why aren't they in favor of it? Do you care whether or not your beliefs make sense? And if so, how can you make sense of this narrative of punishing the innocent?

It only becomes sillier when the innocent person is another version of the very being demanding it, sacrificing himself to himself, and even sillier when the punishment of "death" is more like a three-day coma. There's just nothing that makes any sense about Christianity.
 No, I don't believe we shall. I always find it strange that people believe the omnipotent force in the universe wrote a book and yet they dont read it. This is your view. That you are only able to make black and white of it is not my problem, it is your own. That you are engaging in insult instead of reason is something strange.

Why not just ignore my commentary then if you find it frustrating? Does the challenge of it frustrate you, or do you think that the superficial aspect of that video is all there is to it? I think that's pretty debatable.  The bible describes God as loving all people, and wanting them all to be saved, but revelations says that some people will not be saved, which implies that God's plan is not necessarily what will happen.

I think the bigger issue with free will is that God, being omnipotent, could have created things differently, which would create different outcomes.  Being omniscience, God knows what outcomes are created by each change.  Being the creator, he chose the starting conditions of the universe, which effect the outcomes, so he is in a way choosing there.

Sometimes that is a bit esoteric for people, so I like to point to an example in the bible that is well known.  God sent Jesus to earth knowing he would be betrayed by Judas.  God could have sent Jesus later, and spared Judas from committing the ultimate crime.  God choose Judas as the one who would betray Jesus.  Judas had no choice.

It's really a shame how his name gets dragged through the slime and the mud for really just being a victim of circumstance. thanks /u/Yah-luna-tic - I think that I may have been abusing the Agnostic word a bit and that Agnostic Atheist is probably a better, more informative description. 

 k Look... I'm not supporting the idea of churches being tax-exempt.  I think that exemption is appalling.  

I *would* support tax exemption for churches on a dollar-for-dollar basis for charitable work.  ie - they give out $1000 in food at a shelter, they get $1000 in tax deductions.  That, I think, would be fair.

As for the rest - I'm not gonna quibble.  Would I rather the money went elsewhere?  Sure I would.  Fact is that once you've earned your money and paid the tax on it you can give it to any number of charities that only serve a small cross section of the population.  I'd rather see the money go to feed the homeless - others give it all to the SPCA.

I'm hopeful that churches do *some* public service with their tax exempt savings - but the program is so hideously flawed (no reporting) that there's no guarantee. Good point, guess I'll accept jesus now. That's, in my opinion,  exactly why it is important to speak about it. the word "spiritual" has been overly used to describe supernatural beliefs , when it has been used for centuries by non-believer philosophers ...  Why are they wrong again?

Are you claiming an absolute!? Can you imagine his response while on the Steve Harvey show? He would have been physically tackled by security.  &gt; Psssst (aliens aren't real either)!

Yah neither is gravity or virtual reality. Are you starting to understand illusion..? that'd be impressive.. I leave you to your fire sticks *caveman* :) np brosephina Anyone know what insect he's talking about? Is that you answer to why empathy is important? It's not much of one if so. Better yet, run a search to view the last 1000 times this has been asked. Unless one of them thinks you're hot, in which case the upside is you get t I have sex with a god or goddess but the downside is you'll get turned into a tree or a cow to hide you from the god's jealous spouse, or given the gift of eternal life but not eternal youth or something worse.  You are just a dickhead troll.  I am no reading any more so type all you want. Thank you for your submission. Unfortunately, your submission has been removed for the following reason:

* Only these kinds of images may be direct linked: Unedited still **Photographs** (excluding church signs or license plates), **Infographics**, or Original **Works of Art.** Yours is not on the list, and should therefore be posted within [a self (text) post.](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/submit?selftext=true&amp;text=http://i.imgur.com/CCkDOmW.png&amp;title=Doctors work, not prayers.) **Comics** (excluding rage comics) may only be linked from their original source whether in a self post or direct link.



For information regarding this and similar issues please see the [Subreddit Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. Yes you can. The bible don't say another gods doesn't exist. Yeah... I read those lyrics to the tune of "We Didn't Start the Fire."

It works really well. It's going to rain

it's going to rain this week

it's going to rain tomorrow

it's going to rain today

it's going to rain in 20 seconds


*********


As they get more specific it becomes easier to decide whether or not they are likely to be true, if the sky is blue the last statement is most probably false.  Who are you quoting? O.o I didn't expect much rational discussion from you based on yoru firt comment. So, ok I guess. &gt;There is no objective reason to do so. Therefore, there is no objective meaning or value.

True.

&gt;Life is purposeless, meaningless, valueless. Atheistic materialism demands this bleak view of the universe.

False. Just because there is no objective purpose doesn't mean that we can't assign subjective purpose whether consciously or unconsciously. It's like Seinfeld with a bunch of gay sex and aliens. If a religious exemption is allowed then that's not necessarily the case because Sikh's aren't supposed to cut their hair at all so they wouldn't be able to trim their beard and keep to their religious practices. The destruction of disease and suffering at the end of days has to do with God's glory and his creation of a better life after this one. However, it is more about our own glory in the sight of God. When we suffer and still have faith in a God of justice and strength, we are glorified in God's eyes and he promises the reward of eternal life for all those who persevere. It may not be the only way he can test our steadfastness, but in his infinite wisdom, he sees it as necessary. I say

"I cannot answer that intelligently. It's possible a god exists, it's possible a god does not exist.  I do not have enough evidence to know for sure though." Sorry to be that guy, but it's "Hear, hear" as in "Hear what this person has to say." http://grammarist.com/spelling/hear-hear/ Fair, but couldn't the massive amount of things we don't understand be enough to keep the idea in play? I'm not going to start sacrificing goats for it or whatever, but I wouldn't definitively rule it out either I guess.  I always tell people they are crazy for believing in the bible because if told them that God spoke to me and told me to write a new Bible, they would think I was fucking nuts and wouldn't even bother reading it, yet they take the word of sheep herders that lived thousands of years ago that didn't even know anything about how the world worked as gospel. It's really quite frustrating and makes it hard for me to respect anyone that believes in it. The interviewer sounds like George Takei. &gt; You are just a dickhead troll. I am not reading any more so type all you want but my preference is that you fuck off.

You are just a dickhead troll. I am not reading any more so type all you want but my preference is that you fuck off. "A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents grow old and die."

^([Max Planck, A Scientific Autobiography and Other Papers, 1949]) Or it's a great way for relatively primitive human beings to explain their interactions with extraterrestrials.   Uh . . . Nope.  You sure made a lot of assumptions there.

Science is "moral" only when we take human interest into consideration when we apply our scientific reasoning (which we should, of course, to avoid "mad" science.

Second, do you think I'm fighting for religion?  
I'm not. I'm simply pointing out the nests the most vocal religions and atheists seem to be making for themselves is nearly identical, and will probably fall to the same failures.

It sounds like you're looking for an enemy to oppose.  That doesn't solve problems.  Just creates them.

Don't worry.  I love science.  If religion doesn't adopt scientific methods of studying it's beliefs, then it will fall.  But if bad atheists don't stop pulling psuedo-scientific crap then they may make science stumble, and that won't be good for anyone. &gt;He thinks God wants to be worshipped for his own amusement and ego, rather than keeping humanity humble

&gt;And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within; and day and night they do not cease to say, "HOLY, HOLY, HOLY is THE LORD GOD, THE ALMIGHTY, WHO WAS AND WHO IS AND WHO IS TO COME." 

&gt;then again, the bible was written by men.

So you're basically creating your own intimate version "god." I notice a lot of Christians tend to ignore the bible and instead just think up a god that they would personally like and which could be more easily defended. Hell of a straw man.  I find their view of the word spiritual to be rather limited and pointless.  To say that everything is connected by cause and effect is, well, stating the obvious.  Have you ever met anyone, atheist or not, who doesn't believe in cause and effect?  If your definition applies to every thinking being on the planet, then I'm not sure how or why it's a useful distinction to make. This is precisely why I never tell my kids "because I said so." Kids are far more capable than people give them credit, particularly American parents. &gt;Atheistic materialism demands this bleak view of the universe. Im not saying its a good reason to abandon that [un]belief. Im merely saying that those who hold such a view must be consistent.

It demands that you put more effort into figuring out what real values are and what and how is there meaning in life, as opposed to buying these things wholesale from a religious tradition of self-delusion.  I am not concerned by what you prefer. It would seem you can't even make a proper decision and expect to have free reign in insulting others when you are confronted with information you are incapable of discussing rationally. So, by all means, stop reading? Yup - I agree with all of that (though I don't think the smaller donors will have receipts to claim back their donations)

It's a messed up system and it should be stopped.

But at the same time I think the freedom for people to spend/give their money however they choose is pretty damned important.  

Would I rather it went to feed the homeless?  Absolutely.  My neighbor would rather it all went to the SPCA.  I don't agree at all with her choice but that's entirely tax exempt too.  There's lots of charities I don't support. How about a drawing of "Muhammad doing stand-up comedy"?
 /r/createdbynarcissists Pfft! Stephen fry is twice as eloquent as that! Cool, hope to keep seeing you around. Socrates Cafe is in the middle kinda, in terms of structure. Usually the first few minutes is spent coming up with topics, which we then vote on. Whatever topic is chosen, we discuss or debate for the next hour and a half. Then a lot of the time people go out for icecream after just to hang out. You're not answering the question I asked. I'm not asking you to "know" anything.  I'm asking you if you currently hold a *belief* that a god exists.   Right, but why do you think that view is limited to people who are "spiritual".  Obviously, there is awe and wonder in the universe.  I marvel at the fact that I'm actually here pretty much every day.  Obviously, everything is connected by cause and effect.  I've never met a person who believes otherwise (even if we disagree on what the "cause" may be).  

So, why "spiritual"?

The website does an abysmal job of answering that question, in my honest opinion. It's difficult enough to get people to understand and correctly use works like *atheist* and *agnostic*, that I think calling myself a spiritual atheist is more trouble than I'm willing to put up with.

For me, I'm more content to say I'm a secular humanist (which usually includes atheism) who occasionally experiences feelings of transcendence.  Dude, i'm new here, i'm just trying to be active on the sub. The same people aren't gonna answer every time therefore different stories, no need to be an arsehole. Tiresias was drawn into an argument between Hera and her husband Zeus, on the theme of who has more pleasure in sex: the man, as Hera claimed; or, as Zeus claimed, the woman, as Tiresias had experienced both. Tiresias replied, [""](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=inDf6-TUq5s) I would have preferred he didn't make the specification about children in regard to that as I doubt that what ever insect it was distinguishes between ages of human. Wow, I never realized that corporeally-destructive torture and preventable death was really just a way of letting us glorify ourselves!  It really casts the great deeds of the Islamic State in a new light.  They are wise indeed!

Fuck off. Can I still accomplish all this without involving children? Or will they see thru my ploy? Haha ill check em out :D I remember dune, doesnt that actually have MANY more books? and his son ended up finding some books Frank never published? Or am i thinking of another book? Heard Dune was very very good though by my mate i used to work with. Uh? The English language is and HAS been constantly evolving.  In short it was liberating, an opening of a whole new life.  Skepticism was one of the best things that ever happened to me.

I never really saw what I believed as lies, even now.  I see those beliefs as wrong but not lies.  Also I don't regret or dislike any of the memories I have as a religious person, it was fun.

Couple sentences of background:  

Raised Jewish but parents and family were never so serious about religion, eventully they took me to a UU church and eventully none at all.  I picked up pagan beliefs from my friends and believed those for about 10 years before my real skepticism kicked in and it faded over a year or so. Cool ill check that out, could you give a quick overview? You're the kind of guy who bets 2$ on The Price is Right, right after the person before you bet 1$. You could have just said "God works in mysterious ways." 

It's a weak argument that has been shot down several times.  The disease is probably onchocerciasis ("river blindness"). While the cause of the disease is a parasitic worm, it is spread by fly bites. According to [wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onchocerciasis), it's the second most common cause of blindness from infection in the world. (Trachoma is the most common, but is bacterial) &gt; For instance, I believe all Abrahamic gods are logically impossible due to contradictions in their attributes as described by their dogma.

Yes, I agree with this. In regards to what I think a God is I'm really not too sure which is daft. Something that's able to manipulate things we are bound by might be a start, but then I don't really think that Marvel Comics characters are Gods, they just have some pretty out there abilities. 

I don't think that people really have the ability to say whether something is right or wrong, but I think there could be an objective right / wrong, maybe machines will answer that one.  Sarcasm. Well done. Go get some sleep! And I really shouldn't be so pedantic, but it does sort of soften the message of intelligence when there's a simple grammatical error.

On a side note, I love QI. :) for me... 

being spiritual is having a clear feeling that all is related, and that  the happiness of one depends on the happiness of another. Pursuing my own happiness implies therefore being ethically acting with all my environment (not speaking only about humans, as ALL is related) .. 

 Depends what constitutes reason I guess. But I'm thinking that a better description might be Agnostic Atheist.  "Whatever you say about God, you should be able to say standing over a pit full of burning babies." - Elie Wiezel There are 6 books written by Frank Herbert.

His son released another 3 not published by his dad (have yet to read those). He may have written more. I don't know about those.

The original book and the rest of the series is very worth while. How could I ever! #3 does not follow, but good attempt at obfuscation. (No objective reason != no value or meaning.)

Value is something that individual minds do.

&gt;Ultimately, on materialism, everything boils down to matter in motion. Making value judgments about matter in motion is meaningless.

Sorry, you're wrong. Language is matter in motion. And it has meaning. &gt; I don't think that people really have the ability to say whether something is right or wrong, but I think there could be an objective right / wrong, maybe machines will answer that one. 

That's more on the subject of [moral nihilism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_nihilism) than of gods.  Even if gods do exist then they'd be subject to the [Euthyphro dilemma](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euthyphro_dilemma). I don't do that all that often but I will vocalize new words to get a sense of their sound. Can be quite pleasing.

 /r/thegreatproject has some stories you might check out. It might be beyond our comprehension if we have no way of communicating it, I'm not sure that one can comprehend something that can't be communicated, whether through maths or otherwise. It it's operating on a completely different level / plane / set of laws or whatever to us then I guess we might struggle to comprehend it. 

I don't think my dog can comprehend train timetables, obviously I can't say for sure. But in the same sense as there being things we can comprehend that others can't, I think there could be things that we can't comprehend, such as a God.  Cool i think ill start with them as my buddy said they were very worth while :D so thank you for reminding me of them id forgotten ;D Thanks man, I will. Didnt know Snake Oil could be blessed and turned into Holy Snake Oil :o

 yes, I think I answered this with the rain example Mostly that you believe morality comes from faith in a deity &gt;having a clear feeling that all is related

All is related *how?*

&gt;and that the happiness of one depends on the happiness of another. Pursuing my own happiness implies therefore being ethically acting with all my environment

What does this have to do with spirits?  Logic v religion. They are not compatible. I can prove black is not white. This. If he turns to religion due to a far of death, there is something more going on than just a religious feeling!  I'm not answering the question for a reason.  I can't reasonably answer it, or know to answer it.  I do not hold a belief that god does or doesn't exist.  I simply, cannot know the unknowable. I fall directly on the line. lqpu snld ou,p so nblnb sup  'o-zn sno nb so nb Along the same lines, I think it's a bit audacious to claim that you have to identify yourself as spiritual if you want to experience feelings of transcendence or connectedness.  Those feelings are very natural and human.
 &gt; they want to be in the school.

Of course they do. They want to get their hands on those nice, fresh young brains . . . and damage them with lies. $6.5 million? 

uh and where did they get that Money from? Dear god (if you'll pardon the expression), that man is brilliant. there were many stories* not "there was much stories".  I really hope English is not your first language. &gt;there's surely not enough evidence to say definitely that there's no God.

There's really not enough evidence to me to say definitely that you exist. However, what evidence we have seems to support it. It's like that, but reversed. The evidence we have does not seem to support it.

When the evidence does not seem to support something's existence, we provisionally proceed on the basis that it doesn't. We call that atheism.

I think you're an agnostic atheist, which is the most common kind of atheist.

 Thanks for letting me know, just signed up for it! :D I'm not an evangelist, and I don't even care if you are religious or not.

I just don't like seeing people put up really thin agreements and acting like they got it figured out.

The issue with "why does bad things happen to good people" is as old as Christianity itself.  Most, if not all, Christians have considered this issue. It doesn't stop people from believing though. And for plenty of "good" reasons. It's not even that difficult to address (though a completely satisfactory answer does seem to be impossible)

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theodicy ah yes.  the monthly posting of this video to this sub to jerk it to. I find it spiritual that the atoms I am composed of originated from the hearts of stars. And those atoms somehow, perhaps by chance configured themselves into self-replicating automatons. Not sure what you mean by seriously - but if it's possibility then yes. If you mean organize one's life by it then no.  Let's put it that way. 

I've studied buddhism and a little of hinduism .. I do not believe any any of their gods, or any stories of supernatural powers .. but i do understand the underlying truth they are speaking about, and agree with them ... for example i believe meditation is a very powerful tool for self-exploration. i believe the happiness of others is important as 'we are all one' and my hapiness depends on theirs too .. here is a harder one, i am sure that 'everything is perfect' .. ok, not everyone agrees with me on that one, and it would be too long to explain.. but let's just say it's all happening the way it is suppose to happen, otherwise it would happen differently ... 

i could continue .. but i think you see my point.. for me it is really clear that i am somehow spiritual. As i am sure i am an atheist. sorry. formatted I doubt that you've any useful knowledge at all. Ego = identity + conflict = wars.  This question is literally asked multiple times a day so you have a pool of thousands of answers. I didn't say it was just an atheist one? Gay Byrne perfectly represents the hazy cultural Catholicism that pervades Irish society. Nothing whatsoever against the man, but I absolutely relished the look on his face in that clip.  Satanists are mostly sarcastic selfish pricks with a good sense of satire. 
Source: Satanist. You are turning terrorists into victims. I never said torturing was a way to glorify ourselves. I am saying that when we are the victim of tragedy, but still we praise God, then in his eyes we are glorified. It has nothing to do with pride. &gt; If you believed the biblical god was real and you simply decided not to follow it, you'd be a fool.

No, believing does not necessarily lead to following. Worshiping such a being just because it exists would be submitting to tyranny. I love a lot of hymns. Southern Gospel music makes me misty eyed sometimes. I don't believe in a god. Don't let your beliefs dictate things like this. It's silly.  You can say that you believe it could be.  I used to like Katt i thought he was funny this part kind of irked me tho,  But if a god was real, it wouldn't be your choice of which one to believe in. You'd have to believe in the real one. It was very progressive.

I never really got fixed, but in my childish gullibality I of course have taken those things as a fact.

But as I got more into religion, I got more skeptical of it.

One very noticable moment for me was a course we had as a preparation for our confirmation, which was about stars and such.

It was quite interesting to the point where they said that our life on the planet couldn't be by chance and I just thoght "BS, there are too many fucking stars to even say it's unprobable there is only us in the whole universe."

When I was confirmed I was basically already an agnostic and was rather doing it for the feast and the tradition.

I haven't been in a church since, except for a burial.

After that I wasn't thinking much about it until I started listening to the amateur skeptics podcast. After this event, I started considering myself an atheist for good.

I still don't rule out deism though, but for me this is as an undefined position as agnostic, but it at least doesn't require any theology. Fortunately, atheism *isn't* "holding the belief that god doesn't exist", it's literally only "Not holding a belief that god **does** exist".  

If you don't hold a belief that god exists, you're an atheist by definition.  Atheism isn't an assertion or a positive claim, it's just a non-acceptance of theistic claims.  You just said that you do not hold the belief that god exists, congratulations, you're an atheist.

You also said that you don't think it's knowable (irrelevant as that may be to the question I asked), which implies that you're *agnostic* about your lack of a belief that god exists.

Really, by simple definition, you're plainly an agnostic atheist. &gt;Life is purposeless, meaningless, valueless. Atheistic materialism demands this bleak view of the universe. 

Couldn't disagree more, just because there is no universal or eternal "meaning" or "value" does not mean I don't derive meaning and value from non-universal non-eternal things.

[Do you like donuts?](http://www.stanleycolors.com/2013/12/life-donuts/) LOL! I like jokes

But seriously, how often do you see comments around here about how stupid theists are? I am going to be conservative and guess at least once every 10 min in this sub and once a minute on reddit in general.  

Perhaps you don't consider yourself intellectually superior but the same cannot be said about atheists as a whole.  I am an atheist (though I pretend to be a polytheist for the tax breaks) and hate that I have to be lumped into the same category as all the asshole atheists on the interwebs   &gt;No idea.

It was a yes/no question.  Given that you're not the believing sort, I'm going to safely assume that you don't believe in any.  Congrats on being an atheist!

&gt;It should be possible to see the benefits of getting rid of lots of people in certain conditions though.

Like what?  Self-defense?  Then we're not talking genocide.  Your rebuttal is totally off the mark and talking about something I'm not talking about.

&gt;Logical contradictions - are you meaning in reference to the God's presented by Christianity and the other larger ones? 

Yes, while someone may not disprove all gods, someone can certainly be a gnostic atheist towards certain gods, given the right information.

But really, do you need to disprove every variation of bigfoot in order to not believe it?  Of course you don't, that'd be absurd.  The Greek Gods were always known to be just as vain &amp; imperfect as humans. Worse even because of the way power corrupts. 

In Christian theology, esp as developed during the middle ages by folks like St. Thomas Aquinas God was transformed from the Asshole of the Old Testament to an absolutely perfect being. All knowing, all powerful (Omniscient, omnipotent) &amp; perfect in every way imaginable, &amp; even in ways we as mortal humans can't imagine. This is the tradition &amp; belief that Fry is addressing.  &gt;i could continue .. but i think you see my point

I really don't.

&gt;for me it is really clear that i am somehow spiritual

I agree with pretty much everything you wrote.  (Initially, I would disagree that "everything is perfect", but I'm willing to accept that you probably mean that in a more poetic than literal sense, meaning that our disagreement is mostly semantic in nature).

However, I don't see how any of that implies spirituality.  Nor does the site seem to explain how being spiritual is any different than being human.

If spiritual and human are being used synonymous, then why use the word spiritual?  It seems dishonest, at best, to me. Neat Lately I've decided that Fox is The Onion, except they aren't kidding. I was not aware of that. I know he has had serious problems with depression. It's ironic that in the UK, where we have an official state religion, most of the population are indifferent to religion and it's not at all remarkable if a politician or public figure happens to be an atheist. Whereas in the US where there's official separation of church and state...  This doesn't mean I support state-sponsored religion: definitely not. I think all of us in the UK have had some dose of rather bland religion and got turned off by it. I wasn't sure. There are some pretty dumb people on reddit so I tend to assume the worst.  Not only that polytheism allows for much more religious tolerance than monotheism.  If you already believe in a multitude of deities it is a small thing to accept that the gods of your neighboring lands also exist.  If there is but one god and he is the one you happen to worship than anyone claiming otherwise is not only wrong but talking evil heretical nonsense.

Side note : my young daughters love the Greek gods and frequently play games where they are Athena and Artemis or are retainers to Aphrodite.  Makes for some amusingly awkward conversation with their Christian friends.  &gt;There is something wrong when you push those beliefs on people and force them to behave accordingly.

Are you saying that by answering a question, Stephen Fry has pushed his beliefs on you? Really? You cannot be that self-unaware, can you?

The good thing about atheism is that it doesn't presume to have any beliefs, rather dealing in truths than beliefs. Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it, hence we have religion. Leave him alone, he has to go pray for his buddy Suge Knight.  Free Suge!!!  No justice!, No peace! More like theoidiocy, amirite? &gt;Just to clarify this some more: "I don't know" is a perfectly valid answer to the question "is there a god?" because that question concerns an aspect of reality way outside of your head

Yeah, I'd say that it's probably the most valid.  Mormon. Went to the Temple and realized I was in a 19th century cult. Weirded the hell out, quit that shit. I'm sorry, but if even The God Emperor of Mankind ultimately failed at it, it can't be done. Sure you did, and sure you have.  Whatever you say bud. [Zeus was a womanizer.](http://www.metrolyrics.com/when-you-sleep-lyrics-cake.html)  Gotta love Cake.  Carefull, i got banned and my Message removed from r\islam.

I did not troll.

Guess discussion is not allowed. Imagine if ten percent... hell, imagine if all of the [money spent on killing each other was spent on making the world a better place...](www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMUiwTubYu0)

We'd be in fucking outer space dude.

Fuck imagining, work on this shit, both the OP and this post. Well yeah. I don't claim to know there isn't a god, and as my cousin loves to remind me, I can't prove god doesn't exist. But the fact remains that he can't present me with one shred of physical evidence. True that there is so much we just don't know, and god could decide to show himself at any time, but unless he does, it's not something I'm going to put much stock in cool http://redd.it/2qu3cj

And: "WSJ is owned by Rupert Murdoch - of Fox News fame." To answer your point; I think you misunderstood.
I said that every person I've encountered has trouble controlling their sex drive. Especially if you don't masturbate. I never said I did or didn't.

I'm just saying the sex drive can be overpowering without a release.  I'm pretty sure if you took anyone and put a chasity belt around them for 6 months, they'd do anything to take it off. "When religions like Christianity and Islam have a huge following of hungry not very educated people on both sides then politicians will explore the areas of religion to get them on their sides."

-Anglican Archbishop I think I would've worn a hijab.

But I'm male and this is just my sense of humor.

I would've been looking forward to say this the whole day.

"What only girls are ought to wear this. You know that's sexist, right?" Very. One of my favorites actually. Really goes to show you how misogynistic Christianity is.  Regular churchgoer here: I've never claimed a deduction for tithing, but I believe those planning to do so can put a check in the plate and put in the memo something indicating they need a tax receipt. 
Checks go into offering plates all the time, it's less of a pain than needing to have exactly 10% of last paycheck in cash. And if these self-professed christians were willing to call their religion hobby a simple social gathering, we probably wouldn't care. But they don't. They insist their hobby is superior. They insist it be treated with reverence and be given an unassailable place of privilege in society. They insist that their club rules should be made into national laws. They insist that non-members are untrustworthy or immoral or simply lesser. They insist upon any number of social benefits by merit of their club being better, and then they go and treat it like just another social group and gosh, wouldn't it be nice to have a swanky clubhouse?  

The reason we keep calling out this obvious and repeated hypocrisy is because the religious insist on being arrogant hypocrites. If that annoys you, bring it up with them. Bring it up with the people who talk themselves up as being superior and then behave like the rest of the rabble.  Gay Byrne looked as though he was angry with the response, but i thought i saw, for just a brief second, an "oh shit what if Stephen is right?" shadow pass across his face. Yes, and the judges could rule in the favour of thinking that hes critiziseing islam or Muhammad by beeing a atheist and promoteing atheismism. Looks like he's just given up on life. &gt; The godslaying machine exists because it could not have already retroactively slain all gods if it did not. Since this is a coherent statement, it is true, and there is no god and never was. Religious people are so frustrating to argue with because they constantly move the goal posts. Every point you pin them down on they always have a way out of; "well I don't interpret it that way".

Look, no one gives a single magnitude of fuck about how *you* interpret god. We're talking about what is writ in your holy book, not how you interpret it.  Your argument is a transparent straw man, but I'll agree with the conclusion anyway.

Why do you think your life has to have meaning?  What meaning does believing in a mystical sky fairy give you?  From what I see it imparts a lot of bad character traits.  If you put your faith in humanity instead you would likely be a much better person. I must of missed the funny part. Certainly not, personally I don't think that putting a lot of stock on such things is a particularly healthy thing to do. It's rained in the summer before I still don't pack a rain coat on a nice day (and I'm in England). That's with something that I've actually seen and experienced first hand, so to live ones life by the local religion seems pretty out there to me.  It is from Rome.  It is when Attia is chasing off Octavia's ex-husband Glabius.  I have watched that series innumerable times and it is still great. Why?  This trend would show that people who are religious probably vote for people of their own religion.  Since there's Muslims in this country, it's not hard to believe an area densely populated with Muslims would elect a Muslim politician.  Bet you a lot of money he's not pushing for Sharia law. Sorry, don't speak french. Fewer. its probably honey oil No, I'm saying that your answer makes God a terrorist.  Notably, that what all the terrorists say, too.  You guys might get along.  You are both really into the fact that torturing people helps them. well then we all are spiritual.. no worries, it doesnt hurt ..

it's really about the definition of 'spiritual' , which for sure is very hard as some people imagine it is about believing in some kind of ghost ... but as a meditation practitioner and buddhist student, i feel being spiritual does not imply believing in any supernatural magic. It's a deep understanding that "everything is absolutely perfect, but there is always space for improvement"  


 That's a pretty fucking low bar you're setting there. It's understandable, but I always try to assume the best in people until proven otherwise. It spares me headache pretty often. Millions of children believe in Santa, the Easter Bunny, and the Tooth Fairy.  Does this mean we should entertain the idea that they exist?  Wait, we know their parents are telling them lies.  We also know that these millions of adults were told gods exist as children.  How is it not exactly the same thing? Godd luck, very glad that you founf and atheistic meetup! For me The God Delusion really opened my eyes to the different arguments that pop up when discussing religion. Dawkins is of course an atheist but if you want to understand what an atheist generally thinks I would recommend reading it.  &gt; "I don't know" or "it's unknowable until further information"

What is the difference?

&gt; I am taking in information at this point, though I feel there are very few, extremely specific, scenarios where a belief claim is impossible due to lack of knowledge. 

Wouldn't that be why people make claims of faith? And since science pushes creativity forward, I think that we can say that we would also find more creative and neat designs/solutions to our world problems. Life would be easier because we could bring education, rationality and logic to people around us which cause us little harms everyday. man: what would you say to god if he was real

fry: i'd call him a cunt

you: Fry is dumb because he didn't answer the question lol

My god. It's fine to think Fry is wrong. No one cares about what you believe. But to say he didn't answer - or what you said, *refused* to accept the premise - come on now, that's just bullshit. After looking at the website, I wouldn't define myself under what is presented there as spiritual. I am a naturalist. All the spirituality I need I find in nature.  [Such an epic gif](http://c2.thejournal.ie/media/2015/01/gat-gif.gif) I have some quotes by huxley, who coined the term, also I have the [wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agnosticism#Thomas_Henry_Huxley) link.   
I also have a lovely [diagram](http://www.skepticink.com/incredulous/files/2013/08/nb2mO.jpg) which illustrates what I was trying to say. &gt;i feel being spiritual does not imply believing in any supernatural magic.

Then why use the word? It is based on the idea of "spirits," i.e., the supernatural.

It's like when people say the universe is "God," but nothing supernatural, they just call it "God." Well, why call it "God"?  You can try, they're the easiest people to convince. Look at that shit they believe in. /u/silver_medalist, the stupid person's stupid person.

 Thanks! :) &gt;When we say things like "Phdophils should be shunned from society" understanding them become very easy. /s

No, I'm afraid I will NEVER understand what would drive someone to harm a child in that way.  And frankly, some of them should be shunned from society.  I submit that every person who commits an act of rape against a child should be prevented from ever being in a position where he might do so again.  To do otherwise is to consider the welfare of children to be of minor importance.

Again, those who feel such urges and can keep them under control at all times are not a threat.  Those who have succumbed to those drives even ONCE have demonstrated that they are fully capable of ignoring the consequences of their actions, and must be prevented from doing so again. Taking advice from the Gawker network is something you should *definitely* be ashamed of. Is it just me, or does this sound like the opposite of Pascal's Wager? Pretty interesting argument on his part, one that actually makes sense, unlike Pascal's. Not necessarily true. Who knows what we could do with gene manipulation if we had all that money invested in it? No, I am saying most of them are very conservative. Especially when concerning law enforcement.  I mean, who doesn't like a good story when Zeus can't keep it in his pants and everyone gets jelly. The idea of a guy named Stan in the bible gives me the giggles. Actually, plain old roundworms that live in the guts of dogs and cats can do that. Toxacara and Toxascaris species. Which is a good reason to regularly de-worm your pets.  You know I think the same thing whenever I hear/think that quote, then I'm like wait so is Obi-wan Kenobi a Sith? That's when I stop thinking. The real story: It's because of fire insurance. Insurers don't want expensive churches and other buildings to have unattended naked candles burning in them, esp. not if they're handled by random, untrained people (== complete morons IME).

Was involved, we even looked at fire suppression systems like restaurants used but no go.

But it still sucks. Ugly ass fake isn't the same. I speak in the way which seems best to fit any given situation.  When I'm out hunting or fishing I certainly don't talk the same way as I do when addressing a judge and don't talk to judges and lawyers using the sake words as when I address a jury. You have to be able to adapt to your audience.  &gt;It was a yes/no question. Given that you're not the believing sort, I'm going to safely assume that you don't believe in any. Congrats on being an atheist!


Ha, thanks :) I think that I'm an agnostic atheist actually, TIL... 


&gt;Like what? Self-defense? Then we're not talking genocide

What I meant was that within our society it's wrong, but our society might not extend to all situations of good / bad. Or maybe it's the **only** place that good / bad exists, I don't know. But in some situations that might be a net gain from a genocide, but that's for the utilitarians to ponder I guess. 

I know what you mean about big foot, and that's always a bit of a problem here as it's "OH, prove to me I'm not a pig typing" kind of thing and yeh, I can't really prove that I guess, but maybe that's part of the point too.  1) example. Try to do an absolute descrpition of a cow. you have to speak about what she eats. so you have to describe "grass". describing grass there is no way you don't speak about photosynthesis, which leads you to describe the Sun, and the entire cosmos... come back to your cow, as soon as you start describing her fur, or her horns, you have to describe their entire methabolism, and as you go deeper, you have to speak about oxigen, nitrogen, carbon, etc.. so you describe all the atoms.. you also have to describe the ants, and the butterflies that all have a connection in the ecosystem and so are related to the cow.  it would simply be impossible to describe a cow alone, because a cow alone cannot exist. it can only be described in relation to everything else that exists, therefore it can only exist in relation with the rest of the universe .. am I sounding crazy? ..  If he's a Christian you can point at [Leviticus 19:27]. PWNED Credit cards are progress?

I don't like the idea of the financial sector getting a free chunk of every transaction I make.  I use cash, if they don't take cash they get a hard time from me, and no business. It's the dort if thing I'd expect to hear from a mentally ill, crack cocaine enthusiast.  I was in the Marines at the time, 20 years old.

I'd been saved since I was 4 years old, and I grew up in a loving home, or so I thought.  My parents had sent me to a private Christian school that, ironically, espoused the values of critical thinking.  Over the years, I had more and more questions regarding not just church doctrine, but the existence of God and the supernatural.  All throughout high school and a couple years in the military, I never stopped going to church, but I also never stopped asking these questions that really bugged me.

Shortly after I was stationed in Japan, it hit me.  I didn't have a good reason to believe that a god existed, much less the god I had been worshiping for the past 20 years.  The thought terrified me.  I called several people back home - my parents, my friends, etc. - and all I was told was that they would pray for me.

I found myself slowly phased out of my former life.  Everything I had believed in before was gone, everyone I knew and loved no longer wanted to speak to me for fear of "being unequally yoked to an unbeliever."  I felt completely abandoned and alone, and obviously I got deeply depressed.  Things seemed to get worse and worse, and I couldn't deal with it, and I eventually attempted suicide by taking a lot of pills.

Fortunately for me, I failed to end my life.  My sergeant found me when I didn't show up for work and they rushed me to the hospital and pumped my stomach.  I was honorably discharged and sent back home.  I moved out on my own, made new friends, and eventually put it all behind me.

Now I have closer friends than I've ever had.  People that truly listen, love me, and stay by me even if they disagree with me.  I married the most beautiful, compassionate person I've ever known, and she's been my best friend and partner ever since.

I'm sorry this wasn't the most pleasant story, but it helps me a lot to tell it.  Other people that have similar stories have told me what happened to them, and it got me out of some really dark times.  I hope that anyone who might be dealing with something like this get a chance to see this and know that it DOES GET BETTER. I know for a fact that it's not that simple. [**Leviticus 19:27 | English Standard Version (ESV)**](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Leviticus%2019&amp;version=ESV)
&gt;[**27**]You shall not round off the hair on your temples or mar the edges of your beard. 


***
[^Source ^Code](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot) ^| [^/r/VerseBot](http://www.reddit.com/r/versebot) ^| [^Contact ^Dev](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=mgrieger) ^| [^FAQ](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot/blob/master/docs/VerseBot%20Info.md#faq) ^| [^Changelog](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot/blob/master/docs/CHANGELOG.md) ^| [^Statistics](http://matthieugrieger.com/versebot/) 

 ^All ^texts ^provided ^by [^BibleGateway](http://www.biblegateway.com) ^and [^TaggedTanakh](http://www.taggedtanakh.org) 

 My family did not come over on a pilgrim ship either but that doesn't make me any less of an American. I mean you're not wrong, but it's out there I promise. I seen't it. From a unitarian minister talk a few years ago. I can't find it anywhere else on the internet.  &gt; they'd be subject to the Euthyphro dilemma[2] 

that's a nice little thought train, cheers :) I'm not doubting you. 

I'm sure it's not just a money issue, but who knows what could be accomplished given enough time and resources. 

I'm definately not an authority on the subject.  Can you pontificate on this position a little more? I'm not sure I see the connection between being conservative and showing off a large vocabulary. This is a great quote. &gt; I think you're an agnostic atheist, which is the most common kind of atheist

yeah I think you're right, and I think that is how I will describe myself in future.  Gratitude and a sense of humor...

And an appreciation of beautiful things... I have heard about Ender's Game so much. Never read it myself. I have to change that.

- I, Robot. Asimov (and all other robot stories, except the last three he wrote with his wife)

- Neutron Star - Niven

- Welcome to Earth - Russell

- Dune - Herbert

- The Stainless Steel Rat - Harrison

- Anything by Vance (The Devil's Princes; Magnus Ridolph) and very many others

- Have Space Suit, Will Travel - Heinlein

- The Moon is a Harsh Mistress - Heinlein

- Double Star - Heinlein

- Gateway - Pohl (and the rest of the series, but that one, whoa man)

- Ringworld - Niven

- Code of the Life Maker - Hogan

- Inherit The Stars - Hogan

- The Last Command - Laumer (and all other Bolo stories)

- The Day Before Forever - Laumer

- Dinosaur Beach - Laumer

- A Trace of Memory - Laumer

- Rolling Hot - David Drake (and all other Hammer's Slammers stories)

- The General Series - S.M. Stirling (**outstanding**)

- The Belisarius Series - Flint / Drake (Very good)

- The Berserker Series - Saberhagen

- Anything by Lois McMasters Bujold

- 2001 A Space Odyssey - Clarke

- Ambient - Womack

- Neuromancer - Gibson

And on and on and on... I've encountered this author before. She has a PhD in psychology and writes for Salon and other good publications. Good article.  They can't write a bill that protects bullshit like creationism but prevents teachers showing all of the scientific BS in the bible means it's untrue - like Xtianity. Are you contesting my point that Satanists are atheists? The longest response in the series!? &gt;Five months on and she says business is booming and that threats of a lawsuit by federal civil rights enforcers have failed to materialise...

&gt;...business has 'quadrupled' with people coming from out of state and some offering donations for what they predict will be a legal battle.

So the business is booming from fraud. Add another thing they should be investigated for. YES!! Today at work I wore a shitty beaded Cross and had that memorised if he (illegally) asked what my religious beliefs were (again) and how it relates to the beard.  2)it has nothing to do with spirits if you think spirits are some kind of invisible ghosts ... 

 Yahweh is omnipotent and all-loving. That means any lesson he wants to teach us can be done with pain or suffering.  Period. He designed us. Why would be design us so that we only learn really valuable lessons through suffering?  Someone should let him know that they didn't consult the bible when they wrote the constitution either. The bible was the first For Dummies book created.

How to build a civilisation for dummies first edition.  The Buddha is only remembered as fat because he briefly dabbled in hedonism and that image stuck.  He - if he existed at all - probably was not fat, at least not for most of his life. The constitution was based on Freemasonry IIRC, and not Xtianity.  It's also a bit of the Lek Paradox. If higher intelligence is advantageous, then why isn't it ubiquitous? There are probably plenty of Chik Fil A's outside the campus. Besides you never know, the next fast food shop to take up that lease might be "The Gays Are Bad - Eat Our Hamburgers". Love huxley, bnw revisited was an immense read, bnw felt like a setup to hear him discuss it in revisited. I'd love to have more 'revisited's from other authors in a similar vein.  

Just realised you're not on about aldous, doh. 

Thanks for diagram :) &gt; Your lack of belief in God will not send you to hell by itself. He has said that if you do good in your life, you will go to Heaven.

Correction: Anyone *who becomes a Roman Catholic*.  To the Vatican, *outside the Roman Catholic Church there is no salvation*.

* http://www.catholicvote.org/what-pope-francis-really-said-about-atheists/ It's unconstitutional. Technically, same thing applies with your Club. There are exceptions (for instance, a strip club can bar employing male strippers, or a production company can specifically select a man to play Romeo), but they wouldn't apply here, and most likely wouldn't apply to your Club. &gt;well then we all are spiritual.. no worries, it doesnt hurt ..

If *everyone* is spiritual, then why is the word meaningful?  Do you identify as a human spiritual atheist, as well?  Most people I know don't feel the need to identify themselves as humans, because it's already implied.  Your definition just seems redundant, at best...

&gt;i feel being spiritual does not imply believing in any supernatural magic.

So how do you differentiate yourself from people who define spiritual as believe in spirits?  Because that definition seems to be far more common that the one that you're using. Most families did not come over on a Pilgrim ship.  And the first English came to Jamestown to make money. Once again, i'm new, I didn't know it was asked all the time, I just wanted some interaction with the Sub, sorry for wanting to be your friend Mr Sky Fairy :( I don't see why I would have to describe grass when describing a cow.  The only part that would need explination is that the cow eats something called "grass".

Yes you are sounding a bit crazy, looking into it too much. Yeah, I don't disagee. This is a huge subreddit and as with any large group of people you're going to have your assholes. But we have a lot of awful stereotypes attached to us, and it doesn't help to perpetuate them. Do you have any more information on this? If true, various legal organizations such as the ACLU or the FFRF may want to become involved. Qi is the best! We would have fucking flying cars and be able to manipulate time like in that movie Interstellar. Religion is holding some of us back. I heard Mormons won't let you leave so easily, did you have any problems? What *are* spirits, then? Why use that word? &gt; Why would be design us so that we only learn really valuable lessons through suffering?

I dunno, maybe there are things we can't understand? 

Within the confines of human interaction I'm not really a fan of punishment though, and think positive reinforcement is a better and more productive means of education etc.  Maybe there is a point at which it becomes detrimental. 

I wish I was born 20 years from now so I could see the advancements first definition found on an internet dictionary :

SPIRIT :

noun
1.the principle of conscious life; the vital principle in humans, animating the body or mediating between body and soul.


2.the incorporeal part of humans:
present in spirit though absent in body.


3.the soul regarded as separating from the body at death.


4.conscious, incorporeal being, as opposed to matter:
the world of spirit.


5.a supernatural, incorporeal being, especially one inhabiting a place, object, etc., or having a particular character:
evil spirits.


6.a fairy, sprite, or elf.


7.an angel or demon.

----

Definitions 1 and 2 fit for me.  Okay, yes, basically everything that exists is inside the universe. So what? Of what actual significance is that? I was referring to his tag next to this name :P &gt;a practice that claims to "cure" gay peopl

Ooh. Sorry. You've now established the claim it's a medical treatment, and therefore can be regulated by the FDA or other medical authorities.

Can't have it both ways (unless doing it with two guys at once). Are you in the military? If not it should not matter. \s means his comment was sarcastic.  And I mean, maybe not in terms of you liking credit cards, but having a plastic card with a magnetic strip on it that contains your information could at least be considered a 'scientific' advancement to the financial sector, no? I hear this argument all the time, and to be honest...it's absolute horseshit. Let's say god does exist, and you do exactly as Fry just talked about. You tell god he's been a great big bastard, and shit ain't fair, so he can go get fucked. What happens to you? Straight down to the hot place. What awaits you down there? Eternal torment. Now just think about that for a moment: torment. Bad things, torture, anguish, etc etc. Eternal. Never ending. No matter how long time lasts, this won't. Billions of years are nothing to eternity. So to sum it up, the worst things you could possibly experience, for all eternity. And you're willing to go through that, for what? Your principles? Get fucked. I hate religion. I find out there's a god, I would do fucking *anything* to avoid hell. Oh noes, he's given the game away. &gt;3) Therefore, on materialistic atheism, there is no *objective* value or meaning

FTFY.

What "objective value" does religion offer?
 &gt;1.the principle of conscious life; the vital principle in humans, animating the body or mediating between body and soul.

What is a "soul"? As far as animating the body, your brain does that.

2.the incorporeal part of humans: present in spirit though absent in body.

Spirit means "present in spirit"? 

Why do you want to use this word so badly? All you're doing is using it to describe natural human physiology. Why would you take anything a comedian says seriously.  Agreed. As much as I like Stephen Fry and his argument, it's based on the human perception of "bad".  Indeed, I can't understand such thoughts.  You can not rape yourself...your analogy is bad. No i'm not, I work in a Warehouse. Dollar Dollar Holla Holla. It's not prejudiced.  I just don't vote.  You didn't even ask me why, you just jumped to a conclusion.  You assumed I was prejudiced, when in reality i'm simply lazy and apathetic.  I'm both surprised and disappointed. Yeah it's a hell of a lot better answer than because we are all bad people who brought all this upon ourselves when some person ~10,000 years ago ate an apple from a forbidden tree. This site was created by someone who might not believe in any gods but they still want to hold onto some sort of new age view of reality.  The problem is just like god, there's no evidence that any of this new age woo is real either.   apparently so, I think thats a better description of myself too.  &gt;The people running the corporation are immoral

So you are the morallity police now?   In coldblooded murder, rape and torture? Yeah, it's an absolute, there is no gray area in such cases there is no way to justify those actions other than not giving a damn about anyone but yourself.  Nah, it's just Gary Oldman without makeup.

Subtle mistake. I hear you.  But Brian's sandal wasn't holy until some moron declared that it was. Thank you for sharing this; I am well aware of thethinkingatheist youtube channel, but I haven't ever seen seth's website. That speech/article/letter was so encouraging. It's nice to see others that can sympathize with me, even if they are just text on a screen. Which one is the real one?  How would you know? No, I'm offering additional information on the habits and personalities of satanists, as a Satanist.
We're mostly atheistic or agnostic, despite how that may or may not jive with the "worship of self".

In fact I think you could say most of us are just hardcore contrarians.  Lol it's like "Is your kid a marilyn manson fan? Turn his life around!" Narcissism is necessarily bad -- it's in the definition. Vanity or pride of self on the other hand... How do you know?  There are quite a few different beliefs when it comes to Christianity. This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/badphilosophy] [And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon: &amp;quot;polytheism even makes more sense, guys. Ancients didn&amp;#x27;t have these unmoved mover things or much in the way of theological problems because they kept their gods chill&amp;quot;](http://np.reddit.com/r/badphilosophy/comments/2u7iof/and_i_beheld_another_beast_coming_up_out_of_the/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 what a replied somewhere else on this thread .. 
(definition 1 and 2 are the one relate to)


first definition found on an internet dictionary :
SPIRIT :
noun
1.the principle of conscious life; the vital principle in humans, animating the body or mediating between body and soul.
2.the incorporeal part of humans: present in spirit though absent in body.
3.the soul regarded as separating from the body at death.
4.conscious, incorporeal being, as opposed to matter: the world of spirit.
5.a supernatural, incorporeal being, especially one inhabiting a place, object, etc., or having a particular character: evil spirits.
6.a fairy, sprite, or elf.
7.an angel or demon.
Definitions 1 and 2 fit for me. I also like Aldous Huxley, I think it's kind of strange that only one of his books is really well known. It's very much like Also Sprach Zarathustra, in that it's an allegory of a privileged boy choosing to leave home, experience hardship and asceticism, and through this backdrop he weaves parables. I just find much of the language more beautiful than most prose I've ever read. It's quite short, and probably available online.   Only at night. Wow I loved how he lied back in his chair like a child getting berated by his mother lol.  Please repost with http://www.donotlink.com/ - don't give these assholes clicks. it definitely can happen. I frequent /r/exchristian quite a bit and it can be difficult not to be bitter. no one is perfect, and reddit is reddit. we are going to get all kinds of people and nasty commenters.

if we can strive to be a better community and keep our long term goal in sight, we might improve. I'd rather be ignorant in a world without pain, cancer, war, famine, and murder, however. &gt; if your basis of truth is that "RR said it";Then anything that he said gets to be true, too, right?

I'm hoping you'll send me a stern PM if I start claiming such things. 

&gt;So, how do we apportion the blame in that instance if it turns out to not be true? Is it the believers fault? Is it the source?


Well the person has chosen to do xyz, it's the person's responsibility in the case of following things from religious texts. Therefore good that they are motivated to do from it is credited to them along with any harm they cause to others. 
 Why are you quoting Ecclesiastes? Can you give us a good reason why anyone should take that book seriously? Pretty much anywhere you can enjoy a bottle of wine and someone's wife works for me. This woman is a demented loon. If the US had a good medical system she'd be locked up. It's from a series in Ireland called "The Meaning in Life." Usually the people interviewed have some form of religion. They probably didn't expect Stephen to say what he said. Delighted he did.  Those who make claims (and wish those claims to be taken seriously) are burned with the need to demonstrate the validity of their claim. 

Suggested reading: "The Dragon in My Garage" by Carl Sagan

-----------------

http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/The_Dragon_in_My_Garage

&gt; "A fire-breathing dragon lives in my garage" Suppose (I'm following a group therapy approach by the psychologist Richard Franklin[3]) I seriously make such an assertion to you. Surely you'd want to check it out, see for yourself. There have been innumerable stories of dragons over the centuries, but no real evidence. What an opportunity! 

&gt; "Show me," you say. I lead you to my garage. You look inside and see a ladder, empty paint cans, an old tricycle--but no dragon. 

&gt; "Where's the dragon?" you ask. 

&gt; "Oh, she's right here," I reply, waving vaguely. "I neglected to mention that she's an invisible dragon." 

&gt; You propose spreading flour on the floor of the garage to capture the dragon's footprints. 

&gt; "Good idea," I say, "but this dragon floats in the air." 

&gt; Then you'll use an infrared sensor to detect the invisible fire. 

&gt; "Good idea, but the invisible fire is also heatless." 

&gt; You'll spray-paint the dragon and make her visible. 

&gt; "Good idea, but she's an incorporeal dragon and the paint won't stick." And so on. I counter every physical test you propose with a special explanation of why it won't work. 

&gt; Now, what's the difference between an invisible, incorporeal, floating dragon who spits heatless fire and no dragon at all? If there's no way to disprove my contention, no conceivable experiment that would count against it, what does it mean to say that my dragon exists? Your inability to invalidate my hypothesis is not at all the same thing as proving it true. Claims that cannot be tested, assertions immune to disproof are veridically worthless, whatever value they may have in inspiring us or in exciting our sense of wonder. What I'm asking you to do comes down to believing, in the absence of evidence, on my say-so.


------------------- Sexual assault and rape, bullying, drug and alcohol addiction, eating disorders, those are all harmful things. Are you advocating protecting a teenager from ideas? Do you want to ban certain kinds of thoughts, or declare some books, websites, and TV show off-limits? This seems illegal, like they're claiming it'll cure MS. Has science gone too far!? That's "god-whore" to you. You're right.  Never expect a cockroach to believe that cockroach-jesus died in a roach motel for all coackroach sins.  Or that they should all worship me as i spread poison and stamp them with my boots.  Poor stupid cockroaches can't understand my grand plan for a bug free apartment.  Now they will have to burn in eternal hell fire.  I love them.
 This belongs on /r/DebateAnAtheist One possible concept of God is that He did not design the universe in detail, perhaps merely specified certain laws of nature and then let it develop by itself.  Of course, one also would not expect to go to heaven and meet that kind of God.  It is strangely inconsistent for this deity to be completely uninvolved in the lives of human beings yet to closely supervise their afterlives.  Then again, God is said to work in mysterious ways. Yeah, guess it gets embedded and becomes one of 'them'. After many a summer was cool, there was a really old fish in it. I read that ages ago, can only remember the fish, how daft.  Actually, there was no disease or death in the world when God created it. The Bible says after creation "everything was good" and that all that bad shit came about later as a result of our sin... we caused it, free will, yada yada. he's not really arguing against anything biblical here Read.  A lot.  When I started reading hundreds of pages every week, my vocabulary skyrocketed.  It was extremely noticeable to my girlfriend at the time, who was very well-read.

However, the best advice for articulate communication is knowing how to be succinct.  Tap into your engineering skills, and try not to say much more than what is necessary to make your point.  Anything more may be perceived as rambling. &gt;&gt; Atheism isn't just about believing there isn't a God...

So, I'd like to discuss this, because I don't believe in the God that Stephen Fry doesn't believe in too. I do believe in a creator. To what extent is a non-mainstream-conservative-Christian an "atheist" by Fry's definition, and to what extent do you have to have the other attributes to be an atheist? If you think the PoE isn't logically sound, are you still an atheist? Is Fry wrong?
 I don't get what the "vital principle of conscious life" is. We all have brains. Even "non-spiritual" atheists accept this. Why does the word "spiritual" come into this? "Certified Funny?" I don't know which funny inspector certified this act, but they should be fired. It is Certified Stupid. Well, there is Temple of Satan, and there is Church of Satan. Both can be called satanists, but the Temple of Satan looks a bit less ehm... "selfish-pricky" as you put it? &gt; Still, the question is not only the historicity of Jesus. Does God, as an entity, not exist?

[*The word "God" has no clear referent.  Even using the word "Yahweh" only does a little bit to remedy that problem.*](http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/reference/)  

Because of that, claims or statements using that word do not have any reliable meaning.  We can see that lack of reliability in the tens of thousand of Christian sects that can not agree on simple things such as if "God" is a being or an entity or something else or not a thing at all.  (Not counting the non-Christian Abrahamic religious sects and the fracturing of those, or the those inclusive religions that subsume Abrahamic deities and saints/preachers/... as avatars of a greater godhood.)

So, to avoid those problems, we still need to know what -- at a minimum -- you think a god is before we get to any named deity with a specific history or set of intents (if any). Sexytime nuns, that's hot.  This is a useful article, and it's relevant to how scientists need to approach today's world.

One of the most useful scientists who has ever lived was Carl Sagan.  He not only made some genuine discoveries about other worlds (for instance, he discovered the high surface temperature of Venus and deduced that it was due to a runaway greenhouse effect), he also brilliantly presented science in a way which fascinated the general public.  My understanding is that some of his fellow scientists frowned upon his ways of engaging the general public, feeling that he was more celebrity than scientist, which just goes to show how out-of-touch they were.

Science DOES need to be presented to people, in a way which captures interest without sacrificing the facts.  If that means using TV and special effects to do it, then so be it.  The revival of COSMOS is a step in the right direction, but there needs to be more.

The Library of Alexandria burned, largely because the people who lived there had no idea of its value; the elite intellectuals within its walls did not see fit to engage the public in their scientific pursuits, and in fact would have been appalled at the idea of "science for the masses".  Let us not make that same mistake again. There was a Twilight Zone episode where a criminal dies and finds himself in "Heaven", only to find the constant good times and winning everything without effort agonizing in a short time.  He suggests that maybe he should be in "the other place", and his handler says that is is,in fact, in "that other place". Basically, there have been a few good philosophers over the years, most of them are bullshitters.  Look up spilling your seed in the bible.  For Christians, you are interfering with God's plan. Wow, thanks a lot for the support. I really appreciate it. I haven't been using reddit, but I'm starting to now.  There was even bonus content: "Awake!" Was shoved in the middle of the booklet.  I have always felt that the comparison of God to a parent (and after all, Catholics do refer to Him as "our father who art in heaven) helps to shed light on the Problem of Evil.  A father does not shield his children from everything, but *does* shield them from some things, if possible.  You would not allow your child to carelessly run into traffic and be killed, if you could prevent it.  God (if such a being exists) seems to allow everything, no matter how horrible.  It is pretty obvious to me that there are no divine interventions, and God is not answering prayers or looking after His supposedly chosen people.  I have no doubt that during the Holocaust, millions of fervent prayers were prayed, to no avail. Religion is holding ~88% of us back. That's a lot of people. Religion kills geniuses.  I wonder what he thinks about atheist having children? When you have a child you are kind of a god in some small way if you think about it. I mean, you're literally creating a life... So if you're bringing life into this miserable world, knowing how much suffering there is, just gambling that your child will somehow avoid all the evil little bad things that can happen to a bag of flesh clinging to a rock, spinning around the sun, spiraling around the galaxy, headed for a collision with another galaxy... 

Well, what does that say about your ethics?

(Not that all atheist think of the world as this horrible place. But a lot do subscribe to this glass half empty view of life and use that as proof that a good god could not exist... and then shit out a kid.. A little ironic, dontcha think?) Reading the Bible as a kid made me realize what a huge asshole God actually is.  So this guy has seen it all and knows how to distance his emotions from the topic.  How do you explain is obvious discomfort with Fry's answer?  Do you think it was sort of an act? That is certainly a logical conclusion.  The bible really does not make sense, for this and many other reasons.  It is, as Isaac Asimov called it, a book of Jewish mythology, and is no more accurate than any other mythology that has been passed down from ancient times. I don't agree with the argument. But it never hurts to consider arguments against one's position.  it's more than just everything exist in the universe 

Its 'everything is perfect', in opposition to 'everything is chaotic' 

i believe in providence, in opposition to chance.. 


an famous example to describe that is the one with the monkey and the typewriter  ... 'if you could give a typewriter to a monkey, and let him type for an infinite amount of time , would he ever , by pure chance, write a Shakespeare " .. the answer that many believe is NO. he will never writte an entire Shakespeare by chance..  Meanwhile, we look at our univers, we study it, in details, and realize how amazingly perfect everything works together.. for example who ever has studied even a tiny bit of our our human bodies work and are built, would agree that it's the most incredible, perfect machine ever invented.. but invented by who? by what? .. i don't believe it was any king of being or entity ... but i still know it's all perfect and all meant to happen that way . 

so, it makes me believe I have a higher purpose here than just breathe and eat .. i am here to serve something much bigger than me, and the way to do that, for me and only myself, is to work on being a better human, and acting locally from a centered self, knowing that i am affecting the entire universe with my spiritual self .. 
 Nowadays we need these stupid disclaimers too, don't we. /s The sky cake is a lie That is also how I see it.  Even if there actually is a God, He has (for some mysterious reason) given me no good reason to believe in Him and so He should not be either surprised or offended that I don't. Then unless it was stated in a manual ore something when you were hired I wouldn't think they could fire you for it, but Im not a lawyer.

Also is that the name of the warehouse because if so that's awesome. Just pretend that they're actually singing "*Carrying a Laser* down this road that I must travel," and picture a big commando guy built like a young Arnold Schwarzenegger, hefting a plasma blaster the size of a jackhammer, blasting down killer robots through the darkness of the night.

Works for me. The problem here is, anyone who would trust a religious leader who says that global warming is real, would also trust a religious leader who says global warming is a hoax. I think I would prefer the clip without Byrne's outlandish reactions.  No need to get up.  I'll find it somewhere. :) Science?  No.  God has done this.  A capricious, mean spirited, stupid god. &gt; I was hoping people wouldn't downvote me instead of actually discussing/debating with me.

Note that I suspect that one or two people are doing a blanket down-vote on all of your comments.  To mute that somewhat, I have been up-voting your comments regardless of their content.

I encourage you to address all thoughtful comments as time permits, and I suspect/guess that the (suspected blanket) down-votes will start to drop off soon. Well, he may be experiencing spiritual/emotional/mental trains of thought that he is looking to reconcile or make sense of.

I'm a bit that way myself- I have a pretty strong sense of spirituality and fanciful thoughts... I know it's bullshit, but when I was younger trying to find that proverbial Freudian Meaning in (what I eventual came to realize are meaningless) Thoughts I went down some deep rabbit holes.

People like me are prone to depression until we learn some mindfullness, and it is hard work! The lazy and uninitiated way about it is trying to find Meaning from some ancient texts from people desperately trying to find meaning without sciences 2000+ years ago. How convenient that Meaning can be handed down to you from a god, old wise men, and socially acceptable superstition?

Building meaning for myself and letting go of my vast number of meaningless thoughts has been one of the hardest lesson in my life. So here I am a strong atheist... life is so weird for assholes like me. I just skimmed, and this seems to be the big point they're driving at:

&gt;In short, some autistic individuals may be incapable of cognizing a personal God (if there is a God): some are as constitutionally incapable of recognizing a personal God as they are of recognizing a friend.

&gt;Recent studies demonstrate a correlation between atheism and autismone is vastly more likely to be an atheist or agnostic if one is autistic. The higher up one is on the Autism Spectrum, the more likely one is to be an atheist.

&gt;Conclusion: [paraphrased]: Since some atheist can be caused by irrationality, then can it all be?

What a shit article. One thing to try is to use "Yahweh" instead of "God".  When asking Christians whether they believe that Yahweh actually exists, they'll often pause for a bit (since they're used to hearing about "God").  I think it's important to put it out there that their god is just like the thousands of other man-made gods. Oh look, another article pondering the irrationality of atheism by focusing specifically on God, the abrahamic version... ignoring the thousands of others that have come and gone over the millenia in various other cultures.

What absurd bias.

 black jesus gave it 10 'off da hooks' I posted it on there also. Thanks for your help. Just to clarify : I am pro-GMO, what I don't like is genetic engineering being used to sell and diffuse more and more pesticides/herbicides.

As for the research, in 2012, biologist Gilles ric Seralini published a study on NK 603 Corn, which is genetically modified in so it can resist to Roundup, a highly toxic herbicide. Doctor Seralini showed that the Corn was full of Roundup would caused tumors if eaten. I can't, because I'm allergic to almonds.

(I know, baklava doesn't always have them in it.) Like bath salts.  Not for human consumption (because it turns you into a zombie). At least according to Wikipedia, it would seem he was in fact being serious.  
"Williams temporarily joined the Nation of Islam before reverting to Christianity." It may be that Gay Byrne knew exactly what kind of answer he was going to get to that question, based on previous interviews with Stephen Fry, and that was what he wanted.  It is, after all, quite dramatic.  Although he does appear to have a somewhat shocked expression on his face.  Even that could have been part of a deliberate plan to create a very dramatic interview. They didn't bring toilet paper either, but I'm going to keep using it. I don't think those are the same people, I'm alluding to people who treat religion like a diet, it's part of the way you make decisions but it's also not something to broadcast or know about everyone. No, he has not;

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2u560t/can_you_prove_to_me_why_god_does_not_exist/co5t4qx I guess they aren't in the club that thinks credit card numbers are the mark of the beast.
 Hahah I wish it was.  Not true.  Make sure you read my comment to you here;

* http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2u560t/can_you_prove_to_me_why_god_does_not_exist/co5t4qx YOu fail to distinguish phedopiles and child molester. Phedophile, eventhough attracted to children, doesnt nececessarily rapes a child. Child molester, even though rapes a child, isn't necessarily attracted to children. So is Hindu theology. 

Source: I'm a Hindu (technically an atheist, but whatever). Yeah and of course the two groups have open disdain for one another. It's a parody of religion man. Everything is parody and satire with us.

Or some crazy thing like that. I dunno. I was told by the church of satan that the temple of satan was a bunch of unruly kids. The temple of satan told me the church of satan was a bunch of stodgy old guys.

I started out all "what is this I don't even..." and I ended up all "Actually, I'm not even mad, that's amazing". 
I Believe both groups worship satire above all else, and I have a God-Given right to believe that, regardless of any fancy "Facts" you may throw at me and have peer reviewed and verified.

How do I know you're not false sensory input? or secretly a witch? Exactly. I could be wrong.  He says it a lot, though.  I'm pretty sure he brings it up when asked what his purpose in life is. You mention DIN so I have to ask is what you're saying based off EU regulation? I wish US standards were equal to Europe or Japans  What makes you think I took anything he said seriously? I hope they don't show an image of the prophet Spirit In The Sky from Norman Greenbaum is one of my alltime favorites. You have to like the sound of a song, not the message. what if there's a per-transaction fee of $0.50? then with every penny you donate, they lose 49 cents :) Norwegian! Out of our young people, I estimate that we are 80% atheist now! I don't even know anyone who is Christian.  "Ire ad haec undecim." They're politicians. Politicians don't get reelected by being true to their principles / beliefs. They get elected by appealing to common voter, the American public. People keeping pissing on about congress on Reddit, I wonder how many of them actually make an attempt to change the status quo. Have you? Until there's evidence for a god, the answer to this remains no.

I make the advance prediction that no such event will occur. Oh my fucking shit. The fact that you have to be awake for the operation, and the the fact that worm is so fucking long is...just...holy fucking hell. Basically, the explanation for this is that, as far as archeologists and scholars are concerned, Judaism was originally a pantheonic religion. It appeared to share the same gods as the canaanites, and had some babylonian and egyptian influences.

This changed when Yahweh, the pantheons god of war, began to recieve more praise and worship. Likely due to increased.tensions and conflict in the regions surrounding Israel..
Over time this increased until Yahweh was established as the Elohim, or patron god.of the Israelites. It was around this time that the book of deuteronomy was added to the talmud, along with the laws about holding no god before Yahweh.

Later on Yahweh was established as the only god, forcing a revision of the Talmud to coincide with this belief, all references to the old pantheon became attributed to him. But this revision was not perfect and at times makes him seem either schizophrenic or two faced.

For more info i would check out 3vid3nce's videos on youtube, the evidence for atheism.
 Pfft that's breaking rule no. 1. &gt; [And what is good, Phaedrus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arete#Examples_of_usage), and what is not good? Need we ask anyone to tell us these things? &gt; Do you have a quote that explicitly says from Jesus that condemns atheists to hell?

[John 3:16-18] Let me know when they have one. [**John 3:16-18 | English Standard Version (ESV)**](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=John%203&amp;version=ESV)
&gt;

&gt;**For God So Loved the World**  
[**16**]For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. [**17**]For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. [**18**]Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. 


***
[^Source ^Code](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot) ^| [^/r/VerseBot](http://www.reddit.com/r/versebot) ^| [^Contact ^Dev](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=mgrieger) ^| [^FAQ](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot/blob/master/docs/VerseBot%20Info.md#faq) ^| [^Changelog](https://github.com/matthieugrieger/versebot/blob/master/docs/CHANGELOG.md) ^| [^Statistics](http://matthieugrieger.com/versebot/) 

 ^All ^texts ^provided ^by [^BibleGateway](http://www.biblegateway.com) ^and [^TaggedTanakh](http://www.taggedtanakh.org) 

 yes but what is 'grass' ? ... it's an abslute definitiion we're doing, to someone who as never seen earth .. it's all hypothetical obviously ..
 On the contrary, I believe I have distinguished between them.  Those who molest children should be dealt with harshly.  Those who do not, as I said, "are not a threat."

I didn't say this in my original post, but I have already acknowledged that error. Yeah...but we all knew that prior to watching this video right!?  I'm in the UK and I went to check that link out but it's blocked in my country!? Last time I checked BBC stood for British Broadcasting Corporation. (I'm well aware that it has a completely different meaning on adult sites.....) Was this aired in America originally? Honestly, I don't think I have ever read a single good argument for being Christian. The only justification I see for it is the comfort some people derive from it. The [Seralini](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%A9ralini_affair) study had horrible methodology. I won't go into detail, read the link if you want that. That misguided study is not useful for anything except misinformation. Welp, thanks for the nightmares Nice. When you read the Old Testament, about Yahweh, the God as psychopath starts to make sense.

What if God was some sort of transplanted ordinary being made somehow omnipotent, driven mad by power and loneliness? "God's love" reads a lot like a blend between Narcissist and psychopath.

I seem to remember the idea of becoming a God in your own Universe in James Blish's "Clash of Cymbals." He could easily look like a priest to us from across the pond. No one would have quite that reaction today in the USA, where the face turns into a prune and the eyes roll when a person challenges the framework of the question in the way that Stephen Fry did. If anyone were to respond like that, it would be the most conversative of Christians, and possibly a church leader. democrats do plenty of stupid shit too, they're all politicians. globally, democrats and republicans in the US are basically the same political party. almost everyone outside the US will tell you that. but you're playing right into their game thinking it's left vs right instead of government vs civilians. C&amp;H is the greatest comic strip ever, IMO.  When it stopped was when the music died, but Watterson quit because he saw what happened to every other strip that kept going forever.

I read The Comics Curmudgeon, which is pretty awesome.  There is no lame trick comics won't do to make a deadline. Half these strips are being done by the grandson of the guy who started it in the 20s, and grandson wants to collect the ever diminishing paycheck from their artistic sinecure with the least amount of effort. Post a pic of your beard and I'll tell you if your boss is being an ass or if you just look like a scruffy hipster. https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=10202007378705068&amp;set=t.1803871526&amp;type=3&amp;theater &gt; How do I know you're not false sensory input? or secretly a witch? Exactly.

That's irrelevant question. It only helps mental masturbation, which, while enjoyable sometimes, does not bring you any closer to understanding of the world.

I may be false sensory input for you, but I behave in exactly the same way as real person would. So there is no difference for you, hence why bother trying to distinguish those? Undistinguishable = the same. Ugh. I grew up in the Mormon church. Such hypocrites. it's pretty simple really .. atheist means : who doesn't believe in God or supernatural beings"  and agnostic means : not sure about 'God'  Look at it this way, out of something inherently despicable (religion), came something beautiful.   I'm surprised they bothered to redraw it.

Sometimes they'll take an old drawing and add new words.  Often to try to make some updated technology joke or something.  

Joshreads.com is the only way to read the newspaper comics without being poisoned by mediocrity. He's a comedian Pretty much, in the sense that he was playing the role of the 'ignorant bystander', which then gives Fry the chance to further clarify his opinion.

 Having seen a lot more of Gay Byrne, you get used to his 'ways'. IMO he was just giving Fry a platform to keep speaking. I really doubt he was genuinely uncomfortable by the answer, even though I don't know if he actually would agree or not. Moreover, I'm sure he knew exactly the kind of answer Fry would give when asked that question.  If in doubt, whatever you need to refute a Creationist is on [the TalkOrigins site](http://www.talkorigins.org/).

I used the "Search" link and found pages of information on fossils. I'm genuinely curious , what's your rationale behind the assumption that a "soul" even exists?  I think he might be too, not sure why he is so sold on the word spiritual. [You're not wrong...](https://i.imgur.com/40Idny0.png?1) quote marks are insufficient to convey your intended meaning. Use "[sic]" after your word. 

&gt;My manager requires me to keep my beard "kemp" [sic]. no, you cannot understand it and its ok. thats why it is still somehow a belief . i respect your way of sing it, but i personally feel spiritual. i've tried describing it, but for sure , if you are a pure atheist, you will not understand it. And far from me the idea of trying to convince you.

 But in this case, OP has already provided the alternative: "rationality and science".  He never said "If we didn't spend so much time/money on religion, we'd be so much better off."  He explicitly directed the time/money somewhere else.

It's not equivalent to "If we didn't build so many bombs, we could build more schools", but instead, "Imagine if instead of building bombs, we built schools". not my first language but I was in a rush and didn't double check the comment. I wish it were so easy to explain to my mother. Very few politicians will get elected by the American public by being true to their beliefs and principles. It doesn't help that the majority of those who hold non-theist views also have the lowest voter turnout in terms of age group demographics. When you say it's all happening the way it's supposed to happen, who or what is doing the "supposing"?  Maybe it's not what you meant, but that phrasing implies either agency or teleology, neither of which are any more believable to me than gods are.

If you just mean fatalism or determinism, fine, but then your value judgment calling it "perfection" seems out of place. That seems pretty ignorant. God didn't give people cancer. People give themselves cancer. All the food we eat has it in it. People made that. God doesn't let children starve. People do that when they embrace greed as a way of life.  &gt; could at least be considered a 'scientific' advancement to the financial sector, no?

Indeed.

This is why I mentioned context.  I don't consider credit cards progress for the rest of us.  As they are generally used they are more compatible with the concept of slavery.  I have a lovely daughter who always has maxed credit cards and it makes me angry that she is a slave to the financial industry because she has been trained to be a good consumer.

Thus, I can't let the mention of credit cards slide without giving my opinion. Found this spoon sir... Just my two cents here so take it for what it's worth. Find a way to explain this in your own words. Don't say "well look at what this guy said" because they will assume your decision is based on the opinion of a celebrity rather than how YOU truely feel.  "It goes to 11" in Latin? No thanks, I prefer to address a problem that's just as large, but not nearly as discussed: professional sports fans. The NFL is not only a non-profit, but it's given outright subsidies to build its places of worship. Congregants have even been known to riot, and engage in violent disputes with each other. "If wishes were horses, beggars would ride".

The volume knob changed and world became a little less eloquent when Christopher Hitchens died. "i was talkin' to gary on the phone the other day, and he said, 'wah woww.'"

just terrible.  btw.. i dont personally don't believe in soul .. 

and yes i believe there is something more than just my body and my brain electromagnetic currents Right... because God is not a logical argument or a scientific law. 

Spirituality and God are metaphysical ideas and constructs. God didn't sit down with a pen and paper to map it all out for us. He didn't sit Moses down and explain everything face to face in his native language.

Religion is just a man-made explanation of God. The Bible is a collection of books written by men as they were inspired by God. Man is imperfect and through thousands of translations and copies man has put more and more of their own influence and interpretations into these holy works.

Your relationship with God is a deeply personal thing. 

Sure, you can lie to yourself about God, what He is and what He wants... but you can lie to yourself about anything - science, politics, your spouse, etc... &gt; It's always Sam's mom's cataracts.

Or Jesus appearing on a slice of toast. It is having experienced death and seeing that process happen. It is in observing the best underlying traits of humans and the worst. It is from witnessing complete life transformation in others. It is within the context of physics and chemistry as well. It is in the study of history and understanding the refinement of humanity over thousands of years from a rudimentary beast to what we are now and looking forward with hope to what we will become.

It is not difficult to conceptualize for me.

What is your rationale for assuming there is no soul? Ask him if he can provide any sources that aren't Christian apologetics sites. If they were scientifically true, we'd expect there to be lots of sources confirming it, not just websites whose stated goal is to support Biblical creation. 

This goes for pretty much any argument they say. Didn't know he was still alive. He's not looking too bad. He made a two part documentary a few years back called "Manic-Depression and Me". It's well worth watching. Also, this:

The YEC uses *Argument X.* Given that the global scientific consensus is that YEC-ism isn't true, ask them which of these three possible scenarios the YEC thinks is the case:

1. *Argument X* is sound, but scientists aren't aware of the argument

1. *Argument X* is sound, and scientists are aware of it, but they all (including theistic scientists) have a global conspiracy to hide it from the non-scientist public to keep tricking people into believing the Earth is 4.5 billion years old and evolution is true for some reason. Oddly enough there have been no whistleblowers with recorded evidence to expose this conspiracy.

1. *Argument X* isn't sound

Applying simple common sense to these scenarios is a great supplement to whatever specific debunkings of specific arguments that you provide. Please do this every time. Can you be more specific? This bible I got here doesn't have an index in the back.    I fucking love Stephen Fry so damn much.

As well as being clear-minded and a free thinker, also, in every time I've seen him in visual media, he's as utterly and legitimately nice a person as you can be, and shows truly genuine interest in what people have to say.

It takes a lot for someone to be that humble. And the fact that he has battled with bipolar disorder and even tried to commit suicide once makes it just all the more incredible that he can be so humble and nice! &gt; He also said that since my other friends and I are atheists we are doomed to go to Hell.

Lucky you. [Heaven is hotter than Hell](http://paulbourke.net/fun/heaven/). And the fun people are all in hell. I'm calling /u/btwIAMAzoophile just for you. 

 thats why i feel spiritual and you not .. right? 

because i believe its all perfect, meaning there is some kind of prewritten story unfolding in front of us .. it doesn't mean i believe in gods or supernatural things. it's just a philosophical way of seeing the world
 &gt; Why not teach students how to properly communicate? One thing I hated during my later studies (IT), was how often I heard other people say "grammar isn't important", when dealing with reports, which is insane on multiple levels, as these are people who can understand using indentation as nesting and various C-pointers, but can't get their heads around "its" and "it's".

Very interesting point you make; that professionals in a highly technical field where every keystroke must be exact and calculated, fail to see the importance of unequivocal language.  Sad to see a brain go bad. &gt; What's the best way to refute this article? 

Depends on who you're talking to.  Here in /r/atheism the best way would be to point out that it is creationism.  

Else, do has Pope says and go to http://www.talkorigins.org &gt;In truth, the liberal students who voted to silence and banish Chick-fil-A from their campus due to the views of its founder on gay marriage.

Alright. Let me stop it right there. If it was just Dan Cathy's issues with gay marriage, I myself would probably still eat there. But when the issue with Dan Cathy blew up, it was revealed that the company itself has strong ties with Christian anti-LGBT hate groups through their "charitable" organizations, so I stopped going.  Well thanks, dear. two words.. quantum physics I was thinking about grammar the other day (almost spelled that 'grammer', ok I need spell check sometimes also) as I scanned the code base for certain key words, fishing for some issues I was fixing.  We had one engineer who was brilliant with code, but horrible with spelling.  He would always misspell variable names and such.  With the great IDE's we have these days, that's not so much of a problem.  But it still does create issues.   This belongs on /r/DebateAnAtheist Just what I was thinking. Even with the specifics of his comments aside, I don't understand the  type of humor that just forcefully, abjectly, willfully criticizes some position. It is right up there with that Michael Richards ad hominem tirade shouting racial epithets at an audience member.  Well, I'd guess that most of the audience laughed and clapped because they agreed with what he was saying. At some point you should care about what large numbers of people believe, and dislike when people like Kat Williams re-enforce it. I play pipe organ, and love a lot of religious music. I'm able to separate the intent and the music from the bullshit. Vierne's solemn mass gives me shivers, even though I know the lyrical content is bullshit. 'off da nails' ...yes... but is she a good actress?

'Coz that's all I care about. Well I want to be one more eloquenter to infinity forever I've picked them up when I see them laying about.  If I have a pen I write a relevant opinion inside and put it back.

One day I saw a Chinese fellow bury one in a newspaper and leave it on a bench at the bus stop.  I picked up the paper, added a note refuting the content and put it back while he watched.  I'm sure he wanted to say something to me but he didn't.

We got on the same bus all the while giving me annoyed glances.  He stopped when I gave him a big grin, took out his bible and started reading it. I should open a gun range, and ban "ALL PEOPLE'S OF RELIGIOUS FAITH NOT WELCOME HERE". I wonder how fast I'd be sued out of business. (Or well, just not get any business because most of the gun range types here in the south are also hardcore fundies.)  So I can call him Gay and he would not mind one bit?

"Hey!! You are Gay!!" I'm unfamiliar with this show, is the host (interviewer) religious?  or is he just an unbiased interviewer?  No. People who think of Buddha as fat are usually thinking of [Budai](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budai), also known as "the Laughing Buddha." There are many buddhas (enlightened people), but usually when we say "Buddha" or "the Buddha," we mean [Siddharta Gautama](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gautama_Buddha), who the Buddhist scriptures say was handsome and strong. &gt; Are you saying that by answering a question, Stephen Fry has pushed his beliefs on you?

No. Of course not.

&gt; The good thing about atheism is that it doesn't presume to have any beliefs...

Are you that self-unaware? You presume to "know" the "truth." I know a lot of religious people who presume to "know" the "truth" as well.  hahaha glad you enjoyed it, the moment I saw your question San Genarn came to mind, it is a good story, isnt it?

No wisdom involved in my post, just a liking for partying and drinking orujo to sanctify my liver, just as Genarn commands ;) I would love to share this with all my religious co-workers. See what they have to say about it. [Jesus never existed](http://redd.it/2pyjqe) [I DON'T KNOW WHAT WE'RE YELLING ABOUT!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fCVHpnixj88)
 The thing is, only some people actually want that for themselves or for others.  &gt; agnostic means : not sure about 'God' 

Prime example of what I'm talking about. Agnostic means "someone who does not claim to know whether gods exist" or "someone who does not claim that knowledge of gods can be known."

It's *not* "not sure if a god exists." It's less about a position on certainty and more a position relating to knowledge.

[](/definitions) Never understood that one.

How can any rational person say "no" in that instance? If you can talk to me and hold me over fire, I believe you exist. So .. your takeaway from that is I am favouring Eugenics and Mass sterilisation and not simply pointing art imitating life imitating art?

Pretty accurate since I lack empathy or emotion and also a general dislike for equality!

 Sorry to point it out.  It just hurt my brain looking at it. That's a very good point. For years I've been singing "Gotta have a friend in Jesus" without blinking an eye. I guess this one just caught me so off guard. Thank you so much for taking the time to write this. I can't express how much it means to me that there are people who actually care enough to write a few paragraphs of encouragement and advice to a probably younger correspondent.

&gt;...You don't seem to be so concerned about yourself (you're somewhat well grounded in your worldview, know how to keep yourself from being traumatized by the faithful and don't have lingering fears of eternal punishment)...

I am generally considered a intelligent person for my age, although, 'smart' is not an adjective I would like to have, because it implies that I am always capable of making rational decisions. Like everyone else in the world, I have a monkey brain in my head that I have to deal with on a daily basis. That monkey brain is easily distracted, has OCD, lacks the ability to concentrate for a long period of time, etc, etc... 

From my meager studies in apologetics and theology I can say from the surface, I don't agree with much of the logic that Christians put forward, but it has been my experience that debates about god in terms of physical evidence (science and the bible) and logical dilemmas (the problem of evil, the problem of hell, the omnipotence paradox, etc...) are very much a back and forth. It's hard to find an end to the arguments; some apologist is always responding to an atheist's response to an apologist's response to an evolutionist's response to a theologian's claim about some secularist, that kind of thing; with this kind of meta nature of arguments it is difficult to deduct exactly what the truth is, and it is sometimes frustrating to glare at an endless pile of back and forth's between the two sides. This is part of the reason I said things such as,"I wish I could just say,'I am an agnostic; that's it'".

I guess what I'm really trying to say is, part of my "I'm having a hard time with atheism" is that I can never be too sure about the conclusions I draw. I can never know with absolute certainty if an apologist has nullified my arguments and positions already.

The reason I quoted your statement about me having my worldview all figured out, is because it isn't true. Like everyone else, I have arguments which I think are reasonable. I try my hardest to stay rational and not make biased choices, regardless of what denomination I am. But this is suffice to say that I have it all figured out; I clearly don't. 

In my original post, I made an opening remark about quickly dropping religion; you must understand why I said this. Once I began to study apologetics, I realized from the start there were a numerous number of flaws in my worldview, so I changed it, but it was hard to memorize every single refute to every apologetic argument in existence. Therefore, over time, it started to become blurry again. I started to lose track of my positions, but I realized this quickly. 

Now, I find myself constantly attempting to rectify my worldview so I don't get into an intellectual snare. Literally, I am watching youtube videos and reading articles all of the time, out of fear that one day I will forget why I believe what I believe and fall back into the faith trap. Part of my,"wish" was that I would quit feeling the need to constantly attempt to justify the beliefs I hold, that one day I would just get over it, but this is difficult to do because there are so many religious people in my life.

Anyhow, just wanted to clear that up because you seemed to have an interest in the situation I'm currently in. Like all of the other comments in this post, I will try my hardest to take the advice that is given to me, knowing that it is from people who have been in my shoes before. Thanks again for writing such an in-depth reply to what is mostly a rant, but kind of a plead for help.

Your paragraph on the human brain I found rather interesting. I've heard of things like spontaneous superstitions being generated in birds before, but the topic of phycological reasons for religion and superstition I have studied the least on, though I find it to be one of the most intriguing.  The only shrine I have ever lit a candle for was at the tomb of Galileo in Florence. It seemed fitting, as a candle or flame is also a symbol of knowledge and progress.  That's insightful and depressing. Alberta is the whole bible belt in one province.

Its two biggest cities are referred to as Cowtown and Edmonchuck. kek [Close.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOO5S4vxi0o&amp;t=49s)
 No one is debating the electric candles, just the credit card operated payment system. 

My local church has electric candles that look like real ones and use flicker flame bulbs. They still have a donation box for cash and you just flick a small switch to turn on a candle. [Cue the music](https://www.youtube.com/watch?x-yt-cl=85114404&amp;v=SSSxSmm9tFM&amp;x-yt-ts=1422579428&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=3) Reverse application of Poe's Law. WHEN IN DOUBT

.

     ___    _____  _   _  _  _____ 
    (  _`\ (  _  )( ) ( )( )(_   _)
    | | ) || ( ) || `\| ||/   | |  
    | | | )| | | || , ` |     | |  
    | |_) || (_) || |`\ |     | |  
    (____/'(_____)(_) (_)     (_)  
                               
 Seeing as you are not responding I'd like to take this opportunity to be a douche for a second and say that 'fratricide' is a noun, not a verb. I'll just go ahead and downvote myself. It was a very positive experience for me, but not as shocking as you might think. I always had my reservations about religion, even though I tried to suppress them. It was more like finally admitting my doubts and deciding to make an informed decision. So are you going? &gt; I suspect this is due to the following: the vast majority of those who work on these topics are atheists or agnostics who view religious belief as false and even bizarre

Yeah, uh-huh, that's it, you nailed it. There is no argument presented here, just more warmed over nonsense from someone who wishes with all their might (sort of like praying, in fact ***EXACTLY*** like praying) that god would show up and prove those smug atheists wrong! He's also not even remotely funny, which is why I don't watch his shitty stand up. That Comedy Central keeps airing it is beyond me... Atheism did not come into existence because people *believe* it to be true. 

People did not one day decide that no god is suddenly and vastly better than having one. Atheism exists and has adherents because it's significantly more likely to be true than not.

There is no faith in atheism, nor is there any belief.  Thank you C':  ["My" reaction when...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=20J8Bn6U3UM) I always hoped it would be that easy. After years of hearing my dad bash my grandpa for being an atheist, I told my mom. She cried. A lot. She has kinda just accepted it now after telling my "young" and "hip" cousin to try to tell me all churches aren't like small town MN, some out in CA are ok with homosexuality and more liberal. If those were my main problem with religion that might have worked, but I refuse to worship an imaginary, mass murderer that isn't quite as omnipresent as most churches would have you think. If he had our life planned out before we were even born then fuck him for my depression and anxiety. Not to mention ever other person in this world that has things 100x worse than I do. My dad still doesn't know I don't believe in his god. Doubt he will ever be ready to know. You shouldn't have to explain yourself IMO. But I've never experienced religious pressure so I can't really empathise, hope it's not too bad! You could print off copies of the [Satanic Temple coloring book](http://thesatanictemple.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/Activity_Book.pdf).

More seriously, do you have local thrifts? Ask them if you can have stuff they won't shelve like Reader's Digest etc. Fellow Irish man popping in just to point out in all my entire life I have never met an Irish priest under the age of fifty. And the fifty year old was a rarity. Were you high whenever you thought he was being funny, or do you just have poor taste? =/ oops, sorry for the wait, missed the question.

the comic is called "IN THE STANDS" and is in the January 29'th paper Killing your daughter by stuffing bible pages down her throat, forcing your kids into suicide by poison then killing yourselves. You know, subtle stuff like that.  They'll never see you *cumming* Probably better. But it just isn't the same as a real candle. It's also hard being an Atheist in the state of Alabama with a hard-core Christian mother It's been renamed to just Lipscomb University. Not only is he idiotic, he's not really funny at all...
 Doesn't really matter what grass is in that context, just that cows eat it. If that's what you *believe.*

I believe otherwise. He's just an exploiter, user, player that you would keep your kid away from, unless you're a fool.   I'm sorry you're in this situation. Maybe taking into account how abused these websites are, you could find a different way to approach it. Good luck ! Yes, I think we do. Maybe not biblical, but we got a lot of problems. For instance, I shouldn't be wasting time on reddit right now, and I know that completely. But if someone were here with me now and told me what I ready know , I would be more likely to do it. For fear of shame if nothing else. 

"There is a difference between knowing the path , and walking the path" If you want to be a happy dog, go ahead. Yes.. then why won't god heal amputees?!

Honestly, i had a critical bout with cerebral malaria. was in a coma for three days, (know anything about malaria you understand.) doc told my parents wasn't going to live.  Literally made a miraculous recovery, unsaved docs words not mine.  I am not offering that to you as proof, things that defy natural explanation happen.  You don't believed it? Fine.  Nothing you have ever encountered that cannot be explained? Great.  The above story is an event, not a foundation to me. the lead pastor is nothing but a business person.  the rubes that give him money think they are giving god money.  it's a perfect situation of the leader. May I use my asshole, sir? That was brilliant. Thanks for the link.  Meaning is a subjective concept, even for Christians. Even if we pretend that objective values exist, then it is still impossible for non-omniscient beings to know for sure that their values are the correct objective ones.

We can define objective meaning only if we assume the existence of something like the Christian God, which is rejected by atheists because it is paradoxical.

So objective morality can never be identified, even if it exist, and cannot be defined without paradoxical assumptions. It's an utterly useless concept. I'm going to check that out, thanks! It's really disturbing to me that the descendants of slaves, who had their forefathers FORCED to adopt a new religion, still worship the same god.  

It's proof that these strategies actually work!  Which is sad :-( That would require two Stephen Fry's.  I'm not sure the world could handle that. CLICKBAIT TITLES ARE SERIOUS BUSINESS! Yeah the note probably won't last long. Thy probably check up on those books eagerly to see if anyone took one to read. It always surprises me too see that type of proselytising at my school, it's a very secular place. Not saying that they shouldn't be allowed to put stuff on the board of course, but it's uncommon to see it.   And turning people's goolies into fruit-bearing trees. Non-deistic wiccan? Today I learned this is something people label themselves with. I think you could probably shed the Wiccan portion (since it leads people to believe that you believe in spells, rules of three, etc.) and say atheist humanist, which is essentially being non-deistic and believing that you shouldn't cause harm. And all there serial killers and criminals will be in Heaven also, since many of them were probably Christian and "accepted Jesus as their savior".  So once in Heaven, you'll pretty much have to watch your back everywhere you walk. Toastmasters and voice acting.  If you have to bastardise the word 'believe' to make a point, your point has no value. "If you think you understand quantum physics, you don't understand quantum physics." -Richard Feynman Well, I'm not a kid, so it is little more than an irritation, but an irritation it is It took me a couple of minutes until I was sure it was not parody, and this guy really is a moron. Well, it is obvious from your reply here that you do not grasp how science works. For all your claims, you lack even a shred of empirical evidence to support your statement. Oh and also, from "experiencing death"? Your reasoning looks more and more fragile by the second. Rather than stating your point plain and simple, you choose to vaguely throw out your answers in a complicated sounding manner, adding on some terms in physics that you've clearly not understood. So, get to the point. Rather than penning your poetic verses, what is your empiricism behind it? Ah and your your question to me. I simply find no reason for there to be one.  Personally I find there to be no reason to try and conceptualize a improbable thing where each time the "evidence" people come up with is merely ambiguous. Let me reinstate, I do not assume that there is *no* soul. I merely find that there is a significantly *lower* probability that a soul exists considering that the amount of *reproducible* evidence for a soul is pretty non-existent. At least you have Schlitterbahn. I don't believe in God...but come on. This is ludicrous. Going to the pearly gates, you suddenly realize that ask of the complexity in our universe is by design, and your first reaction is to lecture the creator of what seems to be systems of infinite scale and complexity? I would simply ask "why?"  [It's simple to explain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qzf8q9QHfhI) Whats a "pure" atheist? do you mean to say if your a skeptic than you won't except my ideas? because no skeptic would use a word with such baggage to describe something so vague. Cool, for some adults it can be much more than an irritation You can not reason someone out of a position they did not reason themselves in to.  &gt; It is strangely inconsistent for this deity to be completely uninvolved in the lives of human beings yet to closely supervise their afterlives.

Maybe there's a reason, we are less savage than we used to, maybe he is just waiting another million years and then it will be worth it. Don't get me wrong, I don't believe there is a god and I doubt he would act this way, but if he did exist I wouldn't be able to see the "big picture" the way he could. Given the power of ecumenicism these days, maybe it's an error to be surprised that the religious right hasn't tended to make a huge deal about Muslims being in Congress. "Any god is better than no god," i suppose. It wasn't too bad really. I'm outside of Utah, and my family is quite liberal for conservative Mormons, so there wasn't really any backlash. My Wife and I both got out at the same time, and we don't have any kids, so it was relatively painless. There was some back and forth where the local bishop kept trying to have me come in and meet with him, but I just kept letting him know that he didn't have any authority over us and he eventually finalized the paperwork to get our resignation processed.  Or join an Episcopal Church. They are fine with gays. They even specifically made a blessing for same sex marriages and she women to be bishops That's...creepy and childish. &gt;we don't need philosophy

Philosophy is the reason we're having this conversation now, on multiple vectors. 

&gt;a specific spot in the brain responsible for making moral judgements

Citation?

Intent is meaningful.
 I would totally be one of poseidon's groupies It's kinda true. Tell her that it's not the TVs, it's the modern LCD screens found in various computing devices -- from toys to cell phones, laptops, and desktop computers.  

As it is too late for you -- your will is zapped and you can barely warn her right now -- beg her to save herself and turn off all such devices ***NOW!***

Problem solved. "Show me scientific peer reviewed proof and collect your Nobel prize. Until then, shut the fuck up." Well, like Stephen Fry, I feel capable of making a moral judgment about a hypothetical being who is utterly indifferent to human suffering, even if He is just waiting for us to reach a higher level of evolution.  There are at least some human beings who care about cruelty to animals, so we are not establishing a precedent that only the most highly evolved creatures matter. Although I recognize this is a thread on r/atheism, if you are interested in a counter-point I have always believed that God allows suffering because it gives faith value

If suffering was not allowed to exist and God visibly revealed himself to each person, loving God and having faith would be a no-brainer so therefore would be meaningless. But to keep faith in something you cannot choose to sense and cannot prove is true faith. Equally, loving God despite the understandable doubt that arises from experiencing suffering is true love I agree, to a point. When pressed they'll acknowledge that they're only human and thus fallible in general, but the idea they have about their god, what it wants and what scripture means is infallible. It's an assertion meant to shut down any criticism or debate, much like blasphemy and "I'm offended." For me personally I also would not respect a sadistic (or for me even a merely non-benevolent) God, so this all does hinge on the faith that although God allows suffering he does not create it are you really that dense?

My point is that a cockroach can't tell from your actions how you feel towards it.  We don't squish cockroaches because we are sadistic.  It also doesn't make us evil.  We have our reasons, and a cockroach can't understand them.

Lets instead talk about taking a dog to the vet.  They don't want their temperature taken.  They don't understand why a little metal thing needs to go up their butt.  They probably resent the vet for it a little.  It doesn't make the vet evil.  The pet just doesn't understand, and can't.  Don't blame the vet for not explaining it to him in terms the dog would understand. I believe my point does, in fact, have value. I am disappointment that you disagree. 

I understand that you do not believe in the merit of my "point." I could blame your position on your ignorance, or I could decide that you are a bigot or "close-minded." Instead, I will accept your position as a simple disagreement.

Best of luck to you. How is this related to atheism. It's not a problem because I can differentiate and I have free will. I would rather have the choice. 

In fact, we've made it to a point where you can just heavily medicate and be a drooling happy mess, which is essentially what I feel like people are eluding to here.

Do we really want that existence where there is no strife, no flavor, no up or down, just a steady, pleasing environment? It seems not only silly but just plain unappealing, and I've had some horrid things happen in my life. Still, I wouldn't give those things up because they gave me perspective. It was pretty clear that it was hypothetical. Notice the interview said "suppose it's true." These men are both extremely british-looking: how cab you not be convinced :-P  This is hardly news anymore Yes, that explains it. You cannot enforce that separation...  Something can be **a** solution without being **the** solution.  You seem to be engaging in a common assertion that meaning comes *from* things instead on something [we project onto things.](http://spaceghoti.blogspot.com/2014/10/the-meaning-of-things.html) It's definitely true if you only watch Fox news and 700 club. Please define religion for me and provide any benefits it has that cannot be achieved by secular means. [Gangsta ass tigers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=87UrxH3PpzI) The results of the double slit experiment do not mean that all new age woo is real.    I worked for a drug company in Canada, which sends quite a bit of product to the States.  DIN stands for Drug Identification Number, it's actually an FDA requirement.  If a product has a DIN, then it can make medical claims, eg, relieves pain, lowers cholesterol, cures dry itchy scalps, etc.  vitamins and such are now being lumped into neutraceuticals, (as far as production standards and testing is concerned), but you still won't find vitamin C making a medical claim, unless it has a DIN and all of the required testing.  I know FDA and HPB (Canada's FDA) have very similar standards, not sure how they differ from Europe's though.    
So when some skeezy church shuckster is selling miracle cures, they would be in violation of the FDA.  I would think if the "cure" was egregious enough and perhaps led to someones death, you may find the FDA cracking down.  Close one down and another comes in it's place. In a way, this is one of my greatest fear of the afterlife if there is one.
Die, ascend, meet god and find out he's just some dude living in the year 20150000 with a supercomputer in his mothers basement. Yes, but it wasnt a solution considering the problem being addressed. Saving Christmas is a worse movie, gods not dead is more infuriating though because it's dishonest propoganda against atheists.  Do you need the moral high ground? Especially if it's temporarily lowered to reap long term benefits?  I realize this is not a philosophy sub, but imagine a situation where the moral negative is low and the long term payoff is huge... now imagine a bit worse morally and a slightly lesser payoff... at what point is it unacceptable? This is probably the most amazing thing I've seen all day. It does.  Tell her to stop watching it and read a book and see what kind of wonders it does for her cognitive reasoning.  It has space in it? Why are we forging quality souls again? And how come a non-quality soul won't do? Why not just make them good in the first place? &gt;You would be obligated to better inform me, true?

False.  If you honestly believe you were an atheist, I would not presume to say you were wrong.  Some might; I would not.  

Now, if I heard someone using a definition of atheist that does not match the one commonly used by most atheists (confusing atheist with anti-theist, for example), I might tell them what definition most atheists use (does not believe in any gods).  I might even ask if they would consider themselves an atheist using that definition.  But I would not presume to tell someone, "You may think you are an atheist/Christian/Scotsman, but you aren't because you don't meet *my*  definition of an atheist/Christian/Scotsman."

 I agree that he probably knew.  I'm more baffled by the users in this thread.  Perhaps they were unfamiliar with Stephen Fry or with this particular answer before seeing this interview, but I was under the impression that this sort of "god would have a lot to answer for" discussion comes up a lot in this sub. You mean like the pro-lifer who also supports the death penalty? I wasn't comparing Little Nicky to that film, I was saying you should watch it instead if you want to see a better "religious movie".  His old stuff is absolutely hilarious but this one he seemed like a self righteous a-hole. He literally was warning people about 2012.... Where are you now Katt? I've seen it. It's awful too. So is  Jesus Camp and the Left Behind movie Nicholas Cage was in.  Well,  I work in a doctors office,  and I was hoping to find a free subscription to something Non-Christian to get some religious diversity.   I my self am atheist, and I don't want to eliminate it from being there, but I wasn't too add mite to it.   Then when people bitch about it, they will all go away.   

Manipulation to make them think it's their idea.   Lets all email [Clayton Fiscus](http://leg.mt.gov/css/Sessions/63rd/leg_info.asp?HouseID=1&amp;SessionID=107&amp;LAWSID=15141) and remind him religion is not science.  i saw an article yesterday on here about a church corp in a guys town spending millions of dollars on frivolous stuff.  
This is normal modern US "christianity."  Buildings, committees, creeds etc.. But go back to the beginning of the first century for starters, you have a band of misfits, not trying to start earthly organizations, just following and doing exactly what Jesus said, because Christ was living in them.Luke records an event where the Jewish religious leaders arrested the disciples for preaching about Jesus in Jerusalem: "now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus."  Whenever i meet a person who claims to be a believer in Jesus, one who takes it upon themselves to label themselves as resembling Christ instead of letting outsiders looking in do that, its always a simple matter with me that, are you following a religion, a denomination, or do you really follow what Christ taught and not what men say he said.  When i meet an atheist, understandably different sphere, i try to see what shade they are.  There are people who say they are atheists but really haven't taken the time mentally to qualify as saying so.  There are 7 billion people on the planet, of course there will be variations.  But giving in to the joke that passes for "christianity"  today is the reason why many of you left the church on the first place. &gt; because i believe its all perfect, meaning there is some kind of prewritten story unfolding in front of us

Is the worm that can only reproduce inside your eyeball an example of perfection?
 if that were my daughter I would have taught her a ritual to go through when asked to do anything for such barbaric ridiculous reasons. Step one, extend middle finger. Step 2, keep it up as you walk out Nuru massage. Why is this is r/atheism?

Nothing to do with the sub-reddit topic, highly inflammatory and trolling in nature.

MOD?   Get stoned, not stoned. http://i.imgur.com/QNueqNQ.gifv In what way is it philosophical? Do you mean poetic perhaps? Cause and effect is the concept of every action have a re-action which means it is an event that occurs in the present to effect the future. Nothing about it is predetermined until the action takes place.   
  
Let me tell you why this theory of a pre-written story is harmful and to be frank bullshit. You belittle the tragedies of this world. When a young child is murdered, or a family robbed, a horrific car accident takes the life of your son and daughter... your point of view is that those are time points in a grand plan unfolding? You do not recognize the concept that active ingenuity, technology, and societal change can make those actions less scarce and prevent them? Thinking everything is pre-determined might help you fall asleep at night, but in no way does your comfort effect reality.  Ask your friend: Is it fair that Jesus died on the cross so that Hitler could go to heaven and Anne Frank would go to hell?

And why does he want to spend eternity with Hitler? Can we add the Twilight series to this. Short answer: You can't!  
Long answer: You can not change the mind of crazy people!  
 A fairly good, but very western notion. But remember, the world is full of people who have faith.  They have faith in God, and also in Jesus, Mohammad, Buddha, Zoroaster, Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva, and assorted other magical beings.  Faith means believing things that you do not have a good logical reason to believe.  This, we are told by religious authorities, is a good thing.  It certainly makes things easier for them, because they can tell us what we are supposed to believe and they don't even have to offer any evidence.  However, this makes possible any kind of belief at all, including the belief that if you strap on an explosive vest and kill large numbers of innocent people and yourself in the process, Allah will reward you with paradise and your own harem of virgins in the afterlife (where apparently the souls of the departed have very active sex lives).  

Similarly, if we say that loving God despite the doubt that arises from suffering is true love, I could just as easily say that if I have been placed in a concentration camp by the Nazis but I still love the Fuhrer, that is true love.  It may well be, but it is also insane.  If God is torturing us all just to find out how much we love Him, then God is out of His mind.  Please don't ever link to this blog again. We have enough idiotic, sexist, misogynistic, poorly informed vitriol in the world and we could do without this person getting more site traffic. Well, I'm going  to go out on a very weak and long limb here and say that would explain our hedonism I'm all for using the human assumption of bad. What's wrong with what we think? What's wrong with what we feel? What's wrong with what we value? This sounds to me like another version of 'god works in mysterious ways'. 

Why would we want to live forever worshipping a guy who sees pain and suffering as good, and who discounts and doesn't value everything you cared about and worked for in your life? 

Let's say we're too stupid, too short sighted, too base and sinful to tell good from evil, then how is it fair for god to judge us? You should always choose good over evil, even though you have no idea what that is.

Your arguement is also stephen frys, that what god values and what we value are different, so let's ditch him for a great idea of good.  Are you sure she isn't just talking about the content? sometimes people like him are so asinine that they make me wonder if they are atheists just trying to make Christians look bad, take Westboro Baptist Church for example, they do more damage to the Christian community than atheists ever could. Obviously they are Christians it's just awful when someone is so terrible that you wonder if they aren't just a troll If they claim that the idea they have in their mind is infallible, try asking them if it is possible due to their own fallibility that the idea is becoming corrupted when it comes out of their mouth, like a Freudian slip or confusing a word.

Can they admit that what they are saying is not necessarily the same as having the infallible idea from the infallible source directly?

If they are individually fallible, then what they are saying might be wrong. They can't admit any of it. They have to be infallible in order to pass along the infallible idea in their minds.

Furthermore, if they admit to being fallible in general, then maybe they are mistaken about whether or not they know what it means to be infallible. Even if the idea from god is infallible, they should be able to admit that they could be wrong about whether or not that idea really is infallible.

Let's say we are talking about a math problem. 2+2=4. You claim that math is infallible and that the answer must be 4. Assuming that is true, is it possible for you to be wrong about the answer to a math problem? Even though the math itself is infallible, you could still be wrong about the answer. Backing up a step, even if math is infallible, it is still possible that your belief that math is infallible could possibly be wrong because you are not infallible.

Another example would be that even if math is infallible, a textbook maker could still make a mistake in a math textbook.

Regardless of whether god or god's message is infallible, any person on Earth could possibly be wrong about it.
 Step 1:  Cut off the hand of any Islamic thief

Step 2:  Remove bones and fingernails

Step 3:  Add rice, cheese, and LOTS of bacon

Step 4:  ?????

Step 5:  Profit Best reply ever! I don't know about that, I think you can broaden it to most of the stuff that's on, certainly most of the advertising.

As for Fox, it's pretty entertaining.  It's like The Onion only they aren't kidding.  It's kind of scary that people believe that stuff though. [try this](http://i.imgur.com/FUDKZ.jpg) Since canabalism implies nonconsent and desecrating a corpse is illegal I don't see how you could get away with cannabalism per se.  "Man Infected With Measles Visits California Maternity Ward  Plus Build-A-Bear and Disney Stores". What were they hoping for? That their kid would be accepted and spend all day learning that dad and dad are a step away from bestiality and should be stoned to death? 
 Its an interesting topic (IMO).  It is the ultimate mental-gymnastics philosophical question.  Nobody really has an answer, but everyone has an answer. The thing is, the "God moves in mysterious ways" is a completely valid response.

Think of it differently, think of it God was an alien (more likely IMO). NDT has a pretty good bit on this. If we are 1% smarter than apes, and we can understand so much more than them, then a being 1% smarter than us must be able to comprehend things we can't even begin to imagine. Think of a being that is to us as we are too ants. There is no way we can explain calculus to an ant, in the same way there must be things that being understands that it can in no way explain to us (and included in that may be, why bad things happen to good people).

Or look at it from a Chaos theory perspective. A butterfly flaps it's wings and all that. Maybe those eye eating bugs are some how a necessary byproduct of a minor event millions of years early which if it didn't happen wouldn't lead to eye eating buts but would lead to Hitler winning WWII. 

Or much more likely. God (if there is a god) created the rules to evolution (which is what people who believe in both god and science believe) and those rules necessarily lead to eye eating bugs. A change in those rules could prevent eye eating bugs, but would have also prevent humans from existing.

Of course, this does depend on what you mean by omnipotent. Does omnipotent mean you can do anything, or does it mean you can do anything that is logically possible. Could god make 2 + 2 = 5? If so, then yes, there is no reason for bad things to happen to go people. But if you think that 2 + 2 can never equal 5, but that God exist, then you have to believe that god isn't so much an omnipotent being as he is a sufficiently advanced entity such that his technology appears as magic to us.

Now, I'm not saying that is a reason to believe in god, but just it depends on what type of god you believe in (the Clockmaker god, logic defying god, alien god, etc).

My response, if god existed, would be just be "Why?" or "Which type of god are you?" I'm offended.  Maybe I should go kill some people. 

Oh wait, no I won't.  I just [still] don't think he's funny.

It is interesting, though.  David Cross's loudmouth bits about why he's an atheist, mocking the shit out of Christianity, were definitely influential in me losing my faith.  Isn't it weird that the loudmouth bits mocking atheism just come off as dumb?   It really was, the catholic church came to such providence because the roman empire was collapsing to much territory, not enough troops. Then comes along Constantine who starts the process of turning each province into an independent kingdom, free to do pretty much what they want, as long as the kings recognize the church and swear fealty to the emperor, sorry i mean pope. After that as long as everyone believes in the church it doesn't really matte who controls what kingdom Rome will be fine, a truly brilliant political move. Hell they even managed to get taxes off of everyone (tithes).   The bible is the one book I browse online.  For the books I'm reading I much prefer dead trees.  I know that's reprehensible, but I just like books. I love this man. There are recurring themes in /r/atheism.  To some extent that is a flaw in having such a specific topic of discussion.  The Problem of Evil comes up a lot.  It is an important theological issue for atheists.  We who contribute to this site are not going to come up with entirely original statements every time we post a comment.  It's not like writing a book.  If I were writing a book on atheism, I would not repeat myself.  Every point I have to make would be stated only once.  But in this site, we have the Problem of Repetition.   God could have easily made a world where everyone used photosynthesis and no one had to eat each other or burrow out each others' eyes. 

But he didn't. So in the extremely unlikely case that he exists, he is a dick. Man 1 : "Did you bring the bribe?"

Man 2 : "Yes, but first let me just adjust the briefcase so all the money is clearly visible out of this massive window."

 Is it not reasonable, making the great leap that is difficult for atheists, that if the supernatural exists, and if it is possible to "be a Christian" than one must have the spiritual encounter of losing ones life and receiving eternal life that comes from god.  After all, that is what the early disciples claimed.  This was not like becoming a democrat after being a republican.  This was a fundamental change in nature.  Today, christianity is treated like its a club, or a lifestyle of being a moral person.  It was a different experience for the early disciples who most of which were slaughtered.  If you want to accept anything and any one as being a Christian because they say so, you make a great lapse in judgment.   wtf is a thunderf00t? What a fantastic response.  I was blown away lmao and i felt bad for the interviewer having his head taken for a spin. What they typically argue is that the infallible idea isn't theirs, it comes from their god. That's what makes it infallible, not them. Of course, when you compare their infallible ideas with one of the other competing ideas about their god and religion, then we have fun exploring why their idea continues to be infallible but the others got it wrong in some way. I especially enjoy pointing out to Christians that there are over forty thousand other sects of their religion whose claims differ slightly to completely, and they can't all be correct. Why should I believe their claim is infallible and the others are wrong? Most likely, she also says no dice to nazis and the KKK. Its sad but you are probably right about her beliefs Nailed it. That was awesome, floof. (200 years ago) 

"three words, electricity and magnetism"
(in other words, I don't understand how these forces work at all, and I don't know what propagates them (hint: electrons) therefore they imply spirituality, the same could be said of gravity today, and saying quantum mechanics means nothing at all because it's a massive field, maybe an example would be better but then you'd probably end up looking foolish)

At best you're invoking a "God of the gaps" or in this case "spirituality of the gaps".  Things like meditation and such may very well be beneficial to you, but in the same way a relaxing weekend at the beach is. It calms you and collects your thoughts. This doesn't mean that there is something supernatural going on when you meditate.

If you are really going to sit here and try to validate yourself, at the very least, you should try explaining rather than coping out with "I could explain further but you see where I am going".  That's like saying "the combinations of these two subsets is 2" (1+1=2) "I could explain more but you see what I am saying, therefore the integral of e^x is e^x". Your being rather hurtful to your own argument. 

I do thing that there is a way that we are all connected, but that doesn't mean it's spirituality, it's simply science we don't fully understand, and psyhcology induced from physical and social evolution as part of our desire to be social and interact.  How long before Cameron and Sorbo do a Christian buddy cop film together? IM I the only one that thinks she has all the right to do whatever she wants? its her own business and she can do whatever she wants. its the public space that is a problem A fool and his money are soon parted. I think it makes a lot more sense if you think of [god as an alien](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Ro9aebFZhM). So, if Orthodox Christians aren't true Christians because their denomination didn't exist before the Christian Church divided into denominations (which is what your discussion with  with zzmej1987 implies), it follows that no modern Christians are true Christians.  

I think modern Christians would object to that.

And if we are going to say the true Christians are those whose religious practices are closest to the original Christians, I think Coptic Christians, Orthodox Christians, and Roman Catholic Christians would  have the best claims to be the true Christians.  Protestant denominations wouldn't even be in the running. I haven't bought a paper book in years.  I'm all digital.   Back out now, down this path lies madness. Trying to be hip and different.  This is along the same line as "it's not a religion, it's a relationship with God, therefore I'm not religious". is that so? I thought as long as you are not receiving public funds you are free to do whatever you want, when you refer to benefits can you be more specific? I dont doubt you I am actually just curious.  I can't get over the idiots who keep repeating "Businesses have the right to refuse service to anyone!"  NO, they don't.  Try putting a "Whites only" sign up on your door and see how well that goes over. I think the title has a mistake someone that portays nonsense as fact to children (with the exception of santa) is not a teacher but a horrible person. You didn't build one? Just as well you gave it up as you were hardly devout. Define "Real person", Explain how you can behave exactly like a "Real person" when human behavior is specific to every individual.

While to one crackhead, sucking dick in the parking lot for five dollars is "real person" behavior, and to another scientist, staring at a machine until it beeps is "real person" behavior.

Now reach around my forebrain and caress it with your reasonable statements while I counter with strawmen, and ponder ad hominems. Mmmmm baby. Checkmate. Now they use moderation policies. Apparently so. GTFO. Seriously, there is nothing you can do with that level of crazy.  Too bad, nothin'. Thank goodness. They try to avoid the problem but don't let them. Even if the idea is infallible, how do they know that they are not misunderstanding the idea?

The idea itself is infallible, but they can't prove that their understanding of it is not wrong. read my first comment regarding Fry. Absolutely, i hope more people see your comment honestly, comparing this batch to the last one, it seems mostly like trolls pretending to be very ignorant Christians Tyson does not refer to himself as an atheist,  though.  The Holy oil also makes a great lube for when we shaft you! "My boot. Your balls. Think about it." There's a reason it's called the boob tube. It's not the medium but the content that's dangerous. Fantastic!  We need more memes trivializing rape.  Very klassy. I think I just died from laughter... Wow, you have to formally resign from the Religion? Kevin Kelsey keep talking, i'm learning! The point the author also makes is that the kids can go home and assume what they were taught is true because it was taught in school. Kids don't know that the club is legally renting space and it is not part of the school curriculum.  The money exists outside of space and time. You just have to have faith. It annoys me more that he seems to have changed places between frames. -We abhorred faith
-believes in a god

WUT? Very true. Sad. They want to be able to identify the suckers so they can follow up by mail and sell them prayer cloths and holy water. I would fuel her crazyness if I was you, just for laughs, look up the craziest conspiracy theories out there and feed them to her.

You cant fix stupid and crazy, but you can use it for entertainment Yes, totally. It seems like most versions of Christianity that take it's truth claims seriously are scary enough to mess with a kid's head. My parents were very sweet, didn't actually believe in a supernatural devil, but did believe that Jesus was coming back any day to judge us and bring on the apocalypse. (And we were surrounded by the 'signs of the times' in the news every day.)

I regularly would wake up, covered in sweat, from vivid horrifying dreams of seeing mushroom clouds rising behind the hills outside my house; of the moon surrounded in flaming Hebrew letters; and of a descendant Jesus 'shining like a star' and carrying a big-ass sword. It's a horrible thing to put into the mind of a child. We're busy trying to learn what is 'true' and 'real' and feel our way into the world and these people back up the 'scary bullshit' truck right into our minds. Kat Williams is welcome to 100% of the respect he can suck out of my dick TVs don't use subconscious waves, they use pressure and electromagnetic waves. If you don't think you'll like the answer, maybe don't ask the question. Well I wish I was half as eloquent as your post, so you're not that bad. Brilliant. Just absolutely brilliant.  Not officially.  But is you have a lot of cash you can probably find a bishop who will work something out for you.  I was joking about the parallels between evangelists and zombies. Norse mythology is just as fun.  One of my favorites is when Loki steals Thor's hammer and gives it to the frost giants as a prank.

When Thor finds out he demands Loki returns it, but it's out of his hands.  The frost giants offer to return it if Freya will marry their king.

Thor stomps off to Freya and demands she marries him.  She laughs in his face.

So what does Thor and Loki do?  Well... Thor *dresses in drag* and presents himself as Freya.  The frost giants fall for it...  oh they're a little concerned.  "What's with these big red eyes?"  to which Loki replies "That's just because they're bloodshot from her crying all night for having lost Asgard in having to come and marry you"

At the alter the hammer is presented at which point Thor RIPS off the dress, grabs the hammer and proceeds to kill the giants on his escape back to Asgard triumphant. You may have had some people going initially, but you really tipped your troll hand with this one. Obvious troll is obvious, once again.  &gt;Kelly James Clark, Ph.D. (University of Notre Dame), is Senior Research Fellow at the Kaufman Interfaith Institute and Professor of Religious Studies at Grand Valley State University in Grand Rapids, MI.  

https://www.bigquestionsonline.com/content/kelly-j-clark And the answer lies in how you define God. If you are sticking to a literalist reading of the bible, then yes, we know that this God does not exist. The earth was not created in six days, no adam and eve, no firmament, etc. If you're going to use a more deistic 'Prime Mover' definition, then no, it's an unfalsifiable claim.  Yes they are. Carrying around dead trees is silly. If a business doesn't take plastic they don't get my business. Also you act like debit cards aren't a thing. Why would they want to send their kid to a school that will literally tell the kid his parents are wicked monsters? I joined Penn State's Atheist/Agnostic Association a few years ago and it's one of the best things I've ever done! They should ban women who had abortions next. Yes its exact thing the believers want to hear. That your non-belief is triggered by some signifcant emotional event rather than any sort of rational thought. Here be dragons. Hopefully he was knocked out for the procedure. That looks excruciatingly painful. [One](http://thumbnails-visually.netdna-ssl.com/a-guide-to-the-wrath-of-god_5401090c40d88_w1500.jpg)

[Two](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/28st5v/man_beaten_drugged_and_held_against_his_will_for/)

[Three](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/12/10/atheists-death-penalty-_n_4417994.html) Not the generally accepted definition to who?  From what i have read of church history, the anti nicean fathers used it the language of being born again and attested to an inner spiritual transformation.  Peter Waldo used it, t he reformers used it, the anabaptists used it.  All the preachers during the great awakening periods of historical u.s. Christianity used it.  I am wondering what pool of people you are drawing this conclusion from. A similar quote from similarly eloquent Brit that I love dearly:

I was walking along the bank of a stream when I saw a mother otter with her cubs, a very endearing sight, I'm sure you'll agree. And even as I watched, the mother otter dived into the water and came up with a plump salmon, which she subdued and dragged onto a half submerged log. As she ate it, while of course it was still alive, the body split and I remember to this day the sweet pinkness of its roes as they spilled out, much to the delight of the baby otters, who scrambled over themselves to feed on the delicacy. One of nature's wonders, gentlemen. Mother and children dining upon mother and children. And that is when I first learned about evil. It is built into the very nature of the universe. Every world spins in pain. If there is any kind of supreme being, I told myself, it is up to all of us to become his moral superior.

Terry Pratchett No, it was sky cake.  Do some research next time. &gt; Chances are, you'll be able to have a great conversation...

Highly unrealistic for actual religious families. Telling someone that they're wrong, and their parent's are wrong, and their parent's parent's are wrong, etc.. doesn't usually bring out the good in someone. Simply stating you don't believe isn't necessarily an attack, but it does say you don't believe in what generations upon generations of someone's entire family have believed. Lyrics worthy of Roy Blount, Jr.  Marvelous. Hahahaha.  That face at 1:48. swastika molding in the background   &gt; Do we really want that existence where there is no strife, no flavor, no up or down, just a steady, pleasing environment?

Is this the only scenario you can imagine in which worms do not eat children's eyes and hurricanes do not drown entire cities?  Like I said, you are welcome to be in favor of hurricanes and cancer and eyeball-eating worms. Regardless of when it comes out, I know I will be [dissappointed]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_O1hM-k3aUY) by the end result. love your neighbor as yourself, *pffft* SO fucking well said!! I believe it was actually sky baklava Politicians are good at playing the bribery game I don't want them to be playing, so point taken. I guess I took issue with the analogy, not the intent behind the analogy. Jehovah's Witnesses are proud killers of children. The cover of this Awake is a trophy room of sorts displaying their kills: [Jehovah&amp;#039;s Witnesses](http://i.imgur.com/TvzTJVk.jpg)

All died as a result of refusing blood transfusions. Sick, twisted CULT So did you likewise present this criticism to /r/Christianity and /r/Islam? Otherwise yes, you are implying that this is a problem primarily associated with atheists. How about "no square circles exist" .. that can be proven right?  I see no evidence that "becoming a christian" is a "fundamental change in nature" as you say.  Do you have anything to support this outside of a book I consider to be historical fiction? These bills are like whack-a-mole. Whenever you think you've knocked one down, one or two more pop up somewhere else. Fuck you, I'm having rape for dinner. http://www.eeoc.gov/laws/statutes/ Comeon dude this was posted here like not even half a day ago Fry is not wrong, Fry is simply responding to a question based on a theoretical premise with an explanation for why the premise itself is invalid.

It would have been interesting to see him actually accept the premise, and consider the theoretical possibility that he is wrong.  And then he took off his lapel mic and dropped it. God knew before I was born that I would become and remain a life-long atheist. I don't consider faith to be a choice. &gt; Yes they are. Carrying around dead trees is silly.

Actually where I live, our money is plastic.  However, other than your reference to paper, there is nothing in that statement that says why it is silly to use currency in favour of taxed transactions that reduce your privacy.

&gt; Also you act like debit cards aren't a thing.

How so?

Are debit cards somehow implied?  Regardless, do you really think that the financial industry deserves to get a ~1% cut of every transaction you make?

I get a few free uses of my debit card every month.  I use it to take out a wad of cash that will last me the month.  In rare situations were I can't get around using a credit card, my debit card will act like one. It was a non statement. It wasn't even an argument, it was merely a collection of words. 

It's not so much that your opinion 'reviled' me - maybe there was a hint of it, it just struck me as the sort of pretentious christian/spiritual chin-stroking twaddle that is so prevalent.

Maybe I'm in a bad mood, but it was so cloying. Poseidon's gettin' mad!! http://www.temcocontrols.com/images/world_shadow.jpg

Blue shows persecution of atheism. whoa you kind of just blew my mind You have to dishonestly split hairs to make atheism a religion. It just isn't. You can spew word salad all you want. Atheism is not a religion If it looks like, smells like, and quacks like a duck... Faith has more than a couple meanings but I mean the idea that for God to work in your life you just got to believe as hard as you can. If that worked I'd be married to my highschool sweetheart. Its not Religion sometimes termed as faith that is abhorrent its the idea that eventually you just have to make a leap of faith and believe despite the evidence.  

God is supposed to be experienced directly not through any sort of magic book he wrote, but as a physical experience. Also faith is usually someone having faith in someone else's faith. I'm A catholic so I believe XYZ because they say so and you just gotta have faith. If blind faith worked Santa Claus would be real.  I'm not angry at something that does not exist. 

This is a hypothetical scenario. Were it to exist, then it would be a monster unworthy of worship.  It does not matter if EVERYONE believes something for which there is no proof. Truth is not a democracy.  I've thought about this many times.  Asked the pastor of my former church the other day how many people in his sizable congregation actually read the bible. He told me probably fewer than 20.

Just blows my mind. This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/exjw] [JWs on /r/atheism again](http://np.reddit.com/r/exjw/comments/2u7x0k/jws_on_ratheism_again/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 Ugh, it makes me so sad/sick/angry whenever I see that... Can we sit yet? again, the definition is based on the accounts of disciples of Christ down through the ages.  I just mentioned in another response, from the early church fathers, to Pete Waldo, to the reformers, the anabaptists, etc, (from which pretty much all denominations come from)  all used the language and attested an inner spiritual transformation took place--beyond some thing just mental.  Take the famous example of Luther who was a practicing catholic priest!  But then attested to this inner transformation.  I have never heard an atheists who said he "was a Christian" talk the way Luther, john Wesley, d.l. Moody, billy graham eyc talk about their experiences.  Its always, i went to the building faithfully, read the book faithfully, always external generalities.   I don't presume to speak for every disciple, but when shams like Benny hinn run around today, forgive me for being perhaps too bold. /r/thathappened Well, living in europe getting killed for leaving islam is not something i worry about often. Besides i know my parents wouldn't kill me, they'd simply disown me and never talk to me again hehe :/ It's certainly presumptuous of him to say that.  I doubt he's even aware how rude it is to somebody that doesn't share his religion, probably because he's not used to interacting with people that don't. Thank you for calling my beliefs busllshit. Very kind and elegant of yours . 

I will add that I believe my acts and your acts towards a better world are pre-written . .. but we all know this debate is infinite, there will always be people beliveing in chance and other in providence .. still believing in providence doesn't make me a theist .  I don't know, I like some of the Old Testament stories. Sometimes they remind me of Frank Herbert's stories. IMDB 1.5/10 

You really don't want to waste your time unless you think it will make you laugh for being so stupid. Byrned. Couldnt you zoom out a little so we can see which shady organization is peddling this? You handled it correctly, just need to learn to ignore these people.  They feel they are entitled to proselytize any place they feel like it without caring about the other person.  Sure it annoys me when they come to my door at home, but you are working.  You shouldn't have to deal with that at work.  It is just rude.   Again they just don't care.  +1 and f-u for beating me to that...I already had the image downloaded to draw the red on it and everything :P And anything by [Sandra Hill](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c36jCk-Cmvs).  Anybody who writes the phrase "galloping abs" IMO automatically loses the right to waste paper. Out of curiosity, which part of the country did you grow up in and on which denomination?  I am from Seattle, grandpa was a methodists, dad was a baptist. Grew up outside of the institutionalized church though. Christian was a term first used to describe people who were followers of the religion based on the character of Jesus. It didn't differentiate between those who "became born again as Jesus said" and those who didn't. It was applied equally to all those who believed that Jesus existed and was crucified. 

I've never seen the definition you've given in any dictionary or heard it from any Christian that I've ever spoken to. Can you show me where someone has used that definition? Mmm. Sky baklava. Being Irish and looking like he has a broom up his arse i'd assume religious. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_calf What's up with his face then? Is it a montage? You just said that if one was confronted with X it would mean that X does not exist. The question is based on the premise that X exists. Fry responding that X doesn't exist is not answering the question. 

 Man. That was weaker then I thought. 

Thunderf00t is not responsible for what his followers do, and it's not like he was never threatened for his videos. Hell, one of his last videos was about one dude who made a video just to tell him how he "fuck him up even if it's the last thing he does". I'm paraphrasing, of course.

Frankly, the line about "it doesn't matter what she does with her kickstarted money." 

I'm kind of sure it does matter a bit. Never the less, there was very few arguments, some attempts to talk about a video thunderf00t had made. More or less, just saying he wasn't right, but never really saying much and a lot of attack at his person, not his words.  So you don't believe in free will?

I'm not sure I get what your saying, or how it relates to my post. You don't know the half of it! He's often referred to as a polymath. Was one half of a comedy duo called 'Fry and Laurie'. The other guy is Hugh Laurie aka 'House' from the TV series of the name. You should check out Stephen Fry's TV series QI

https://www.youtube.com/user/TheQIElves No i think he's comical. Sorry i don't agree with you. :( I need to start reading Norse mythology. Where do I start? If God did exist, he would have made Stephen to be exactly the way Stephen is and he would have known down to the molecule every thing that Stephen would ever do or say and he would have been the sole cause of Stephen doing any of that, so to suggest that God would or ought to have any reaction to what Stephen says at all is kind of missing the point of what God even is: the only actual will in the universe. Why should God react or respond to himself? This is so good! I am sooo tempted to share this with my friends and family, but I think it would upset a lot of them. After being a Christian most of my life, I chose to become atheist after a lot of thinking (and to be honest, crying). It's cause a lot of contention in my immediate family, heck, most of my extended family don't even know I am not Christian. I think this video would have facilitate some discussion with my family so that they can have a better understanding of my own world views. 

Anyways, thank you for sharing! This is wonderful :D Since this is a new link, you're simply a lazy liar.  Technically I could,  but I believe in reincarnation. I also awknowledge that my belief in reincarnation is pure speculation based off of the assumption that "most stuff happens in cycles,  why wouldn't life as well? " and I am completely content knowing that I could be wrong.  Unlike most religions,  Wicca doesn't have a holy book,  so almost every other belief besides the humanist philosophy bit is up for self-evaluation and determination. 

It's pretty much saying "something's goin on here but we dunno what the hell it is and we ain't gonna claim to ". I still meditate and stuff,  and I don't mind rituals for the symbolism.  The other half of it, for the majority of us,  is the acknowledgement that none of it could mean anything and there's just a lot of coincidences.  In that case we wanna know why they happen.  Any good wiccan has a Book of Shadows (BoS)  in which they record everything,  from the mundane to the seemingly supernatural.  It's used not only for records, but to help us recognize what's actually happening. Of course,  sometimes you get crazies but that happens in every group that encourages free thought. Oftentimes one finds that what seemed like "magic " is a result of changing your outlook on something, or the placebo effect, or any number of other rational things.  Then you find that one event that doesn't fall into any of the above,  so you try to recreate it,  and determine the cause. Sadly,  many chalk it up to "big sky men and women like me more than you! ", resulting in stuff like the major religions and those who think magic is a real thing. 

Tl; dr: I believe there's something more,  but I don't claim to known what it is and I'm trying to figure it out for myself.  I'm just not sitting there praying to Zeus to smite my enemies, or thinking that speaking aloud to an empty room is going to magically change anything lol He doesn't believe in any god not a specific one. What you say makes no sense. You can't say you don't believe in a particular god but you do believe in a different god without assigning a label and call yourself an atheist.

A "non-mainstream-conservative-Christian" is never an atheist by his definition. Yeah.  I bet he knows how fucking crazy he is.  I think he is a charlatan.   "Structure, it's all imposed. We impose order and narrative on everything in order to understand it. Otherwise, there's nothing but chaos."

Great quote. &gt; In other words, we wont make the world better by getting rid of bad religion, but we may get rid of bad religion by making the world better. From my perspective, Dawkins, Dennett, and Harris confuse the symptoms with the disease, and bad religion is the symptom, not the disease 

Feedback loops lead to non-linear causality: Bad religion can very well be an obstacle on the way to making the world better (cf the religious opposition to scientific education). **I am not at all condoning what they practice or do** but shouldn't religions, or other private organizations, be allowed to discriminate? Honestly, they have a worldview that states that in order to reach the highest realms of what they call the "Celestial Kingdom" that you need to be married in their temples to the opposite sex. 

Even though it's generally not good to discriminate, it doesn't make sense to their worldview to allow any changes. 

...even if the worldview is kinda messed up... This clip from a documentary really clarified too me he foolishness of the concept of heaven. 

I dreamt I Died: http://youtu.be/u_5dcoPWJVI &gt; engineers filling my inbox

Ohhh, matron! I read it, it's weird, it talks about how when God creates the new world it will have a perfect government with no corruption. It goes on and on about how great it will be. But they don't seem to mention that a world with no death, or disease or suffering also has no economy. Of course there won't be brides, money and resources will make no sense. They talk like the world they imagine could actually exist. Sorry, but for a human life to exist in eternal happiness land, I might as be a brain in a vat with drugs.  It certainly does not. We can power everything and more with solar. Its just expensive to store energy during nighttime Take a cursory look at the history of the disciples of Jesus and you will see this is and always been the generally understood definition.  Name a handful of prominent disciples of Christ that come to mind!  Obviously not the name of some pope on a crusade taking money for his cathedrals!  Think about prominent disciples in just American church history? &gt; Thunderf00t is not responsible for what his followers do, and it's not like he was never threatened for his videos.

This. Getting shit on the internet is not something new and not really based on gender it mostly comes down to what you say. I can only imagine the amount of death threats and shit Thunderf00t has gotten from religious extremists because of his videos. Yet strangly he dosnt make them public and spread them with a link to his Patreon. But as any law enforcement agency will tel you, you never advertise threats especially if you think they are credible.  Why would he ask a question he already knew the answer to? What a jerk.
 I agree. Horrible cult. I post this when I see a thread concerning JWs because I want people to be aware of how caustic and destructive this cult is. There's nothing funny about these shitheads. the fact they show the united states on the Website = BS.
No one is the US is persecuted for being a Christian.  
No one is prevented from practicing their Christian religion in US.

Ensuring that legal protections and constitutional rights are afforded to all Americans even when it goes again Christian dogma, that is not persecution.  Ensuring Governmental bodies adhere to the 1st Amendment and keep religious icons off governmental properties is not persecution.

 Yes, as a Christian, I not only agree, but would add that such a belief is meets the very definition of idolatry, that is attribution of God-like power to something that is not God. It's more or less what I think of the Judeo-Christian God if he exists too. Ultimate power is ultimate responsibility.  Your point is based on a complete mangling of the word "believe". 

You therefore have no intelligable point.  A drop in the bucket really. Collect a year's newspapers and flyers. "I'd rather have the money, bye." Stephen Fry has pointed out some of the many obvious failings of God as creator and ruler of the universe; for you to suggest that God not only created and rules the universe but also micro-manages it to the very tiniest detail, makes the situation even more bizarre.  But then, we might hypothesize that God's purposes have no resemblance to our own purposes.  Maybe God is a cosmic director who is making a movie on the subject of human suffering, and we are his unpaid actors.  Phil Ochs, commenting on the Vietnam War in "The War Is Over" includes the line "the mad director knows that freedom will not make you free".   What else is new? I wish them luck. 

Question from the map: Canada has blasphemy laws? Anyone have info on this? 1,000 to 2,000 books in a $50 Kobo Mini! Theistic atheism, the angry believer's temporary "atheist" phase prior to reconversion. That's because God's ways are mysterious and we as mere mortals can't possibly comprehend them.  Now that that is settled, let me tell you exactly what God's opinion on homosexuals marrying is. not to mention the irony of all that mark of the beast crap from revelations and the insult to injury of having to pay to light a candle and receive a blessing...religion, not even once. Iran is Shia, they don't have as much problem with that as the Sunnis do. They even have a mural with him on it in the middle of Tehran. the part about children is necessary.

it points out how the natural world makes no distinction for the age of the person when these horrible things can happen when many (of course not all) humans who would commit terrible acts would not harm children. It shows how there are humans who have a higher sense of empathy that this so called creator.

Generally people care for the wellbeing of children more than the christian god does. Perfect response and almost what I say to every "Agnostic" when I engage them in this exact discussion.

They still don't get it.  Partially, I think, because they have internalized the widespread notion that Atheists are terrible people, and can't bear with the thought that they are one.

The "not answering the question for a reason" is the real kicker.  They won't even admit to lacking a belief in god without (completely unnecessarily) adding "but I also don't believe in not God".  Yeah, we get that.  We don't believe in pink Martians while simultaneously not believing in not pink Martians.

deGrasse Tyson's stance on his obvious atheism has always bugged me, and he loses a lot of my respect for it, but I don't imagine him losing much sleep at night over it. That's what I see it as too.  Just another way to get around the question that would work for any argument.  Ignorance is bliss.  It must feel heavenly to be as much of a stupid mother fucker as him.

-Every intelligent person, ever. WTF kind of point are you trying to make? &gt; How do I shut her up?

A ball gag and duct tape?

Tell her she's right. That's why Pastafarians wear a metal colander at home. &gt; There's a reason it's called the boob tube.

Charo? granted, you can find anyone that well say anything these days!  But in a normal baptist, methodist, luthren, pentecostal, church historically all used language of being born again.  Peter Waldo and the waldenses used it.  Martin Luther claimed to be, you can find a luthren today perhaps who says you don't need to be.  John Wesley claimed to be, sure you can find some random methodist saying christianity is assent to a creed, nothing more.  All of the early anabaptists that i have read about used such language for hundreds of years.certainly all of the famous preachers of the great awakening periods in early u.s. History used it.  There has been 2000yrs of water under the bridge, i am not gong to let my neighbor eddy be my definition of a word.  (particularly if you live in the Bible belt!  Which a my mom used to say, "is the belt that holds up the pants of hypocrisy!"
 She sounds like a bit of a basket-case, regardless.  Got married because of your therapist's advice?  Yeesh. And give them money and sexual favors.  Never forget that this is the root motivation of all charlatans. Imagine this interview took place in the US on FOX or CNN or some shit. Wouldn't have been half as informative and would've had some loud-mouthed cunt trying to talk over Stephen.  Strange being that wants to test his creations to destruction? I wonder why? What would be the motivation to do that? The purpose of life is to deny God's existence - shout it from the mountain tops, there ain't no god! That's the impression I get. I was surprised I didn't see one of those fake Redditor youtube comments in there.

 Sorry for being vague.

I do believe in free will (otherwise life is pointless), which is why the idea of god's plan or simply god knowing the outcome, even if he decides to change it, is completely hypocritical to free will. I don't think it's possible to have both.

If god knew my outcome to end up in hell for all eternity, then why did he make me? ..am I not a victim of circumstance? I can't help but not have faith. Nothing could change my view without a proof, which would no longer be faith anyway. &gt; This is the argument that Sye Tenbruggencate tries to prevent by claiming that his god has given him information is such a way that he can be certain it is true.

[The Armor of God, or, The Top One Reason Religion Is Harmful](http://freethoughtblogs.com/greta/2009/11/25/armor-of-god/) For anyone who wants to help non-religious students who feel the same sense of entrapment, consider becoming a [Secular Safe Zone Ally](http://secularsafezone.org/) as well. &gt;Very interesting point you make; that professionals in a highly technical field where every keystroke must be exact and calculated, fail to see the importance of unequivocal language. 

Well people aren't computers. So however precise your words end up being, the person reading them will take their own meaning and go off and do their own thing. Once you recognize that, it's easy to settle for 'close enough' and move on to a more interesting problem.  I suggest watching [Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-160_K-g1NQ) if you're interested. &gt; the idea they have about their god, what it wants and what scripture means is infallible

"Then I began to see that not just the scribal text but the original text itself was a very human book. This stood very much at odds with how I had regarded the text in my late teens as a newly minted "born-again" Christian, convinced that the Bible was the inerrant Word of God and that the biblical words themselves had come to us by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.

As I realized already in graduate school, even if God had inspired the original words, we don't have the original words. So the doctrine of inspiration was in a sense irrelevant to the Bible as we have it, since the words God reputedly inspired had been changed and, in some cases, lost.

Moreover, I came to think that my earlier views of inspiration were not only irrelevant, they were probably wrong. For the only reason (I came to think) for God to inspire the Bible would be so that his people would have his actual words; but if he really wanted people to have his actual words, surely he would have miraculously preserved those words, just as he had miraculously inspired them in the first place.

Given the circumstance that he didn't preserve the words, the conclusion seemed inescapable to me that he hadn't gone to the trouble of inspiring them."

-- *Misquoting Jesus* - Bart Ehrman If I question God and critique his behavior, it is because I have been given the ability to do so.  It's a reflex action.  They do that for the same reason that a dog pisses on a bush or a lamp post; they need to mark their territory, and they consider that ***everything*** is their territory, so *sniff!* ... *I don't smell it, so I'll just put some here.* I never understood why these legislators continue to attempt to pass bills that are clearly not going to fly. It's just a waste of everyone's time. Well, it wouldn't exist. The clip is from the broadcaster's YT account so its really just an editorial decision which is harmless on the scale of things. I get what you're saying though. There is, it is just less common.  You are an atheist.  Accept it.  Your concept of Agnosticism is antiquated and no longer means what you think it means.  The word has moved on, even if you have not.  It is somewhat like insisting on calling yourself "gay", meaning happy, then getting angry when people think you mean you are homosexual. That's not what he says. He explicitly makes it quite clear in that quote. Atheism isn't just about non-belief. Now, I know that many reddit atheists say the opposite, so I want to understand why we hold Stephen Fry up as an example of reddit atheism when he explicitly says that you're wrong.

More to the point, is he right?
 Most likely because of the hypocrisy in claiming serving God provides all the answers after calling tech support for help. If you serve God and have access to quality tech support, all will be right. Until you need to get a refund or upgrade. That's a different department. Are they DRMed?  That's pretty cool if they aren't.  (I despise DRM)

I have a lot of books on my puter at home just because they were there.  Friends are gently pushing me in the direction of ebooks.  The best tablet I have available is a Nexus 7.  Lovely tablet and it's paperback sized, but it keeps crashing, that doesn't help.

I've invested in the Jolla tablet.  When that comes maybe I'll give it another go.

I think it's relevant that when we moved to my Grandmothers house when I was ten I discovered mountains of books for young readers and as a result I just love the nostalgia of books.  Granny was the town librarian too. Could you be wrong about the existence of god? Very weak argument to not believe in a god! &gt;Jesus has been kicking ass for a long time.

How so? Name one thing he has done 2000 years or so. You could put up a sign inviting people to donate magazines that they have finished reading. (You don't need to specify religious or secular.) Then if people can't find anything relevant to their own religion, they can't complain, because it only means people who belong to that religion aren't generous enough to donate anything.

You might get more donations than you bargained for, though, and that will bring its own problems. There are few humans i hate more than gay Byrne and his almost insulting reactions here makes me hate him more &gt; Why would he ask a question he already knew the answer to? What a jerk.

So he can witness in the same way that a dog pisses to mark it's territory. Folks just to clarify, we are not using Tyson as a poster child. We just like him for what he does and my chest puffs up whenever I see him explain what are we in this universe and how we came into existence with FACTS! I don't care if he is agnostic but deep down he knows he is a atheist and just wants to focus on his work without getting all into this atheism debate. I think for us atheists the practice is atheism should be learning more about science and getting as much fact based knowledge as we can. That's all.  Peace!! Thanks. I think there's a lot of differences, there. First of all, human beings experience a certain biological urge to procreate, generally speaking.

More important, though, to my mind, is that humans are just that: humans. We're mortal. We're flawed (in the "nobody's perfect" sense, not in the "original sin" sense). All we can do is play the hand we're dealt. God, however, is the exact opposite. He is supposed to be perfect, and omniscient, and omnipotent. So when we see a child with bone cancer, all we can do is look on in dismay and think about how terribly unfair it is. God, if he exists, sees that and apparently just says "yup, that was a solid idea of mine."

And I resent your claim that expecting more of a divine being means that one is necessarily seeing life from a "glass-half-empty" point-of-view. I think that they are two completely unrelated, separate issues. I am an atheist, and I like to believe (and have been told) that I have a fairly optimistic outlook on life. I recognize that terrible things happen, but they are generally the exceptions for the average person, as opposed to the rule.

I brought three children into this world. Part of that decision was because while there exists some truly horrible things in this world, my children are unlikely to encounter the worst of them. And if they do, well, there's nothing to be done about that. Meanwhile, there is so much about life to appreciate, that the risk/reward trade-off is well worth it, in my opinion.

The key difference, however, between my experiences with the evils of this world and God's.... is that God **created** those evils and does nothing about them. Plus, he doesn't really have to live with them, either, adding insult to injury.

**That** is why I, personally, see a vast difference God creating a world like this, and humans (atheists) bringing new human beings into a world like this. &gt; Or if you actually read their replies, no they don't.

You are most of the people opposed using cruel methods against children to enforce praying. 

I think 80-90% of r/Islam contributors live in the developed countries. Do you think that may have played a big role in their common-sense approach?  What has your own research turned up for you to use? https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2015/01/25/lawrence-krauss-rebuts-science-increasingly-makes-the-case-for-god/ Please in an orderly manner form a circle. Its called the Loa Loa. It can grow over a foot long and live in the body for over a decade while it crawls around in the body. That's to complicated for Katt Williams to even *read* let alone *understand.*

"Buddha was a fat nigga, praise jeeezus!" Yep, this absolutely turned me off of Katt Williams a few years ago. i knew he was religious and it didn't bug me until he went full retard in this show.  
I was watching it with my mom and her boyfriend, she's into spiritual beliefs and energies and all that and he's atheist, we were all eating dinner watching that garbage and we just looked at each other and almost did the triple facepalm and turned it off.  
You've got to be one dumb mother fucker to bring personal beliefs into a show like that and alienate a good portion of your audience in such a way that it turns them off from ever hearing another word come out of your mouth. Try your school library. Chances are they have subscriptions to lots of academic databases. (Read: Do your own legwork for your assignment.) True.   You are right.  Is. Is brilliant. Im sure "god" will look at the effort it took to jam the credit card in this machine, to light a shitty fake candle, and answer everyones prayers. "god" bless us everyone *gag* "stop liking what I don't like" Cows don't refer to themselves as cows.  Still doesn't change what they are. Yup. My thoughts exactly. Just carry around a "tv", and every time she says it, respond with "Huh? Wha'?" Then act like you're recording her. &gt; Are they DRMed? That's pretty cool if they aren't.

There are many free books for download. Kobo host a lot, and the Wayback Machine has many, many more.

And then there are torrents and fileshares. Oh I remember hearing about that on an episode of top gear. Fuck the rainforest Recently I have heard the question altered to say something like "are there any other questions concearning (whatever he called in for) that I can help you with?" I think we can get inside the armor of the religious by showing them that even if the armor itself is infallible, they are fallible. Shut up. It's quantum. The fact that they tried gets them re-elected. Can you elaborate on the descriptions of Heaven? Im not familiar with revelations and Im curious to know what you're referring to! Supposedly he was quite smart when he was younger and excelled in science. He should know better. Guess too many hits to the crack pipe messed that up.  Emoting emoting all day erry day emoting. Albeit quite eloquent, this is nothing more than traditional theodicy.  i think her story is shit. didn't even have to watch the videos.  Yes. It's a simple question: If you could be wrong, how would you know? Someone in /r/exjw had a great idea: write the link to JWFacts.com on every piece of Jw literature you find. JWs are terrified of "apostates" (people who have left the JW religion after realizing how crazy it is) and JWFacts.com is considered "apostate lies" by many of them.  [This guy](http://norse-mythology.org/the-10-best-norse-mythology-books/)  has a pretty great list For abstract religious ideas, I always look here first;

* http://www.philosophyofreligion.info

If that doesn't do it, I then look here;

* http://plato.stanford.edu

As for *science*, I am fairly sure that the person does not think any gods exist *because of what scientists say or what they find*.  So, addressing it as a scientific question will only leave you on a contorted journey where they dismiss or rebut something using either theistic assertions, religious dogmas or claims, or insisting on a gap that may or may not exist and thus their deities exist.  (The last one works like this: *I don't know, you don't know, you can't prove your case definitively ([*usually they drag in the neutron bomb of bad philosophy; some form of solipsism*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qmC2lz3FPY4)), therefor I am right.*) Gathering them up to be recycled is the only moral thing to do here...  - Christianity is mostly centered in the first world (or at least when compared to Islam, prevalent in less developed countries)
- Some degree of media bias
-Islam tends to be more missionary in nature, compared with some religions which are equally nasty on paper, but which tend to take the approach that you should let the sinners sin and they will get whats coming after they die They should be allowed to. Then we should be allowed to say "You're fucking stupid, go away." Which is what they want people to stop doing. Oh, I believe you recovered; people have "miraculous recoveries all the time, but that does not make them miracles.  And as you touched on, which is where I was going, never has an amputee regrown a lost limb.  Never.  So much for miracles and even more that prayer does not cure.

The bible is not an historical, and that's known by biblical scholars.  There is discussion that each of the four gospels were varied for different audiences. That makes sense. Hey thanks for these. God I miss firing up the old colortinis with Tom Snyder...  He's not trapped. He regularly came to earth to tempt people (Job, Jesus in the desert, Adam &amp; Eve, etc.) Every relevant definition I found for providence includes the mention of a divine being or god. If you don't wish to associate your belief with that it is fine, but it does beg the question: if "providence" means a directed plan, it implies a sort of planner. Who or what is your explanation for this?

People often say that you can either believe in fate or chance, but I don't think this is accurate. No human being is capable of knowing everything that is going to happen (like Laplace's demon), but we can make predictions based on our limited view. This act of looking forward is chance.

When we instead choose to observe the past, and everything that has happened, we are met with the dissonance that it will not change. Unlike the future, there is no potential in the past, so we call it fate. 

Fate and chance are two sides to the same coin, two different viewpoints of the same event. To say that you believe in one or the other, or that the debate is "infinite" shows a lack of insight. It may be more palatable to you to view the world this way, but don't expect anyone to be impressed. Oh this is fantastic! Thanks! What the fuck does this have *anything* to do at all with atheism?  [This IS the other place.(http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-UHMuYiVyEUo/T3u-8QPzXnI/AAAAAAAAA4E/xghaUKtCPdA/s1600/Sebastian+Cabot-twilight+zone.jpg) here is a exert concerning the famous American evangelist D. L. Moody, think moody Bible institute, one of the most universally accepted centers for Bible education.  "he once addressed a group of church workers. After the meeting he was confronted by an angry woman who said, Mr. Moody, do you mean to tell me that I, an educated woman, taught from childhood in good ways and all my life interested in the church and doing good, must enter heaven the same way as the worst criminal of our day? No, madam, said Moody. I dont. God does. He says everyone who would enter heaven, no matter how good they think they are, or how well educated, or zealous in good works, must be born again.You dont need Jesus Christ because you are a drunkard. You dont need Jesus Christ because you take drugs. You dont need Jesus Christ because you lie. You dont need Jesus Christ because you cheat on your income tax. No. You dont need Jesus Christ because you do bad thingsWhether you have done any of these things is irrelevant. You need Jesus Christ because you were born without the life of God. That makes you a sinner. You dont have Gods life in you. Converted gang leader Tom Skinner (Words of Revolution) "The Venn diagram of boys who don't like smart girls, and boys you do not want to date, is a circle" - Don't remember it sorry Really, he's trying to do for Christianity what he thinks Carlin, Pryor, and Hicks did for atheism, except their observations were based on the lack of reason and logic in religion.  Katt is just saying something is stupid, insulting them, and refusing to provide a logical counterpoint for what he's criticizing.  He's just a bad comedian.   Hey, that's like the plot of ["They, Live!"](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0096256/) I loved that movie. Rowdy Roddy Piper was awesome. 

---
You won't convince her, but make sure you discredit her to others so that they won't believe her. Note that the opinion piece they reference is by a far-right ideologue.  It has been discussed to death here already;

* http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/search?q=url%3Ametaxas&amp;sort=new&amp;restrict_sr=on&amp;t=all Solar is essentially an unlimited resource, but solar panels need raw materials that are limited. "Brain splattered like I've fallen off a WatchTower"

 God has demonstrated time and again that he doesn't care for trust issues or meaningful questions. Moses take 40,000 people out into the desert walking around like a moron for 40 years. But because he questioned the effacacy of striking his staff against a stone to get water, he was only shown the promised land and not allowed to get there. This is forgiveness in the Abrahamic religions. No thanks.

To expand on Mr. Fry's point, what is the functional difference between being a Nazi with knowledge of what you are doing and supporting Jesus who promises to run down all whom don't believe his story?  Isn't it still possible to take a stand against stupid ideas put forth by religion without attaching yourself to the label 'Atheist'? It's being marketed to the religious right wing as a stereotype and we know what theocratic fascists like to do with stereotypes like infadel, zealot, blasphemer, judas etc &amp; atheist. They use these to dehumanize you which makes it easier for them to treat you as an inferior with little remorse because your label makes you less then human in there point of view. didn't Jeebus drive the moneylenders from the temple? What do religious freedom, LGBT rights, the various problems within religion and it's negative effects in society, and the common arguments against religion have to do with atheism?  He clearly isn't an anti-theist, but no one said he was.  This isn't /r/anti-theism. 

Neil deGrasse Tyson is a perfect poster child for atheism.  He doesn't believe in gods and he loves and promotes science.  He also allows us to talk about what makes an atheist an atheist.  He is an atheist, as the word is used by the majority of self-described atheists.  The only people who wouldn't call him an atheist are those who a) aren't atheists or b) are atheists but don't identify as such.

At some point, you have to let go of an antiquated definition of a word and accept how it is used by those who use it most often.  Gay no longer means happy.  Broadcast no longer means to sow seeds.  Atheism no longer means a belief that god does not exist.  Agnostic no longer means I can duck calling myself and atheist but still not believe in god. Good enough for me. Can I just say something, without wading into the religious debate? Nobody should be tied to the opinions they hold at age 19.  Keep being buddies, stay in touch, etc.  Maybe one day if he goes full retard, then you can take a hard look and cut ties as a last resort.  But wouldn't it be nice if, in ten years, all this nonsense is behind you, and the two of you can sit and enjoy a beer together? 