Solar physicist here.

The Sun is immensely loud.  The surface generates thousands to tens of thousands of watts of sound power for every square meter.  That's something like 10x to 100x the power flux through the speakers at a rock concert, or out the front of a police siren.  Except the "speaker surface" in this case is the entire surface of the Sun, some 10,000 times larger than the surface area of Earth.

Despite what /u/Bigetto said, we do in fact know what the Sun "sounds" like -- instruments like SDO's HMI or SOHO's MDI or the ground-based GONG observatory measure the Doppler shift everywhere on the visible surface of the Sun, and we can actually *see* sound waves (well, infrasound waves) resonating in the Sun as a whole!  Pretty effing cool, eh?  Since the Sun is large, the sound waves resonate at very deep frequencies -- typical resonant modes have 5 minute periods, and there are about a million of them going all at once.

The resonant modes in the Sun are excited by something.  That something is the tremendous broadband rushing of convective turbulence.  Heat gets brought to the surface of the Sun by convection -- hot material rises through the outer layers, reaches the surface, cools off (by radiating sunlight), and sinks.  The "typical" convection cell is about the size of Texas, and is called a "granule" because they look like little grains when viewed through a telescope.  Each one (the size of Texas, remember) rises, disperses its light, and sinks *in five minutes*. That produces a Hell of a racket.  There are something like 10 million of those all over the surface of the Sun at any one time.  Most of that sound energy just gets reflected right back down into the Sun, but some of it gets out into the solar chromosphere and corona.  None of us (professional solar physicists) can be sure, yet, just how much of that sound energy gets out, but it's most likely between about 30 and about 300 watts per square meter of surface, on average.  The uncertainty comes because the surface dynamics of the Sun are tricky.  In the deep interior, we can pretend the solar magnetic field doesn't affect the physics much and use hydrodynamics, and in the exterior (corona) we can pretend the gas itself doesn't affect the physics much.  At the boundary layers above the visible surface, neither approximation applies and the physics gets too tricky to be tractable (yet).

In terms of dBA, if all that leaked sound could somehow propagate to Earth, well let's see... Sunlight at Earth is attenuated about 10,000 times by distance (i.e. it's 10,000 times brighter at the surface of the Sun), so if 200 W/m^2 of sound at the Sun could somehow propagate out to Earth it would yield a sound intensity of about 20 mW/m^2 .  0dB is about 1pW/m^2 , so that's about 100dB.  At Earth, some 150,000,000 kilometers from the sound source.  Good thing sound doesn't travel through space, eh?

The good folks at the SOHO/MDI project created some sound files of resonant solar oscillations by speeding up the data from their instrument by 43,000 times.  You can hear those [here, at the Solar Center website](http://solar-center.stanford.edu/singing/#sing). 
Someone else did the same thing with the SDO/HMI instrument, and [superposed the sounds on first-light videos from SDO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GWCJkG31h0c).  Both of those sounds, which sound sort of like rubber bands twanging, are heavily filtered from the data -- a particular resonant spatial mode (shape of a resonant sound) is being extracted from the data, and so you hear mainly that particular resonant mode.  The actual unfiltered sound is far more cacophonous, and to the ear would sound less like a resonant sound and more like noise. Glad there's an expert here! :)

How loud is 100dB? Can you compare it to something please?  I googled something while we wait for the expert but according to Google, a motorcycle is roughly 100db.  Hearing loss can occur at around 90-95 db.  So pretty loud. Also important to note, it is a logarithmic scale, so the difference between 90 and 100 is less than the difference between 100 and 110, similar to the Richter scale.  Also note that your perception of sound volume is also roughly logarithmic, so something at 110dB will tend to "seem" about 10% louder than 100dB.

EDIT: Some better sources are saying 10dB seems about 2x as loud (while it's actually 10x the energy). Also remember that our perception of "loudness" varies based on the frequencies being heard. The human ear hears certain frequencies louder than others. This is why audio engineers test speaker systems with "pink noise" as opposed to "white noise." 

Both white noise and pink noise contain all the frequencies that are audible to humans  20 hertz to 20,000 hertz  but the way their signal power is distributed among those frequencies differs. White noise has equal power per hertz throughout all frequencies, while the power per hertz in pink noise decreases as the frequency increases.

As a result, the lower frequencies in pink noise are louder and have more power than the higher frequencies. However, most people perceive the sound of pink noise as being even, or flat, because it has equal power per octave.

Source: I am a Theatre Sound Design student. Thank you for the perfect explanation of pink noise, something I will now never forget and that university failed to teach me. I put together a small album of test signal noises, if you're interested. I had these laying around from university.

https://imgur.com/a/WlxkP This is a great album, Coming from electronics and networks,  and finally programming, I only knew about white noise (phones), i did not knew they was a whole bunch of them. &gt; This is why audio engineers test speaker systems with "pink noise" as opposed to "white noise."

This depends on what you mean by "test".  The engineers that design speakers use measurement tools and techniques, and people who set up controlled acoustic spaces (studios), should also be using measurements. 

Someone tuning by ear will be using pink noise, yes.   Also remember that our sensitivity to different frequencies is level-dependent. At lower levels we are less sensitive to lower frequencies. Fletcher-Munson effect. If our perception is roughly logarithmic, shouldn't the difference between 100 and 110dB be 100% (twice as loud)? &gt; If our perception is roughly logarithmic, shouldn't the difference between 100 and 110dB be 100% (twice as loud)?

Yes, you are entirely correct. 10x physical power. 2x perceived loudness. No, it physically is 10x as much energy, but because of how your perception works it'll only seem a little bit louder. The dB scale *matches* your perception.

You can easily perceive this effect by messing around with audio levels in audio editing software that measures dB. 10dB is 10x more energy hitting your ear drums, but it doesn't feel like that at all. Audio engineer here. Yes a 10dB increase in SPL is perceived as twice as loud. 3dB is perceived as barely louder. Doesn't really matter whether going from 90 to100 or 60 to 70 dB SPL. Ignoring the Fletcher-Munson phenomenon of course. Oh of course :D

But seriously, that sounds interesting what is this phenomenon? Can you elaborate on this more? This is interesting. How does loudness work in terms of the logarithmic scales and that relation to decibels? Well physically, the basic measure of sound energy hitting a surface is W/m^2, watts per meters squared.  

A conversation at 3 feet is 0.000001W/m^2  

A jackhammer at 50 feet is 0.003162W/m^2  

So the jackhammer is 3100x more energy hitting your eardrums!  

But while a jackhammer sounds louder, it doesn't sound 3100x louder.  

On a log scale, the measures are 60dB for the conversation and 95dB for the jackhammer. That's a much easier to use scale that matches perception better. It works thusly: 10dB louder is 10x the energy hitting your eardrums.  

You can also think of it this way: your ability to perceive a *difference* in sound intensity worsens as the sound gets louder. In a silent room you can hear a whisper, at a rock concert you can't hear someone screaming at you. So instead of using crazy W/m^2 numbers (how loud is 0.0002W/m^2 ?), we use decibels, which make the numbers seem like we hear. In decibels, going from silent to whisper is +30dB. Going from rock concert to rock concert+screamer is a small fraction of 1dB.

More info http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decibel Basically, if you go from 100dB to 103dB you have doubled the actual sound energy (the pressure waves are twice as intense). But despite the fact that, objectively, the sound has *doubled* in intensity, it will only sound a bit louder to human ears. Our ears work on a logarithmic scale, meaning you have to double the sound energy to perceive a relatively modest increase in volume. This enables us to hear sounds over many orders of magnitude, from rustling leaves to powerful explosions.

It's worth noting that this isn't just true for hearing. All of your senses operate on a logarithmic scale, meaning that something can deliver millions of times more energy (light or sound or pressure) and only seem, say, ten times more intense to human perception. Just a couple of points of clarification, for those interested in the subject:

&gt; (the pressure waves are twice as intense). But despite the fact that, objectively, the sound has doubled in intensity

In going from 100 to 103 dB you have doubled the sound *power*. Doubling the sound *pressure* would be a 6 dB increase. Also, power is different to intensity.

&gt; meaning that something can deliver millions of times more energy (light or sound or pressure) and only seem, say, ten times more intense to human perception.

This is also somewhat of an exaggeration. For example, in hearing a x10 increase in perceived loudness would be an increase of about 35 dB (given that each x10 is approximately a doubling of loudness). Meanwhile, in physical units, each 10 dB is an increase of one order of magnitude. To double loudness would therefore require an physical increase in the order of thousands, not millions. E.g., approx 3162x greater [10^(35/10)]. There is a really great book that goes into quite a bit of depth on this. It is How Music Works: The Science and Psychology of Beautiful Sounds, from Beethoven to the Beatles and Beyond by John Powell. There is a good, easy to understand discussion of sound perception (and he's quite funny).  You are correct. Most people perceive a 10dB increase in SPL as a doubling of the loudness of a sound. Warning, there's no source I can find backing this statement up.  The SPL actually doubles for every 3 dB, and across the internet people say 3, 6, or 10 dB corresponds to a doubling, but in any case, going from 100 to 110 sure as shit won't seem just 10% louder.

At least, I'm gonna need to see an actual source before accepting that statement. Just to point out since many people aren't familiar, the modern scale used for Earthquakes is the Moment Magnitude Scale. 

(Not that it refutes your point, since the algorithm scales as described, but far too many people are still unfamiliar with the proper name of the modern measurement). Check out Wikipedia's [orders of magnitude](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orders_of_magnitude_(pressure\)) page for pressure; you can figure out how many dB the inside of a nuclear blast comes out to, if you feel like it. I wonder if our ears would have evolved differently if there were a constant loud noise that when exposed to our current ears, can cause hearing loss.  The short answer is *YES! Absolutely!!* 
However, how exactly our ears would be different is hard to say. 

If might be the case that we simply never evolved hearing in the first place. If there was such a loud and constant sound, most of the adaptive functions of hearing go out the window.
You're not going to hear a tiger prowling through tall grass over something equivalent to a jackhammer constantly blasting your ears.
 Is it possible that other senses exist that humans didn't develop because they wouldn't be useful to us?  We already know of some senses other animals have which we lack. E.g:

Sonar (dolphins and bats).  
Vision outside our visible spectrum ([mantis shrimp](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mantis_shrimp#Eyes), many insects).  
Magnetic compass (many migratory birds and insects).

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sense#Not_analogous_to_human_senses We sort of have sonar, it's just not as good as dolphins. If you were to click next to a wall you'd likely know there was a wall there.

edit: [this dude is pretty good at it. He's completely blind and rides a bike](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vpxEmD0gu0Q) To generalize: 
if detecting something is beneficial or important *and* it's possible to detect that thing; "sensing" that thing i.e., being responsive to it, might occur. From there that responsivity could be selectively enhanced and refined through evolution.
The awkward question then is, what's "useful"? I don't know if there's a really good answer to this but it basically boils down to anything that confers a long term advantage, either in terms of survival or reproduction or something similarly important. 

The thing I think that's hard to appreciate is how stochastic (random) these processes are. 

An individual might have one beneficial allele/trait/mutation but other harmful ones negating any benefit. 

A "superior" set of traits in one context might be a liability in a different environment. It's really the context which determines whether a trait is advantageous. 

Finally, sometimes things just happen. It's easy to imagine that even the "fittest" individuals will occasionally have accidents or bad luck, removing themselves from the gene pool. 

 There's also the obvious issue that for something to be sensed, it has to exist physically. Our eyes sense EM radiation, our ears sense pressure (and gravity), our noses and tongues sense chemical identity and concentration, and our skin senses forces and heat.  

To come up with an entirely new sense not analogous to any of those we would have to look at physical phenomenon we cannot sense. 

One sense could be sensing static EM fields, which would be useful for navigation but make getting an MRI a pretty horrible experience. 

We could have a sense for nuclear radiation, but that's not particularly useful for DNA based organisms evolved on earth. 

And... that's about it. The truth is that there are very few physical phenomenon of the macroscopic world that we don't already have *some* sense for.  Our chemical detection leaves a lot to be desired, and our EM detectors can barely see anything (I for one wish I could see wifi) but we do have at least some small hold on almost every meaningful physical phenomenon.  However, with the sun's sound being constant, and relatively stable, wouldn't the brain eventually create a noise canceling system, like a third ear that only listens to the sun and negates all noise associated with it?

I wonder if evolution is that powerful a force Alternatively, our ears may have evolved to filter out the loud noise, and instead just perceive frequencies that are significantly different from that noise. We might have evolved echolocation. Also, there would be a saying: "don't listen directly at the sun". Hearing would undoubtedly be less sensitive, or possibly absent altogether. There wouldn't be much that it would be good for.  Google told me a jackhammer at 1m. I wonder if it chooses different metrics based on the mound of data it has collected on us :) What are you searching to make Google pop up an answer? So if sound could travel in space we would not be able to hear it, because we would already be deaf.  100db is the sound of a loud, modded motorcycle exhaust, not stock.  Stock exhausts are more in the 80db range. What kind of motorcycle? Mine isn't nearly loud enough for hearing loss. Went to [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sound_pressure).  A jackhammer is what they reference.  Probably more accurate than the random site I found on my phone. the wind noise from going at highway speeds on your motorcycle is loud enough for hearing loss.

http://www.hearingtestlabs.com/motorcycle.htm

Wear earplugs on the freeway. Also important to note, this depends on your distance from what is making the sound, due to the inverse square law.

Just saying "a motorcycle is 100dB" isn't enough.. you must say "a motorcycle is 100 db at X metres from the observer". There are many comparison charts out there. 100 dbA would be in the range of a fully throttled lawn mower. A fighter jet would be some 120dBA. Remember: decibel is a logarithmic unit. Meaning that +10dB is double the loudness (technically). The perceived loudness is different, however. 3dB is a doubling of power, but 10dB maps to a perceived doubling of loudness (roughly) because hearing isn't linear either.  F*ck...

Yeah, you're right. I'm hitting myself right now for this stupid oversight. I spent weeks running around with a db gauge at work, so I should have remembered that.

In my defence, it's early in the morning at this side of the big lake. Theres a building at my work where we store the large R.O. system. The sounds of rushing water through the pipes and membranes reaches somewhere like 115 dB when I measured it.

Hearing protection required. It's LOUD 100 decibels compares to a: Jet take-off (at 305 meters), use of outboard motor, power lawn mower, motorcycle, farm tractor, jackhammer, garbage truck.   Boeing 707 or DC-8 aircraft at one nautical mile (6080 ft) before landing (106 dB); jet flyover at 1000 feet (103 dB); Bell J-2A helicopter at 100 ft (100 dB).	
	
100 db is 8 times as loud as 70 dB. OSHA monitoring occurs at 90 db  Serious damage possible in 8 hr exposure.

100 db is serious business, it would be crazy to hear that all the time. We would have adapted differently. 



Source: https://www.chem.purdue.edu/chemsafety/Training/PPETrain/dblevels.htm

 A an outdoor rock festival is usually around 95 - 100 dBA at the mixing desk.

A loud indoor concert would be around 105 - 110 dBA right in front of the band/speakers. That's the upper soundlevel for Belgian partyclubs.

If that's any use :p About as loud as a jackhammer or a really loud souped up car stereo at full blast as it drives right past you. &gt;  Each one (the size of Texas, remember) rises, disperses its light, and sinks in five minutes. That produces a Hell of a racket. There are something like 10 million of those all over the surface of the Sun at any one time. 

Does the five-minute oscillation excite higher order modes? I recall that it's some sort of coherent excitation of a bunch of harmonics, but 3 mHz is far too low for humans to hear. What would be the power density of the higher frequency modes, above 1 Hz and in the audible range? 

 Well, the Sun as a whole doesn't resonate at higher frequencies than about 5 minute period (3mHz).  The chromospheric layer (just above the visible surface or photosphere) resonates at about 3 minute period (5mHz).  That doesn't mean there isn't sound at higher frequencies, just that it isn't resonant with a well-defined frequency.

The photosphere could in principle support audible frequency sounds, but we have no way to detect them at this time.  The layers above the photosphere can't, simply because the gas there is too tenuous.  In the low corona the collision time is about 10 seconds, so the highest frequency "coronal ultrasound" is 100 mHz -- just like in air the collision time is something like 10-20 microseconds, so the highest frequency ultrasound in air is something like 50-100 kHz. [deleted] I don't think so. The inside of your ear is like a resonance chamber, but it's only adapted for a range of frequency. If the frequency is too low, the wavelength would be too big to fit down the canal (This is a very rough explanation) and your ear drum would be protected (otherwise you could be deafened by earthquakes and other low frequency vibrations). What you would feel is a pressure wave. follow up to you, since you seem to know what's up, though I know this is probably more evolutionary biology than astrophysics.

If the Sun was something we could hear, would we hear it? Or would it just be one of these things that has always existed, so it is not "sensed" after a short time?

(as I write this, I wonder if nighttime, the sound would dim, and daytime the sound would grow louder? So maybe my question sucks.) I don't know.  It's an interesting question, though. It would probably be the same as light.

Light sensors (eyes, and more primitive versions of eyes) evolved to sense a certain UV spectrum emitted by the sun because it proved to have an evolutionary advantage to the creatures that evolved those sensors.

The light direct from the sun wasn't terribly useful most of the time, but the reflections and re-transmissions of that light from other surfaces was.  The sun's rays hitting the body of a predator and then being re-transmitted in all directions allows prey to know about the presence of that predator and to avoid it.

If incoming sound from the sun was simply too noisy, it probably wouldn't be something that would be useful to evolve sensors for.  If it bounced off other things and allowed for something like echolocation, creatures that were able to sense these reflections might prosper, and a "sun's noise reflection" sensory organ might evolve.

On the other hand, if it were standard sound waves and they were at 100 dB and were very noisy, it might mean that standard ears are useless because almost all sound is drowned out by the sun's relentless drone, so standard ears might never have evolved because they provided no useful evolutionary advantage. [deleted] I find it hard to believe that it's only 10,000 times brighter on the surface of the sun. Just doing some basic trig, it looks like Earth is about a ten-billionth of the sky as viewed from the center of the sun. Those ten billion pieces can't all be receiving one ten-thousandth of the sun's energy. The trick is to realize that, if the Earth were at the surface of the Sun, it wouldn't absorb all the energy coming from the Sun.  That's because the Earth is a lot smaller than the Sun, as well as far away. At texas tech we have a bell that is supposed to [mimic the sound of the sun.](http://today.ttu.edu/posts/2007/04/newest-addition-to-texas-tech-public-art-collection-takes-on-acoustical-mystery) I always thought this was BS, but you post makes me wonder. [how accurate do you think this sound is?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c7wTNZkNxAU) Yay you, great answer from actual knowledge!

With regard to the 100dB and attenuation, that's using sunlight in space, right? So would you agree with /u/greygringo and others that stipulating a medium between the sun and earth has the only the properties associated with the transmission of sound in our atmosphere at sea level the sound energy reaching earth would be well below audible? Or would those 5 minute waves actually make it here? If space suddenly turned sound transmissive, would they shake the earth apart?  It's difficult to answer, because you have to choose how much physics to throw away when you answer a counterfactual.  How much energy leaks out from the surface, and in which frequency band?  Those aren't really well characterized yet.  What *is* certain is that 3 minute or 5 minute or 20 minute waves would form shocks and/or dissipate as heat long before they reached Earth, if they had to travel through 150,000,000 km of air.  Equally certain: if the solar system was filled with that much air, it wouldn't last long.  It would fall into the Sun pretty fast, and the Sun itself would get a lot brighter and a lot heavier.  It might (given the composition of air) even immediately burst into its red giant phase and engulf the Earth -- which would add considerably to the current  global warming trend. Could you explain why sound doesn't travel through space?  Sound is a pressure wave traveling through air (or any other material medium).  Something pushes on some molecules, they pile up on their neighbors.  Those neighbors get out of the way, but end up piling up on *their* neighbors.  Etc.  You end up with a blob of higher density stuff that moves through the medium at the speed of sound (though the individual molecules sorta hang around where they started).  It works both ways - piling up when the medium gets pushed ("pressure front") and thinning out as whatever did the pushing pulls back out of the way ("rarefaction front").  

No air to push, no molecules to pile up, no sound.  Thanks! So if missions like Solar Probe Plus (NASA) or Solar Orbiter (ESA) were equipped with a microphone capable of withstanding the temperature, would they be able to hear anything, or are the densities still too low? What would a Coronal Mass Ejection (CME) or a shock sound like, if anything at all, I wonder?

Great answer! Would it be louder than Disaster Area? I hear they're so loud, they have to play on a planet adjacent to the planet the concert is actually on. http://www.stufftoblowyourmind.com/podcasts/space-roar/

"In 2006, NASA discovered "space roar" a sound that's six times louder than what they expected to hear when they eavesdropped on space. Inexplicably weird, right? Stuff to Blow Your Mind explores."

A really good podcast in general if your into multitasking while also being entertained. ...and now I have 1200 hours of listening to do.  Thanks for the podcast! Enjoy [Stuff You Should Know](http://www.howstuffworks.com/podcasts/stuff-you-should-know.rss) and [TechStuff]( http://www.howstuffworks.com/podcasts/techstuff.rss) also.

Both updated multiple times a week by the same group (howstuffworks.com) but equally amazing!  SYSK is the more famous one, in fact the most famous of them all from HowStuffWorks.

But anyway.. Generally.. Under known.

As someone who has listened to these podcasts since around 2008 when I won an iPod in a photo contest, I am really geeky about them. your links are .rss. Why is that? You can paste them into a podcast manager of your choice and download them and such.

That's how podcasts work, I'm not assuming you don't know, I just figured I would explain it all.

A podcast, say if you wanted to make your own, is an .RSS or .XML (still .RSS on the inside though) file that you have plainly on a server in simple fashion, AKA it's like "domain.com/podcaststuff/podcast.rss" and when that .RSS file is read by a podcast manager like iTunes or gPodder or Podcast Republic or Podcast Addict or Cloud-Caster (one of those cool online ones I mention later) 

All these services and apps are just reading from that one .RSS file that you update whenever you release a new episode. 

It's literally just a text document saying look, these are all the episodes, this one is the newest, they have descriptions and names too! Here's where you can find the latest one. It's a simple thing once you get used to it. The history of .RSS is great. Maybe I should host a podcast one day.

I know they have handy dandy little players on HowStuffWorks.com but I figured this would be more useful for both mobile users and desktop users alike. Paste the link into something like.. [Cloud Caster](http://www.cloud-caster.com/podcastdiscovery/PodcastData?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.howstuffworks.com%2Fpodcasts%2Fstuff-you-should-know.rss)
 .
Or just search for any podcast. Easy.

The .RSS file also has all the wonderful direct links to the .MP3's in it, if you just want to click or copy and paste those. 

Source: I am a part-time podcast administrator. I am an amateur of *many things*..  cool, thanks. What's your favorite podcast episode? I wasn't blown away by this one, but I can see the potential, so I want to give an honest shot. I've missed a lot of episodes lately, but two recent episodes I really enjoyed were Mean World Syndrome and Exploding Ants. Their run of episodes during Feb was really good, esp. Lingerie Probability. From last year, you might want to check out The Science of Uncanny Music, The Horror Movie Aphrodisiac, and Trypophobia: Fear of Holes. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I've spent the last 5 years working with NASA scientists to translate data from the sun into sound through a process known as audification. It looks like the question of raw intensity has been pretty well covered here, I'd be more than happy to chime in on *what the sun sounds like.*

The answer is... it depends on *how* we listen to the data and over what time-scale.  If we [audify to 12 years of data from the Advanced Composition Explorer satellite](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OOszY79xSkQ), we'll hear an underlying "hum" produced by features that persist across multiple solar rotations, and we'll also hear spherical harmonics generated by the solar magnetic field.  Particle observations are generally gathered at a sampling cadence of roughly two-hours, while the solar magnetic field is typically sampled at a rate above the ~10 Hz.  I produced a [two minute video that walks through the solar-wind audification process while providing audio examples of various wave-particle interactions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PTr23HV47D8).

If you'd like to dive a bit deeper... [nasa.gov ran a nice story that covers what we've been up to, provides a few audio/visual examples, and links to a recent research publication](https://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/more-than-meets-the-eye-nasa-scientists-listen-to-data/).  We can also use a process known as parameter-mapping sonification to [listen to events like solar flares and coronal mass ejections](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&amp;v=S-saaAyaW0c)... though through this process we lose the direct 1-1 correlation between the frequency space of the raw data, and the frequency space of the audio spectrum.



 Hey, that's pretty cool stuff! 

Are you at TESS right now? Thanks! I'm not at TESS, but my colleague is there presenting our work on the audification of data from the WIND satellite. If you have a chance check out "Electromagnetic Cyclotron Waves near the Proton Cyclotron Frequency in the Solar Wind."  I'll have a look for it.
 EDIT: Assumption: the medium between the Earth and Sun has the same sound-transmitting properties as our atmosphere (but none of the other properties). 

"I started off with the idea of finding out how loud a 1-megaton nuclear bomb is, then how many megatons the energy produced by the Sun is equivalent to, then multiplying one by the other to get a decibel level for the Sun. Annoyingly though, I discovered our system for measuring sound is a bit of a bastard. The decibel scale is a logarithmic scale, which makes it very nasty to graph, so scaling the dBs from a 1-megaton nuke up to the dBs produced by the 91,467,495,219 megatons the Sun is equal to was a bit much for the addled remnants of my high school Advanced Vegie maths.
Besides that, explosions are apparently notoriously difficult to determine dBs for. The sound peaks very quickly, then trails off, and at higher dBs the sound becomes a shockwave, which behaves differently altogether.

Luckily, I found that dBs can be converted to watts and vice versa. The sun produces about 3.8e+26 watts every second, or 383 yottawatts (whatta lotta yotawatts sorry), which, as you would expect, is an absolute pants-load of energy. This translates into 290dB, which is very loud indeed.

But, the Earth is 149,600,000 km away from the Sun. Applying the inverse square law, that tells us how sound intensity decreases with distance, **I found the Sun would actually deliver about 125 dB here on the surface of the Earth**  hardly a distant bowl of Rice Bubbles. 100dB is a jackhammer at 2 metres, 120 is your ear about a metre away from a train horn, and 130 is physical pain."

http://idiomzero.blogspot.com/2007/02/how-loud-is-sun.html

 The calculations are misleading though; this assumes that sound loudness scales with energy perfectly, but more importantly that the sun emits sound waves in the same way as a bomb. It wont send out a shockwave because its vicinity is already super hot. These calculations would be better if the sun were to be suddenly "turned off and on again". [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] how would you calculate it when the sun is hot like you said. I would assume a constant level? You'd probably have to calculate the sound energy produced by its "surface weather" and adjust for distance. Tough computing What about an on/off cycle like our day/night cycle? 

I imagine there'd be a major difference in perceived sound when facing the sun vs when on the opposite side. I realize this is "on/off" from Earth's perspective. Not sure if that matters. 

Makes me wonder what a sunrise and sunset might be like. You'd think the moon would bring its own sounds as well.  The moon would reflect some of the sun's sound, but dispersed because it would be a convex mirror, if you will. Hearing scientist here. 120dB deafens mice within 2 hours. Similar for humans, but at mid to high frequencies. Lows are near impossible to destroy. So, "what frequencies would the sun be?" is the real question. Below 20Hz might not be problem, unless we speculate about infrasound. If the sun was 150dB at 1Hz, not sure we'd even notice. we wouldn't hear it but things would be pretty messed up, at 150dB you're talking enough air moving to be easily palpable.  I think it'd be some kind of crazy 1hz breeze that was constantly pervading everything.  Infrasound is also not trivial, around 18hz it can cause  hallucinations due to induced vibration in the eye. (no, really)  There is some, but very little real experimental evidence from infrasound causing hallucinations, and even so the effect was only noticeable in a very specificly sized room. Presumably the room modes had something to do with it?   &gt; Lows are near impossible to destroy.

Huh. Do we know why this is the case? Our ears are less sensitive to low frequency sound so you need a proportionally higher sound pressure level near the edges of our hearing range to produce damage. At low volumes you may need as much as a 70 dB boost to low frequency sound to produce the same reaction as frequencies our ears are more sensitive to. Near the damage threshold there is still a ~30 dB difference from reaction to low to mid frequencies. 

Hearing loss is caused by damage to small hair cells in our ears that will correspond to different parts of the audible frequency spectrum. The hair cells responsible for low frequencies are less sensitive and will need a higher sound pressure level to damage than mid frequency cells. Think of it like a guitar string. At the higher frequencies all the cells are a little smaller and the membrane they sit on is more tight. Just like a guitar string that is too tight, too much force can cause the string (in this case cells) to snap. The low frequency region is more flexible, and like a loose guitar string it can handle more force. I think this is a good start. however you're making a pretty big assumption that all of that 383 yottawatts would be heard as sound. In reality, most of that power figure is dissipated as EM radiation in the visible spectrum. The short answer is that you probably wouldn't hear it at all. 

The power density of the sun peaks at frequencies with a wavelength of around 483nm. and quickly decreases at frequencies with a wavelength below 100nm. 

For comparison, the audible frequency range of the human ear is approximately 50-20,000Hz. The equivalent wavelengths are 6 meters to 15 mm.  


All that aside, what little sound there might be would quickly be absorbed by this  theoretical air at a rate of about 10^-3 dB/m. Considering the distance is about 1.5 * 10^11 meters, the intensity would be further reduced by about 1.5 * 10^8 dB. So, assuming the 125dB number were even remotely accurate, absorption would knock it down to a decibel level of roughly -1.5 * 10^8 dB which is well below the audible threshold.  To be clear as a mobile user, the 8's are exponents, right?
 You're making the inverse assumption, that the Sun's audible output would only result from the processes that release EM energy.  We need to know what vibrates and rumbles in the audible range to answer this question. Solar flares? Convection?  Other things?  The sun definitely is pretty dynamic (not nuclear explosion shockwave dynamic like the first guy suggested, but not a still emitter of radiation like you posit either). I don't think the sun is properly modeled as an explosion for estimating the noise it would produce, it's more like a giant fire than a bomb going off.  Especially if you consider that this "atmosphere" doesn't have thermal properties, you'd really only hear like, plasma smashing into other plasma, I have no idea what that'd sound like, but we're talking existing amounts of motion here, not all the energy being converted into mechanical disturbance of this medium...

Better to get some estimate of how much motion there is on the surface, and use that to figure how much mass is moving around and how fast, find "air" displacement, and work from there. 

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; a distant bowl of Rice Bubbles

Are those like USSR [Rice Krispies](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/f/f5/Rice-Krispies-Box-Small.jpg) or something?

**Edit** Oh lol, it's the Australian branding of the same cereal. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This is a really interesting, but difficult, question.

I think stipulating the idea of sound traveling through space isn't the difficult part. Some are suggesting to just extend our atmosphere to include the Sun - which people don't like because then the Sun will ionize those particles. So instead let's just say there is still a vacuum between us and the Sun, except now sound can travel through this vacuum the same way it travels through room temperature air on Earth (this is the only property of air it takes on)

The difficulty in your question is determining what the Sun sounds like. /u/IHTFPhD first calculation was based on the idea that the energy of the fusion core was producing sound similar to that of a nuclear bomb,the problem with this is two-fold:

1. A nuclear bomb is a single release of energy over a short period of time, where as the burning in the Sun is continuous.

2. Would the sound of this fusion (if there is a sound to it) even be heard outside the star? I imagine the convective envelope of the star might isolate the sound

The second point leads to how I would try to tackle the problem: I would assume the only sound we hear is that of the Sun's atmosphere. And we return to the question: what does that sound like?

The simplest way I could think of it was to think of the atmosphere as fire. Then I figured the atmosphere of the Sun to sound like a camp fire, crackling. But this wouldn't be what the Sun sounds like, the crackling is the sound of wood burning; the Sun would sound more like a gas stove which is pretty quite as long as its continuous. I think what would make the most sound is Solar Flares, which I imagine would be like turning on and off another element on our gas stove. 

Then we get to our final problem: how does sound scale with energy? Does the sound get louder with a bigger fire? If so is it linear, or does it have an upper limit? Would humans have evolved to block out some or all of the sound from the Sun? Given that species evolve traits if it's beneficial to the survival and continued reproduction of the species, I'd say that if the sound was loud enough to be harmful, then yes, eventually humans and all the species on the Earth would evolve to somehow block out the sound. the more interesting question is if it were filterable, or if the noise would be too loud to percieve anything but that sound. in the latter case im betting we wouldnt have ears at all. Or would we have simply evolved better ears? I wonder if too much noise could even make the planet unsuitable for life. thats what i mean by "filterable".

some signals are so deeply burried within white noise or other noise that you couldnt detect them, no matter how good your equipment is. not to mention that organic design probably puts a significant hurdle on the maximum efficiency of any ear. &gt; I wonder if too much noise could even make the planet unsuitable for life.

Life as we know it sure. An omnipresent noise of 175 dB(produced my magic in this example) would be about a stick of dynamite exploding in your hand and have a power density of around 10 kilowatts per square meter which is about living inside 5 microwave ovens on all the time everywhere. This would kill pretty much anything beyond single cell stuff.  A sound being loud does not make it unfilterable. As long as it is consistent, you can filter it no matter how loud it is. A more important question is whether the sound would be consistent enough to be filterable.  Or the timpanum would have just lost the ability to pick up those frequencies over time. I wonder if it would be just like light:  we'd have organs just sensitive enough to pick up on constant hum of sun-sound as it reflected off surrounding objects, to detect their presence and movement? If we pretend that the vacuum between earth and the sun conducts sound in the same way that earth's atmosphere at sea level conducts sound, the loudest sound possible at the source is about 194 dB SPL.
By using the inverse square law we can find out how loud that sound will be at whatever distance we choose. We'll use the distance between the sun and the earth, which we'll say is 149597870700 m.

The answer is that the sun would produce -30 dB SPL (re 20 uPa) when measured at the earth.

So you wouldn't hear anything, even if the sun created a sound as loud as could be possible possible under earth's atmospheric conditions. It is well below anybody's threshold for sound perception.
 194 dB is the limit of a proper sound wave that oscillates between atmospheric pressure and vacuum, but you can have louder sounds with shockwaves that exceed atmospheric pressure.  Krakatoa produced 172 dB at a 100 mile distance, putting it well over 200 decibels at the source. 

The Saturn V rocket also produces around 220 dB. What do you mean proper sound wave?  Couldn't a sound wave be any change in pressure?  It would depend highly on the medium.   The surface (photosphere) is loud. It's just a bunch of gas being jostled around as longitudinal waves, or sound.  Energy-wise it's about as loud as a really really loud rock concert. (100dB+\-?) [Fun fact: The sound waves from the photosphere heat up the chromosphere to millions of degrees.] But due to the inverse square law (energy drops off as a function of the square of distance) and the sun being 150 million kilometers away, it would probably be way less than a whisper by the time the sound got to Earth. 


TLDR; Not that loud.  [deleted] 2 major issues here:

Your source for dB/km of air attenuation lists the frequency in kHz, so the lowest value in that table is actually at 1000 Hz.  Air attenuation gets extremely small at lower audible frequencies, let alone less than 1Hz.

In the other direction, it appears you are not taking into account attenuation due to distance from the source.  Sound from a point source (like the sun from this distance) decreases via the inverse square law, independent of frequency. depending on the "air pressure" in space actually not so loud. sound amplitude on earth level is bounded to 2 bars (as the lower limit is vacuum), which is pretty loud (160db?). but then, this is the maximum directly at the source. it only gets quieter with distance. [deleted] If the nebula is dense enough to transmit sound, we're probably dead from friction. I don't know if we'd be ablated or have our orbit degenerate first, but it wouldn't be pretty. Depends on how fast it's going. Would if it's just creeping up on us? If it were orbiting the Sun with us so that the relative velocity stayed near-zero, maybe.

In any case, those densities just don't happen in space, because anything that dense would have enough gravity to collapse into itself - a star or a gas giant, depending on the size. I wonder if/how we'd combat it... Somehow turn down the volume of the sun. 

Can we isolate sounds with technology? I suppose that'd be the way to do it. A chip/hearing aid that can cut out background noise. Could also help manage tinnitus maybe. This wouldn't really be an issue. While pictures of nebula may appear to be fairly solidish, perhaps analogous to clouds, they are very sparse. Densities range on the order of 1000 particles per cubic centimeter which is hardly anything.

Any 'cloud' large and dense enough to carry sound like we're used to would probably have collapsed under it's own weight into a star or brown dwarf. Given that density (10^3 /cm^3), can we roughly model how loud it'd be? I suppose, however I'm not sure how to go about that. 

But for comparison, Earth's atmosphere is something like 10^19 particles per cm^3.  This hypothetical nebula is essentially still a pretty good vacuum to put it mildly. Tinnitus research guy here! We actually ARE researching a noise-filtering algorithm for use in hearing aids. I got to test one of the prototypes, and it was really cool.

It doesn't work on tinnitus, however, because, for one reason or another, tinnitus is all in your head, either literally or figuratively. &gt;We actually ARE researching a noise-filtering algorithm for use in hearing aids. I got to test one of the prototypes, and it was really cool.

That sounds exciting! (pun). What did you get filtered out? Is there an 'Inlaw' switch? ;D

&gt;tinnitus is all in your head

Hmm. I know that tinnitus is a sound you hear from inside your body but why does the source of the sound matter? All you need to do is isolate the effect (the actual 'noise') rather than the problem (whatever is causing, say, the ringing), right?

Just a curious layman!

EDIT: are you saying that the sound produced by tinnitus bypasses your ear? Because that'd be pretty interesting! The test sounds that have been filtered were white noise and something like machinery. The actual algorithm is in the hands of some very skilled software engineers, and it's just a magic program to me.

Short tinnitus lesson time! There are two main types of tinnitus: tinnitus with an actual cause and tinnitus caused by your brain (the actual names are far worse). If it has an actual cause in your body, it can be high blood pressure or a blood vessel where it isn't supposed to be, so you're actually hearing your body do stuff. Your ear is involved in this. You aren't supposed to hear your body do stuff, so your ear SUCKS at interpreting it, and you hear awful noise.

The type we're researching is the other type, the one without an apparent cause. It's actually caused by plasticity in your auditory cortex (we're pretty sure), and completely bypasses all the physical structures of your ear. You could be completely deaf, and you'd still have tinnitus with this flavor of tinnitus.

So, knowing these things, you can't really use a hearing aid apparatus to fix tinnitus, as, either way, it comes from inside your body. Hearing aids can only really affect incoming sounds from the environment.

Hope that explains stuff at least a little. Feel free to ask more! The way it was explained to me (have tinnitus) is that when you don't have anything else to listen to / can't hear anything else you instead hear a sort of background noise that's probably produced in your head. This was explained years ago when I was a little one, though, so I may well have it completely wrong.

For me I'll usually go deaf in one ear (often without any warning) and then just hear a high pitched whine in that ear instead. no.  If a gas cloud that dense passed through our solar system, the planets would all hurtle into the sun.  there'd be lots of loud noises, but i dont think the sound of the sun would be most prominent. Even if we were to cross paths with a huge nebula, I don't think any sound would reach us as I'm fairly certain there would be pockets of vacuum that prevent sound from reaching us.  If nothing else, there would be a huge pocket close to the sun where all the gas collapsed into its gravity. There's not enough information here to answer the question. It's not enough to say "if sound could travel through space". We have to replace the void with something that pressure waves can travel through. Without knowing the properties of that substance, no calculations can be done.

You're assuming a listener on Earth, right?

On the other hand, some small amount of pressure *does* travel through space already in the form of solar radiation. Sunlight isn't very loud as it turns out. Considering the average person experiences 99.999% of sound in their lives through the medium of "air" I believe it's safe to assume air is the implied medium OP had in mind.  What if we assumed that the space between the Sun and Earth was filled with air that we get at sea level, ignoring all the impossibilities of it and just looking at what we would hear (if anything). [deleted] Doing an accurate calculation would likely be impossible or extremely difficult in this case. The sun would ionize a large segment of this "air space" making it's sound transfer properties very difficult to pin down.

We also don't know how much noise the sun puts off and analogizing it to a bomb is a poor substitute. 

Essentially there are too many variables to have confidence in an answer. Nail on the head. The medium sound travels though determines the frequency and wavelength of that sound, space only has an electromagnetic medium which applies here, being at the very small end of the spectrum. Our ears would therefore never detect it. The Sun would have to oscillate a medium within the frequency our ears could detect, light waves work on a frequency within the range of trillions, sound is with the 20,000 hertz range tops. We'd never hear it.  Camouflage is mediated through two channels: i) hormonal and ii) neuronal.  Hormonal pathways operate on the order of hours-days, whereas neuronal pathways are rapid (8 seconds in the fish I observe).  I am not familiar with octopus in general, but with flatfish, the mechanisms driving their camouflage remain persistent over time given a stable environment.   Octopus are capable of adding a three dimensional component to their crypsis (mimicking seaweed texture, etc.) which is muscular, and I imagine would experience fatigue like any other muscle. Is there any sort of chemical mechanism that can get exhausted? 

I guess I'm thinking by analogy to neurons - isn't some component of muscle fatigue due to an over-use of the neuron, which results in depleted levels of potassium (or maybe accumulated potassium in the muscle? I can't be sure, I'm not a chemist or a biologist or really an anything-to-do-with-the-brain-ist). There may be, but from what I understand it's muscular:

"The center of each chromatophore contains an elastic sac full of pigment, rather like a tiny balloon, which may be colored black, brown, orange, red or yellow. If you squeezed a dye-filled balloon, the color would be pushed to the top, stretching out the surface and making the color appear brighterand this is the same way chromatophores work. A complex array of nerves and muscles controls whether the sac is expanded or contracted and, when the sac expands, the color is more visible. Besides chromatophores, some cephalopods also have iridophores and leucophores. Iridophores have stacks of reflecting plates that create iridescent greens, blues, silvers and golds, while leucophores mirror back the colors of the environment, making the animal less conspicuous." ([src](http://ocean.si.edu/ocean-news/how-octopuses-and-squids-change-color)) Is the pattern which is placed on their skin from their eyes seeing the pattern and reproducing that on their body, or is it a basic color receptor on the other side of the skin?

Also do they recreate exactly or do they create a pattern approximation (eg camp pants)? From [another comment](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/33ocqj/do_creatures_such_as_cuttlefish_and_octopuses_get/cqn4w22) I made in here:

The camo is from a mixture of reproducing what they can see and possibly automatically on skin receptors. "When camouflaging themselves, they use their chromatophores to change brightness and pattern according to the background they see, but their ability to match the specific color of a background may come from cells such as iridophores and leucophores that reflect light from the environment. They also produce visual pigments throughout their body, and may sense light levels directly from their body." ([source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cephalopod#Vision))

As for the efficacy, I'm not sure.  From what I've seen in pictures it can be pretty damn close but *exact*? Probably not. It would be interesting to see an experiment where their eyesight is blocked somehow and see if the camo effect still happens the same way. This is what I meant in my original question, but you articulated it much better. That's amazing. I didn't know camo was more than a change in skin color.  Yup, "these strange structures are composed of muscular hydrostatssimilar to the octopuss arms and to our tongueswhich can change shape by squeezing some segments to create extension others. As such, it can 'provide structural support while allowing fine, dynamic control of the skins three-dimensional texture.'" ([source](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/octopus-chronicles/2014/02/10/how-the-octopus-creates-instant-3-d-camouflage-on-its-skin/))

[This short video shows it really well (1:05).](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5rqhomPaxhE) [deleted] [deleted] wow, thank you for the video! Couldn't we study the cellular structures of octopi to come up with a type of flat to 3d insta-shape type material? If you're willing to agree that moving fluids around a matrix to change the shapes of the object is similar to tiny muscles flexing or relaxing, then [Tactus Technology's haptic feedback touchscreens do just that, although on a small scale.](http://www.tomshardware.com/news/feedback-tactile-heptic-touch-fujitsu,26244.html) Yes they would, and good question! Octopus and cuttlefish camouflage is controlled by their muscles, so it costs them energy like using any other muscle they have.

Keep in mind that camouflage is always relative to the environment that an organism is in. Let's say an octopus at rest is yellow in colour and is in a yellow environment. They would not have to change their color at all because they already blend into the environment perfectly well.

Source: degree in biosci is this the same for chameleons? Chameleons' rest colour is green - like the leaves they live in.

Otherwise, they don't realy have any camouflage: changing colour is a way to communicate, not to hide themselves. I caught one the other day, put it in a little jar with some twigs so my niece could have it.  It turned brown.  Was it communicating with me, or the sticks. It was angry and stressed so it turned brown. It's a reflex not a cognitive choice [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This seems like a weird trait to evolve with. What is the advantage of turning a color based on emotion. If this happened with humans bars and clubs could be an uncomfortable environment 

For those saying this does happen with people why is blushing a response we have? If I am hiding among green leaves while being the color green and a bird lands by me and stresses me out and I turn brown that seems a little disadvantageous  Maybe chameleons that fall to the ground and turned brown ended up living from the camouflage so it became a passed trait? just a guess This is a superb guess. Anyone want to take stabs on how we could setup an experiment to validate this (meant to be a fun question)? You just need a group of Chameleons, a few different coloured floors, the willingness to kill Chameleons and a few hundred thousand years. So when i have all these things, what would be the first step? The bruteforce method. I kind of meant any solutions other than the trivial but I was thinking the same thing. Though I only just now found out that chameleons change color as an emotional reflex, I could explain why communicating through sounds and sights would be desirable even if it could be disadvantageous in some situations. 

"Survival of the fittest" includes many different kinds of selective pressures. While natural selection is what you're talking about (and what people mostly talk about and focus on) there is also sexual selection to take into account. Often times being "sexy" comes at the cost of being a bit more vulnerable to predators. For example having showy feathers on birds, or a loud and distinct croak as a frog. Of course one doesn't want to be too colorful/loud/sexy as to become basically a self-advertising meal, but it's often important enough that an organism will balance risks and rewards. 

I don't know if color changing in chameleons is sexy, but I just wanted to give examples and the reasoning behind certain adaptations that could look like nothing more than "making yourself easy prey" when they actually have a social purpose that's worth the cost.  Blushing. Cute answer, but I'm not sure it works. Chameleons' colors are produced by special pigments, whereas the color of blushing is just produced by blood. The body's CNS processes the emotion, and make the blood vessels vasodilate as a response, making the cheeks turn red from the blood. Different organisms have different ways in reacting to certain stimuli; chameleons have colour pigments, humans have blood vessels which increase in width to get close to the skin. But I don't think that was his point.

Strong emotions cause more blood flow. That makes sense. The fact that our cheeks turn red is practically a coincidence. From what I'm reading it sounds like chameleon color change is directly tied to the emotion. Expressing the emotion is the whole point of changing color. Those are different, I think.

Say there's an animal which secretes liquid to escape the grasp of predators, and I say, "That's weird." (bear with me) It would be wrong to argue that, "Humans do this too. When you run from a predator you get sweaty, and that makes you slippery." The fact that you get slippery from sweat is a side effect. Your body isn't sweating for that purpose. I feel like this is the logic that's being used for the chameleon-human comparison and it doesn't sound right.

wildstyle_method's suggestion below makes much more sense, as an example. But blushing is really just a byproduct of that response. Unless I'm mistaken, chameleon pigment changes are primary responses. I think it's less to do with helping them hide better and more to do with allowing them to be seen by the opposite sex of the same species. The colors can signal when a male is turned on and ready to go, and when another male is ready to fight to the female in the vicinity. Since they don't really make noise, id guess its more advantageous to change color based on emotion and get your woman then it is to change color, be seen, and get eaten. 

This is totally my hypothesis though so idk. Kind of think as green as being the default setting. It is most beneficial for a chameleon to be green in a day to day sense. But it is more beneficial for it to change colour to show emotion (or intimidate or court) in specific instances. It is possible that a colour change in response to a predator is to intimidate or give a pseudo-warning (to mimic the colours of a venomous animal to threaten it).  &gt;For those saying this does happen with people why is blushing a response we have?

Not sure if this has been answered yet, but this is resultant from a fight-or-flight response. In such a situation where one feels threatened, blood is drawn from functions such as digestion and redirected to muscles, where oxygen might be more useful. This is the same reason blushing might coincide with butterflies in the stomach, the latter being the physical feeling resulting from the digestive system being deprived of oxygen. &gt;  If this happened with humans bars and clubs could be an uncomfortable environment

Only because humans have developed weird social constructs around communication. animals are generally more open about stuff like that... Chameleons can change colour for all sorts of reasons. There are species that use colour for camouflage, species that use colour for courtship and for aggressive male to male displays. Some change colour as a reaction to ambient temperature and others when they aren't in good physical condition. There many species and they can be quite different but I've never heard of a chameleon changing colour from green to some other colour because a bird pissed him off. [deleted] Just wanted to add for people reading, and so you could confirm... never put a chameleon in a terrarium with wood chips!

The can snag a piece of wood when going for a cricket and end up swallowing their tongue.  My SO learned the hard way.  Thankfully there is large reptile zoo where we live and they have a great reptile hospital and helped her for free. she actually ended up donating the chameleon to the zoo for their help as they needed a male for breeding and he was getting up in his years anyway.  [deleted] Those are all flight or fight responses intended to prepare us for action. The chameleons colors are still just putting the chameleon at risk We read all emotions from people's faces and actions, it actually wouldn't change anything if they also/instead changed colour. The problem with this is that we often misrepresent facial signs of an emotion. I often look 'angry' whenever I'm listening deeply to someone. I furrow my brows and tilt my head. 

Color would be a direct feedback from the brain (from what I'm guessing). You are happy=green. You are sad=blue.  One thing you have to consider is that colour vision is relatively rare ... and the chameleon's primary predators (the snake and birds) are colour blind. Even monkeys and chimps, which will occasionally prey on chameleons, can't remotely match a human's colour perception. A skin change is very quick, but it itself could easily be misconstrued as passing shadow or a rustling leaf. 

The other major factor is that chameleons wouldn't be *able* to exercise conscious control over their camouflage response - it can *only* be triggered from more 'primal' cognitive systems ... because it doesn't have higher functions. No-one is suggesting that chameleons are self aware. Its 'camouflage' response isn't adjusted to consider the environment, it's that it's evolved in an environment dominated with particular shades and themes, and successful chameleons were those that favours these patterns. If it evolved such a complex neurology, we'd observe significant behavioural clues.

Chameleons change their colour for communication to other chameleons and to adjust their body temperature. It's an 'unconscious' mechanism. Humans have these automatic body language cues ... smiling, frowning, haunching, etc ... but we have also evolved from (and continue to possess) far more expressive features, and quite different evolutionary pressures - we're at the top of the food chain whilst chameleons are at the bottom, feeding off of insects. Our physical emotional / somatic responses are often useful but far from optimal ... surges of adrenaline do offer some defence against danger by making us aggressive and  energetic .. but they also make us a little dumb. Evolution isn't driven by optimization (although this seems to emerge over time) it's driven by a 'good enough' / rule of thumb approach. 

'Camouflage' (which is the wrong reason skin change is invoked, even if it does occasionally offer this advantage) doesn't need to be ideal, it just needs to offer some advantage wrt mating, and not so disadvantageous to hinder survival until this time.

Also, it's unlikely chameleons turn brown because they're scared (as if there's only one flavour of fear?) but from something akin to stress / depression. There are many different types and they have different colour ranges. &gt; the chameleon's primary predators (the snake and birds) are colour blind.

Both reptiles and birds see at least the same amount of colors as humans, many even have four different cone types reacting to different wavelengths. This guy is right. Most birds can be considered tetra-chromatic and actually see a much larger range of colors than humans do. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bird_vision
 The poster was probably talking about a green Anole, and I can tell you with certainty that their color is selected based on their environment.  It was likely not a chameleon. You're probable right. Both green and brown anoles durn a brown/darker brown when caught and stressed though That sounds like an anole. Are you sure its a chameleon? Ya, it's definitely an anole.  We just call em chameleons here.  We call the other variety Jackson chameleons. Does this mean you have plans to provide more care than a jar to him? Cause he won't live long like that [deleted] Agreed, if it was for minutes rather than hours then meh, but anything more and it's a bit of a dick move. [deleted] [deleted] I read that as "It burned down". As a result, I thought you lit the twigs on fire and handed the jar to your niece. I somehow read "It turned down" and thought to myself; for what? Wikipedia says they change color for social signaling, reactions to temp changes and other environmental factors and also camouflage. Not linking it because I'm on my phone and  it'll only open on mobile for some reason. But yeah, camouflage is definitely one of the reasons according to the wiki.  But regardless of whether this is for camouflage or communication, this doesn't answer the question of whether changing colour is energy consuming for chameleons. Is it also muscles that control their colour? And if not, how much energy is spent on changing it? IIRC, at least with my chameleon, the color change is caused by chemicals controlled by pheromones. So its less like flexing a muscle and more like having a boner. from wikipedia: Some species, such as Smith's dwarf chameleon, adjust their colors for camouflage in accordance with the vision of the specific predator species (bird or snake) by which they are being threatened.[16]

sounds like camouflage to me https://youtu.be/PnD81p7QL9Y Actually chameleon camouflage is awesome! There is a misconception that they use their camouflage to blend in with their environment, when really it's used to communicate with other chameleons.

Just as it is for many reptiles, it was thought that chameleons spread out melanin to modulate skin color, when in fact the actual process is much more interesting; indeed it is true that yellow and red pigments reside inside their skin, this is known as pigment color.

 The other contributer to the chameleons overall color is structural color, this is a cell that sits just below the pigment cell, and is filled with tiny 130nm crystals regularly arranged in a lattice. The chameleons can manipulate the spacing of the crystal lattice to change what wavelength of light will be reflected off of them. 

Let's say the crystals are tightly packed together, which results in a reflection blue light - The photon enters the skin, passes through the yellow (or red) pigment cell, reflects off of the modular crystal lattice (in this case blue light) and back through the pigment cell, what results is that those two cells produced green light. They do this thousands of times over, across their entire body in synchronization. Of course the lattice could be spread more and more apart, effectively covering the span of visible light and even infra-red! This was recently discovered at the University of Geneva by physicists and biologists What, really? That is amazing, can you link me to anything? So the chameleons have to know what colors to mix together to make the one they want? I wonder how they can control that.  Amazing!  I belive it's due to the controlled expansion and contraction of those crystal cells, much like how humans can contract their skin to produce goosebumps. If you watched the video I linked you'll see that they apply pressure to the chameleons skin, and due to the movement of the crystals it makes a blue wavelength of light reflect back. After the crystals slowly move back to rest state they turn green again. It's not the actual cells being manipulated, but the surface of the skin warping the cells. They probably know what contractions make what color instinctively  Contrary to popular belief, chameleons change color based of their emotions rather than primarily for camouflage.  Is there somewhere a table based on chameleon colors and their emotions?

It'd be great if they turned red when angry!  chams turn black when highly stressed and dark purp dots usually come first Mine (Veiled chameleon) is pretty easy: Brown: I am stressedRed spots: I am really angryBlue spots: You mentioned a mrs Chameleon?Black on one side: Warm sun is nice. Green: I. Happy and calm. Possibly sleeping. In conjunction with this, he can alter his ribcage shape substantially to either "Dish" to look big or absorb more sun, or "stealth profile" to make a sneaky daring chameleon escape. How do chameleons generally like being handled?

Does he get upset if you pick him up and put him somewhere? Can a chameleon chill with you on a bed while you're doing work or something or are they the type of pet that needs a terrarium constantly?

Sorry for all the questions, they seem like a really neat pet.  It's all good, I don't get to show him off much. Chameleons prefer being watched. When I take him out, he goes to the highest ground available. This is not a pet you would want for playfulness. He is most comfortable basking or hunting crickets. Do you have any pictures? I'm sure they'd go down well! [deleted] I live in Kenya and I have a few in my backyard. I'll add pics in a few.

Edit: My internet is so shit! The album won't upload ARGH!! I'll keep trying, sorry to let you down. It has been three hours did the chameleons eat him???!!!! That could actually be an evolutionary advantage. Predators are largely dependent on the survival of their prey (the population, not the individuum), so it might just be that predators don't find pregnant chameleons appealing. Also male chams probably wont spend their precious man juices on a pregnant female, but I find the predator part more interesting, as it's kinda counterintuitive. They're like living mood rings! It'd be amazing if all the colors matched the mood ring chart lol. Isn't that an extreme evolutionary disadvantage? If you turn black because you're stressed out that something's coming to eat you, wouldn't that just make your location more obvious?  It might give the illusion of diseased flesh or toxicity, sort of like how many poison dart frogs are brightly coloured to dissuade predators. This is true for most of the color-changing species of Chameleon, but there are some that change color for camouflage. Smith's dwarf chameleon, for example.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smith%27s_Dwarf_Chamaeleon Chameleons don't use their color changes for camouflage really, and it isn't as drastic as its often made out to be. Mostly it is used to reflect mood, or to change to absorb/refract more light, for temperature regulation. Most can only change a little bit, maybe 2 or 3 colors, and they can't change to say, plaid.  Maybe I'm just naive but there's videos of chameleons changing colors in synch to some colored glasses or something and the change is pretty drastic. Is it because he's in captivity? Or?  It's because it's an edited video. It's fake. Chameleons are green, so pretty easy to use them as a miniature green screen. I mostly studied invertebrates so I am not sure. They evolved independently so I have to assume they work very differently. What color are octopus typically? I mean their natural, unaltered color.

When they change color is it easier to stay that color or easier to revert to their unaltered color? Meaning, is maintaining camouflage comparable to flexing a muscle continously, or is it more like doing a push up and BAM I'M POLKA DOT BLACK AND WHITE BITCHES? It depends on the species. That's kind of an odd question haha but I can try to answer. Basically, cuttlefish, squid and octopus have cells on their skin that contain certain colours, and by "opening" or "closing" these cells, their overall colour appears different. Different species may have different colours or amounts of colours.

Imagine if your bicep was red when your arm was fully stretched outwards, and it turned blue when your hand tried to touch your shoulder. It's not that it takes a lot of energy, and your bicep isn't flexing hard, but it was still movement. Short Answer:
Yes, it takes energy. No, they don't get tired from it.

Long Answer:
The cells responsible for color change in cephalopods are called chromatophores.  These are cells which contain pigment.  When relaxed, if you look really closely you can still see the chromatophores with the naked eye (they look like tiny dark spots), and provide their "natural" color.  Typically their tissue or "skin" is white and the pigment within the chromatophores is reddish brown.

Each cell/chromatophore has its own muscles and nerves, which provide independent control of each chromatophore.  However, this limits how much direct control cephalopods have over their own color.  The nerves react to chemical signals and I have read articles suggesting that the nerves can to some extent can detect light, which allows them to match their environment so well, even if the surface isn't within the critters line of sight (e.g., a checker board on their underside).  Once the nerves are triggered the muscles contract, stretching and flattening the chromatophore, hence producing color change.  This is similar to a water balloon, when in its relaxed position it is thicker and prevents light from pass through, but the more you stretch it the thinner it gets and the more transparent it becomes.  What is even more cool is that the muscles are attached to all sides of the spherical cell, so not only can they "pancake" the cell the can make different shapes!

Like any muscle, the muscles attached to chromatophores have an antagonistic relationship.  When one contracts, its stretches the other in an opposing direction.  The tension from this relationship allows the muscle to reset, otherwise it would stay contacted.  Also, when relaxed the muscles well find some middle tension, but will tend to "lean" towards the stronger muscle.  Similar to your eyelids, where the muscle that opens you eyelids is slightly stronger, so when relaxed you eyes stay open.  Another component of cephalopod tissues and chromatophores is that they tend to be elastic, and provide energy free resistance to reset the muscles.

Of course activating any muscle requires energy.  However the amount of energy requires for this is negligible.  Especially when compared to the energy requires to move, reproduce or digest food.  Have you ever heard of someone getting tired from blinking or breathing or growing new skin cells?

What is really amazing is loads of marine organisms have chromatophores, like shrimp and fish.  These structures become really important in deeper parts of the ocean where less light reaches.  Some chromatophores can even emit light!

Please bear in mind that while they may appear similar, a chameleon's ability to change color is unrelated to cephalopods, and is really quite different.  This is referred to as convergent evolution.  This is also the term used to explain why cephalopods eyes are so complex and similar to ours, yet we share no recent ancestors.

In case you think this is a little long winded or I'm nuts, I would like to apologise.  I teach Invertebrate Zoology and I kind of when into lecture mode...but if you have any other questions about invertebrates I'd be happy to try and answer them...for science! Thanks, that was super interesting. &gt; What is even more cool is that the muscles are attached to all sides of the spherical cell, so not only can they "pancake" the cell the can make different shapes!

From my understanding the muscles are in a radial arrangement, not connected to every surface, unless I misunderstand your meaning.

&gt;Like any muscle, the muscles attached to chromatophores have an antagonistic relationship. When one contracts, its stretches the other in an opposing direction. The tension from this relationship allows the muscle to reset, otherwise it would stay contacted.

I don't believe this is true, unless I'm misunderstanding what you wrote. The radial muscles contract to open the elastic sacculus, there aren't opposing muscle groups, that is one group to open the pigmented sacculus, and one group to close it. Like you said, the elastic nature of the sacculus opposes the muscles. So would a hungry cephalopod, like very underfed, have difficulty changing colour?  Or is it such a negligible amount of energy to activate the chromatophores? It would probably be more akin to a semi-unconscious action like smiling than flexing skeletal muscle, though, ironically, cephalopods only have a vague central control over their own arms, which more or less function independently towards a central goal. Depends on the kind of octopus, which usually depends on the environment it has evolved to live in.  For example, an octopus that lives mostly in sandy environments will probably be a sand color, and an octopus that lives mostly in dark rocky environments will probably be dark.  That said, they come in all colors.  Check out the Australian Blue-ringed Ocotpus Don't check them out too closely though, unless you enjoy dying of a deadly octopuses venom. Thanks! That satiated my curiosity (I've developed a sudden fascination with cephalopods), but if there are other experts that can add to this, I'd love to read more. There's a display at the Melbourne Aquarium here in Australia that features a cuttlefish. You can walk right up to him and stare right into his eyes. He put on quite a show for us, flickering his colours from black to white and then when we laughed he would swim in a figure 8 around his tank in a sort of satisfaction. I got a new appreciation of the level of intelligence of these creatures from what I sensed from that little guy. if you hold your phone up to him with the front camera on, he might start to display for it. i've done it before at aquariums, but the idea of inducing cuttlefish behavior with video is one ive seen demonstrated in several documentaries. i think it may be [included in this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MLWN6mvtUc4)
 A follow-up question: If the octopus in your example almost never has to change its colour, would the muscles used to camouflage itself be weaker relative to an octopus living in a more multi-coloured environment?  If so would it be slower or less accurate in its colour changes? That is a really good question! I think it is natural for us to frame these questions in the way we normally understand human muscles, but I am not sure if that is a good idea. For this example I would compare these muscles to something like the human eye muscles, where a healthy individual would develop normally and we would not even consider strength of the muscle at all.

I am not sure how you could test that, but I would love to find out if that were possible. Okay, now this answer is a bit clearer, but it confuses me a bit. When your top answer described it as muscle control, I thought it would be kind of like when humans clench. But if color change is more like your eyes, it would imagine it would be more effortless.

I guess what my question should've asked was, how long before the creature gets fatigued from color changing, if at all?

Stellar job on responding to everyone else's followups, by the way. Do octopi see in colur? Do they actively look at their environment and try and mimic what they see? Because that's pretty smart. I believe it varies in octopus species, but cuttlefish don't see any colour. They can still see contrast and can actually see the polarization of light (which we cannot). Cuttlefish also change colour in complete darkness, so it there has to be some "passive" component.

There are a ton of videos on youtube of octopus mimicking most textures and colours out there. Some even walk around on two arms [or act like snakes or flounders](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=os6HD-sCRn8), so it certainly seems like they just watch and mimic. 

However, it is tough to distinguish between actively mimicking these kind of movements versus plain luck. For example, if a bunch of octopus randomly happen to swim like flounders and aren't eaten because of it, while other octopus swim like octopus and get spotted easily, the flounder-octopus will survive and pass that on, despite not actually learning from the flounder itself. That's an interesting argument. It's hard to draw the line between in-built behavior like swimming like a flounder, without knowing why and intelligent behavior like looking at a spotted wall and trying to replicate the spots. But octopi, for the most part, are incredibly intelligent yet largely misunderstood. I wouldn't be surprised if they actually learn swimming like a sea snake from observing one. Maybe I'm wrong, but I was under the impression that the female octopus died shortly after her eggs hatch, preventing most knowledge from ever being passed generation to generation.  Oh sorry I just kind of used that phrase for shorthand. What I mean when I say "pass that on" is passing on of any type of hereditary information, such as genes that directly or indirectly influence that type of behaviour. They would never teach their babies to do any of that, it would just be instinct if it were not actual mimicry I don't think they have color vision on par with ours (if they really have much at all), which makes sense as different light wavelengths get filtered out heavily as you go deeper in water so some colors would be nonexistent where they live. However [they do see polarized light](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/octopus-chronicles/2012/02/20/polarized-display-sheds-light-on-octopus-and-cuttlefish-vision-and-camouflage/). I remember watching a film at a marine science center where they had some cephalopods in a clear tank and they could swap out the substrate pattern from a picture of sand to rocks to various other shapes and colors. The little guy could get the textures/patterns right, but not the ones with vivid color contrasts (like blue triangles on yellow squares or something I cannot remember at the moment) Okay, I'm trying to wrap my head around the seeing polarised light thing. Surely we (humans) can see polarised light too, or we wouldn't be able to see when putting on polarised sunglasses?  I'm guessing it's polarisation of light that can be seen, as in the actual direction of the light... Is that right? 

Also what on earth would that "look like"? I'm thinking like they would see the actual 'beams/rays' of light.. Something like that?  You can't imagine the subjective experience of a sense you don't have, because it would be completely different from anything you're familiar with.

While we can see polarised light, we can't detect its polarisation nor which direction it's polarised in, which is the difference. This would be like an entirely different dimension to our vision, along with the existing colour and brightness that we can detect, and it would be as different from those two dimensions as they are from each other. By default electromagnetic field waves (light) propagate with all orientations. A polarisation filter only allows certain orientations to pass through.
Humans cannot detect light polarisation so polarised light looks just like "normal" light, just less intense.
We do see polarised light, but cannot distinguish it from non polarised light. We can, but not directly. Water looks different when seen with polarised glasses. Because reflect light on the surface gets polarised and it's filtered by glasses. Hence it's usefulness for fisherman.  [There's some evidence that they "see" through their skin to an extent.](https://orionmagazine.org/article/deep-intellect/) (Long article full of fascinating stuff).

And as for your second question, yes they do.  [Here's one trying to copy patterns it couldn't possibly have seen in nature](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgDE2DOICuc), and not doing a bad job of it. They have different cells for different colour effects also. Chromatophores for single pigments creating reds, oranges, browns, blacks and yellows. Iridophores have layers of compounds like chitin that create metallic blues, greens, pinks, silvers and golds. And also Leucophores containing white guanine that refect the colour of the environment. Radial muscle fibres are used to stretch combinations of these cells and therefore create a change in colour. So technically you're right but I wouldn't imagine muscle fatigue is much of an issue with respect to colour change. Perhaps more relevant when they are changing the texture of their bodies as I'd say that would require greater effort but I'd say it'd be negligible. 

A possible analogy someone pointed out to me could be with the muscles involved in human eyes to dilate your pupils. For these muscles to become fatigued they'd have to do more work than is possible for the eye to perform. Perhaps the same is true in cephalopod colour change. 

Another point to consider is that cephalopods are mostly colourblind and will match brightness rather than colour. Not overly relevant I just think that's cool. Chromatorphores do not use opposing muscles, like an iris does.

See my comment [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/33ocqj/do_creatures_such_as_cuttlefish_and_octopuses_get/cqnsmj6). Do you know how cuttlefishes camouflage in the dark, or was zefrank lying to us? Haha nope, one of my old professors actually played us that video during a lecture on cephalopods. True Facts About The Cuttlefish are really true facts Is that only technically yes?

When mammals such as humans get cold and raise their hair its using muscles but the amount of effort feels like far less than merely breathing. [deleted] &gt;Thus in cephalopods, one set of muscle fibers contracts to expand the pigment sacs, while another set contracts to shrink them.

This is not correct. There are radial muscles that contract, and expand the pigmented elastic sacculus. When the muscles relax, the elastic sacculus closes on itself.

See my post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/33ocqj/do_creatures_such_as_cuttlefish_and_octopuses_get/cqnsmj6). Are you able to elaborate on the structure and functions of these muscles? How do the contractions and relaxation of muscles produce color change?  Imagine an elastic 3d sphere of color with fibers attached to it, pulling on the fibers in three directions stretches the little 3d sphere into a giant 2d dot.  It has layers of these on it's skin.   How do octopuses and cuttlefish "know" what color the environment they're in is, then proceed to use a camouflage with similar colors/patterns reflecting that environment? I recommend reading this paper, or at least the abstract, for a more thorough description of the mechanisms of octopus camouflage. 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11762491 It's like clayface said in Batman tas, he wants to form into a normal looking man and live a normal life, but he cant do it because it's like clenching a muscle and he has to stop when he gets tired. Does how far off the color is change how much they have to "flex?"  Like would it be easier to change to a darker yellow than green, or on/off? "Octopus and cuttlefish camouflage is controlled by their muscles"  
So if muscles contract to create movement, how to these muscles contract to change color? Does flexing a certain way change the color? How do you know the rest color? I mean you have to be sure it's not trying (and failing) to camouflage? So because I'm human colored, if I'm in a human orgy I'm camouflaged? [deleted] [deleted] I think people answering questions are missing the boat. To me, OP's question is asking "Does an octopus get tired while **maintaining** a camouflaged state." 

Some answers partially hit on this, by saying some octopus defenses require muscular use which would imply fatigue over time to hold the change to their skin texture.

I haven't yet heard if there are some defense mechanisms that act more like "e-ink" where it takes energy to shift the skin pattern but no energy to maintain once it's changed. I've been satisfied with some of the answers, but you're right, that's what I meant.

When I see closeups of octopus cells changing colors, it makes me feel like they're clenching or something, so I wonder how much energy they have to exert to change/maintain a color/pattern. Is it more like blinking or like flexing a six pack? &gt;I haven't yet heard if there are some defense mechanisms that act more like "e-ink" where it takes energy to shift the skin pattern but no energy to maintain once it's changed.

The answer to this is yes, technically, but the opposing forces aren't that great to fatigue the animal past being able to use the muscles.

It is **not** opposing muscle groups at work, essentially like what occurs in the iris of a human eye, between the iris sphincter muscle, and iris dilator muscle. At rest your muscles are not straining, but only one muscle group is at work in these chromatophores.

The animals contracts radial muscles to expand the pigmented cytoelastic sacculus, and when relaxed the sacculus, which is elastic, constricts back on itself.

* [Cephalopod chromatophores: neurobiology and
natural history](http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&amp;aid=91143)

* [Ultrastructure of cephalopod
chromatophore organs](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF00347297)

* [Chromatophore Organs, Reflector Cells, Iridocytes and Leucophores in Cephalopods](http://icb.oxfordjournals.org/content/23/3/581.abstract)

* [Alterations in the structure of the *Octopus
vulgaris* chromatophore by cytochalasin B](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF01924196) Cool fact. Cuttlefish can also polarize their skin causing what would be invisible flashes in the water. Other cuttlefish (maybe even other squid and octopus) can see this and it is a great way for one to warn the others of near by danger without the predator knowing. invisible flashes? Invisible to predators.  Invisible to any creature not able to detection polarization of the light.

That's my interpretation. I imagine "invisible" refers to not being able to see the flash if your eyes can't detect changes in polarization. So, like us, until we put on  polarized sunglasses. The light is (presumably) undetectable to the predators but other cephalopods have eyes equipped to detect/interpret these different changes in lightwaves. Do creatures possessing this active camo ability have the ability to recognize themselves and therefore know that they do or don't blend in to their environment or is it a response that occurs when they're scared regardless I'd the background they are against. 
Tl;dr Would a yellow cuttlefish use its active camo when it's startled even when it's already blended into a yellow background? Yes, animals with active camouflage can adapt to their surroundings. The interesting thing is that, for example, an albino creature with adaptive camouflage does not theoretically *know* that their camo didn't have any effect. So they do recognize that they should've blended in but they can't make sure they actually did.

E.1.: Typo. Do you have a link discussing the albino creatures with camouflage? I love this question. Hope someone answers it/there's been an experiment on this. The answer to this is yes, technically, but the opposing forces aren't that great to fatigue the animal past being able to use the muscles. It is **not** opposing muscle groups at work, essentially like what occurs in the iris of a human eye, between the iris sphincter muscle, and iris dilator muscle. At rest your muscles are not straining, but only one muscle group is at work in these chromatophores.

The animals contracts radial muscles to expand the pigmented cytoelastic sacculus, and when relaxed the sacculus, which is elastic, constricts back on itself.

* [Cephalopod chromatophores: neurobiology and
natural history](http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&amp;aid=91143)

* [Ultrastructure of cephalopod
chromatophore organs](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF00347297)

* [Chromatophore Organs, Reflector Cells, Iridocytes and Leucophores in Cephalopods](http://icb.oxfordjournals.org/content/23/3/581.abstract)

* [Alterations in the structure of the *Octopus
vulgaris* chromatophore by cytochalasin B](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF01924196) [deleted] &gt; It takes energy to change skin color/shape/opacity/etc...

Does it take energy to maintain an unusual patter or just to change the pattern? Basically, LCD or e-paper? It takes energy. At the cell relaxes, it returns to its normal color. So if the muscle doest stay contracted (and thus consuming energy), it wouldn't stay camouflaged. So it's more like an LCD than epaper. Good question. Apparently cephalopods (octopuses and such) change color/opacity/etc...by contracting muscles to distort elastic pigment sacks. Read more on Wikipedia [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromatophore#Cephalopod_chromatophores). I can't say specifically how much energy it uses. However, muscles typically require, relatively, more energy. The pigments also require energy to find/digest the nutrients necessary to make the pigments. this is a very bad answer. first of all, any other can check Wikipedia. second: of course it takes energy to change any state, including the color of skin.

what OP asked (at least what I think) was if the animal can feel fatigued from changing it's camouflage to much.

example: I blink by reflex as a defensive reflex when something comes flying towards my eyes. but I never feel fatigued from it. but I do experience fatigue from lifting heavy stuff or running. Blink your eyes four times a second and keep doing it for an hour then come back and tell us that you didn't experience fatigue. I know that in a couple of species of bioluminescent octopus ( I imagine it's a similar mechanism for any species that gets their bio luminescence from mutualistic bacteria)  The octopus/ angler fish or whatever produces flashes of light by flushing the chamber where they keep the bacteria with oxygen. When the bacteria have access to oxygen they undergo a metabolic reaction that produces light as a byproduct. Once this oxygen is used up the bio luminescence stops. So there is certainly a respiratory cost if they use their light for long. It takes at least some effort and attention to match coloration to surroundings, so in circumstances where the creature does not feel at risk, it may revert to a neutral, default coloration.  

At other times, being invisible is specifically undesirable.  In mating or territorial displays, vibrant attention-getting is the priority.  Outside of Cephalopods, for example the anole changes skin color between bright green and dark black, but will also inflate a bright red pouch on its throat as a challenge or mating display.  Sudden brilliant displays among cuttlefish and the like can often confuse and overwhelm prey in ways much more useful than simply striking unseen. Rub your thumb on your pointing and middle fingers. Barely makes a noise to us, but in ultrasonic ranges it's noisy (pops and cracks believe it or not). That's one of the reasons it's so easy to attract cats to you with that motion. They hear it even though we don't. Edit: Changed index to middle (finger). Thanks all.

Edit 2: Well, I had hoped to find my old detector and make a video for you all, but it isn't working very well these days. Worse, the website I bought it from is no longer offering it, so you'll have to settle for a line on the [wayback archive of it](https://web.archive.org/web/20051218192908/http://www.xtronics.com/kits/SK-207.htm):

"Rubbing your fingers generates ultrasonic noise up to about 60 kHz."

I'm also starting to wonder if the pops and cracks I heard where faults in the unit. It's doing a lot of that now. I have to try resoldering it and see if that fixes it. yeah, that's also why they tend to hate Vacuum cleaners; 

they generate a lot of ultra sonic overtones (frequencies higher than what we can hear [human= ~Max 22kHz]), at intensities much louder than normal ambient sounds.  

Imagine someone just flipping the switch on a jet engine in the same room. So every time I turn on the vacuum cleaner, am I damaging my dog's hearing? Damage has a lot more to do with the amplitude than the frequency. Just like in human hearing, some frequencies can be perceived as more "annoying" than others, so if your dog or cat responds to a sound negatively, it could be from a dislike of the frequency and not necessarily that they're experiencing damage. 

The NIH has some good info on human noise induced hearing loss. I'm under the impression that most land mammals are governed by the same rules.

http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/hearing/pages/noise.aspx#4 Just something to add to this: there was a similar question posted a few weeks ago where an audiologist mentioned that while amplitude and intensity are typically more involved with damage, the further the frequency is from the center of our detectable range, the less damaging it is-- so essentially the closer a sound is to the resonant frequency of the inner ear, the more damaging it will be at high volume. If a sound is outside our detectable frequency range completely, it will not be damaging at all except at the *most extreme* volumes (so much that it violently shakes tissue and heats it up). 

I thought that was pretty interesting. I'm mostly paraphrasing; correct me if I'm wrong.

Edit: spelling This is a deceiving concept.  It's certainly valid, but from my understanding 10 kHz is the center of the audible range, really only 1 octave down from 20 kHz, as an octave doubles each consecutive time.  However, on a logarithmic scale, and the visual scale of any graphic equalizer, the middle of our spectrum is placed at around 500 Hz, which is what we would perceive as the middle.
This is the part of the frequency spectrum that humans talk at.  We have evolved our ears to hear it better, therefore is perceived as louder!
Side note:  Any "Loudness" function on your stereo boosts highs and lows, in order to compensate with the audible curve of our hearing, which naturally rolls these off!  It basically (perceptively) brings it up to the volume of the middle range.

EDIT: 10 kHz is very high!  Think high tones of the cymbals splashing I think when they are referring to the middle of the audible range, they are referring to it in octaves, not linear frequency. 

So since we can hear between 20-20,000 Hz, the middle of the range would be more like the exponential mid point, which is 632Hz. Why do so many cats seem fine riding roombas? Maybe they've already lost those frequencies in their hearing?  I would assume its because they are a lot quieter and a lot less powerful than a standard plugin vacuum.  [deleted] [deleted] We are going  to crowdsouce the funds for you to study cats on roombas. I'm up for it, but I will warn you, I'm an english and drama person... So my study may not be scientifically sound. Here is a haiku instead.

Cat dressed as a shark,
On roomba rocket does ride,
How to catch that duck? Always wanted one but havent gotten around to it. Is it noisy?  no, not especially.  They're battery operated vacuums with small motors.  It's nowhere near as powerful as an upright or canister vacuum.  That's why it is designed to run every day. [deleted] I disagree. I have owned two Roombas: A 500 series and an 800 series model. I have found both to be noisy. Not as noisy as a vacuum cleaner, but so noisy that I can't be in the house when they run. 

Remember that while a vacuum cleaner is more noisy, it doesn't have to run for very long, to clean your house, while a Roomba will easily run for an hour or two, before it's finished cleaning. But a roomba can operate while you're at work, eliminating the need to hear any noise at all. And when you get home from work, you get to play a fun game of Roomba hide and seek!  That's just a bonus.
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Is that why I feel like running when one is turned on? We can't really answer that question without knowing whether or not you're a cat. Interesting. What about young children? My 3 year old is somewhat terrified of vacumns and hand dryers. Follow-up question: can my hearing be damaged by being exposed to loud frequencies that seem silent to me because I cannot hear them? (I'm thinking of whether I should be afraid of rubbing my fingers too close to my ears.) It should not be very harmful to your hearing. I have only second hand knowledge of the biochemical papers describing this damage but it should happen through two processes. The first is direct mechanical damage to the hair cells in the ear. This would require very high energy sound, but could occur from any frequency, I doubt the energy from your fingers is high enough. The second process is inducing the the hair cells to die by over-stimulation and oxidative damage. This should only occur with sound that can activate the nervous signal from these hear cells. So you should be safe. Fun fact, the hairs in your ears actually sense sound as the fourier transform of the sound--i.e., you sense things in the frequency domain which is then converted into sound in your brain.

This is opposed to a "sound wave" which is the sum of the intensities in the time domain. 

Anyway, those cells can't be damaged unless their resonant frequency is sensed, essentially.

(not quite true for high enough energies where your ear drums get dammaged, but that won't be the only thing being disrupted) Sort of but not entirely. While your hair cells (they aren't actual hairs, they just kind of look like it under a microscope) are tonotopically organized, this generally has more to do with the properties of the cochlea in which they are embedded (the tissue has different thicknesses as you go from the base to the apex, and that contributes to that effect). Either way, if there is strong enough movement of the tectorial membrane, it will break the cilia at the ends of the hair cells, and metabolic damage can still occur as well (from overstimulation). Most hair cells respond to a range of  frequencies, it's just that they have 'best' frequencies that change as the position on the cochlea does (and then you have outer hair cells that expand the dynamic range of the inner hair cells - which is what I studied in grad school). This is interesting.

So from what you explain it sounds that you assume that the cochlea is organised in a way that just happens to separate sound into roughly independent frequencies, like an imperfect Fourier representation. Personally I'm tempted to think it's not a coincidence.

Before I read this I thought it was basically the eardrum acting as a microphone and picking up continuous variations in sound amplitude resulting in a soundwave. But wouldn't it make more sense and be more resistant to cell/nerve damage(because distributed) if the cochlea worked much like the retina in the eye, where the location of light receptors determines the location of the signal's source in 2d space except the location on the cochlea would determine the frequency for a Fourier representation of the sound?

What I'm really curious about is what sort of raw data does the brain receive from the ear. It's hard to believe it's one big continuous electrical current from the eardrum which would, by definition need to have a sample rate of 20+ kHz (whether we're actively listening or unconscious), rather than many much smaller bits of information about the dominant frequencies and harmonics of the sound, with the brain doing most of the guess work. Like how the brain can construct a detailed image yet our eye can only see actual details at the very centre of our field of view. Cool I did not know that. Like I said I doubt that the sound is loud enough to do mechanical damage to the hair cells but I am more knowledgeable about the biichemival damage and apoptosis [deleted] [deleted] Generally no. Your ears are tuned to resonate at certain frequencies and do not respond at all to frequencies outside that range. Things might change at extremely high intensities, though. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] How do I rub them?  Over the tops of the fingers, or over the pads?  Horizontally or vertically?  Is this just an elaborate rouse to make us look like we're asking our pets for money? I assume it's to do with the ridges in your fingerprints, so just pad against pad. &gt; Is this just an elaborate rouse to make us look like we're asking our pets for money?

This. I mean, it's not a ruse, but it's the same movement. You've probably done it in the past while trying to catch a cat attention.  Only when playing the world's smallest violin. It must not work as well on dogs; none of my dogs seemed to notice even when I did it next to their ears. Personally, I quickly rub the index against the middle finger (making a "walking" motion). My cat can hear that from about 50 feet away. He comes cause I use that sign to call him for a treat. My dog does that too, if I make the sound with peanut butter on my naked body.  That finger rub is used for a quick hearing screening for neurological exams. Kids always thought this test was weird when I have sensory exams. what does that screen from? are you checking for people not be able to hear it at all, or people being able to hear it too "loud"? It's just a quick neurological tests, basic gross hearing. If they can't hear that sound or there is a difference between the two, it's a quick way to see if there is hearing loss or nerve damage.

I would also sometimes do this with our three year olds since a formal hearing tests is difficult without an audiologist. If they turned toward the sound it told me they were hearing.  Do you know if animals (like dogs) would hear a difference between mp3 and wav files? They potentially could since mp3 is not optimized for frequencies beyond human hearing range and from what I remember you'd require a really high bitrate to reproduce those with fidelity. That is assuming both have an equally higher than usual sample rate.  &gt; Rub your thumb on your pointing and index fingers.

Aren't those both the finger farthest from the pinky besides the thumb? /u/jwelgan meant index and middle fingers.

Index and pointing are the same finger.  [deleted] How are robots supposed to learn English when humans are happy to parse a sentence like this!  

&gt;Aren't those both the finger farthest from the pinky besides the thumb? I am happy to learn English when humans are happy to parse a sentence like this. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Yes we definitely do. Do we use these frequencies to communicate, like bats? No.

Whenever a sound is made, you can map the intensity of the sound at certain frequencies with a frequency response plot. If you've ever thought seriously about buying studio monitors for recording and mixing I'm sure you've seen one of these, as these plots become important when you are trying to reproduce sounds with high fidelity. Sound frequencies are emitted in a continuum, just like light frequencies. There is no cutoff on this continuum where the frequency response becomes zero just because we can no longer hear that frequency. Therefore, all you need is a source in the body that can produce a sound with low/high enough frequency. It is not dependent on our ability to hear it or not.

As far as frequencies that are too high to hear, I can't think of any off the top of my head. However, I'm sure some of our bodily processes that essentially use our whole body as an acoustic resonator, for example a hunger pang, produce frequencies that are too low for us to hear (as well as some that we can hear).  It's worth noting that we can feel vibrations well above and below the audible range, so if your body is making a sound that's outside of your audible range, you may still think you hear it because you feel it happen i.e. gut rumbling from hunger. I just think its cool that i can hum/sing tones that makes my bathtub (and other things) vibrate! It feels very cool. Yea! Is this why I can hum a certain pitch in my shower and if I hold it the pitch seems much louder than any other hummed note? Yep.  You're stabilizing around the "resonant frequency" of the shower, which is a product of the dimensions of the shower stall.  

Imagine stringing a string between the two opposing walls.  There's a certain default note that would play when struck.  Likewise, if you hummed the same tone, it would begin to vibrate strongly.

This happens when the sound wave reflects from the wall at the same frequency that the string can vibrate.  If the sound is in phase , the air vibrations push the string, and each pass of the sound wave adds up.  If the sound is out of phase (not in tune), the waves cancel out.  In your case, there is no string, just the natural back-and-forth reverberations of your hum stacking up.

Interestingly, (to me anyway), the musicality of those harmonics is intimately related to how simple the fraction is.   This is due to the perceived "length" of the sound, or the duration between repetitions.  

This is off topic, but, for example, the strongest musical relationships (most harmonious) between notes can be expressed as (using an A = 440hz)

440 : 440 (1:1), A/A  (known as Unison)

440 : 880 (1:2), A/A  (known as the octave)

440 : 660 (2:3), A/E  (known as a "perfect" fifth)

440 : 586.66 (3:4) A/D (known as a "perfect" fourth) I've been into music making/mixing for years and I never get over how cool it is that math and music have so much relation. Yeah, when I first started learning edm production I was blown away by how mathematical the whole process actually is. I'm also currently taking calculus and every time I start plotting a new graph I think to myself "I wonder what this SOUNDS like!". I mean, in theory you could generate a mathematical equation to map out the waveform of an entire song, right? It's like the lowest common denominator between musical creativity and math/science :D And in practice you could split the song up into smaller chunks and describe a mathematical equation to map out the waveforms of those chunks, or something that sounds pretty close. If you're clever about what information you need and what you can throw away, you don't use as much room to write down the mathematical equation as it takes to store all the samples in that chunk. And that's how music compression works. You've played with Serum right?  Where you can literally input equations??   Probably it's more to do with the way the air vibrates because of the shape of the room/tub than it does with the tub itself vibrating.

You can also do this with water waves in a tub: if you slosh the water back and forth with the right frequency, you can set up a standing wave. The shape of the tub makes it so the water to comes back just in time for your next push, so you keep adding more and more energy to the same back-and-forth motion. If you slosh it at a different frequency, the timing doesn't match up and you don't get this build-up.

The same thing is happening with the sound wave when you hear it resonate: the pressure wave reflected off the walls and the tub comes back to your vocal chords just in time to get another push in the same direction. You can tell a physics student just learned about harmonic oscillators when they try to find the resonance frequencies for things like water surface waves in bath tubs ;) I'm a musician and I do this sort of thing just with out all the big words and stuff I did it when I was 4 because I used to pretend I was a giant who could cause tidal waves.   No. Theoretically, in an ideal bathtub (yeah), all frequencies should make a standing wave. It isn't exactly frequency dependant.

Standing waves exist in these systems because the boundary conditions of the system (the wall of the bathtub) has a different characteristic impedance compared to the transmission line (the inside of the bathtub) which causes a reflection. Reflections moving in the opposite direction interfere with the incoming wave and create standing waves.

You can see standing waves everywhere--audio waves from speakers, audio waves hitting walls, radio waves, radio waves inside coax, water waves, etc. &gt;No. Theoretically, in an ideal bathtub (yeah), all frequencies should make a standing wave. It isn't exactly frequency dependant.

How so?

You're right that the equations work out differently for water surface waves and sound waves. In particular, there's no universal speed to water surface waves.

However, the wavelengths that a standing wave could have are still determined by the shape of the tub, specifically they're some integer fraction (or half-integer?) fraction of the length. And in an ideal (deep) bathtub, the speed and the frequency are both determined by the wavelength. [You have](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dispersion_(water_waves%29#Phase_velocity) the relationship L = g/(2pi) T^(2), where L is the wavelength and T is the period. So you have discrete resonant frequencies that go up as sqrt(k/L).

In a shallow tub or a deep tub with large waves you get [nonlinear effects](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dispersion_(water_waves%29#Nonlinear_effects) which make the phase speed depend on the amplitude of the wave, in which case yeah a more intense standing wave will have a different frequency from a less intense one, so you can get a variety of frequencies corresponding to a given wavelength. This is moving into non-ideal territory as far as I'm concerned, though.

Plus you'd need to start agitating the water at the frequency of the low-amplitude standing wave to get it going, and then change the frequency as the intensity goes up. If you just start with a still tub and begin to wobble it at the frequency corresponding to a higher intensity, I don't think you'll get it to resonate, unless that frequency is close to the low-intensity one anyway. Another good one to do is make your eyes vibrate in time with the oscillation of computer screens! 

If you are ever in an office full desks with computers on them, try humming from low to high. I can see all of the screens flicker at certain frequencies similar to what you see when you film a screen as the frame rates don't match up. 

I find that fascinating. 
 That is really cool, though I can't get it to work. What notes produce this effect? Would love to see it myself! Don't have too much to add here, others explained it pretty well, but [here is a neat visual](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0M21_zCo6UM) of resonance frequencies at work. What's happening is the guy is making a wave at just the right frequency that when it bounces off of the edge, it gets back just in time for him to make a new wave in sync with the previous one. Constructive interference makes it so that the resulting wave is even bigger!

Keep in mind that just outside of the big wave in the middle, there aren't many high waves, this is because of destructive interference, which creates a node (small area with destructive interference resulting in almost no amplitude). So if you could hear from somewhere else in the shower, it may or may not be as loud because the interference can make it sound louder or quieter depending on where you are. Most likely you're hitting the harmonic of that note.  https://churchmusicblog.files.wordpress.com/2009/11/guitar_harmonic1.png Or a house creaking. Outside our hearing range, but still felt and resulting in the heebie-jeebies. Have you got a source on that? Sounds interesting. It was so long ago, I don't remember. :(   But I know it was about haunted houses and how the apprehension we feel can be because the house itself is settling and making noises below our hearing. You're referring to [Infrasound]( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrasound), where the sounds are vibrating at a frequency we can't hear but our bodies can still detect. There's been some research that suggest [Infrasound]( http://www.cracked.com/article_18828_the-creepy-scientific-explanation-behind-ghost-sightings.html) is the cause behind ["hauntings" some people report]( http://www.nbcnews.com/id/3077192/ns/technology_and_science-science/t/infrasound-linked-spooky-effects/). And I believe the reason why we've evolved to feel uneasy when we hear/feel those certain frequencies is because they were associated with the approaching of big predators or an impending natural disaster. There was a post in creepy a while back explaining hauntings through Infrasound. I remember one of the stories was about a classroom in an old school, to cut a long story short - a physics teacher noticed that the classroom was sat in a node for two extractor fans, the room was full of low frequency vibrations and making people feel uneasy in this room. I remember reading something about 19 Hz being the resonant frequency of the eyeball, causing visual disturbances if there is a sound source at that frequency nearby - which may account for ghost sightings. Is this what you remember? Not until I read the Infrasonic entry at Wikipedia. :D There's a few links in a reply somewhere below about it.

It's fascinating what affects the human body outside our conscious awareness. Look up Infrasound. When you're exposed to sound lower than 20 decibels your body and sense it but it can't hear it- it causes all manner of panic and anxiety. Some people propose that Infrasound is a major contributor to the phenomenon of ghost sightings.  So my pets can hear me digesting? And they hear it constantly? I am so sorry. It explains why it's so hard to sneak up on them. Even being really quiet while they're presumably asleep and relaxed, their ears follow me. Maybe senses like this and others explains part of how they know when I don't feel so good. Like there our sounds or smells that our body makes only when we're sick, you know? Check out the "no such thing as a fish" podcast. Latest episode features a man who can make a sound so low only animals like elephants can hear it! [Here's a link to the medicaldaily article](http://www.medicaldaily.com/man-worlds-deepest-voice-hits-notes-only-elephants-can-hear-242157) about this guy. It's pretty awesome! He can hit 8 octaves ***below*** the lowest G note on a piano (his note is G-7, or 0.189Hz). Agreed, I was just listening to that episode earlier! Very interesting A hand clap produces a high amplitude of high frequencies above human hearing lets also not forget about the silent but deadly low frequency sounds. The simplest example too is when your teeth click together while talking, there is a high frequency component to that that we cannot hear. There is a cutoff for the purpose of this question, and it is where the amplitude at a given frequency drops below our threshold for perceiving that frequency.

And if we can "hear" some component of "a sound", then we can "hear that sound". Hunger pangs might have a low-freq component that we can can't perceive, but we still "hear" a hunger pang.

I think the gist of the question is whether there are human-made sounds such that any frequencies within our range of hearing are below our loudness threshold for perceiving that given frequency. we do make facial movements that are too quick for the conscious mind to process, but our subconscious interprets these movements expertly The speed of the signal is not what determines whether or not or our brains can interpret it. Its the frequency. It's true, light travels much, much faster than sound which is why the signals have such high resolution and we can interpret even the smallest changes in them, like a facial movement.

But there are still frequencies of light that we cannot see. All light travels at the same speed, so we know this effect is due to the lights frequency and not its speed. And our brains *can* sense these frequencies. For example, we can't see UV light, but when it hits our eyeballs our brains signal the skin to make more melanin. Melanin absorbs the UV light and prevents us from getting sunburnt. I couldn't find anything on Wikipedia either way, but I assumed that melanin production was triggered within the skin as part of the sun burning process?

That's why you can develop tanlines, right?

Article that didn't clarify either way:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanocyte#Melanogenesis For the most part UV light does not get through the lens. However, if you replace the lens humans can see in the UV spectrum - wavelengths (400300 nm). 

This was discovered after we started removing peoples lenses when they were too malfunctional from complications due to cataracts, lacking a lens is clinically known as aphakia. Replacing them first with a very think variety of externally worn glasses, and then a prothetic lens.

All modern prosthetic lenses are now coated to prevent UV toxicity. Isn't just waving your hand back and forth technically making a really low pitched sound? All sounds are just vibrations at different frequencies. Hypothetically, if you could wave your arm in the air back and forth 100 times a second, forgetting about loudness for a moment, it would vibrate the air enough to produce a tone. But what you can actually do, maybe 4 or 5 times a second, even if we could perceive frequencies that low would be too quiet. The converse of this is that we have no idea how loud we and our bodies are outside the frequency that we can hear. Judging by cats and dogs reaction to us, I'm going to guess *quite* loud.

One example of a man made object that is loud outside of our range of hearing are disc brakes. Disc brakes, when they squeel, are quite loud, but that's simply when a fluid gets on them to bring them into our range of hearing. They're probably that loud all the time. Disk brakes also have a mechanism that is designed specifically to screech when the pad has worn past a certain point. Hearing that screech (under normal operating conditions that aren't wet) means you should think about replacing your pads. So if you aren't hearing that screech every time you brake and your mechanic suggests new brake pads, they may be being overzealous (though there are other reasons to replace pads). ~~It's a change in materials, isn't it?I thought the bottom layer of material had a lower resonating frequency which aurally signalled edriver that it was brake time.~~

This is incorrect, apparently there is a piece that when it touches the disc it makes a loud noise and you know it's brake changing time. Typically simpler than that - it's usually just a little piece of bent metal strap ([example](http://imgur.com/a/xWcGH)) that will contact the rotor before the pad backing plate does.  Of course, you'll likely get squeal if you run out of pad and go steel on steel too. Interesting, I did not know this. Thank you! Lucky for you guys i happen to have some supersonic recording equipment on hand, capable of recording well up to 96khz (human hearing goes up to about 22khz tops. I use these for analysis and sound design)

everything at the top of the spectrum I've highlighted is in the range we can't hear, you can clearly see some sound is being generated up there. 

http://i.imgur.com/F7nve3w.jpg How much of that is generated by a person and how much is just ambient noise? towards the end you can see some sudden and brief impulses, thats me going "HEE! HEE! HEE!" and you can see in between the impulses there is a steady ambient signal going up to about 2khz, beyond that higher is blackness (inaudible) Can you test if rubbing you're finger and thumb together produces supersonic noises? All you gotta do is wave your hand back and forth at about 1 Hz to produce a sound at too low a frequency to hear.

So by handwaving, we can see that clearly humans produce noises outside the range of frequencies we can hear. Assuming you have a heart rate of 90 bpm, your heart is emitting a sound wave of roughly 1.5Hz. To get that in the hearing range you'd want to go above 20 hertz, or roughly 1200 bpm, where it would feel like a low hum for the brief period of time before you die. You have confused two concepts. With a stethoscope (or other aid) you can hear a human heart beat just fine. The rate at which it beats is completely unrelated to the frequency of the sound it produces. An example given elsewhere in the thread compares this to a bassoon player playing a low note at 65 hz, he plays that note 90 times per minute (bpm). Do you see here how the frequency of the note is completely unrelated to the frequency of it being played?

Edit: Ok, so lets do a what if. You have probably heard a [human pulse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qYBtchCqPao) at one point. You can hear the individual thumps. If you speed up this heart (for fun rip the youtube audio and do it in some audio tool) to 20 hz, as in your example, the individual thumps would blend together and you will hear a hum, a low note. &gt;To get that in the hearing range you'd want to go above 20 hertz, or roughly 1200 bpm, where it would feel like a low hum for the brief period of time before you die.

This is beautiful, thank you for this. Can you perceive the vibrations from another person's heart rate though? Not necessarily hear, but is it possible for someone to actually pick up on the subtle changes on some level that one might not even be consciously aware of? The man with the lowest singing voice can sing so low (0.189 Hertz) that humans can't hear it (Average human can hear down to 20 Hertz). [Here's the Guinness World Record page for it](http://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/lowest-vocal-note-by-a-male) [deleted] &gt;probably the singer was making some kind of click or puff of air roughly every 5.29 seconds.

So, breathing? This is actually an important area of research in my field.  I am an antenna design engineer, and running out of available volume for low frequency antennas is a common problem.  As you alude, it is quite difficult to create resonators at frequencies where the dimensions are small with respect to the wavelength.  

Please note, however, that the speed of sound in the filling medium is important.  You can slow the waves down, allowing lower resonant frequencies from the same shape and size cavity.  Also, the resonant path can be meandered, creating an oscillation path much longer than the overall volume would suggest.  

At the end of the day, there is a price to be paid for breaking the rules. These resonators tend to be very inefficient, and very narrowband.  For the purposes of creating sound, bandwidth is less critical, but the ability to generate loud sounds and couple it to the air for propagation will likely suffer. &gt; In my opinion this record is pretty dumb. People should realize that (1) 0.189 Hz is one cycle of high and low pressure every 5.29 seconds, 

Yeah, "singing" at that frequency would normally just be called "breathing" I can sing that low too, just you guys can't hear it either but I swear I'm singing... If humans can hear up to 20,000 hz, and a soprano hits a high C (frequency just above 1000 hz), then the 20th overtone in the harmonic series of that note would not be audible. The frequencies over 20 khz can still interfere and affect the shape of the audible wave.

EDIT: Or not. Trust no one! frequencies over the audible range will not actually affect the sound that you hear if you are hearing it directly from the source, but they can cause aliasing if the wave recording is sample based. the aliasing will be audible. The current world record holder for lowest note ever produced by a human voice can sing a note so low a frequency that humans can not hear it. And yes, I realize this is a terrible quality video and that it is 7 years old, but he still holds the record.
http://youtu.be/___sG3AJaNc He, coincidentally, also holds the record for most vocal range with something like 8 octaves. I could be wrong on the number of octaves, but I'm fairly confident he is the current world record holder of most vocal singing range by a human. And yes, I'm aware Georgina Brown has 8 octaves, but I do believe Tim Storms holds the record by a few notes. I could be wrong. The theoretical answer to your question is *yes*.

The practical answer to your question is *no*.

To explain, first think of the human voice as a *signal source*. This source generates a signal that can be represented in the frequency domain to look [something like this.](http://i.imgur.com/2oYKKel.gif) Of course, it varies based on gender and voice characteristics, etc. but it still conforms to the same general characteristics. One takeaway is that this signal is *not bandlimited*, meaning even at very high frequencies and very low frequencies, the amplitude of that tone is not zero. It may be very small, for instance, at 20 KHz it is ~50 dB lower than at 200 Hz. This corresponds to a 10^5 = 100,000 weaker signal but it still is not zero. However, for all practical purposes, we can say with high confidence that most of the energy of the human voice lies between 50 Hz and 5 KHz. Although, we like to think of human voice as being within 20Hz to 20 KHz, it's not like the amplitude of the tone at 20100 Hz suddenly becomes zero. The spectrum is continuous.

Now, think of a [system](http://i.imgur.com/cVKCrzt.png) where your voice generates a signal x, an example of which is represented in the frequency domain above as *X(f)*, as a function of frequency *f*. The background noise between the source and your ear, as well the combination of multiple paths that the signal takes to get to the ear modifies the signal *x* into a new signal *y* that could be weaker or stronger on different frequency tones.

The human ear can be thought of as a decoder of this noisy signal. The reason your question doesn't have a simple yes/no answer is that this decoder is not a simple one that filters out inaudible chunks of the spectrum. Instead, it has its [own frequency dependence](http://i.imgur.com/HCFfF8B.gif). What you can deduce from this is that the hearing threshold is very much frequency selective. You would need a 1 million times (60 dB) stronger signal at 40 Hz than at 4 KHz to hear it at the same level. Does this make a 40 KHz signal audible? Now that becomes a subjective answer that depends on how you define audible. If you had large enough speakers to blast a 40 Hz tone at 60 dB higher than your normal voice, it certainly could be. [This video is pretty cool demonstration of this frequency-dependent listening threshold that sweeps from 20 Hz to 20 KHz.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNf9nzvnd1k) Clearly, if you have better speakers, you can start hearing at a lower fundamental frequency.

To summarize, there is no discrete high/low frequency cutoff, neither for the generated human voice, nor for human hearing. If you speak louder, you are effectively reducing the lower frequency cutoff of your hearing and increasing the higher frequency cutoff, thus capturing a bigger fraction of the spectrum. But, in practice, beyond some point it become irrelevant, because (1) You already captured &gt;99.9% of the voice signal energy and the remaining out-of-band chunk wouldn't increase its fidelity, (2) you would need amplify your own voice thousands of time to capture the slight remaining energy at the edges. I don't think he's limiting it to voice.
What about farts, stomach rumbles, etc 20-20k Hz is usually used to describe the limits of human hearing, not the human voice. When our muscles contract, they actually pulse/vibrate somewhere below 20Hz (just below the range of human hearing).  I seem to recall someone saying it might actually be the reason we can't hear that low, because if we could we would always be hearing the sound of our own muscles.  Hard to say if that's true or not though. I've thought of this before, so it's sort of relevant. 

I had always wondered when I was younger, why when old people breathe through their noses, they make all kinda of high pitched whistles and noises.  I always wondered why they didn't try to remediate that issue.  

It recently clicked for me that it may be because they can't hear it.  

I've had some minor hearing loss on the upper end of treble, and I believe those noises generally fall into they 5k+ hz range, which is where people over 50 generally have significant hearing loss.  

Just a theory at this point.. Since pretty much no one answered OP's question:

[Here is an article with a useful chart explaining the approximate ranges that various animals can hear at, including humans.](http://www.lsu.edu/deafness/HearingRange.html) 

Some, like rabbits, might not even be able to hear low human speech (~300 Hz), though they could probably feel the vibrations. May not be exactly the answer OP was looking for, but one of my professors said that humans will never really get to hear nothing, no true silence. Supposedly because even if you're in a sensory deprivation tank, you can still hear a very high pitched and low pitched sound, the high pitch being your nervous system and low pitch being your circulatory system. So I guess those are the things you hear when you're in a silent room alone and suddenly you are flooded with this weird sound in your head, like a rumbling and whine mixed, sometimes it even hurts me and I have to move around or something to ignore it or make it go away. So I guess we are always making those sounds, but we don't usually notice it.  I hear it when it is very quiet. Thought it was the high frequency radio waves we are bombarded with daily. (Among many other known and un-known wave-types.) [deleted] This may be noteworthy, but sometimes people use the same mechanism to stop teens loitering in certain places. I'm 22 and I sometimes hear really high pitched noises. Usually when I'm walking past a closed bus station or something like that, and it turned out they're there to stop kids and teens hanging around.  I'm almost 40, and apparently I've been very good to my ears, because I can hear them, too. I'm almost looking forward to the day my hearing somewhat declines. That noise is horrendous.  Yeah, I wish that had gone away, rather than my (previously perfect) eyesight...  I can still hear the ultra-high-frequency racket, but now I need glasses.  :-/ My workplace uses sonar rodent repellers and I hear them constantly. Drives me mental Some malls or shops have those installed, but I also passed them at regular houses. I always assumed this was to scare away rodents or cats Thank you! Now I know what that high pitched beeping in a certain shopping centre was, I heard it like every 10 seconds and it was really hurting my ears.
A friend of mine didn't hear it and it freaked me out everytime we went there. How did you come to find out that that's what it was? Where do you live? It's the 'mosquito'.  It's very annoying and, I believe, is now illegal in some places.  Technically it's discriminatory, and not particularly fair as many people under twenty-five (not just teenagers) can still hear it.   It's a very annoying, high pitched ringing that they put on street corners in some neighbourhoods to drive younger people off.  It's incredibly distracting when you just want to get something done, or wait for a taxi. I have to pass by one of the bus stations quite often and I ended up just saying to someone who worked at the information desk. She said it's to discourage teens from hanging about at the lockers, which are outside the bus station. I live in the UK.  Are you saying an average person can scream at 20kH?

I don't think even a singer with a high voice could do 9kH. There a difference between "singing" and "screaming".  (Although from some professional musician's recordings, they might not realize it.) maybe someone can explain otoacoustic transmissions? From what I understand it is a supersonic frequency emitted during the mechanical phase of converting sound in your inner ear, which creates a distortion pattern used to discriminate sound locations.... That needs some clarification for sure. Do human beings make noises/sounds that are either too low/high frequency for humans to hear?
Ah! A clue to what ails us? Personally I can whistle ultrasonically. Which is inaudible to the madding crowd, yet drives any annoyingly barking canines crazy. Some tend to believe that reality consists of that which is evident to us. Yet the spectrum encompassed by our senses is so limited, that it may lead some to conclude that what we are unaware of does not exist. What is also not registered, is that external reality does not pass straight into our brains. It has to pass, if it passes at all, through mechanisms. Which alter its nature to such an extent that it has to be interpreted in order to create/fit into that virtual consciousness the brain cunningly fabricates. No wonder we can get so much wrong.
 Every defense mechanism has false positives (for example, when you body attacks itself, like in an auto-immune disorder) and false negatives (for example, when your body doesn't attack a pathogen).

Various parasites have the advantage of having had millions of years to evolve their evasive mechanisms and their defense mechanisms to avoid detection or mitigate attacks by human immune systems.  Also, transplanted organs are hooked up directly to your bloodstream and therefore their antigens are exposed to the immune system directly.  To kill a worm in the intestine, the immune system is less able to attack it as the cells need to migrate through the epithelium. Exactly. Transplanted tissue that is not connected to the bloodstream "goes unnoticed". Like corneas, heart valves and various conduits. Doctors call this "biological material". So heart valves aren't connected to the bloodstream?? Nope. They're "dead". I've had two aortic valve replacements and three pulmonary arteries with valves included. No anti-rejection drugs needed! :) Wow, can I ask why?  Just curious because I have a biscuspid aorta.  I'm 28 now and the docs said at some point in the future I'll probably need an aortic valve replacement as well. Hi there! :) I'm 29 and I have a congenital heart disease (you do too!), my aorta and my pulmonary artery hadn't divided into two separate vessels when I was born (plus there were holes between my atriums and ventricles). So they patched up the holes and inserted another aorta that was used as a pulmonary artery! They later replaced my original aortic valve as it was very large and... pentacuspid? All these parts were replaced through the years as they became old or I grew out of them.


I can tell you a lot about the surgeries. The doctors are so skilled nowadays that it has become a common surgery. The risks are very low since it's your first! :) PM me and I'l explain more and tell you about the difference between biological and mechanical valves. ^^ Pentacuspid: Has 5 flaps instead of the 3 the tricuspid should have, so it allows reflux of oxigenated blood back into the heart. Yep! If it wasn't for the 5 flaps and the holes, the blood wouldn't have been able to flow freely through my heart until the time of surgery. So three wrongs made a right! The body is remarkable in that sense. Finding ways of coping with things that should kill you immediately. That's incredible &gt; Finding ways of coping with things that should kill you immediately

Not really. The body doesn't have the ability to detect Defect A and mitigate it through Response B, it's just that two random rolls of the dice both came up snake eyes. It happens through statistical probability, there's no intelligence behind it. Why does a tricuspid valve work properly but not a two or more sided valve? Do they not close properly due to the defect? Something like that. Not a cardiologist so this is where my expertise ends. How comparable is the function of your heart to the average assuming you can answer that objectively? It's quite normal, actually! Well, I'll never be a great athlete, but they say I function just as good as a "normal couch potato" (exact quote from my cardiologist)... I do get gradually worse year by year until it's time for another surgery. But hopefully I can last 10 more years now until next time!   during the fetal development, there are holes between the respective atria and ventricles. Some babies are born without these holes completely closed. The issue only arises when the holes are too large and/or wont close naturally as the baby frows older or there are complications that arise. Only on these conditions that you may need intervention. Otherwise, constant vigilance and surveillance is enough Not exactly true.  When babies are born and start to breathe on their own, the change in pressures normally closes the hole (foramen ovale).  The hole in the ventricle should have closed much earlier than birth.  I was taught that about 25% of the population still have a PFO, or a patent foramen ovale, meaning the hole is still open.  The most common side effect is a person experiencing cluster migraines. VSD is actually the most common congenital heart abnormality (25% of congenital abnormalities). I'm interested to hear what you have to say about 25% of pop. having a PFO? That seems like a huge percentage &gt; Only on these conditions that you may need intervention.

Esoterically speaking, a patent foramen ovale and any other holes as a result of birth defects are a risk factor for air embolisms in SCUBA divers and anyone engaging in activities with a potential for dissolved blood/tissue gasses and rapid pressure swings.

 This sounds like truncus arteriosus? It is my understanding that the mechanical and anatomical structure are what is needed, not cellular function. They de-cellularize the valve and are left with a translucent collagen extra cellular matrix in the shape of the valve. Yes, this is correct. Also porcine and bovine valves are common. There are mechanical values but they have not done as well studies.  Mechanical valves last far longer but require lifelong antiplatelet therapy and have the risk of becoming colonized with bacteria. Organic valves are very susceptible to sclerosis and stenosis, and long-term possibility of regurgitation, but have a lower risk of infection. Each has pros and cons based on patient comorbidities. Fibrous tissue is what its called. It's not DEAD per se, but it does not require the same amount of blood. Additionally, when you have a heart attack and a part of the myocardium dies, it is replaced with fibrous tissue, which can't contract like myocardium leading to cardiac insufficiency. [deleted] That sounds like you have teeth in your aorta.  Slow down on the eating? I'm 32 and I have a bicuspid aortic valve as well as a coarctation of the aorta!  I actually wrestled in high school and got aggressively into weightlifting after college solely because my cardiologist told me I wouldn't have the stamina.  Frustrating as hell to sweat and pant next to people in worse shape than you.  Now I've slowed down as I've gotten older and gained weight so I'm struggling to get back.  My aortic root is currently at 4.3 cm and I'm told the magic number is 5 before they need to schedule the replacement.  Best of luck maintaining your health. I'm a nurse on a cardiac surgery unit. I take care of patients every day that have had aortic valve surgery. Please message me if you have any questions. It's kind of like you don't want to build a pipe that absorbs water, you want the water to flow past without interacting with the pipe. Scishow on YouTube just made a video about this. I not smart enough to post a link. Heart valves are absolutely connected to the bloodstream.  The key point here should be that transplant of biological material has the capability to mount an autoimmune reaction while insertion of a prosthetic (metal, plastic - valve, new knee) does not provoke the autoimmune reaction Sorry guys but this isn't exactly true. For instance when you have a subcutaneous TB (tuberculosis) test done this isn't exactly "in" your blood stream. Yet the whole reason someone can say you have TB is because there was some antigenic reaction that gives you a wheal and flare reaction. Your body absolutely tries to attack and break down these parasites (not a doubt). The problem is that parasites have developed mechanisms for evading our body's defenses; this is called natural selection. Those parasites that have survived the test of time are around because they are simply better at evading host mechanisms of destruction. Organs however come from our bodies, and while they can attack the host in which they are put in are typically not doing that but instead are being attacked. This is why organs are affected so greatly by being put in foreign bodies without having been previously typed for antigens. If the antigens aren't what the body recognizes as normal it will be destroyed and because it is an organ it CAN NOT evade these host mechanisms. 

Just because something isn't "in" your bloodstream does not mean it goes unnoticed by your immune system. The body has many immune mediators that are designed to be able to diffuse into tissue and get rid of foreign bodies present there and maybe not in circulation. 

Hope I could help!  This is more of the correct answer. Technically, your GI system is considered the outside of your body. Think of your body like a big tube. Your I immune system doesn't act the same way with things directly inside your body compared to things outside your body. this should be the top answer.  most parasites live "outside" your body. Im gonna chime in since nobody has mentioned the Major Histocompatibility Complex or MHC. The MHC-I &amp; MHC-II are surface protein complexes present on the surface of certain immune cells. There are also Antigen Presenting Cells or APCs of the immune system, they recognize antigens as self and non self and then present them to the other cells in the immune system which either attack them or nor (if they are recognized as self). If an organ is transplanted from a person with different antigens as the receiving patient then the MHC will bind the antigens of the receiving patient and then the APC comes in contact with the antigen-MHC complex and recognizes it as non self indicating the tissue is foreign and recruits macrofages to digest them and starts the inflammation cascade. TL;DR: Wish me luck on my immunology test Thursday. Yeah, you're pretty much on point (guess that immunology test is going to be ok!). Thing is, as refered on the top comment, parasites have developed ways to avoid our immune system. For example, some parasites have a capsule that covers their bodies and that way our immune system can't recognize the Antigens, since they're hidden underneath that capsule.

I can't remember the specifics, since it's been a while since I last studied this, but I hope that you can get the general idea.

EDIT: http://rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/364/1513/85 this arcticle is pretty good in case you want a review about parasite evasion of the immune system. A couple of corrections, hopefully it's helpful on your test:

APC's such as dendritic cells or macrophages, will recognize pathogens generally with pattern-recognition receptors (PRR's) that detect pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP's). This is still an innate immune response because receptors for PAMP's are just generally recognizing common themes in microbial structural components. Once an APC has recognized a PAMP, it will phagocytize (eat) the offending pathogen. Inside the phagocyte, the pathogen will be broken apart and some protein segments of it will be processed and be loaded onto MHC-II protein complexes. Then that loaded MHC-II will be presented on the surface for a T cell to connect to with its CD4 receptor complex. That connection will lead to T cell activation and bring in the adaptive immune system through various other processes (B cells have to be activated too).

Also, the inflammatory cascade is often (though not always) started by mast cells in tissues. These will recognize a PAMP, be activated by crosslinking of membrane-bound IgE, or will be physically damaged (such as if you cut yourself) and that will prompt them to "degranulate." They'll release granules containing quite a few different chemicals including histamine and chemotactic cytokines, which will make it easier for white blood cells to cross into the tissue from the bloodstream and recruit WBC's to the site of inflammation, respectively.

Macrophages can also promote inflammatory response simply by phagocytizing a pathogen they've recognized via a pattern-recognition receptor like a TLR (Toll-like receptor). They'll then release proinflammatory cytokines.

In tissue rejection, the MHC on the transplanted tissue itself acts as an antigen (rather than just holding the antigenic substance). Mostly this is going to be MHC-I, since MHC-II is usually only present on professional APC's. MHC-I is on all nucleated cells. Often it is antibodies that are directed against the MHC which will be involved in the anti-transplant immune response.

Let me know if anything's unclear. Good luck on the test! Thank you. This helps a Lot. &gt;There are also Antigen Presenting Cells or APCs of the immune system, they recognize antigens as self and non self

I don't think you've got that quite right. It's been a couple years since I took immunology, but aside from Toll-like-receptors, antigen presenting cells don't really have the capacity to recognize antigens as self vs not self. APCs pick up antigen from various sources and present them on MHC-II to helper T cells which are capable of recognizing self from non-self due to previous selection in the thymus.

&gt;MHC will bind the antigens of the receiving patient and then the APC comes in contact with the antigen-MHC complex

The APC is part of the antigen MHC complex in this case-it holds the MHC class II molecule on its surface; with bound antigen it is then capable of presenting to a T helper cell. Some worms travel in the bloodstream too. The blood isn't permeating the parasite the way it does an organ though.  The parasite has defences against assault that prevent it being invaded by immune cells, transplanted organs do not. Technically, organs do to. Just not against the immune system of other humans. [deleted] [Schistosomiasis](http://www.humanillnesses.com/Infectious-Diseases-My-Si/Schistosomiasis.html) is a major health issue in developing countries, as well as horrifying to think about. 

[Guinea Worm](http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs359/en/) tops it though. The worm literally bursts out of your skin to lay its eggs.  On mobile so I can't link, but you forgot ascaris lumbricoides, in terms of nightmare parasites it ranks very high.  Can't believe I forgot that one!

The [Giant Roundworm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ascaris_lumbricoides) grows up in your lungs, but needs to get into your intestines to mature. 

How does it do it? It irritates your lungs so that you cough it up into your mouth. Since you're a polite, well-mannered person who covers their mouth when they cough, you end up swallowing Mr. Giant Roundworm instead.  No.  Let me help you. There's one that crawls under the skin and is usually noticed while traversing IN THE EYE.

http://www.parasitesinhumans.org/loa-loa-eye-worm.html

edit: ohh and if you need a little more, the point of infection is from an infected fly bite anywhere on the skin. So how come all transplants aren't rejected by the body? We choose the organs carefully, to make sure their antigens are as close to the recipient's as possible. The more similar they are, the longer it takes for the immune system to recognize them as foreign.

After the transplant, the recipient takes medications to partly suppress the immune system. This further extends the time before the foreign organ is "noticed."

Even that doesn't necessarily stave off rejection forever. Eventually the organs tend to degrade and fail. But in exceptional cases the transplant can go unnoticed by the immune system for decades. One man is living with a transplanted kidney that he got forty years ago, and he hasn't experienced rejection yet.  Ah, so I'm wrong with my statement, all transplants ARE rejected (except identical twins I gather), we can only do our best to make them remain viable for as long as possible?

I didn't realize that transplants are really only a stop-gap. Technically yea. That's why everyone's all excited for lab grown organs tailored just to the patient. Chance of rejection is near 0%. I'm going on 5 years of dialysis after my transplanted kidney failed after going strong for 4 1/2 years. I'm only 20 so I cannot wait until nearly 100% compatible lab grown organs are achieved. It would save and improve so very many lives. At the rate technology in increasing, I hope that something like that could definitely happen within my lifetime. If you don't mind me asking, what would the progression of your treatment be now? Might you be eligible for another transplant in the future? He's only 20 so I'd assume he's back on the list. Those things are geared towards younger folk. So do they take into account previous transplants? What is the chain of consideration on this kind of stuff? I'm a kidney transplant patient. I was on dialysis and listed for 6 years. When the transplanted kidney fails you go back on the on the list - wait times vary by region. Currently kidney lists are not weighted in any way other than clearance from your transplant center, so age doesn't change your wait time.  The only exception is that they will jump you to the top for a near perfect match with the donor organ. If a transplanted kidney lasts 15 years you are extraordinarily lucky.  The technology is getting better all the time.  I read about a tailor-made trachea several years ago, and things have only gotten better since then.

http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22029440.800-grow-your-own-organs-as-a-tissue-engineer.html#.VTZkqSFVhBc From speaking to one of the leading researchers in stem cell research, we can expect some of the simpler, less structurally intricate lab grown organs to become available for medical use within the next decade. However, they have experienced much difficulty when growing more complex structures (lungs were the example used) in vitro. Where kidneys fall on the spectrum of difficulty I am unsure, but significant progress within the field is being made.     Situations like yours are why people who are not living in your situation and who can't understand the true benefits should not be permitted to have an opinion on the ethics of things like stem cells. Yeah!  Only people with reasons to have a strong bias toward it get to have an opinion on an ethical issue!  No way that could muddy the waters.

I'm all for stem cell research, and think the benefits FAR outweigh the ethical concerns, but your statement is ridiculous. Before I read that story I had no clue that organ transplants have a high fail rate,  and that you have to suppress your immune system to make them even work temporarily. The comment you replied to was extreme and wrong,  but that story should be a huge part of the stem cell conversation, and people shouldn't be making policy without understanding those benefits.  That's true. The problem is, this information is freely available to anyone who seeks it, but the people making decisions generally prefer to stick to their baseless prejudices. In the case of embryonic stem cells isn't the main ethical argument a religious one? The issue is if a person considers an embryo to be alive. Many, perhaps most, people who object to embryonic stem cells likely do so on religious grounds, but it isn't strictly a religious issue. I think Peter Singer has clarified the issue here.  Embryos are certainly alive, and the are biologically human, but what counts is personhood- the capacity for certain kinds of experience, such as an experience of self over time.

Foetuses and embryos are not persons, but they are living human organisms. In the same way that a brain-dead adult is a living human organism, yes. What are the other issues beyond religious ones? It's not religion alone that informs us on if a human being is alive, or what ethical standards to hold ourselves to. Are you saying there is a scientific basis to say that a stem cell is a human being?  Or a legal basis?  Or a moral basis?  

If moral basis, walk me through it. I'm sorry. I thought the discussion was about whether embryos were human beings, not if stem cells are human beings.

Stem cells are, in my view, not human. The entirety of the debate is about embryos since embryonic stem cell extraction results in the destruction of the embryo.

If embryos are human beings; this is the moral equivalent of growing people merely to kill them and harvest their organs. If embryos are not human beings, there's no issue. Fair clarification, so rephrased:

Are you saying there is a scientific basis to say that an embryo is a human being? Or a legal basis? Or a moral basis? If moral basis, walk me through it.

By the same logic, shouldn't in vitro fertilization be banned? Let me preface this with: these aren't my beliefs.

&gt; By the same logic, shouldn't in vitro fertilization be banned?

Yes, logically, those who believe that embryos are human beings are also against in vitro fertilization.

&gt; Are you saying there is a scientific basis to say that an embryo is a human being? Or a legal basis? Or a moral basis? 

I don't personally believe that embryos are human beings. My basis for this is the belief that those who are physically incapable of moral judgement are not 'beings', and the mere idea that under perfect conditions they will evolve the capacity is not enough for me (judgement call) to grant them that definition, based on expediency.

Is this a scientific, legal or moral basis? Or all three?
 At an embryo level that decision is a religious one and not a scientific or legal one.  Hence why abortion is legally allowed up until 24 weeks in normal circumstances in the UK for example.  Just because something is a 'judgement call' does not mean its a decision that's solely governed by religion.

Athiests are free to have beliefs on if embryos are human beings as well.  There's a world of difference between belief and faith, though. To put it in a very blunt way, as little as having a moderately solid opinion qualifies as belief, simply because there's a proposition you consider to be true in your mind. *Everyone* who's not unconscious has beliefs, but that has nothing to do with faith. Indeed. That's why I was talking about beliefs not faith.

While its true your faith (religion) may inform your beliefs, this isn't a case where a belief is solely a matter of religious reasoning.

You can have beliefs on the sanctity of human life that come from a non-religious ethical framework. Interestingly both the religious and non-religious arguments are usually based on the concept of [human dignity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dignity) and to a lesser extent whether embryos are human worthy of moral consideration. I find it difficult to understand the measure of human dignity gained by having people with failing organs die horrible deaths merely because a certain lump of organic chemicals that could have saved them came from someone's ovary while millions of similar lumps are being shed by people's skins and epithels daily and nobody gives it a second thought. Just playing devils advocate here, replace "lump of organic chemicals" with "poor people" who would die by the millions without anyone giving them a second thought and you could be making a sound utilitarian argument for organ harvesting the poor.  Kantians, in contrast to utilitarians, might say that the line between lump of organic chemicals and a human being entitled to right and dignity is arbitrary and dependent on an observer.  Things like humans are ends in themselves whose moral worth is independent of their value to anyone.  To say that one can assign value or draw an arbitrary line of what constitutes humanity is to deny all humans their dignity. &gt; Just playing devils advocate here, replace "lump of organic chemicals" with "poor people" who would die by the millions without anyone giving them a second thought and you could be making a sound utilitarian argument for organ harvesting the poor.

There's a difference between a lump of organic chemicals and a human being, though. Killing one person to save another is NOT the same thing as not killing any person to save another. We're doing the latter in hospitals all day long already, and it appears to be perfectly noncontroversial. It is beyond me how anyone can suggest there is human dignity in preserving the life of stem cells at the cost of conducting research to save the untold thousands who will suffer and die from terminal/chronic illnesses.

Want to debate the regulation to manage moral concerns of their applicabion, fair enough.  Want to debate the morality of destroying stem cells in order to conduct research, you've completely lost me. I am not trying to debate the issue, I am only pointing out that there are solid, nonreligous arguments to be made.  It is always helpful to be able argue the other side's position in order to ensure that one's arguments are as strong as they could be.  Frankly, the whole "untold thousands" argument is not very convincing and can lead to some terrible outcomes for the individual.   

By the way, the stronger ethical arguments are typically made against using embryonic stem cells, which imply the destruction of an embryo.     &gt;  I am only pointing out that there are solid, nonreligous arguments to be made

I really don't think that is the case, particularly if subjecting the arguments to a risks-benefits analysis.  Saying that the human dignity associated with the utilization of discarded embryo for research is less amorphous than citing the potential benefit of enhancements to stem research as saving *untold thousands* seems a bit of a stretch IMHO.

And understood on the embryo comment, just lazy commenting on my part.
 Cost benefit and utility arguments (consequentialism) tend to be rejected by deontologists who argue that the ends never justify the means.  Nothing (not pleasure, not intelligence, not pain, not perseverance) can justify the good except the good.  According to this major branch of ethics things with intrinsic moral value cannot be ranked according to their worth.  Harm to a single individual has the same moral value as harm to many individuals.    Right. The benefits outweigh the ethical concerns. So people who cannot possibly have any real appreciation of the benefits aren't relevant to the discussion. People who stand to benefit directly are likely to overlook potential ethical concerns.

It is my opinion (and clearly yours) that the benefits outweigh the concerns.  That is not the same as those concerns not being relevant at all or even some people disagreeing.

Ethical considerations in research are a good thing.  History is full of examples of when ethics weren't taken into account, ranging from unnecessarily risking people's well-being to committing outright atrocities.  Conflicts of interest are one of the easiest ethical breaches to run into, and your suggestion is a textbook example of a conflict of interest. Those ethical concerns do not apply in many countries and they are leaps and bounds ahead of us in these technologies and will likely begin to offer services for profit before too long or destroy us with their clone armies. &gt; The benefits outweigh the ethical concerns.

...in your opinion.

I'm not saying your opinion is necessarily wrong. But what you're saying is that people who disagree with you are not allowed to have an opinion. That sounds like a pretty silly argument to make. What I am saying is that people who lack either perspective or education about an issue should not have a relevant say in that issue &gt; should not be permitted to have an opinion

And how do you propose we enforce this thought law? Yeah because desperate people dont compromise their morals at all...

While I agree with stem cell research, if anything their opinion on it should be ignored, because theyre not coming from an objectively neutral standpoint. Thats like asking a starving man if there are ethical concerns with the factory farmed burger you're popping on the barbecue for him. What about cloning people, are we close to that? Will that work? Better to clone organs.  Faster, you don't have to wait for the body to grow up, and it avoids most of the ethical issues associated with creating a thinking being, then killing it for parts. Just curious, how are we able to skip the "growing up" phase and directly grow an adult organ? Are there precurors that causes the differentiation? But it would be killing yourself for the benefit of yourself. I'm sure yourself would understand if yourself put yourself in your shoes. Ever see The Island?  Didn't work out so well in that scenario. What if I broke out of the facility and posed as myself only to kill myself and take up my own identity? Not necessarily.  Since our decisions are somewhat a result of our upbringing and experiences, who is to say that your stored clone wouldn't be your evil twin? Or simply not care about what you think, it wants to just let you die and live on with it's nice pristine organs as they are. [deleted] [deleted] Cloning people would work but there is too much ethical issues to do that. Alternatives are 3D printing/growing specific organs with stem cells, growing human organs in pigs, or maybe cloning a human but without the head. The first two are worked on but still far from practical. I'm not sure if anyone is considering the last one. Maybe in the near future we'll see some illegal clones from other countries where laws are more lax that are accessible to only the richest people of the world. It would be scary if the same politicians/other big company CEOs could remain practically immortal by just cloning a new body and doing a head transplant every few years. Aside from the ethical issues, cloning mature people is ridiculous. The clone starts off as an embryo again, but with the DNA age of the adult. This has large complications. Then it will need to grow to the age of the cloned person. I don't see how cloning people will resolve any problems. It's not like it will ever be a full grown copy right off the bat as in the movies. Calling it now: super expensive life insurance you can buy for your children where they clone the baby and keep a clone in a vegative state until it's sweet precious organs are needed.

Lab grown is probably better though. Something like that (minus the vegetative state) is actually the plot of the 2005 movie "The Island" ([IMDB](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0399201/plotsummary?ref_=tt_ov_pl)). ..Or to replace the kid if something happens to it? damn... 
 What are the complications of growing an embryo with adult DNA? Not questioning the issue, just genuinely interested. I believe one theory is that cloning from somatic cells (non-reproductive) means that clone starts off with less telomeres (padding on the end of DNA, which keeps DNA structurally sound. As you age, the telomeres wear away, and as a result your DNA is more susceptible to damage, this is a part of the aging process.) Because of this, it's hypothesized that a clone of an adult cell will be "older" genetically and more susceptible to age-related diseases, sooner. 

Whereas a typical organism is created by the fusion of two gametes (reproductive cells, sperm, and egg) which have a full set of telomeres and create a biologically "young" being.

I believe this theory is being contested though. Nothing is definitive at this point.

If you remember [Dolly the Sheep](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolly_\(sheep\)), this is where they got a lot of their data and observations. But wouldn't the brain die eventually? And I would also imagine that eyes and ears won't last for eternity either. Maybe they'd be able to live for about 200 years at most, but I seriously doubt the brains ability to work well for longer. Probably yes. Based on the pathophysiology, it is likely that organ would be rejected eventually.

However, we can't really prove that. Some donor organs remain functional and unrejected for decades, long enough for the recipient to die of something else. We can't look into the future to see what would have happened if the recipient had lived forever.

And I would not call transplants a stop-gap. They are a life-extending and life-improving intervention. [Kelly Perkins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelly_Perkins) is a heart transplant recipient who climbs mountains. Dwight Kroening is another heart transplant recipient, and he runs Ironman triathlons. 

If it works perfectly, it's a lot more than a stop-gap. It's a return to a normal life. All medicine is a stop-gap to death. Doctors dont prevent death,  just delay it [deleted] I'm an identical twin who had/has chronic autoimmune kidney disease. I received a transplant about 18 months ago from a living friend donor. My identical twin's kidneys are healthy and normal.  Wouldn't it have been easier to use one of your twins then? [deleted] So side-question. Do all transplant patients receive the immunosuppresants? Or only those whose bodies are actively attempting to reject the organ? All of them. The object is to try and prevent rejection from ever starting. 

Episodes of "acute rejection" may still occur, when there is a short-term reaction that may be treated with additional drugs. But over time there is also "chronic rejection," which is untreatable and causes permanent damage. In order to prevent both of these, transplant recipients must take immunosuppresive drugs for the rest of their lives.

There are some experimental procedures which hope to eliminate the drug requirement, but none of them have been proven safe and effective yet. There's no guarantee they will be. How about people with autoimmune diseases, like HIV for example? Will compatability be an issue too? Compatibility is still an issue. Immune diseases like AIDS don't completely eliminate the rejection problem, and antirejection meds must still be taken. 

If you did not have a working immune system at all, you'd be dead of infection. And if you do have some amount of working immune system, it's still able to reject a new organ. 

(BTW, HIV only means infection with the virus. If it progresses to causing actual disease of the immune system, it is referred to as AIDS.) Small correction, AIDS is not an autoimmune disease. Autoimmune diseases are caused by the immune system attacking its own body (autoreactivity).

AIDS is a immune deficiency syndrome caused by HIV infection, and is kind of the opposite of an autoimmune disease as it involves underactivity rather than overactivity of the immune system.  Corrected. Thanks. Speech-to-text apparently gets confused when I use too many medical terms, and I missed one of its errors.  Yes, even though some recipients do naturally accept the organ without any immunosuppression, it is standard therapy for all solid organ transplant recipients to receive immunosuppressants. 

Non-fun fact: most common cause of death for transplant recipients is infection. The #2 cause is non-compliance (patients not taking their immunosuppressant drugs). Bone marrow transplant recipients are eventually weaned off immunosuppressive drugs. The risk of the transplant isn't the body rejecting the new organ (the marrow) it's if the new immune system rejects the rest of the body - this is called Graft versus Host Disease or GvHD. 

In a fully matched transplant, most of the time the new immune system develops a tolerance to its new body and you gradually reduce the cyclosporin dose until it's stopped completely.  Does that mean people with HIV/AIDS make better transplant candidates? Assuming you can control the HIV/AIDS? No. HIV-positive recipients reject their transplants at least 2-3 times more often, compared to equally healthy HIV-negative recipients. The reason for this is not clearly known.

Also, it's difficult to maintain the drug regimens. Antiretrovirals for HIV must be taken every single day, forever. Antirejection meds must also be taken every single day, forever. Studies show that the more drugs must be taken, and the longer the course goes on, the less likely people are to maintain compliance over the long term. 

HIV is not considered a contraindication to transplant-- that is, an HIV-positive patient is not prohibited from receiving a donor organ. But their risk of complications is higher. What are some contraindicators to transplant? To some extent it depends on the organ. But there are a few generalities.

If the patient has some other serious, life-limiting disease, they are not a candidate for other transplants. For instance if they're expected to die of lung cancer in a year, they won't be a candidate for a kidney transplant.

Anyone unable to comply with the post-transplant medical treatment regiment is also not a candidate. This includes people with a history of medical noncompliance, or serious uncontrollable psychiatric disorders.

There are also temporary contraindications. Any active serious infection or malignant cancer must be treated first, because the immunosuppressives would make either one worse. Pregnant women are not candidates until after giving birth. 

An example of one that depends on the organ is that a patient who abuses alcohol is not a candidate for liver transplant. A history of alcoholism does not disqualify, but the patient is not a candidate until he has the drinking under control.

All the above things are "absolute contraindications" which basically mean they are hard and fast rules. There are also "relative contraindications," which are things that decrease suitability or increase risk, but do not completely prohibit transplant.

HIV infection is technically a relative contraindication. So is advanced age, because the elderly have more complications and less ability to recover from them. So are severe obesity or malnutrition, because they make the surgery more technically difficult and increase infection risk. 

And here's the kind of depressing one. In the US, ability to pay for the treatment is also considered. The antirejection drugs cost close to $2000/month. If the patient has no health insurance, and cannot afford to pay that much for medication for the rest of his life, the surgery won't be done.

Medicaid, the safety net program for people with low income, will not pay for more than a few months of the antirejection meds. If you have no other insurance and can't afford the meds, Medicaid won't even cover the transplant surgery itself. So if their risk is over doubled of rejecting if you're hiv,  positive,  pretty much the only way you're getting a transplant is from a friend or if a miracle happens and no one else needs an "x"  so it would go to waste,  otherwise.   No. People with HIV can still receive transplants. They go on the recipient list just like anyone else. But a board decides the priority of the recipients.  If two people need lungs and one has hiv,  they will give it to the non hiv patient.  The spot isn't reserved to you because you were on the list longer.  That would only be the case if two people matched for exactly the same organ, neither one were a better immune match them the other, and neither one were sicker nor more in need of the transplant than the other. 

It's rare that HIV alone would make the difference between two potential recipients. I imagine researchers are looking into how to overcome this antigen response, to transplant peoples' tissues regardless of the recipient's immune system.  Anything you'd like to say about the work being done in thaat field? Yes. They've been working on that since the turn of the last century, when blood types were discovered (in 1905 or thereabouts).

The first useful antirejection medication was [cyclosporine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ciclosporin), which wasn't developed until the 1970s. That remains in wide use, and we have a lot more options too. But all of them work by suppressing the immune system.

There are a couple of proposed ways of getting around the whole problem. Perhaps the most plausible is to take some of the patient's stem cells, cause them to multiply in controlled conditions in a lab, and make them grow into a whole new organ. There would be no danger of rejection because they would literally the recipient's own cells.

This has actually been done successfully in a few cases, in relatively simple organs without moving parts. For instance, a two-year-old girl received a trachea that was grown/built from her own stem cells.

It's pretty exciting stuff. But we've got a long, long, very long way to go before we can make something as complex and functional as a heart or a kidney. Huh. I thought that successful transplants were a permanent fix - I had no idea they were just temporary sort of plasters wait, really? I don't understand! It seems like the longer the organ is there, the more integrated with your body it would be, right? It's getting your body's blood supply, its new cells are being regenerated by your body's work and not the donor's... can you go more in-depth?  Specialized cells like those in organs are created by the cells that are already there. So the DNA of an organ wouldn't change no matter how long it was in your body. I would guess this is the same for antigens as well. Your body (the recipient) is always going to recognize the donors tissue as foreign, no matter what and forever. That's why immunosuppresive drugs generally need to be taken forever.  Think about it like this.  If you had an intruder in your house it doesn't matter how long, you're always going to want them out.  
So over time and even with drugs the body will mount a defense against the foreigner.  We try to 1st prevent the quick rejection (hyperacute and acute) and then prolong the long rejection (chronic).   I mean, in the case of an intruder in your house, they're always kind of there and they're pretty cool (not that your body knows the difference) so at some point you'd just go, "meh" and go on with your life. I suppose I thought it was just an adjustment period or something you could "grow" out of like some people's allergies. When has this ever been a situation? Usually when there is an intruder (new organ) in someone's house (body), they call the police (immune system), to take care of the problem. 

Do you know someone personally who let an intruder stay in their house because they were there long enough?

Immunosupressants are like a curtain that an intruder hides behind to go unnoticed. They will most likely be discovered eventually, at which point the cops will be called. The longer the organ is transplanted the more efficient your bodies immune system will become at attempting to fight it off. All your organs have little flags that say "I belong to you!" while the doner organ, even if from a brother, will have slightly different flags saying "I belong to someone else!"

Initially the immune system will see these new flags and send a general attack against the organ, a first wave of "meh" defenders who generally recognise the foriegn flag and thus know where to attack. But over time a few processes occur known as "somatic hyper mutation" and "class switching" which makes your defenders ultra keen to seeing the foreign flags. They will search, latch on and annihilate those foreign bodies with much greater precision. The longer the invader remains, the longer this process of refining our defenders will occur generally and this is true for bacteria, virus's and other invaders, its partly what allows you to destroy it so well next time, your defenders recognize it easily and have had time to perfect the counter attack. 

Immunosuppressents (hopefully) prevent your body from learning to mount an extremely powerful attack and thus cause total failure of the organ. Think I it this way, the first time I hit you with a baseball bat you'll be ok, by the hundrth I may have worn you down. Some antibodies take a lot of exposure to get to the lethal limit, some a short time and it depends on the individual  Before transplants are done people are usually "matched" with their HLAs. You can think of these simply as lock and key mechanisms. In identical twins all keys fit all locks. In siblings most do. In cousins some do and so forth. 

This is one of the many many reasons transplants survive or die. Other factors are what happens to the blood supply over time, other antigens besides HLAs, infections etc. 

Some transplants are also very "immunogenic" (ie. Prone to attack by the immune system) which is why some transplants may survive the process.

Its obviously a lot more complicated than this. There are a couple of reasons actually. There are important factors that affect most notably HLA or human leukocyte antigens. Basically if the body sees something foreign in an organ it pushes it to the surface of the organ. On the surface of the organ are different types of peptides that can be identified by the immune system. The foreign object is then recognized because it doesn't match the peptides. Now there are only so many types of peptides made in the population so often the best matches to HLA factors are found but if the new organ has different peptides than the the ones the body is familiar with it will attack. There are also other factors and defense mechanisms but basically the more similar the original organ is from an HLA standpoint the better the chances are that it will be a successful transplant.
 Some organs, such as the heart or brain, are immunoprivileged, and have less chance of rejection. Have there been brain transplants...? Do they secrete chemicals or something that makes the body ignore them? Also have scientists applied what they learned from said parasites into making transplanted organs appear less hostile to the immune system? Why don't we evolve to detect them better, in an arms race-type situation? It is, and the parasite/host interaction is a prime driver of evolution across the majority of species. It is an arms race, however in evolution change occurs at a much faster rate based on reproduction rates. Bacteria for example will change and adapt to vaccines year to year, much faster than humans who make new generations every 20-30 years. Almost all parasites have a substantially faster rate of reproduction than their hosts and make many more offspring (Ex - some worms release hundreds of young at a time) so they are at a substantial advantage when it comes to new mutations or adaptations.  Would it somehow be possible to "borrow" these mechanics from parasites to create a more effective drug for use with transplanted organs?  You just re-stated OP's question as a statement without actually adding any new information.... Is an allergy to pollen considered a false positive or just an over reaction. Or does this annology fail when it comes to things like pollen because it is a foreign body but doesn't cause any damage.   I don't really like the term false positive because a transplanted organ isn't a false positive, it is still a foreign object to the body and the immune system, the immune system is doing what it should be doing, the downside is that even though it is right and is a foreign object in this cause its a benefit for survival, but how can the immune system know this? Some parasites such as bacteria have evolved means of immunoevasion such as antigen switching or have even developed ways to live inside immune cells such as Th cells. Because we have no reason to kill off our own cells, transplanted cells are easily detected and considered foreign.  Sounds like they should be doing testing on how parasites create the false positive and use that to help with organ transplants All human's, aside from identical twins, have a different mix of unique markers that allow for the recognition of self and nonself. The most important is the Major Histocompatibility Complex or MHC. Nearly every cell in your body expresses MHC which is loaded with a little bit of protein called a peptide. These peptides can come from self and from pathogens. An individual's T cells are designed to react to cells that express an MHC that binds unusually strongly. During T cell development, T cells selected that they won't bind self MHC with self peptide. Foreign tissue like transplanted organs express MHC that your T cells will bind strongly which causes the T cell to kill the foreign tissue through activation of cytotoxic T cells which punch holes in the transplanted organ and macrophages that will eat it.

Our organs never evolved survival mechanisms to evade the immune systems whereas many parasites have. The type of immune response I described above is what is called a Th1 or cell mediate response. Th2 and humoral responses are used against parasites. Because parasites are so large, our body is more focused on controlling it than killing it which could damage the infected tissue. Your body does produced antibodies against the parasite that can cover it which leads to cells like eosinophils degranulating toxins on the parasite but because parasites have many life stages it is often difficult to mount an antibody response against multiple forms of the parasite.

TLDR: Transplanted organs are an easy target that doesn't try to protect itself while your body doesn't want to cause damage by destroying parasites

Source: Immunology Graduate Student. Janeway's Immunobiology is a great textbook So identical twins don't have to take immunosuppressants if they get transplants from each other? Because someone in this thread said all transplant patients get them. They should have qualified the statement as allotransplants (transplant between different individuals) requires immunosuppresants. Autotransplants (transplant within the same individual) do not elicit an immune response. Isotransplants (transplants between genetically identical or very near-identical individuals), while anatomically identical to allotransplants also do not elicit an immune response.   Every cell in our body has a molecule called MHC-I (major histocompatibility complex class-I) expressed on it. In the steady state, proteins from within the cell are broken into peptides (small fragments of proteins) and these peptides are loaded onto MHC-I and exported to the cell surface. This gives an antigenic barcode if you will, of all the peptides within a cell, and therefore an organ (and whole body). Our immune system remains in a tolerogenic state to "self antigens" but will however recognise "foreign, or non-self" antigens displayed on MHC-I, such as those from a foreign organ.

Removal of MHC-I from the surface of an organ won't allow the organ to be ignored because cells called natural killer (NK cells) recognise the absence of MHC and will destroy the cells.

Worms avoid detection by 3 main mechanisms. Firstly, some worms have a sheath that they will shed upon entry into the host. The sheath will contain the major antigens that would otherwise facilitate recognition. Without this sheath, the worm can go into stealth mode. Now that it is in stealth mode, the worm can burrow into the linings of the GI tract. This causes lots of damage and the natural reaction for the body is to form a granuloma. Granuloma formation effectively blocks the immune system from effectively getting access to the worm and having a go at destroying it. Think about trying to kill a giant within a fortified castle - similar case here. Thirdly, worms have a specific lifecycle. The antigens expressed on the eggs, larvae and adult worms can all be different and so the immune system is trying to hit a moving target.

Hope this helps! Just so you're aware MHC-1 is only presented on nucleated cells. Not all cells. For example no red blood cell has MHC-1 because they have no nucleus.
 [deleted] I'm surprised to not see a more detailed answer to this so far, so here goes:
Both parasites (and cancer cells) exploit systems your body has in place to turn off the immune system. For every time you mount and immune attack, there are counteracting pathways that try to turn off that attack so you don't harm anything that isn't supposed to be harmed. In general, this proceeds through regulatory T cells coming in and suppressing the immune response. Both worms and cancers turn on regulatory T cells to tune down the immune system. Here is a review: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17534075
Organs do not have this capability, because they didn't have a need to defend from the immune system where they were growing. They also possess antigens on their surface (like worms and cancer) that the immune system wants to destroy. If we strip these antigens off, you can even transplant organs from a pig to a human. 
http://www.breakingbio.org/pigs-promise-organ-transplants-humans/ The human body actually tries to do both. The thing about parasites is that many of them have defense mechanisms of their own. Many intestinal worms for example secrete substances that suppress your immune system. More specifically they secrete substances that suppress Eosinophils that normally are responsible for protecting the body from parasites (and are responsible for allergic reactions). The secretions are not unlike antihistamines in nature, although there is quite a bit more to it then that.  I think one simpler explanation that may be overlooked is that organs  don't have defenses while parasites etc do. An organ (that is, it's constituent cells) expects to be welcome in the body and takes no measures to protect itself from the body's defenses; it is designed to be part of what is being defended.

An organ that reads as foreign will be attacked by the same defenses as a parasite... but the parasite has tools to fend off the defenders and the organ does not. Everything has antigens (targets) which mark it. The purpose of our immune system is to differentiate self antigens from foreign antigens, and go open a can of whoop ass on anything with foreign ones. When you get a donated organ your body recognizes the antigens on them as foreign and is like, "da fuq iz dis shit?!" and says, "see that thing with the not us antigen/target on it? go fuck it up!" and you develop and immune response against it. To side step this we try to match recipients with donors that have the same antigen profiles, so organ targets that are similar to what's already in your body, that way your immune system will see this new shiny kidney with its antigens and think, "oh, this new kidney has the same antigens on it (because it's from dude's twin brother) as are over on homie's liver, that's supposed to be here. Life is good, no stress". Issues come up when donor targets are different from the recipient's and the immune system realizes there's something foreign inside that "shouldn't" be there. We give immunosuppressive drugs to recipients so that even when their body recognizes this foreign thing, it's not able to mount a response to get rid of it. The effectiveness of this varies.

Why can't the body get rid of things like parasites or certain bacteria? There are a ton of different mechanisms by which they avoid death. We can call these things "virulence factors", so the methods by which they outsmart our immune systems (and otherwise cause us trouble). 2 examples:

**Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)**: This little fucker displays antigen/target "instability". Because it has such a shitty spell check on its genetic material it is constantly changing which antigens it makes. Thus the body finds a target on the virus and be all lyke, "Bros, dis bitch b wearing a purple wig, go fuck up NEthing wearing a purple Mohawk wig!" but then HCV stops wearing a purple wig and dawns a blue mullet wig, and the body isn't able to keep up with these antigen/outfit changes and never really finds or properly destroys the virus.

**Staphylococcus aureus/"staph"**: This cocksucker does a bunch of ratchet ass shit. One bullshit thing it does is use something called Protein A. Remember those little Y shaped things from biology called [antibodies](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a0/Antibody_je2.png)? The branched parts/variable region identify and attach on to enemy antigens, like the foreign organ or a unique protein on a bacteria. The base of the Y, the constant region, is picked up by our immune cells, therefore directing them to fuck up the bad guy on the other end of the antibody. Protein A is on staph, and actually grabs onto the constant region, the part that our defense cells are supposed to latch onto, and make the antigen targeting part of the antibody face away from any of the antigens. Imagine if you wanted to stop your idiot room mate from making burned ass hole on the stove so while he's trying to cook, you grab the flat part of his spatula. You are now staph and your hand covering the effective part of the spatula is Protein A, making the spatula/antibody useless to do [it's only job](http://memeboss.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/You-had-one-job-meme-handrail.jpg). Thus, our defense cells can't use the antibodies to raise hell.

There are a shit ton of things that worms, viruses, bacteria, etc. do to avoid the immune system, so, it's not really one answer, but those are two.  &gt;Source: 3rd year MD student

Please remove this line from your answer. We do not allow the colloquial use of the word 'Source' on this forum. If you wish to keep the word, please provide literature, textbook citations or other educational material. Nice representation! Just to add to the other methods:

Many pathogens such as 'parasitic worms' AKA 'helminths' themselves have other evasive techniques they use to avoid detection in the body. One of the more nasty ones is a technique called **antigen mimicry** where the parasites alter their antigens to express similar but not identical structures to the host antigens. The vast majority of t-cells see the difference in structure yet assume they are self-antigens and therefore ignore the pathogen completely...however, there are some T-cells which never graduated from the t-cell academy (autoreactive) and decide that the slight difference in structure means they are foreign and proceeds to attack every single self-antigen which can do occasionally induce an autoimmune disease in the individual. 



Another is **T-cell Anergy** which in laymans  terms means to incapacitate/deactivate t-cells (immune cells). Why avoid your attackers when you can simply take their weapons away? 


Transplants/allografts (transplant from another individual of same species) are incapable of creating such a situation but can be rejected if foreign antigens at expressed. An autograft (no, not your signature) is when doctors use your own tissues and move them elsewhere and this will *never* result in rejection as there are no foreign antigens. Allograft rejection is primarily due to particular immune cells known as CD4+ which can be casually shut off by immunosuppressants or engineered monoclonal antibody (MAb) treatment. It should be noted that this itself puts the individual at risk of contracting other diseases. 


Apologies if this is poorly explained, I just find this topic pretty damn interesting. Millions of years of evolution and we are only just discovering these methods of evasion.  When your body is developing new immune cells in the bones and lymph nodes, they are subjected to continuous interactions with "Self" antigens. This occurs as lymphocytes develop under the direction of a larger cell, such as a dendritic cell in the lymph nodes. These cells display HLA antigens associated with host cells. Lymphocytes have two main objectives: Identify and protect "Self" or host cells and attack foreign cells. If a developing lymphocyte produces a receptor or antibody that targets these self antigens for attack, they are induced to undergo programmed cell death. More specifically there are HLA Antigens that nearly all host cells display to identify them as "Self" to active lymphocytes. Active lymphocytes are continuously patrolling their environment, transiently attaching to host cells they come into contact with. So immune cells don't only interact with foreign cells, they are constantly interacting with cells in our body to give the "all clear." When transplanting organs, the goal is to find a donor whose HLA antigens most closely matches those of the recipient. When there is a mismatch of the HLA type, the transplant may be rejected by the host's immune system due to the binding of lymphocytes to the foreign HLA sequence and initiating an attack on those foreign cells. To avoid this fate, transplant recipients are often given immunosuppressant drugs which decrease the immune response to all foreign cell types, including pathogens.
There are two reasons that parasites escape detection. Firstly, parasites are often not located in the aqueous humor where a vast majority of lymphocytes are circulating and are thusly not subjected to the same type of survailance as transpanted tissues would experience. Second, there is only a limited type of lymphocytes that occupy the environments in which parasites thrive and these cells must have antigenic specificity for cell surface markers displayed by the parasites. These antigenic specificities are developed through a complex process involving genetic rearrangement to specific genes that develops the antigenic specificity of the antibodies or receptors produced by the lymphocyte. For instance, if the parasite was located in the intestines, only a handful of lymphocytes would interact with the parasite and if none of the lymphocytes has a receptor/antibody specific for a cell surface identifier on the parasite then the parasite would go completely unnoticed.

I am a bit rusty on my immunology so don't take my word as absolute, but generally this is my understanding. The simplest answer is that it tries to kill the parasites, but isn't always successful.

Think of this: parasites (by which I assume you mean helminths, or parasitic worms) have evolved alongside us for millions of years, and so they've evolved mechanisms to avoid the immune system.  Some of them suppress the immune system, some of them coat themselves in our proteins as a sort of camouflage, and some hide in places our immune system can't see them.  There's no selective advantage to having human organs evade the immune system of another human, so that never evolved. This is probably the most helpful answer. I'm not allowed to cite [this](http://i.imgur.com/YQftVYv.gifv) as a source exactly but there certainly an immune response to parasites. Transplanted organs are screened for MHC allotypes before transplantation. MHC molecules are the proteins our cells make that display antigens to other immune cells...like T cells. Our immune system is designed to be "tolerant" to our own MHC allotypes. However, when foreign tissue express different MHC, our immune system recognizes it as foreign and attacks it. 

We do have defense against helminthic worms and parasites. IgE antibodies, mast cells, basophils, and eosinophils coordinate to release toxins that can kill these pathogens. However some of these have developed great ways of eluding our immune system. Interestingly enough, since parasites aren't typically a problem in first world countries, the normal defense mechanisms target non virulent substances like pollen and animal dander resulting in the development of allergic reactions. Detailed Answer:

MHC cell surface receptors, which are very diverse through out our population, are easily recognized as non-self and cause a huge immune response. This is what is recognized as foreign and causes Natural Killer cells and CD8+ T cells to be activated (CD8 + T cells require TH1 cells cytokine and co stimulation signals) and respond by destroying these foreign cells via release of granules or via FAS/FASL.

Extra cellular pathogens have a number of defense mechanisms like neutralizing radical oxygen species (Catalase), incorporating host membrane components containing things like MHC molecules / anti complement molecules like DAF and CD59 (tricks immune system into thinking pathogen is self), slime layers that act like a barrier to prevent immune cells from interacting with the pathogen, and ETC.   Parasites are sneaky.  They're designed to infiltrate, survive and breed in inhospitable environments, like a digestive track or stomach acid.

Your new liver is designed to work hand in hand with your body, not to evade its immune system. I think a lot of people have thoroughly covered transplant rejection, but I think that more could be said of parasites.

One thing about parasites is that they have evolved their own complex microbial systems to avoid detection. Often they use defenses, like anticoagulants in their saliva, to keep your immune system from rejecting them. And even when your body does reject them, and you start getting puss, and other body mechanisms to fight infections, it may not necessarily kill the parasite.

And some parasites form a symbiotic relationship with their hosts as well. Typically symbiosis is a mutually beneficial arrangement, but not always. Parasites may adapt to thrive in a certain environment, e.g. the human body, by evolving. And sometimes may even give back something beneficial to the host to form a symbiosis.

Many parasites are also specifically adapted to a particular host. There are cases where you find only certain parasites on certain hosts, because they have completely adapted their lifecycle around that particular host. When parasites adapt to multiple hosts that's when you get the negative side effect of disease spreading interspecies as well. Such as when a mosquito bites a bat, or rodent, and then bites a human and shares whatever it picked up from the other animal.

And when you consider that just the human gut is filled with microbes with their own, distinct, non-human, DNA you begin to realize that what you call "you" isn't quite just, well, you. While most of these microbes exist in a beneficial symbiotic relationship (gut microbes help aid in digestion) there are some that are harmful to us as well. The ones that are more harmful are usually classified as parasites. Simple answer: The human body actually does *try* to kill parasites like worms. You actually have a couple immune cells specially tailored to fighting big parasites like worms. The problem is that worms have evolved to avoid and resist our immune systems, while an organ from another person has no such protection. Get rid of a worm's protection, and it would get attacked all the same. It does kill parasites and worms, but parasites and worms tend to fight back.  Transplanted organs do not. A large part of the immune system is dedicated to secrete antibodies from mucus membranes that are designed to specifically target parasite antigens.  However, due to our generally parasite-free 1st world lifestyle, those antibodies frequently target other antigens, and result in allergies. As others have mentioned, parasites are very well-adapted to living inside host organisms. I wanted to call attention to one specific parasite, *Trypanosoma brucei*, which causes African Sleeping Sickness. 6-10% of *T. brucei* genome is dedicated to different Variable Surface Glycoproteins (VSGs), which help the organisms evade detection by the host's immune system. Only one of these VSGs is expressed on any individual *T. brucei*, but having thousands of variations allows the parasites to persist in the body. When the immune system begins to recognize and destroy the *T. brucei* with one VSG variant, the parasite load decreases for a time until the surviving parasites of a different VSG variant are able to replicate undetected.

Only one of the examples of why the human immune system has trouble with parasites, but I've always found it very interesting. In a human body, every cell has MHC I it acts like an ID tag for the TSA (immune cells to check upon) if you do not have the MHC I match then the immunity response occurs. Parasites and other pathogens have complicated evasive methods to stimulate an MHC I receptor. Fun fact, bone marrow can attack the human body not the other way around.  Aren't worms living in intestines, for purposes of the immune system, outside your body? Most things you eat don't trigger inflammation, white cells etc. when you eat them, but would if transplanted into the body. The defense is to not let them into the bloodstream and maybe try to flush them out.  Some parasitic worms also have variant surface glycoproteins that change the proteins expressed on the surface of the worm. These changes occur cyclically and in the time it takes the body to recognize the new surface protein the parasite has already multiplied. Plasmodium falciparum (malaria) uses this defense mechanism and, as you can tell by mortality rates in affected areas, it's a very effective way to fool the host immune system.  Great questions and answers. I'll add: the defense mechanisms-or some of the ways that these bugs have evolved to avoid the wrath of the immune system is what makes them so fantastically creepy. For example, the bacteria Staph aureus can cause superficial and deep skin infections, food poisoning and toxic shock syndrome. It avoids host defenses by having  a capsule, having a protein that binds the business end of immunoglobulins rendering them non-immunogenic and a having toxin that actually fights some of the host's white blood cells. Some worms and parasites will elaborate molecules that disturb the normal inflammatory response of the host to protect themselves. Some will activate T-regulatory cells-which usually allow for tolerance to self-antigens, and essentially use those cells to make the host tolerate them as well. 

TL; DR They have weapons and shields and recruit the host's soldiers to their team.  

 If you think about it evolutionarily, viruses and other pathogens have evolved to evade the human immune system, as this is a necessity of their survival. Transplanted organs, on the other hand, retain the genetic imprint of the donor, and any cell-surface markers that are not recognized as self-antigens by the recipients immune system will be destroyed. IgE and eosinophils are involved in immunity to helminthes and other parasitic organisms. Albeit the little tricksters tend to replicate at high rates so it's hard for our body to dispose of them, when our immune cells can get in contact. The same goes for organs. They are recognized as antigens by immune effector cells, the type of which is dependent on how close a match the donor tissue is, to the recipient. There can be immediate rejection which is caused by "innate" response pathways and then there is long term rejection which is more prolonged and requires build up of antigen exposure, which in turn causes a higher number of antibodies to be made over time. Which is why immunosuppressive medications are a life long deal for recipients of transplant organs. Learned this in my immunology class and it makes me hope we can find a break through in lab grown organs that are made from our own DNA, in order to reduce and avoid rejection. Lets just say someone/company is able to produce cloned organs that the patient needs.

Would the body simply accept the cloned organ because it has close to 100% of the same DNA with the patient?

And also, what kind of test would the patient/donor go through in order to receive an organ transplant? The radius of the Observable Universe is about [4.3e26 m](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observable_universe#Size). The radius of the Earth is [6.37e6 m](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_radius). So, your scale factor is about [1.5e-20](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=6.37e6+%2F+4.3e26). Everything in the Universe shrinks by that amount and now fits into the size of the Earth.

Some fun numbers:

* Earth itself is now [0.1 picometers](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%286371000+m%29) in size, or about 100 times the radius of a proton.
* The Sun is now [10.5 picometers](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+7e8+m) in radius, or about half the radius of a hydrogen atom. The Moon is around half that distance away from the Earth.
* The semi-major axis of Pluto going around the Sun is [90 nanometers](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%286e12+m%29), of order the size of a virus.
* The nearest star system, Alpha Centauri, is about [half a millimeter](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%284.25*9e15+m%29) away, or about ~~half the thickness of a red blood cell~~ the size of an amoeba.
* The Galaxy is now about [7 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%2815000*3e16+m%29) in radius, so about four people tall.
* The distance to Andromeda, the nearest large galaxy, is about [350 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%28780000*3e16+m%29), almost a quarter of a mile away.
* The distance to the Virgo Cluster of galaxies, the nearest big cluster, is about [7.4 km/4.6 mi](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%2816.5e6*3e16+m%29) away.

tl;dr: space is big.

EDIT: I goofed on Alpha Centauri, thank you /u/W6hwy5Zf ! Fixed.

EDIT 2: Thanks /u/lludson!

EDIT 3: Speed of light calculation by /u/TimS194 for those asking: [link](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqch1iu). The speed of light is now [4.5e-12 m/s](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+c) (4.5 picometers/second). It takes 7051 years for light to travel 1 meter.

Compared to the universe's size, light is *slow*. Which it kinda has to be, considering "observable universe" is so dependent on the speed of light, and it's been around a long time (and expanded a lot in that time).

tl;dr: light is slow, space is big. Take a 43 minute trip of a photon traveling from the sun to Jupiter. 

https://vimeo.com/117815404

Light is fast, but it is incredibly slow when compared to the size of the universe. 
 Simply 'wow'. Thanks for sharing.  That's from a reference frame that isn't light though; its trip is instantaneous. It clearly says in the description he purposefully ignored those issues to make the point. For a much closer-to-home example of how slow the speed of light is, hit the light speed button on the [model of the solar system](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html). Hahaha wow. Simply incredible. Much smaller than I was anticipating. Thank you for the response. It is really mind blowing how much of space is just that; nothingness. When you compare yourself to that void, regardless of how colossally huge you are, you're nothing.

For a true sense of scale:

The largest thing confirmed to exist at the moment was discovered recently, in 2013. There's something bigger than that thought to exist but it's currently breaking our understanding of physics with its existence, so we'll just skip that one. 

Anyway. This big thing is called the Huge Large Quasar Group (aka: U1.27). Yes. Huge Large. And that's a space term, so you know it's truly huge large. It's a structure made up of about 73 quasars (which are on their own class of huge anyway). Its longest dimension is 1.24 **billion** parsecs. On this terrestrial scale, that's the equivalent of the distance between New York and London. Its shortest dimension is 370 million parsecs, that's only about 100 miles on this scale.

So the absolutely biggest thing that we've found (and... understand) is still just a very thin streak across the surface of the Earth.

EDIT - Also, this point is huge: on this scale, light takes **4 billion years** to go from New York to London. Reducing it to miles really hurts the scale here, because we're used to them. These distances are huge. I really like [this](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html) sidescroll. I dont know how precise it is, but it's very different from how the solar system is usually reprensented. I love that website. Pictures like [this](http://moonblink.info/File/Graphics/diagrams/SolSysOver.png) and [this](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/FjCKwkJfg6Y/maxresdefault.jpg) (stuff like I saw in k-12 school) don't convey the monstrous void that is space. [This](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ef/Earth-Moon.png) is the Earth-moon system to scale. The most interesting space fact ive learned on reddit is you can fit all of the planets in the solar system in between the earth and the moon with some room to spare. How about this one (not really one fact);

The Sun is losing 4 billion kilograms of mass per second; as four hydrogen nuclei are converted to a single helium one, this loss in mass provides the energy for the Sun to shine. 

Large though it sounds, this mass loss is actually insignificant compared to the Sun's total mass. The Sun's total mass is 2 x 10^30 kilograms. Another way of looking at the Sun's mass loss is to consider how long it would take for it to "evaporate" at its current rate of mass loss; it would take 14 trillion years. 

So although the Sun's gravitational pull is reducing, the effect isn't noticeable. It takes 47 million years for the Sun to burn the mass of the earth (at a rate of 4 billion kg per second - using a constant value for simplicity). If you printed that on 10 feet of paper and taped it along a classroom wall, the Earth would be 3.8 inches wide, and the Moon would be just over one inch. That picture makes it clear just how terrifying it would be to be an astronaut somewhere in the middle of it. Even more insane to consider that the scroll travels much faster than light. What blows my mind about this site is clicking the Light Speed button and seeing how "slow" it travels on that scale.

A scale so vastly immense that when represented in that way, for something as cosmically "small" as our solar system, makes ~300,000 km/s look "slow".

And then to think about the vastness that exists beyond our neighborhood of planets....  I just.... wow

It's humbling to say the least. I did not see the light speed button. And here I was with a stopwatch to calculate my scroll speed in km/s and compare to speed of light. It was in the lower right hand corner.  The icon doesn't help you guess what it is either, but yeah, if you click it, it scrolls at a slow, steady pace. It takes me 2 minutes with this to go from the Sun to the Earth. That means this sidescroll goes at 4 times the speed of light. And here I thought that was impossible..... That's neat, but I eventually gave up because I really felt my sense of scale was being warped by the sudden and inconsistent (and mostly uninteresting) interruptions.

&gt; "Pretty empty out here"  
&gt; "Still empty"  
&gt; "Lots of space"  
&gt; "Just about there"  
&gt; "Oh, I lied, no really, just about there now."

PLEASE, JUST THE FACTS, MA'AM. It gets better. From Jupiter on... it actually gets pretty deep. The messages make it more than just an interesting web toy; they each serve not only to let the viewer know that they are, in fact, traveling through space, but also to set the tone and give the viewer something to think about as they wait for the next planet. A very well-made and artistic website in my opinion. They probably put those there as a notice to users that you are, in fact, getting somewhere.  Remember most people today have atten.... They've atten? But what have they atten?  I was curious, so I did the mathat that rate (NY to London over 4 billion years), you'd be traveling **half an inch per decade**. Light is incomprehensibly fast. And yet, relative to the immense scale of the voids which it regularly crosses, incomprehensibly slow. And yet relative to itself, it experiences absolutely no passage of time! It is born and it reaches its destination in the same moment. Can you go into more detail about that "something even bigger that we don't understand" thing? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NQ2-NQ4_GRB_overdensity

6-10 billion light years in size, although it's not definite that's it's a thing So when we observe these incredibly large and far away structures can we infer the structure of the universe as it existed then?  Put another way, are we looking at our past or just a portion thereof? Yes.

As in a bit of both. In the very very very very really very early universe, when quantum fluctuations were the dominant, umm, forms of entertainment they influenced a lot, because space-time was so dense in energy, that every tiny movement rippled unending causing other ripples. And then space-time [just decided](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inflation_%28cosmology%29#Motivations) to expand to calm those guys down. And so as it expanded some of those fluctuations became outside of our little bubble of past that is now our observable universe, but their influence and effects are still with us. In a sense still observable, because they left their imprints in the CMB (cosmic microwave background).

And then some more (mild) expansion happened (and continues to happen), and then stuff cooled down (but first it heated up as the inflation-field itself decayed), and as energy density fell the modes of the quantum fields (or strings if you are into those) started to resemble matter more than runaway wild non-symmetry-broken energy. [see](http://abyss.uoregon.edu/~js/images/birth_of_Universe.gif) and maybe [this](http://cdn.phys.org/newman/gfx/news/hires/2013/1-plancksmostd.jpg) When you say "thing", is it continuous matter? Or some cluster you could drive your vessel through on a good day and not hit anything?

My analogy is probably as stupid as comparing the journey of a photon through an empty room with mine: the photon has little chance of hitting any gas particle, while for me air is a continuous feature of the room.

My mind is hitting that comprehension barrier once again in front of the scale of such things. [deleted] You probably couldn't drive your vessel through it, no.

How they discovered this "thing" is they looked in the sky and saw a hugely unlikely number of Gamma Ray Bursts in the area and concluded that there must be something causing them all, since nowhere else in the universe has anything close to that probability distribution. Gamma Ray Bursts are the "doomsday no one saw coming" that you may have heard about; they occur with so much frequency in that area your odds of not being obliterated are pretty low given enough time trying to drive through it.

And it'll take you time. It takes light 1.2 billion years to get from one end to the other. And that's only the shortest distance. If you want the scenic route, it'll take light 4 billion. Yes, 4 billion years from the long end to the other, getting blasted with GRBs all the way. 

You're dead. But great question! That doesn't really answer the question at all. The poster above you isn't asking if you could survive a trip through, they're mentioning a spaceship as a helper to understand if this is "one thing" in the commonly-understood sense of the word - a single object. What they're *really* asking is if this is actually a collection of smaller things that happens to have a collective name, or actually one giant physical object. Our local galactic group for example is a named (and gravitationally bound) thing that's not really 'one thing' by most people's understanding - there's a hell of a lot of empty intergalactic space between the many easily resolvable galaxies. You could take the idea up or down in scale, but your answer didn't really address it. Is this just a large space that happens to contain a lot of individual quasars, or are they more meaningfully (and physically) one giant object? Your guess os as good as mine. This thing is far enough away that we're theorizing its existence based on probability distributions. Knowing its properties in exact detail is some time away. could it be that these anomalies are artificial rather than natural? I.e. we're watching a huge light behind a door and we imagine a huge sun, while it's actually a nuclear bomb.  This being a giant mega structure aliens built would be cool. What with the scale that would be a beyond a tier 3 civilization on the kardashev scale. (less than tier 4 but who knows) Scaling down again, aren't objects here on earth made up predominantly of empty space? So wouldn't that suggest that given the scale of this huge "thing" within the universe, it is what we would consider an object.... On earth? 


That really hurt my brain.  Huh, you just made me think about that in a really cool way. I wonder if this is the case. I think you got a good if not vague question for AskScience right there. Does the Milky Way have a similar 'density' to other objects on Earth?

 No, but it kinda depends on how you look at it.
Space is mostly empty... as in 1 atom per sq meter in deep space, 1.0 e7 in the orion Nebula. On earth air at sea level contains 1.25 e24 atoms roughly. Thats a HUGE difference.

If one were to go to any random spot in the 'Milky Way', The density would most likely be around 1e7 or less...Far less dense than air.

If you were to happen upon the singularity at the center of the Milky Way, a star, or any other number of stellar bodies,however, the density would be far greater. It didnt seem like that was what you were asking though. Also, because the black hole at the center of the galaxy is so dense, im not sure how that evens out the average density of the Milky Way Compared to Earth. 

 They're all really heavy and have a gravitational effect on each other, I believe. So no, it's not really a massive object in the same sense that a desk is for example but the cluster is in a way a collection of fragmented bodies that are 'bound' to each other. That's regarding the term cluster. But quasars themselves are different. Think of them as light sabers that cut through space. They're very much a real thing and you can't cross through them, as Boukish explained. 
 I'm frankly a little surprised that you seem to have found something in my post that would indicate that I don't think that quasars are real, that it is possible to pass unharmed through a relativistic jet, or that it is possible to pass through a quasar itself (or any black hole for that matter).

Also, /u/Boukish didn't explain anything about passing through a quasar. They explained how you would die from the region's frequent gamma ray bursts - a completely separate phenomenon. &gt; Gamma Ray Bursts are the "doomsday no one saw coming" that you may have heard about

They're just one of several doomsdays no one sees coming. My personal pick for most terrifying would be [vacuum metastability events](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_vacuum#Vacuum_metastability_event), in which the entire universe decays to a lower energy state. That one isn't really that worrisome as you would never know there was a problem and be terrified. Since the lower energy state would propagate at light speed there would be no warning, just poof.  The gamma ray burst would at least give you time to watch the atmosphere boil away before being vaporized.  The universe is terrifying.

The more I learn about it, the more I feel like a spoiled kid nurtured in his warm, cosy planet, with nothing but death and destructive power pretty much everywhere else. Then again, we wouldn't have appeared in the middle of destruction, a stable environment is a requirement not a plus. Well, considering that it would have taken 9 billion years at the speed of light to reach those quasars - meaning they would now be 18 billion years older than what we currently observe - I'm pretty sure it's no more dangerous to navigate them than it is to navigate between the Milky Way and Andromeda. That could be a reasonable assumption, but we just don't know. Things this large break our understanding of relativity and pose a lot of questions about their origins. the question still stands though, are we talking about a "minefield of Quasars" or some contiguous body of matter? i'm assuming you're referring to the former, i.e. there is significant void between these objects. Quasars are hosted by galaxies. Even when two galaxies collide (i.e. are right on top of each other, passing through each other) they are so diffuse that the odds of any two stars colliding is around 0. You'd be able to navigate a supercluster of active galaxies no problem.

When astronomers call something like this an "object", it's because, as far as we can tell, based on what we know, those quasars are all gravitationally bound together. So, as the universe expands, this super cluster hangs together, like any "solid object" does. It's a region in space with a larger-than-expected amount of quasars. 

The Huge-LQG is 1.24 x 0.64 x 0.37 Gigaparsecs.  A parsec is 3.2 light years across/~200,000 astronomical units. Our solar system is 60,000 AU. A quasar is normally around the size of our solar system. This region billions of lightyears across contains 73 quasars the size of our solar system.

A very cursory google search yielded me this information. And then when you consider 99.9% of what we know as matter is mostly empty space as well... In that scale, where the earth is the size of the visible universe, doesn't that make this "thing" a significant portion of the entire universe if it spans New York to London? Sure, if all you're worried about is the surface of the Earth. But you're forgetting all the insidey bits. You must be a geologist too. That's PhD levels of jargon.  it's only 100 miles wide on this scale, so even though it's length is a significant portion of the universe its total mass remains tiny by comparison. Think of a long strand of hair; even though it's a significant fraction of your height it's infinitesimal compared to your overall mass. 100 mi by 3500 mi is still significant dimensions, and not exactly hair-shaped. Visualizing those dimensions reminds me of an airport runway, where they will typically be ~80m wide and varying kilometers long. In hair terms, where hair ranges from 17 to 181 m, lets average it to 100 then your hair example is only 3.5mm long. Basically, I've trying to comprehend the scale of this "thing" on planetary terms and I keep coming back to Jupiter's spot. It's a thing so big on the planet that it is a defining feature of the planet, and that sounds like what this "thing" is to our universe. Is that wrong? [deleted] That's beautiful and poignant, but I'm not saying "you're nothing" like I'm attaching value or qualifying anything. It's just in the scope of size differences. Does that mean this structure is a significant proportion of the universe in length? Or width, whatever.  Yeah, it's significant. Way more significant than things on the scale of "earth". That said, if you actually compare this slash to the globe of the earth on every dimension it's really not much. 

You know those long arrows that meteorologists draw on maps of the Atlantic ocean to display the lines of the gulf stream and stuff? This thing is basically one of those. [deleted] Is there a mobile version of this? It's available [as an Android app](http://www.appszoom.com/android_applications/entertainment/scale-the-universe_ctjbt_screenshots.html) and [as an iOS app](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/scale-of-the-world/id528882846?mt=8). I don't think so, it uses flash. Unless you have some kind of flash player/flash converter on your device. There is a mobile webrowser called Puffin which I'm viewing it on right now. The experience isn't great compared to a standard webrowser but it works.  FYI: That works best if you locate the flash element and load only that. That way it consumes more of your screen and seems to (in my opinion) make more sense.

Then, there's also [If The Moon Were Only 1 Pixel](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html), which keeps the size of things in that ratio, plus also the immense gaps between each thing. These numbers were bigger than what I was expecting. Makes the universe seem kind of small. Same. I'm surprised the Earth is even measurable, let alone 100x bigger than a proton. Surprised, until you try wrapping your head around the size of a proton... :P University of Colorado Boulder campus has a walkable scale solar system. Starting near the planetarium is a grapefruit sized sun. As you walk north, you walk the scale distance between planets and come upon pedestals with spheres scaled to their proportion of the grapefruit-sun. Each pedestal has info about the planet, it is pretty fun. Ithaca, NY has one too, probably a Carl Sagan teaching tool for the community, although I don't know that (I was passing through). 
 Here is another [very cool tool](http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html).  It's a lot of scrolling but that's, like, the point, man. That was absolutely awesome. Thanks for sharing! interesting. numbers like quarter of a mile, and 4.6 miles are still "big", in that I assumed that the distances will be much much smaller. I guess when I think of the observable universe I imagine an uncountable number of galaxies, and somehow looking at these numbers makes it all..... finite..  That was my feeling as well. I really didn't expect the galaxy to be 7 m in radius or Andromeda to be 350 m away. I expected these to be much smaller. It really does make it feel finite.  You're living on a sense of scale where a mile isn't very large, and the distance from New York to London is fairly surmountable. On the scale we're using, it takes light 4 billion years to get from New York to London.

Does that make it feel less so? this feels a little better. So in this "earth sized universe world" (pun unintended), the fastest achievable speed would be in the order of 1e-19 m/s (Assuming my back of the envelope calculations is correct. I think they are not btw).

If that is the case, then yea, 0.25 miles is a long way away  Likely because we have no real appreciation for how small a picometer is I was surprised from the first sentence. I expected something along the lines of "everything is so small, there's no real comparison." I saw the earth is 100 times the width of a proton and was shocked that it was so large.  Me too. But then I thought perhaps I also didn't understand how small protons were.  Perhaps because a proton is *unimaginably small*. Although you are surely able to read that a proton is ~0.85 femtometers which is 0.85 x 10^-15 meters you are certainly incapable of truly grasping something that small. Don't worry, the rest of us are just as incapable. We have no way of comprehending such scales due to how our brains have evolved to understand the world we live in. Well, this is the "observable" universe. There's no way to know how big the entire universe is.  The galaxy being 4 people tall blows me away, I expected it to be much smaller. Even in terms of our galactic neighbourhood, there's more space than can be realistically explored without FTL travel (and even then) in several hundred thousand Earth years. Well, think about how long 4 people laid out would look on a football field. Then consider that it would take almost half a million football fields to circle the earth.

4 people is a lot compared to you (1 person), but the earth is **BIG**. Theres a big problem with visualizations like this. The human brain is not very good at visualizing big numbers and distances. Wow. The "in our solar system" sizes don't sound too bad (I was actually expecting the Earth to be smaller than a proton.)

But the "beyond our solar system" sizes?  Just think, "our star to out next nearest star" is still way way way way way too small to see.  Yet our galaxy would more than fill my living room. The distance to Alpha Centauri would actually be about half a millimeter, so you would be able to see it. Conversely - if an atom were expanded to the size of the known universe, the Planck length would be that of an average tree here on Earth.   I find it amazing that the earth would still be significantly larger than what the size of a proton is now. Also, what's the universe's expansive rate in this tiny universe?

Do you just divide everything by some number?  Good question! [Hubble's constant](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hubble%27s_law) is a little under 70 (km/s)/Mpc. Which means that for every megaparsec (1 parsec = 3.26 lightyears) you look out in distance, objects are moving away from you at 70 km/s. So 2 Mpc away, an object would be moving 140 km/s, 3 Mpc would be 210 km/s, etc. This ignores local gravitational effects.

So, I suppose one way of calculating this would be to ask: what fraction of the Universe's size is a megaparsec, what fraction is a kilometer, and then convert those into the new units. What you should realize, though, is that you'll be multiplying both numbers by the same scale factor. This should make some sense, because when looking at the raw units of Hubble's constant, the distance parts cancel.

Okay, so what does that mean. 1 Mpc converts to [450 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%281e6*3e16+m%29) and 70 km/s converts to [1 femtometer per second](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-20+*+%2870+km%29). So, if you will, that means that when you look out a bit over a quarter of a mile (450 m), something should be moving away from you about 1 femtometer every second. A mile away, and something would be moving away at about 4 femtometers every second.

Really, this is just a statement between how big the difference is between a kilometer and a megaparsec. But honestly, I've never really considered how to scale the expansion rate, and that's really, really cool! You are amazing, and that was fascinating. Thank you!  Alpha Centauri is more like [half a millimeter](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%28radius+of+earth%29%2F%28radius+of+observable+universe%29+*+%28distance+to+alpha+centauri%29). &gt; The nearest star system, Alpha Centauri, is about half a millimeter[7] away, or about [...] the size of an amoeba.

That's actually... wow, a lot larger than I thought an amoeba is. If you look carefully, could you see an 'opaque' amoeba on the proper surface with the unaided eye? You can see the millimeter tick marks on a ruler, so if I understand your question, then yes. As you are right now, yes. The question, I suppose, is just out of astonishment more than out of a failure to put together the facts. I had always assumed amoebas were much, much smaller than that. There is a deep sea organism known as Xenophyophora that is ameoboid and is quite huge... http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenophyophore This is kind-of fascinating, mostly because we could theoretically view the Sun with our current EM techniques if it was shrunk down that far, and possibly detect the Earth as well (I'm not as well-versed on proton-scale detection, since iirc AFM *might* be precise enough to detect that?)

Also, weird OP-related question: 

If Brownian motion for particles on Earth were scaled up to assume the Earth was the size of the universe, how fast would said particles be moving? The RMS speed for air molecules is about [500 m/s](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/sound/souspe3.html). An oxygen molecule has a van der Waals radius of [152 picometers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Van_der_Waals_radius), so let's use that as our rough number for the size. The inverse of the scale factor I mentioned above is [6.75e19](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%286.37e6+%2F+4.3e26%29^-1). Which means that your oxygen molecule is now [1e10 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=6.75e19+*+152+pm), or 15 times the radius of the Sun. And, in one second, if it traveled 500 m, it would travel [3.6 million lightyears](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=6.75e19+*+500+m). This equates to about [1.14e14 lightseconds](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=3.6e6*3.16e7), in one second, so it would be that many times the real-Universe speed of light. Also known as "really fast".

Now, of course, air molecules collide much more frequently than once a second/they collide more frequently than ever 500 m (this would be bad for us if they didn't!). So you have to take into account the [mean free path](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mean_free_path). If you head to the table farther down on the wiki, you'll see the mean free path in air is about 68 nm. Which means that in actuality, your now solar-sized molecules will only travel about [4.6e12 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=6.75e19+*+68+nm), most of the way to Pluto, before running into another solar-sized molecule, on average of course. &gt;Which means that in actuality, your now solar-sized molecules will only travel about 4.6e12 m, most of the way to Pluto, before running into another solar-sized molecule, on average of course.

That idea is both terrifying and fascinating. Do the impacts between air molecules have any appreciable released energy? I would guess it would be tiny, but I'm curious if, when scaled-up, these impacts would be something on the order of a multitude of nuclear weapons in terms of energy released, or something more like a planetary collision/supernova. Well, for reference, the kinetic energy of an actual oxygen molecule, just by 1/2 mv^2 , will then be [6.64e-21 J](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=0.5+*+%2832+*+1.66e-27%29+%28500^2%29). But in these scalings, I haven't said anything about how the masses change, so it would be hard to say. If the "density" of the molecule stays the same, then you'd have M_new = M_old (R_new / R_old)^3 , where the factor in the parentheses is just the scale factor of 6.75e19. So, then you'd have a new mass of [1.63e34 kg](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=+%2832+*+1.66e-27%29+*+%286.75e19%29^3). Given the new velocity, and ignoring relativistic effects since it's already much larger than the speed of light, you'd have a kinetic energy of about [1e79 J](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=0.5*%281.63e34%29%283.375e22%29^2) if I did that right. But again, these aren't really meaningful numbers for comparison because you're starting to scale things oddly. If I did my math right, that would be equivalent to a [2.4E45 *yotta*ton bomb](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1e79%2f%28%284.18E15%29*%281E24%2f1E6%29%29).

I seriously can't wrap my head around what a blast like that would be. Galaxy-sterilizing? Or just destroying us and an adjacent solar system or two? A core-collapse supernova explosion is of the order of 1e44 J. So this would be about 1e35 supernova explosions. A rough rule of thumb is that there are 100 billion galaxies each with 100 billions stars. Or, 1e14 x 1e14 = 1e28 stars. So... more supernovae than stars. &gt;tl;dr: space is big.

I actually think the real takeaway from this is that space ain't so big compared to the relative distances of the atomic and subatomic worlds. Why not both?  Huh. TBH I thought everything would be way smaller. I was thinking earth would be fractions of a proton, not multiples. This may mean that you don't understand how incredibly small protons are! I sure found this eye opening on both scales.  Whoa. .. I was not prepared for that half a blood cell to 7 meter jump. Incredible.  I dub this the best post I have read today, and guild thee for thy fantastic mind munchies. That scale actually makes me think space is not as big as I thought. A seven metre Milky Way is still small compared to the size of the earth, but it is a real, understandable finite size, and not just unimaginably insignificant. The scale difference between a galaxy and the observable universe is much smaller than the scale difference between a star and a galaxy.  Consider that we can see the structure of galaxies that are billions of light-years away, but we can't differentiate even the nearest star as more than a single point of light.  Interstellar distances are the biggest gulf in terms of scale. That's truly incredible. It really puts things into perspective because I have a vague notion of how big I am relative to my context, Earth. And hearing that the milky way is bigger than me relative to its context, the universe, is crazy.

Actually, the scale of all of the things mentioned are really human-normal, like the galaxies are people and Andromeda is our neighbour, and the Virgo cluster is another suburb.  The fact that Andromeda would only be a quarter mile away made me think the universe isn't that big considering our Earth-sized universe would be roughly 8,000 miles in diameter. Only 32,000 times farther and you could cross the observable universe. Does the observable universe have a swarzchild radius? Yes. One curiosity is that it is approximately [13.7 billion lightyears in size](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwarzschild_radius#Parameters). This is the light travel distance for the age of the Universe, recall in my first link that it's actually about 46 billion lightyears in size. And, in case you are wondering, [the Universe is not a black hole](http://www.preposterousuniverse.com/blog/2010/04/28/the-universe-is-not-a-black-hole/). This is really helpful, thank you so much! Actually im a little surprised that the size of our galaxy would be as large as 7m. I do understand your answer is referring to the observable universe, but being the complete amateur that I am, after getting to see [the big picture] (http://www.griffithobs.org/exhibits/guntherdepthsofspace_bigpicture.html) at Griffith Park Observatory, I assumed that after reading the prompt that the scaling would have to be even larger than this. I mean just in general how many galaxies to we think exist in the observable universe (i know its probably a complete guesstimate)? Of order [100 billion](http://www.skyandtelescope.com/astronomy-resources/how-many-galaxies/) galaxies.

Interestingly, a lot of people seem to be mixed. Some think it's way smaller than they would expect, some way larger. The psychology is pretty cool to me. if you were to look at the observable universe that is the size of earth (with an external light), how would it look? would it look like nothing, a dust bunny, or something more solid? Here's what the real Universe looks like according to the [Millennium Simulation](http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/galform/virgo/millennium/seqD_063a_half.jpg). That bar is 125 megaparsecs (sort of) in length. The Universe is roughly 14 gigaparsecs in length, so imagine extending this simulation about 112 of these bars in a row. That's not so big, maybe the size of a large room, so then you have to expand that to the size of the Earth. But there's a lot more structure on [smaller scales](http://www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/galform/virgo/millennium/cluster_a_A_063.jpg). So at the size of the Earth, it would probably be wispy but it's hard to say. I haven't scaled the brightnesses in any way, just the physical sizes, so that's another factor to consider. How about the biggest star we know of? /u/Davis660 did VY Canis Majoris in [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqch4vc) but according to all-knowing wikipedia, [UY Scuti](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_largest_known_stars) is slightly larger by about 1/4. So, roughly 60 nanometers. Can you do this for if the universe was the size of a basketball ? Well, you can! A basketball has a diameter of about 25 cm, so the scale factor between the mini Universe and this new micro Universe is now [2e-8](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=12.5+cm+%2F+6.37e6+m). So everything gets scaled down by that amount. That means that every meter is now 20 nanometers, so your 7 m galaxy is now 140 nm big. wow.  thank you! so,,, how big would an ant be? According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant#Distribution_and_diversity): "Ants range in size from 0.75 to 52 millimetres".

1 millimeter in the new scale is 1.5e-23 m, which according to [WolframAlpha](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=1.5e-23+m), is 1/7th the size of the smallest thing the LHC can see. You perfectly explained numbers my mind can't properly comprehend into more numbers my mind can't properly comprehend :( Hey what's the speed of light akin to in this earth sized universe?  See /u/TimS194's [reply](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqch1iu). Hello,

Thanks for your response. If the universe were shrunk to the size of earth, how would that affect the things like gravity, speed of light, time, etc? Would all of this remain constant regardless of the universes scale, or would these be affected as well? 

I guess if I had to tl;dr: Would we even notice the universe had shrunk? Just remember that this is a fictitious scenario and doesn't really mesh with true physics as the Universe has in place. For example, I think almost every object would become a black hole; the Sun only needs to fit within the size of 3 km to become a black hole, and clearly it will be much smaller than that. But then you're messing around with things on the quantum level, so I can't really predict what would happen. And then would physical constants change? I don't see why they would have to unless you chose to scale them.

Remember as well that in the past, soon after the Big Bang, the radius of the Universe was actually the size of the Earth today. It's contents were, of course different. Awesome. Thanks for your realistic response. As for hypothetical, given your experience and understanding, what do you think would happen? If you don't mind me asking. Again, hard to say. If I just consider general relativity, you just get everything becoming black holes. But if you add in quantum mechanics, that can't happen as everything starts squishing together. So you're sort of asking me what happens at the singularity of a black hole/to solve one of the biggest unsolved problems in physics. I'm just okay (not even good, I messed up!) at crunching numbers. I love math like this. Thanks!! Okay tell me, would this universe float?  In water, and air? If the mass was the same, the density would be enormous. The mass is about [3e55 g](http://curious.astro.cornell.edu/about-us/101-the-universe/cosmology-and-the-big-bang/general-questions/579-what-is-the-mass-of-the-universe-intermediate). This makes the new density about [2.77e28 grams per cubic centimeter](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%283e55+g%29%2F%28%284*pi%2F3%29%286.37e8+cm%29^3%29). Water is 1 gram per cc. If you clumped all the stars in the universe together, how big would that be? Crude answer here. If there are 100 billion galaxies and 100 billion stars per galaxy and the typical star is Sun-like (pretty close actually), then:

There are 1e14 x 1e14 = 1e28 stars. In this mini-Universe model, each star has a radius of 10.5 picometers. So, the volume per star is roughly [5000 pm^3](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=4*pi%2F3+*10.5^3). The volume of this new Universe is the volume of the Earth now: [1e57 pm^3](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=4*pi%2F3+*%286.371e6+*+1e12%29^3). So only about [5e-54](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=5000+%2F+1e57+) the total volume of the Universe. Very small!

 Fascinating that so many are saying that this is smaller than they anticipated. For me it is actually larger. Take the 0.5 millimeter way to Alpha Centauri. You can actually see that.  Thank you for taking the time to do this! Amazing perspective. &gt; The Galaxy is now about 7 m[8] in radius, so about four people tall.

&gt; The distance to Andromeda, the nearest large galaxy, is about 350 m[9] , almost a quarter of a mile away.

Given that our galaxy has a 14m diameter and the nearest large galaxy is 350m away what is between us and them? Is space basically empty between galaxies or is there stars not in galaxies?

 I know it sounds ludicrous, but I didn't know that amoebas were that big.

Could you see one with a magnifying glass? I mentioned elsewhere, but since you can see millimeter tick marks on a ruler, you should be able to see half a millimeter. Not an expert but I think the problems are: they are very tiny, they are typically nearly translucent, the lighting compared to the background they live in isn't usually conducive to looking at them. Some [source](http://amoeba.ifmo.ru/guide.htm). What if the universe were the size of the solar system?  I wonder if more of the numbers might be scales that people would understand more intuitively. I mentioned in the basketball post that you can do it yourself, but I can help you get started! In the mini model, Pluto is 90 nanometers away (some might use Neptune, some might use the Kuiper Belt or Oort Cloud, but I'll just stick with it) and Earth is 0.1 picometers in size. So, the difference in sizes is a factor of 900,000, which is what you need to multiply the mini model numbers by. You can also just take Pluto's semi-major axis, 6e12 m, divide by Earth's radius, 6.37e6 m, and you'll see that you still get 900,000. So your new new model is 900,000 times larger than the old one.

Thus, the galaxy is 7m x 900,000 = 6.3e6 m in size. Or, if you'll note, the real size of the Earth! So, the difference between Earth and the Solar System is the difference between the Galaxy and the Observable Universe. Neat! Andromeda will be [3.15e8 m](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=350+*+900000) away, or a bit under the real Earth-Moon distance. Earth is now 90 nanometers in radius, the Sun about 9.5 microns. our perceptions would still be the same though, correct? We could ALL shrink down to this size overnight, and wake up the next day as if nothing happened. Not necessarily, see [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqck3ns). 350m till the nearest Galaxy? That seems to big to me if we're gonna fit the countless other Galaxies in the area of the earth. The nearest "large" galaxy, that of roughly our size. There's a lot of dwarf galaxies. But, then there's a lot of clusters of galaxies. Virgo, which is 7.4 km away in this scale, has well over a thousand galaxies in a much, much tighter area. And, remember that the radius of the new Universe is over 6 million meters. 7m for our galaxy? That's roughly a 1800s of the radius. There are at most "only" 1800 galaxys in every direction? 


Even with no space between them, arranged in a grid pattern, that's only about 3 billion 400 million galaxies and i's estimated there are at least 170 billion. You missed a zero I think. Andromeda is roughly 1 Megaparsec away (780 kpc, which is what I put in the calculation). The Universe is 14 Gigaparsecs in radius. So 14,000 of these distances fit inside. But again, this is just the radius, not the volume. The volume goes up by this factor cubed, so of order [3 billion](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=14000^3) volume units.  is it just me or does out galaxy seem too big in this?

if the galaxy is 7m in RADIUS, that means its 14m wide. and if the earth is 12,742 km you are telling me the whole observable universe is only 910,000 milky ways across?? Yes. You need to think in terms of [volume](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqcvb7d), not radius.

Also, a million Milky Ways is a lot. &gt; The distance to Andromeda, the nearest large galaxy

As a curious layperson: are there "medium-size"/small galaxies closer to us? What does that mean exactly? Yep, lots of [dwarf galaxies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dwarf_galaxy) acting as satellites around the Milky Way, and around Andromeda. See [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqct5g5?context=1) as well. Given these numbers, and how far from the edge of the universe earth is, at what depth below the surface would Earth be? Earth is at the center of the observable Universe, by definition, since it's what's observable from Earth. Note that this does not mean that the Earth is at the center of *the* Universe. Read more [here](http://math.ucr.edu/home/baez/physics/Relativity/GR/centre.html). Great answer to a great question! This puts a lot of things in perspective... I actually expected everything to be much smaller, like negligible... just stunning! Also, your name doesn't happen to be Randall by chance? ;) &gt;The distance to Andromeda, the nearest large galaxy, is about 350 m, almost a quarter of a mile away.

For some reason, that seems far bigger than I would have imagined.  I mean, when I think of the entire universe, I think "billions and billions" of galaxies.  Assuming each galaxy was approximately at the same average distance of .25 miles, it blows my mind that billions of them could fit within the Earth.  

I must be underestimating the actual *volume* of Earth.   What is the average density and temperature?  
Within this model/outside the model. See [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqcqbp7) for the density. 

You can relate the temperature to the average kinetic energies of particles, e.g. kT ~ 1/2 mv^2 (k is boltzmann's constant). If the masses stay the fixed, and time stays fixed in this model (only sizes change), then the speeds, which are distance over time, change like the scale factor 1.5e-20. That is, the speeds are really tiny as you might expect. Since T is proportional to v^2 then the new temperature is the scale factor squared, 2.25e-40. So temperature is much smaller, again if you assume that the masses and the times stay the same. But you get weird physics going on (see [this post](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32la0w/if_the_universe_were_shrunk_to_something_akin_to/cqck3ns)), so this probably doesn't even make sense to quantify. Great answer, really helps visualize the scale of things and put it in perspective. 

The universe is big, but sometimes it's hard to percieve just how big it really is! What really gets me is the size and separation between galaxies. I always knew it was something like 100 million stars times 100 million galaxies, but when you put it on the scale of humans sizes it almost seems manageable.  One of the strangest things about this degree of scale  something that strikes me as inexplicably *weird*  is how incredibly slow the speed of light is over galactic distances. 

Even in our tiny little neighborhood, it takes 8 minutes for light to travel from the Sun to the Earth. Imagine standing by a small lake; out in the middle is a 1" floating ball that represents the Sun, and at your feet  right on the shoreline  is a speck representing the Earth at scale.

Imagine throwing a stone that splashed right beside our Sun. Now picture a ripple that takes a full 8 minutes to reach the shore. Bizarre, isn't it? The notion that our universal speed limit is so lethargic is so strange that it's creepy. It gives me the willies.

It gives me the feeling that if we knew why this was the case, it would literally be like taking the red pill, as some people speculate that this is evidence in favor of the argument that we're living in a simulation.  Why does slow light imply a simulated universe?  Well it's not that light is slow, it's incredibly fast. It's more of the fact that space is SOO vast, that even at light speed, it takes an extortionate amount of time to get anywhere. Thus the fact that we're essentially stuck here would suggest to some that there is nothing out there at all, it doesn't ACTUALLY exist because we can't get there, hence a simulated universe.  Ok I see. It's like in this space simulator game I play. I can fly in more than the speed of light towards the next star system, but it would take several days in that speed. And when I do get there, it's nothing, it didn't load. To actually travel that distance I have to "hyper drive", which loads a kind of cut-scene animation. When I get to the system, it's been loaded up in a new instance, a new bubble of simulated universe. And the previous one is not live until I hyper drive/load it again. Good analogy. If we traveled to a nearby galaxy.. would our galaxy still exist simultaneously? Impossible to actually know without receiving some kind of signal confirmation. Halfway to the other galaxy you would get a loading screen. Or maybe a cutscene to advance the plot a bit. Are you talking about Elite: Dangerous? I wondered what would happen if you actually used Supercruise to try to travel from system to system... Guess you *have* to use the hyper drive thingy to to actually enter a new system? Disappointing. Someone should try it. I know someone managed to get their supercruise speed all the way up to 20,000c/s. The idea that the time it takes to travel galactically is a long time is not an absolute statement though, it's only long relative to everything else we as humans can experience. If we had some different ontology that changed our perspective about what a great amount of time and a short amount of time was, we would not be saying this about lightspeed. Is it not true, however, that time dilates for objects moving close to the speed of light? So, were we to somehow travel at the speed of light, that seemingly enormous amount of time would shrink a significant amount- would it not? Correct, due to time dilation it is theoretically possible for a person to reach any corner of the universe in a single lifetime.

Getting back however would be impossible. Hell I'f you sent far enough you would witness the birth of entire galaxies on your way there, and the solar system would be long gone by the time you arrived. Is that some Descartsian philosophy or something? If I can't see Mt. Fuji and I can't afford the plane ticket to get there, it doesn't exist? But there is evidence from people who live near or have seen Fuji. No such evidence exists for intergalactic travel. How do I know those people arnf part of the simulation?? The term is cartesian. I don't know much about his ontology (aside from the basic mind/material distinction) so what makes you think it's cartesian? The implication would be that the simulation has maxed out the available processing power, and couldn't maintain the simulation for higher values of c.

I'm not arguing either way; I've just mentioning that I've heard this as a factor in the simulation hypothesis. Yeah, if the universe *was* a simulation, you would expect to see things that point towards it being programmed, like hard-defined values for various things, and a maximum speed. We have both of those in the fundamental constants and the speed of light. Isn't there another thing about our universe being a simulation that talks about pi. As in our universe isn't a simulation because if it were there would be an end to the value of pi, but there isn't. Or something like that.  Ive heard of this as well, but I find it a weak argument, why can't pi be simply infinite like a fractal, just like any fractal shape there is no ending it is simply infinite self repeating patterns, perhaps like pi?

The simulated universe does not need to know the exact value of pi, just estimated enough that is can perform the necessary calculations for the simulation to exist, or until the foam of quantum randomness renders the estimation as good enough. Yup. One thing that a lot of video games do is only render things when there's a possibility that they might be seen - pi could be similar, the universe only calculates pi out as far as measuring devices can check. If you keep calculating pi, it'll continue to find the next number. But since pi is a ratio it doesn't need to know the entire value. It doesn't imply the universe being simulation, but is somewhat of a precondition. If the speed of light was infinite any movement of a particle in the universe would immediately influence all other particles in the universe. That would require square the computing power of a universe in which a particle only influences a subset of particles in a given moment. to avoid willies ... it may be a good idea to shrink all dimensions by a scale of 1.5e-20 ... including time.

so 8 minutes becomes ... something like 3e-16 secs, or of the order of e-7 nanosecs

After all, the speed of light *is* constant, even in the shrunken-model universe :)

 That was awesome to think like that.  
Thanks Light might seem slow, but you're forgetting a very important variable.

You see, we don't live for that long. Light seems 'slow' to us because we consider centuries to be very long stretches of time. A lifetime is nothing compared to a million years.

Picture your small lake being videotaped. Then speed that tape up by a factor of about five thousand. That is your universe. There is no objective 'speed' of the universe, that is just the speed that  we arbitrarily designate in order for us to wrap our head around the immense magnitude (from our insignificant perspective)  Not to mention the speed of gravity. If the sun just disappeared out of thin air (of course there is no air but it's just a saying), we would still see it and continue orbiting nothing for 8 minutes. It's there a measurable speed of gravity? It's nor like cutting a string? The speed of gravity is (maybe less than?) the speed of light.

If the sun disappears, gravity will still affect us as long as we can see it. GENUINE QUESTION 

This !!!

I have been willing to ask this question for so long.

*So if an observer would be right above the Sun when it disappeared, would he see that the planets, comets etc. Are now revolving about NOTHING?*

Like, would he see that the Earth keeps going along her path for the next eight minutes?
________________
If not, what will the observer see immediately after the disappearance of the Sun. Remember that the observer will be seeing earth 8 minutes in the past (being 8 light minutes away), he will see the earth continue to orbit for 16 minutes (the time it takes for light to travel from the sun to the earth and back). Such an observer would, in fact, see each object revolving around what is now 'nothing' for double the length of time it takes light/gravity waves to reach that object. So, in the case of Earth, the observer near the sun when it disappeared would see the Earth continue to orbit where the sun *was* for about 16 minutes--it would take 8 minutes for the Earth to start moving in a direction tangential to its previous orbit, and the observer wouldn't see that happening for another 8 minutes (since the light now has to travel back to him). Yes, he would. The 'speed of light' is a kind of universal speed limit on the transfer of *information*. Nothing on earth can know anything about the sun, be it a change in light emission or having vanished completely, for eight minutes. Not the same scale you are specifically asking about, but there is a fantastic scale model of the solar system in Melbourne Australia that helped me tremendously in visualizing the scale of the solar system and almost unimaginably empty space is.  It starts at one end of St. Kilda beach with the sun.  Here's a picture of me sitting on the model of the sun: http://imgur.com/WyGxvXj

At that scale, the earth is a short stroll away, maybe a 3 minute walk.  It's about the size of a marble.  The planets continue down the beach to Uranus, but it will take an hour to walk there.

They also have almost right next to the sun, another model star, about a third the size.  The plaque helpfully explains that it is Proxima Centuri, and that it is shown the correct scale for distance to the sun.... after having gone around the earth once.  That's how far away the next nearest star is other than the sun. It took me a bit to realize you meant around the *actual* Earth, not the scale model Earth. Dang Here's something pretty cool. The largest observed star, VY Canis Majoris, would be [47.01 nanometers in diameter](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=vy+canis+majoris+diameter+*+%28earth+radius%29%2F%28universe+radius%29+in+nanometers).

By comparison, the sun would be [00.02013 nanometers](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=sol+diameter+*+%28earth+radius%29%2F%28universe+radius%29+in+nanometers). I thought [UY Scuti](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UY_Scuti) is the current record holder? the observable universe has a diameter of about 8.7\*10^(26) m, while the Earth has one of about 1.3\*10^(7) m.  That's a factor difference of 6.7\*10^(19).  So you need to scale everything down by that much.

How much is that?  Well, an atom only has a diameter of about 10^(-10) meters, so if you do this shrinkage, anything about 10^9 meters across would shrink to the size of an atom.  The Earth would shrink to around 100 times smaller, so the size of the nucleus, IIRC.  The Sun though, would be just about the size of an atom.  By comparison, a golf ball is ENORMOUS; about 3 \* 10^8 times as big as an atom.  So, what's that much bigger than the Sun?  Well, looking at the numbers on wiki, it seems that the diameter of a golf ball just about corresponds to the distance the sun is from the center of our galaxy, which is also about a golfball length from the edge of the galaxy.

So to sum up, if I did my numbers right, You shrink the observable Universe to the size of Earth.  Now put 4 golf balls in a row, touching.  That's our galaxy, and the Sun is a single atom at the point the first and second golf ball touch. I hope this can help you! http://htwins.net/scale2/ That is amazing, thanks for sharing! Not the answer to your question, but I was reading The Elegant Universe by Brian Green, and I found this comparison incredible:

If you increased the size of an atom to the size of the observable universe, a Planck would be about the size of an average tree.

Or something to that effect. At the quantum level, size and position and speed are not simultaneously knowable quantities it would seem. Because I forget, and it may be useful for others, what is a Planck length again?
 "According to the generalized uncertainty principle (a concept from speculative models of quantum gravity), the Planck length is, in principle, within a factor of 10, the shortest measurable length  and no theoretically known improvement in measurement instruments could change that."

or...

1.616199  10^35 [deleted] And also a black hole. 

Matter does get compressed to that point... We think.  Well... the viewable universe is around 14 billion light-years in every direction.  The Earth has a radius of about 6,400,000 meters, and our galaxy is roughly 100,000 light-years across...

1 lightyear would be about 1/2 a millimeter.  Our galaxy would be roughly 50 meters across.  The distance to Andromeda would be just over a kilometer, and it would be 100 meters across.

Sirius would be about 3mm away from the sun, and the sun would be about 1/50th the size of a hydrogen atom.

Unless I've gotten off by a couple factors of 10 somewhere the above should be pretty accurate. I've always found the phrase 'Space is big' very telling of our species egocentrism. It's not that space is so big, it's that we are so small. 

It's also quite telling that oftentimes when we imagine advanced alien technology it's of a vast scale beyond anything humans have ever built. Like the Death Star, Independence Day, the Borg, Stargate, etc. 

Funny how most of us aren't as equally compelled by the idea that there may be aliens visiting us all the time at the near sub-atomic scale. I've never seen a UFO pic where the craft was the size of a dust grain. Nope, somehow advanced aliens have to be our size but with "bigger" technology. 

For all we know there may be living organisms in this Universe where a single individual is the size of our planet or larger. If our species egocentrism is anything to go by; I'm not even sure creatures of this scale would even consider us to be alive. Douglas Adams posited that Earth was invaded by a hyper aggressive, destructive race of aliens who were swallowed by a small dog. Yeah what if we are just mere bacteria in size compared to extraterrestrials. Or maybe the three dimensions we exist upon are unimaginably large or small in comparison to other intelligences.  It's hard to imagine what a living being on that scale would look or behave like. How would its various body systems effectively communicate with each other given their enormous distances from each other? It would need a way to transmit information many orders of magnitude faster than any known creature on earth. The speed of light is going to put a constraint on how large a single living organism can be. I could imagine something like fungi or an organism that congregates in colonies becoming extremely large (maybe even planet sized!), but it's hard to imagine a sentient creature of that size.  "On a diagram of our solar system to scale, with Earth reduced to about the diameter of a pea, Jupiter would be over a thousand feet away and Pluto would be a mile and a half distant (and about the size of a bacterium, so you wouldnt be able to see it anyway).  On the same scale, Proxima Centauri, our nearest star, would be almost ten thousand miles away.  Even if you shrank down everything so that Jupiter was as small as the period at the end of this sentence, and Pluto was no bigger than a molecule, Pluto would still be over thirty-five feet away."  

So, uh..yeah, there is a lot of space out there. http://youtu.be/AC7yFDb1zOA

That video explains it pretty nicely.  Yes, there is a site in Gabon where evidence of natural nuclear reactions were found, from two billion years ago. Evidence for this is based on the isotopes of xenon found at the site, which are known to be produced by nuclear fission.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_nuclear_fission_reactor Some follow up questions while we're at it. If something like that happened today, would we need to do anything about it? Could we do anything about it? And what's the worse thing that could happen? At most it would produce a little extra heat, but since the reaction would be so far underground - and the ore no where near weapons grade - it would be self limiting and go largely unnoticed by observers on the surface.
 It's not a question of weapons grade, which was never present naturally. It's a question of reactor grade. When the earth was young, natural uranium was reactor grade. Now it has decayed (not fissioned) and is no longer reactor grade. The reaction simply can't happen any more.

(Pedantic caveat: if some sort of natural process caused isotopic refining, it would be theoretically possible. I'm pretty sure that can't happen for uranium, though. However, it does happen to a small degree for lithium, and slightly for some other light elements, and the isotope ratios depend on where you get them.) But isn't the Earth doing this all the time?  
I'd read somewhere that the thermal energy produced by the Earth is because of Radioactivity. (Nuclear Decay..) Nuclear decay is not the same thing as a nuclear chain reaction. Decay will always happen, no matter what, it's pretty much a universal constant. Reactions require a large quantity of fissile material all together in a huge block, which is extremely unlikely, because fissile Uranium is so rare.  The difference between nuclear decay and nuclear reaction is the difference between TNT being decomposed by bacteria for nutrients and exploding. [deleted] [deleted] This is amazingly the most accurate description I've ever seen you've summed up a year's worth of studying in a metaphor  I'm not sure if actual nuclear fission is happening in the core, it may be, but that's also not what we're discussing here. The Gabon site is evidence of a fission reaction occurring in the CRUST, not the core, and is the only known site where such a reaction took place naturally. There is actual fission going on at the core, but not a chain-reaction like you get in a reactor. All radioactive isotopes will fission, but you need enough of the right isotopes in a small area for a chain-reaction to start. [deleted] I'm a geologist and it's the first time I've read that theory.

Terrestrial volcanism is ultimately powered by plate tectonics, but the volcanism itself isn't the result of nuclear reactions but instead it is the result of hydration and/or decompression melting of the mantle, not nuclear reactions.

Is plate tectonics the result of nuclear reactions at the core? Don't know but the currently accept theory about the core is that the inner portion is a solid iron-nickel mix and the outer core is a liquid iron-nickel mix. Why would the outer core be hotter than the inner core?  Or is the one being liquid a function of less pressure than at the inner core?

 The inner core is around the same temperature as the outer core, but under higher pressure; the higher pressure reduces the freezing point of the iron, letting it freeze. I have no training beyond the undergraduate level (unless months of Yellowstone tourism count.)  However, in reading about the natural nuclear reactions found to have occurred in caves, I encountered this notion that the lion's share of Earth's fissile material might be near the true center, concentrated enough to generate enormous heat.  I concede my depth of knowledge doesn't exceed a smattering of articles in *Scientific American* and the like. Another geo here. I experienced the following heart break in a graduate level cosmochemistry class. 
The theory that radioactive material has accumulated in or around the core is at best a guess. We know the core is made from iron and nickel, we gather that much from moments of inertia, chondritic meteors, and seismic surveys.
Putting radioactive material into the core is a response to Kelvin's work, he said the earth should be cold by now based on iron ball observations. (Iron balls cool very quickly surprisingly enough)
The problem with this, the majority of radioactive elements are what we call "incompatible" their size and charge don't like to cooperate with mineral lattices. So they almost always partition from solids to liquids. Most radioactive material (in crust) today is concentrated into felsic rocks for this reason. To make things worse, they aren't soluble in iron (fact check this...). This leaves two locations for the earth's radioactive material; the crust (confirmed) and the D'' layer. This magical layer between the lower mantle and upper crust. The problem with the D'' layer, is that we "may" have samples of it from deep-sourced hotspots (emphasis on may) and its not particularly interesting. 
Edit: Last word: chances are the majority of the Earth's heat is just left over from accretion, moon making, and the heavy bombardment period.  Hey there. [This blog-post from Scientific American](http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/2011/07/18/nuclear-fission-confirmed-as-source-of-more-than-half-of-earths-heat), which I found in [this comment](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/32stsl/is_it_theoretically_possible_for_a_nuclear/cqevpoa) just below, clarifies a lot of what you are talking about.

The gist of it is that radioactive decay is estimated to produce about half the Earth's heat, that this process probably happens in the crust and mantle (where you suggested, AFAIK), and that that helps drive plate tectonics. What is the heavy bombardment period?  I'm not  geologist, but I know a few. I've been fed the nuclear energy theory for years and have read it from multiple sources. It's a staple feature of pop science. I even asked the Dean of earth science at my university who studies volcanology. I asked him if he seriously thought the earth's energy budget was accounted for by nuclear processes within the core. He looked at me like I was a conspiracy theorist or something. I'm not sure how you've never read this theory when it's so publicly accepted. The earths core is not a nuclear furnace. It is a mix of iron and nickel.

The heat driving plate tectonics comes from mainly two sources

1. Primordial heat left over from the earths accretion

2. Radiogenic decay of particle in the mantle, this is not the same as a sustained nuclear reaction and is merely the breakdown of material in the mantle, the shear volume gives the heat


The original comment that has caused this debate is the result of the poster not fully understanding radiogenic decay, because actually some popular science articles describe it very poorly and also because I was been particular about nuclear process inside the earth. There are likely non at the earths core, which was what was originally stated, but as above radiogenic decay of particles occurs in the mantle (but this isn't a nuclear power plant like reaction). So I haven't hear about it because this is all a misunderstanding of processes. [deleted] We have learned a lot more from gravitational mapping though, and [some models](http://csegrecorder.com/articles/view/magnetic-and-gravity-methods-in-mineral-exploration) confirm the elemental migration theories.  &gt; When the earth was young, natural uranium was reactor grade

The Oklo natural reactor is old, but not all *that* old. It is merely 1.7 Ga old, while the Earth is 4.5 Ga. Thus the Earth was 2.8 Ga old when it was active. I wouldn't call that young, exactly... Pardon the ignorance, but...

How long is a Ga. in years, and what is it short for? Giga-annum. Essentially increments of 1 billion years. a is the symbol for years, and G is the symbol for giga (billion) so it one Ga = 1 000 000 000 years. Agreed, this is well past the Hadean and the theoretical formation of life. It was still around 17% u235 if I remember correctly so plenty enough for fission to happen spontaneously It's this type of stuff that makes me wish I got a minor in a science. The universe is so rich and interesting even before complex life evolved on Earth. Stuff like this makes me work hard at my day job so I can pay off my debts and free myself up financially to return to school part time for something I am more passionate about.  A minor is what, five or six classes? Read those five or six textbooks and you have, at least on a descriptive level, a science minor. Learning to do the mathematics associated with that description of science may be a bit more challenging, but there's no reason you can't go down to your local library *today* and start learning about science.


 Have you heard of [MOOCS](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=2&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CCoQFjAB&amp;url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.mooc-list.com%2F&amp;ei=meYvVazXGZDdav-QgYAB&amp;usg=AFQjCNHsTjjdDpjnnPA0t8binR0MaS2DNA&amp;sig2=E5_cZkshDFwDQehbBCGGGg&amp;bvm=bv.91071109,d.d2s)? MOOCs don't give you college credit, just a certificate of participation.

Buuuuut...the knowledge you get from MOOCs could help you pass a [CLEP](https://clep.collegeboard.org/) exam, which would be a credit you might be able to transfer into a traditional college.

Most schools require a certain % of classes to be taken at the school, because it's their name on the degree, etc - but...for a minor in science, MOOC + CLEP might be doable for /u/Warnings. [deleted] [deleted] What if some better moderator was present? &gt; reactor grade

What do you consider reactor grade? This is a good question to ask.  Some reactors can run on natural uranium.  Presumably this means "light water reactor" reactor grade, which is typically 3% and over. In this context, rich enough to make a reactor with naturally occurring moderators, like a mix of light water and rock. Heavy water isn't available, and I assume there's no such thing as a naturally occurring mix of graphite and uranium. How much does an occurrence of this depend on sheer probability...? Rolling the dice enough so to speak, assuming all the ingredients are present. Expanding on the idea of the natural reactor being "self limiting": The sustaining chain reaction only occurred when water was present.  Water has hydrogen, which is a neutron moderator, meaning it slows down neutrons via elastic collisions.  Low energy neutrons have a much higher probability to induce fission in uranium-235, so the fission chain reaction initiated when water was present.  The heat generated from the reaction vaporized the water, reducing the amount of hydrogen in the vicinity.  This stopped the chain reaction until more water was introduced.  This reactor was cyclical and self-limiting. Would this cause radiation that is detrimental to humans or would that be on such a small scale as well? If this happened near the surface radiation could be a problem depending on how much fissile products are left.  The deeper within the earth the better.  Distance and earth crust shielding would be your friend in minimizing radiation. I think the issue is broader than /u/GT3191 implies as some of the fission by-products can be quite nasty. There are several that can seep into the ground water which could be a problem depending on who's using the water and how close humans are to the natural reactor.  Nuclear radiation, though shouldn't be an issue. Alpha particles travel ~2.5 cm in air, Beta particles travel about 4-5 m and Gamma particles ~100m.  It's the fission products that are of concern since they will move and produce not only radiation, but can also chemically interact with the environment.  &gt;Gamma particles

...You mean photons? Apologies if this is standard nuclear physics jargon, I've just never heard that one before. Yes, gamma particles are high-frequency (short wavelength) photons. In nuclear physics, one tends to call them gamma particles to differentiate from lower frequency light. Everybody already knows they're photons, the information being conveyed is with regards to wavelength. You can call an x-ray generator a lightbulb but you would be entirely neglecting the key concept.   I'm not objecting to the use of "particle" vs. "photon", I'm asking if "gamma particle" is a common usage in the particular field, as opposed to "gamma ray".  You call the alpha &amp; beta particles so if you're talking about the elementary decay process it makes sense to call it a gamma particle. All radiation is potentially detrimental to humans.

Radiation safety generally uses the Linear No-Threshold Model, which means any additional radiation poses some risk.  Linear No-Threshold Model is used for radiation safety, but lots of people consider it over conservative as there are lots of studies that have failed to measure increased health risks from small doses. It assumes that all radiation damage is cumulative and the humans have no repair mechanisms for radiation damage. Could a fission reaction occur at or near the site of an active volcano, and release radiation that way?  Not anymore. 

The ratio of U-235 to U-238 has decreased to the point that a natural reactor is not really feasible. But, it would have been possible in the past when the natural ratio was higher.  Do you know approximately when the earth's radioactive materials will decay completely, or what will happen to the planet - if anything - as a result? Is it going to happen before the sun dies? It will never happen as e.g. U-238 has a half-time of around 4.5 Billion years. The sun is expected to last another 4-5 Billion years, therefor there would still be roughly half the amount of U-238 that is here today. The universe may end before all material decays.

Let's take one element, U-238. In a given sample, one half will decay in 4.5 billion years. Half of that in another 4.5 billion. Half of that in another 4.5 billion and so on and so on. That's a really really really long time and it would still be detectable with today's instrumentation.  That's a contradiction if the universe dies a heat death. The universe will only die a heat death when all matter capable of decaying has done so, because only then will we reach maximum entropy. Which is why I say "may". If there is a "Big Rip" for example atoms may be ripped apart by expanding space before everything decays. We simply don't know what can happen way down the timeline.  A few things: we're discussing the amount of fissable uranium in the crust which doesn't really contribute, in any meaningful way to the internal heat which is mostly caused by radioactive decay in the core as well as compressive heating due to gravity.

The Earth will be swallowed up long before the sun dies.

I'm sure there are estimates of the amount of radioactive material in the core, but there's no way to really be sure, and therefore there wouldn't be any way to know how long it'll last. If it does run out before the sun expands then the Earth will slowly cool down, this will eventually cause the magnetic field to collapse, and the atmosphere will be blown away by the solar wind.

We have two examples of what results when this happens. On Mars the atmosphere got so thin that all the water evaporated and snowed out at the poles and the soil rusted. On Venus it was warm enough that some heavier elements liquified and evaporated which resulted in a runaway greenhouse effect causing it to be much hotter than it otherwise would have been. Not really on topic, but current predictions do not put the earth within the sun after it enters the red giant phase of evolution. And I really don't like the common usage of "the sun dies" because it really won't for a very, very, very long time. 

It will become a red giant, still fusing hydrogen in a shell around the core as the core collapses. The overall temperature will increase as the core collapses, expanding the outer layer of the sun. After the cure is compressed enough it will begin to fuse helium, at which point it will enter the second red giant phase. After helium fusion ceases it will she'd it's outer layers in a planetary nebula. Leaving a white dwarf behind. As our sun is relatively small and not in a binary system the white dwarf will likey never type 1a supernova and will slowly fizzle out over trillions of years. It takes approximately 7 half lives for a material to effectively disappear (not completely true, but I'm an engineer, so true enough for me). 

Using just one example:

The half life of Uranium-238 is about 4.5 billion years. So, 31 billion years to completely disappear. The sun has an estimated lifetime of about 10 billion years. 

So, nope. The earth won't run out of radioactive material before the sun burns out.  7 half lives means you end up with 1 / 2^7 of the original material, or in this case one part for every original 128, or a bit less than 1%. By my books that is not really disappearing. If you start with 10 kilos of material this would leave you 78 grams and that is measurable by eye and hand and the original amount is still small enough to be something you could lift.  It cannot really happen today because too much of the fissile U-235 has decayed away, leaving too small a proportion of easily fissionable nuclei to maintain a chain reaction. That is why modern nuclear reactors need to either use uranium that has been enriched in U-235 content, or be built from fairly exotic materials such as ultra pure graphite, or heavy water. In nature it is more or less guaranteed that any significant uranium deposit would contain too little U-235, and too many neutron-absorbing impurities to sustain such a reaction. 

Also, strictly speaking a "nuclear reaction" is not just the very rapid reactions that happen in nuclear power plants. Almost every object you can think of, including your own body, contains some weakly radioactive isotopes, and emit radiation because of it. A small proportion of cancers are believed to be due to this naturally occurring radiation.

There is also a very powerful nuclear-power source on earth that most people don't know is nuclear in origin. Geothermal energy is generated from the radioactive decay of Uranium in the earth's interior. This is not a chain-reaction driven by fission, but simply the energy released due to Uranium's slow alpha-decay. It is able to build up and generate high temperatures because the earth is very big. This happens with any radioactive material if you have it in large quantity, and it's why spent nuclear fuel has to be stored in cooling ponds. Even after the fission chain reaction has ceased, the radioactivity in the waste is still high enough that the fuel rods could melt and catch fire without adequate cooling. Note that this is so because the fission products are much more radioactive than the original uranium ore. Natural uranium can safely be stored in large quantities with very little cooling. It is only because the earth is so fantastically big that it is able to reach very high temperatures in its interior.  do you have any more info on the cancer bit? It is most commonly called background radiation, and is an aggregate of all naturally occurring radiation sources ( i.e radon gas, cosmic rays, radio-carbon in the atmosphere and so on...). It is worth noting that the estimated number of cancers due to background radiation is quite small, and some models even suggest that low levels of radiation may prevent more cancer than it causes (cancer cells are bad at repairing the damage from radiation, and might more readily die from it). The most prevalently used model is however to assume that cancer rate is directly proportional to radiation dose. 

Wikipedia has a good article on background radiation: 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Background_radiation I know we're talking about Earth-bound nuclear radiation, but let's also not neglect the biggest radiation-based killer, [the sun](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ionizing_radiation#Definition_boundary_for_lower-energy_photons). Of all natural radiation sources it is the dominant one for humans and does cause a decent number of cancers and deaths yearly. For an academic discussion, it's interesting to discuss the Earth-bounds sources, but for cancer risks, relative to the sun any Earth source of natural nuclear radiation is pretty negligible.
 Well, the Sun causes cancer mostly due to Ultraviolet radiation, and that is generated in atomic interactions, not nuclear ones. At this point it becomes mostly an issue of terminology. X-rays and Synchrotron radiation is strictly speaking not a form of radioactive radiation, but your DNA has now ay of knowing if a photon was generated inside a nucleus or by an electron, so the Hazard to human health is the same.  A good example is potassium.  It has a relatively unstable isotope that is hence radioactive... in theory the decay of such an atom could release a gamma ray that could strike your DNA in just the right spot to cause damage that could lead to cancer.

Because bananas are rich in potassium, there's even a concept of the [banana equivalent dose](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana_equivalent_dose)
 &gt; enriched in U-235 content

I always wonder if we're confusing people when scientists and engineers use that terminology.  Most people think of "enrichment" as adding something extra.

The enrichment process removes other elements.  I think a lot of confusion might be avoided if we used more familiar terms like "purified U-235" instead of enriched.

It's enriched by adding more of the same element with nothing else. Well, it does make sense if you think of it as "enriching" by process of removing things that make it less "rich".  At least that's how I understood it from your explanation and I am most certainly a layman. It's note pure though, so that would also be confusing. Most reactors are designed to use fuel with only a few percent U-235.

Also, it is primarily because of the way we use the material that we focus on the fraction of uranium where the amount of U-235 has been increased. The isotope separation process also produces a depleted stream of uranium that has a higher proportion of U-238. 

If you compare the process with desalination of sea-water you can see how the terminology is swapped around, because we want water with less salt in it, but when producing fuel for reactors we want a higher proportion of the minority component. In both cases we are however splitting a stream of mixed raw material into two streams that have different ratios than the original feed.

Furthermore, reactors don't really care how you increased the proportion of fissile nuclei. Isotope separation to increase the proportion of U-235 is one way, but you could just as well add fissile nuclei if you happen to have some highly fissile material lying around. Down-blending of weapons-grade material for use in reactors would be one example. Recycling of fissile actinides recovered during reprocessing in breeder programs is another.

All in all I don't think it is possible to come up with a term that accurately describes the process since it is in fact a bit complicated.  It can't happen today; the natural uranium available has decayed too much to undergo fission. That's why we have to refine it for use in nuclear reactors.

If it did, it probably wouldn't matter all that much, assuming the reactor was similar to the Gabon one. The products from that reactor are still remarkably close to where they were produced. (Distances of a few meters or less.) FYI you can make reactors that use natural uranium (i.e. unenriched).

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnox
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CANDU_reactor But is it possible for something like this to occur in nature? The uranium would have to be surrounded by a very good neutron moderator. Oh well no, as you say it couldn't work in nature. I just wanted to correct the 

&gt; That's why we have to refine it for use in nuclear reactors.

statement. :) but that also requires heavy water as a moderator, which needs to be added as a source of neutrons since the Hydrogen in the heavy water reflects the neutrons from the U238 and releases neutrons from H3 or H2 to H1.  CANDU couldn't use plain H2O as a moderator like US Pressurized Water Reactors use because it would go subcritical without this source of neutrons.

Edit: a word Actually it can and does (spontaneously) fission, albeit at a very low rate.  What it can't do is sustain a chain reactor when moderated with light water (i.e. normal water). It can't happen today, the deposits of uranium 235 have long since become depleted. That's the one we recall from years ago. Apparently enough U238 &amp; U235 got concentrated by natural processes. Then a nuclear fission reaction went on there until the concentrations of U-235 got low enough to block most of it. Possibly moderated by water, which can slow down the neutrons enough to allow them to hit the U nuclei and create fission. Which then creates more fission, etc., a nuclear chain reaction. Why must the reactor have been cyclically supercritical and subcritical?  Could subcritical multiplication have been responsible for the fission product buildup instead?  100ky  is a *long* time for reactor operation. Isn't it frankly possible for pretty much anything to happen at one place?  

[Example - Boltzmann brain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boltzmann_brain) Came in here specifically to mention Oklo the moment I saw this thread. I read about it some years ago and it fascinated me. Did they ever find any other locations? The wiki mentions 

"Oklo is the only known location for this in the world and consists of 16 sites at which self-sustaining nuclear fission reactions took place approximately 1.7 billion years ago, and ran for a few hundred thousand years, averaging 100 kW of thermal power during that time.[2][3]"

[2]Meshik, A. P. (November 2005). "The Workings of an Ancient Nuclear Reactor". Scientific American.
http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/ancient-nuclear-reactor/


[3]Gauthier-Lafaye, F.; Holliger, P.; Blanc, P.-L. (1996). "Natural fission reactors in the Franceville Basin, Gabon: a review of the conditions and results of a "critical event" in a geologic system". Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 60 (25): 48314852. Bibcode:1996GeCoA..60.4831G. doi:10.1016/S0016-7037(96)00245-1.

http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1996GeCoA..60.4831G

http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016703796002451?via=ihub

So it seems there are 16 sites at Oklo.  And it's the only known location for this.  The earth's core temperature is sustained by continued nuclear reactions in the core, isn't it? I believe that the calculation determining the age of the earth would come up with wildly short numbers without accounting for these reactions. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Would not they also find krypton and subsequently rubidium and cesium? Evidence for this is not *based on* the isotopes of xenon found at the site. The presence of the xenon was used to determine the time intervals of fission that occurred billions of years ago.

Evidence for the discovery was rather *based on* discovery of natural Uranium deposits with low concentrations of U-235, indicative of nuclear reactors.

E - But yes, many byproducts were found including strontium, cesium, rubidium, and boron. I heard a theory that the earth's core could have a significant amount of uranium isotopes in it (owing in part to their weight) and is a major contributor of heat in the core. Thoughts?

**EDIT:** http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/observations/2011/07/18/nuclear-fission-confirmed-as-source-of-more-than-half-of-earths-heat/

Well hey. Forget the ancient fission in Gabon,natural fission happens all over the earth billions of times every second... It's just not self sustaining. In Gabon for a time it was. if there's one thing I wish I could convey to people it's that a reactor is simply something which permits reactions to occur.  A cigarette lighter is a chemical reactor.  People freak out when they see the term "reaction", as though reactions aren't responsible for existence as we know it.  

The same thing goes for "nuclear".  If one of the fundamental forces of nature is named after it, then it's far more common than most of us can comprehend.   Even more so with "chemicals". Everyone says "gross, it's full of chemicals" or "they make it using chemicals" which is just ridiculous. Everything is "full of chemicals". Everything is made with chemicals.  Chemicals are everything! Well, there is an obvious understanding of what people mean when they talk about chemicals in that way. There are essentially two definitions, the literal scientific one, and the one that essentially means man made chemicals. It's similar to Communism.. There is one, technically correct definition, meaning a stateless, classless society in which means of production are owned publicly and then the one that people tend to use when referring to places like China and North Korea. I wouldn't say "man-made" but more like "not commonly found in nature", after all, "man-made" and "natural" aren't mutually exclusive. It kind of bothers me too... the meaning is implied. I was once asking a question on a homebrew forum. I was amazed how quickly I alienated the community there when I referred to the fermentation step as a "reaction". Well, technically it's not a reaction, it's a series of enzymatic reactions taking place inside living organisms. 'Fermentation reaction' sounds wrong to me, and I have a bachelor's in biochemistry.

Calling it a 'reaction' suggests that there's a simple chemical process that converts saccharides into ethanol with high selectivity, and that's simply not true. &gt; Well, technically it's not a **reaction**, it's a series of enzymatic **reactions** [...]

So your main issue with it is grammatical? As in singular vs plural?
 They do all the time. Carbon 14 and other cosmogenic nuclei, e.g., are formed continually via nuclear reactions as cosmic rays interact with the atmosphere. Moreover, radioactive decay (a nuclear reaction) [accounts for half of Earth's heat](http://physicsworld.com/cws/article/news/2011/jul/19/radioactive-decay-accounts-for-half-of-earths-heat).  What do you make of the theory that variations in this heat output are a possible driver of long term climatic cycles? Nobel-prize worthy if it can be proven, since there should be no natural variation in the decay rate of unstable nuclei. There were a few reports awhile ago presumably linking the rate of beta decay with solar activity. They thought the correlation was mediated by the oscillating neutrino flux.  I read that it was also postulated by critics that the semiconductors in the measurement equipment was biasing the results with seasonal temperature variations in the lab.  Analog  semiconductors have nontrivial temperature sensitivity in sensitive equipment.  [deleted] temperature response is hugely important in electronics, and is specified on datasheets for just about every part. A good design tries to account for this and correct it. Perhaps some got through?

Somewhat randomly chosen links: 
http://www.springer.com/cda/content/document/cda_downloaddocument/9781461407478-c1.pdf?SGWID=0-0-45-1268751-p174130080

http://www.analog.com/library/analogdialogue/archives/46-04/high_temp_electronics.html

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_temperature

page 127 of http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a275029.pdf

The high temperature problems they describe are the same general type you get at room temperature, but they haven't been designed for.

tl;dr: the resistance of resistors, and efficiency of transistors changes with temperature. This messes up measurements, but we try and correct for it. Success is not 100%. I would be highly sceptical of that theory since normally you need a cubic km of material to catch a few neutrinos per hour. Orbital cycles collectively called Milankovich cycles are largely responsible for long term climate cycling.  Wouldn't that only make sense if the Earth's internal heat output varied cyclically over time? However, according to [this graph](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/24/Evolution_of_Earth%27s_radiogenic_heat.jpg), heat output has decayed exponentially. Perhaps there are small variations from this trend, but note that this heat is only 0.03% of all heat at the Earth's surface, the majority being solar heat. So basically this doesn't make much sense. Are you sure you're not thinking of the cosmic ray theory of climate change? This is the pedantic answer, but he's clearly interested in sustained chain reactions. they said that there was an element found in the atmosphere uniquely after detonation of the first nuclear bombs: how hasn't these "natural reactions" been let out in the atmosphere the same way the nuclear bombs causing this element to be active. It has to do with timescale. The natural reactor at Gabon was active 2 billion years ago. The longest lived fission product from uranium is Iodine 129, with a half life of 15.7 million years. The natural reactor would not have produced large amounts of any fission product, and after 2 billion years literally every atom of even the longest lived Iodine 129 had likely decayed into other stable elements millions of years before the first human stepped foot on this planet.  I am not too sure if this is considered good proof, but the YouTube channel SciShow had a video about this exactly.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yS53AA_WaUk&amp;ab_channel=SciShow SciShow is always good evidence  I was about to reply with that exact same video! SciShow videos works great for people like me who need visuals in order to fully understand the subject Nuclear reactions happen all the time on earth, they're just so minute that it's like nothing is happening at all. However, what you're probably thinking of is a nuclear CHAIN reaction, which is the kind you find in a power plant or nuclear bomb. And that is when fission and/or fusion happens with a specific fuel to increase the amount of times fission/fusion happen. There is one suspected case of a "natural nuclear fission reactor" discovered in 1972 in Oklo, Gabon. [This Wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_nuclear_fission_reactor) is a great explanation of the phenomenon. In addition to what was posted here, there's amother similar phenomenon which I donot think has been mentioned. Some particularly heavy isotopes (like natural Uranium) undergo something called ["spontaneous fission,"](http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spontaneous_fission) which is exactly what it sounds like.

Because it is a stochastic process, it works similarly to decay such as beta and alpha decay. There was a naturally occurring nuclear reactor near Ytterby in Sweden.

Edit: can't find a source for this other than my own foggy memory. Ytterbium, Yttrium, Erbium, &amp; Terrbium are named after Ytterby and the ore that was mined there, but there is not a natural reactor there that I am aware of. I've heard of Ytterby as the location where several lanthanides were first identified, but never heard of talk of a natural reactor there.  Do you have any information on this? In my nuclear physics notes on the other side of the country! Our lecturer referred to it as a naturally occurring nuclear reactor. I googled it just there but didn't find much info. I have a nuclear book lying around here somewhere, I'll see what I can find. Well, if you mean a criticality event, there have been in the past. If you simply mean nuclear reactions, they happen all the time even in your own body an element will occasionally decay.

It has happened on the surface in the past at places like Ytterby where natural concentrations of radioactive substances collected and reach criticality resulting in high levels of radiation, the production of a large number of isotopes, and the earth melting in that location but the isotopes that would allow this have long since decayed to far below the level required for it to happen today. There might be ongoing random criticality reactions in the core, if there is some sort of concentration process that would allow, it but enormous amount of heavy nuclei combined with the enormous pressure prevents any sort of explosion thus resulting in heat being the only impact we would likely feel. I have at times wondered if hot spots like that which caused the Hawaiin to form might be caused by deep events of that nature.

One final way this might happen would be if by an astonishingly bit of bad luck a large object ejected from the central core or a smaller but fairly local binary black hole hit us while moving at a substantial fraction of the speed of light. When such an object hits the atmosphere the result would be a massive release of mesons, the millions of mega joules of electromagnetic energy along the whole electromagnetic spectrum, and various nuclear hot fragments that would each themselves cause massive nuclear reaction.s Watch this: [SciShow]( https://youtu.be/yS53AA_WaUk)

This channel is great. I love their work.

Oklo - the two million year old reactor.

Everything just happened to be right in this site for it to work. What about a fission bomb? Let's say you have a large, rich vein of uranium in one spot, and an equally large, rich vein of uranium in nearby spot. The two amounts by themselves won't go critical, but both together would. Then let's say two big veins were along a fault line and you had a big earthquake that caused the two veins to come into contact and ka-blooey!

I'm thinking maybe this scenario might be more possible back when the earth was new, but these days natural uranium has been half-lifed into relatively low concentrations.

But let me ask: Is a natural nuclear bomb possible these days in any practical sense? If you don't bring the masses together fast enough you only get a very small explosion. One of the big technical challenges of a fission bomb is the rapid and uniform bringing together (or compression) of the masses. U-235 is the isotope of Uranium needed for bombs, but it only accounts for .7% of all Uranium isotopes out there.  Realistically, it could never happen.  

The bombs also require a certain level of impact energy which an earthquake is not going to provide. Wasnt there evidence in south Africa found of an ancient runaway nuclear melt down that occurred millions if years ago due to a high concentration of uranium? 

I feel like that's all you could have. A melt down. What forces are going to cause the masses to come together so violently that there is an explosive reaction? Plus uranium is always found as an ore as far as I've ever known.. That won't help it's chances of exploding, either.
 It wasn't really a melt down, it was just a "reactor" that would boil away water, stop, accumulate water, restart and repeat.

(Also, it's Oklo, Gabon.) You might be intertested in [this thread.](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/31b079/if_a_meteor_containing_the_right_stuff_smacks/) A bomb-like explosion requires a very rapidly increasing chain reaction.  In this thread it has already been correctly highlighted that that means you need to form a critical geometry rapidly.  A slow transition into a critical geometry would lead to fizzle rather than an explosion.  This thread has also correctly identified that the ratio of U-235 to U-238 is important, but has not explained why.

U-238 is a neutron poison - that means it absorbs neutrons without contributing to the chain reaction.  At fast neutron energies (that is the neutrons aren't being slowed down by interaction with other matter) a chain reaction isn't feasible at natural enrichment (0.7% u-235) as the uranium-238 is too effective of an absorber at these energies.  Weapons grade material (for which it is considered plausible that a bomb could be made) is generally considered to be a cut off of 40% enriched.

Thermal chain reactions are possible at natural enrichments when moderated (i.e. the neutrons being slowed down) by some special materials (usually heavy water or graphite), these thermal chain reactions can not increase in size rapidly enough to cause a bomb-like explosion. Like some other answers have already described in greater detail, nuclear reactions happen constantly. Nuclear chain-reactions, however, don't really occur naturally on earth. I'm guessing your question was about nuclear chain-reactions, in which case the answer is 'no' in that there will be no random nuclear explosion of a piece of earth. Not all chain reactions cause explosions.  I think you were being pithy with that last statement, but to be fair, a reactor goes supercritical when it's started and runs at a critical rate (i.e., chain reactions where neutrons produced = neutrons lost) for ~12-24 months at a time.   Some numbers

A typical Boiling Water Reactor, when brought online, will go supercritical with a reactor period of about 100-250 seconds. Period is the amount of time the reactor takes to raise it's power by a factor of the number e. So with a 100 second period, that means every 100 seconds, power increases by e. After n periods pass, power = P(0) * e^n. Power rises exponentially during the supercritical phase.

Power is raised from a flux of roughly 10^5 neutron counts per cm^2 sec to about a flux of 10^12 neutrons/cm^2 sec. The core is super critical the whole time. Eventually the reactor reaches the "Point of Adding Heat", also known as "Zero Power Critical", which is the point where the heat produced by the fuel causes the reactor to return to a steady state condition (critical).

Once the core is critical, operators will remove control rods or take other actions to add reactivity to the core causing it to momentarily become supercritical, raising power. The higher power level will increase heat output, which then returns the core to critical again. Yes and no... Nuclear reactions of one atom occur all the time. If you mean for a mass found in nature to have a sustained, critical reaction, the best answer is that it is not realistic. Only some isotopes are unstable enough to create the reaction; the other isotopes, which are more numerous because they never decayed, slow the reaction down and kill it. If it used to happen, it now no longer does for that reason. Well sure, they happen all the time, there just isn't the density necessary for a particularly noticeable nuclear reaction to take place.  Even with highly refined plutonium (not a natural substance but one artificially created in nuclear reactors) high explosives are necessary to cram the material closely together enough for an explosion. So plutonium is not found anywhere else in the universe? Some plutonium atoms (and other higher actinides) will have originally been created in the supernovae that created the the higher mass elements in our solar system.  All plutonium isotopes are, relatively speaking, short lived, with half-lives between 14 years to 80 million years.  This means the age of the earth is 50 or so half lives of the longest lived isotope, so for all practical purposes, all the primordial plutonium in the solar system will have decayed away.

Elsewhere in the universe new plutonium atoms will be created or persist in material arising from more recent supernovae.

Technically speaking some natural plutonium will exist on earth.  Man-made plutonium exists from irradiating actinides (most often uranium-238) with neutron irradiation.  When a neutron is absorbed by the actinide (say uranium-238 + neutron) it will sometimes undergo one or more beta decays to create a new isotope (in this case a double beta decay to become plutonium-239).  Uranium-235, which occurs naturally, undergoes spontaneous fission at a low rate.  This will release 2-3 neutrons into the surrounding material.  Uranium-235 is always associated with uranium-238, so very very occasionally spontaneous fission of a uranium-235 atom would result in the activation of uranium-238 atom and the production of an atom of plutonium.  However that will be so infrequent as to be of no practical use. Other have noted ways nuclear reactions happen on earth (such as Oklo, cosmic ray synthesis of tritium and C-14, etc), but I should note that outside of our planet, there are nuclear reactions happening beteen atoms in most of the visible mass of the universe: stars. Anybody here read the Manifold series? I don't remember which book, but one of them has a primitive nuclear reactor being worked by people with technology from around six to nine thousand years ago. The main character notes that if you don't care about the safety of your people, the technological requirements for nuclear power are absurdly low. That's exactly what I was thinking of when I saw this post. Great book. Possibly [Tunguska 1908](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tunguska_event).  

Notes:
In 1989, Serge J.D. D'Alessio and Archie A. Harms suggested that some of the deuterium in a comet entering Earth's atmosphere may have undergone a nuclear fusion reaction,[51][52] leaving a distinctive signature in the form of carbon-14. They concluded that any release of nuclear energy would have been almost negligible.

Most likely it was between 10 and 15 megatons of TNT (42 and 63 PJ),[10] and if so, the energy of the explosion was about 1,000 times greater than that of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima To add onto this: I remember when I was taking physics in college that my professor told us based on the statistical model of thermodynamics that theoretically anything at all can happen spontaneously, it is just extremely unlikely in some cases. For example you could have a small puddle or something and instantly a few drops of it splash into the air, even though no external force acted on the drops except for gas particles moving in a certain way above the puddle.

Does this apply here as well? Yes, but for those processes we're talking about odds so astronomically low that we approximate them as impossible.  So is it possible for a fully developed human being to just...pop up out of nowhere? What you're talking about is referred to as ["sleep inertia"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sleep_inertia). The grogginess and desire to return to sleep can last as long as 30 minutes, depending on several factors- including which stage of sleep you wake up from (waking up during deep sleep is associated with the most sleep inertia.)

Also caffeine is an adenosine receptor antagonist, meaning it blocks the effects of adenosine, and has been shown to greatly reduce sleep inertia.
 I didn't know that it was an adenosine blocker.  So if I had to give it to someone who had large amounts of caffeine would it be less effective? Yes, Caffeine mimics Adenosine and bonds to the same receptors blocking any Adenosine from bonding to that receptor. When you take Caffeine on a regular  basis, your body produces more of these receptors therefore you must take more Caffeine to make up for the increase of Adenosine receptors. 

edit: holy shit guys my top rater comment by far! :) went to be and woke up with karma. So for people that generally feel little to no affect from caffeine, do they simply have more receptors than the caffiene can block? Or they may upregulate the enzymes that metabolize caffeine and its byproducts. Or modulate the expression of enzymes that metabolize adenosine *or* alter the conformation of adenosine receptors to be more sensitive to adenosine *or* increase adenosine release to try to overcome the competitive antagonism.

So many possibilities! :) Or be dehydrated. Caffeine is much less effective if you're dehydrated/not drinking enough water. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; alter the confirmation of adenosine receptors

Did you mean alter the con**for**mation of adenosine receptors? Yes, thank you! I've always been baffled about how caffeine is supposed to help a person wake up. If anything it makes me incredibly sleepy. Would this have anything to do with autonomic dysfunction? This is a big one. Caffeine is largely metabolized by CYP1A2, which is induced by nicotine. Fun fact: if you smoke, it will take twice the dosage of caffeine for you to achieve the same effect as a non-smoker. This is because nicotine affects the effect of the enzyme responsible (CYP1A2) for the metabolization of caffeine.

Additional fun fact: this enzyme also metabolizes the active component of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine which is commonly given to people with schizophrenia. Because most persons with schizophrenia are also smokers for reasons not wholly known, the standard dosage is for them twice the size for that of a non-smoker. If a person with schizophrenia suddenly stops smoking, he or she may suddenly die of an overdose as the metabolization of CYP1A2 would no longer be enhanced. Also when looking at nicotine/tobacco use amongst inpatients its important to consider the anti-parkinsonian effects nicotine may have.  Die? That's very, very unlikely.  Source? That's really interesting If an inpatient is on a nicotine patch, and not smoking, they will regain some CYP1A2 activity. Nicotine is only one of the components of cigarette smoke that induces the enzyme; the hydrocarbons in the smoke will also induce it. Those hydrocarbons are not present in the patch. End result: The patient's clozapine dose becomes toxic (too high) due to not smoking. So the dose gets titrated down. Then the patient is discharged, takes up smoking again, and the dose is now too low. Patient gets psychotic again and returns to hospital. Back to square one. You build a tolerance to caffeine extremely fast, and you lose the tolerance pretty fast too, but with some potential withdrawal symptoms.  It like if you want to have a week long acid trip, by day 4 or so, it stops working, so you take a few days off and try again and it'll work again [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Not who you were replying to but I can never get those two straight. This is the most useful definition I've found. Thanks. Also affect as a noun: mood, emotion, especially as demonstrated in external physical signs. Which is oddly relevant to your examples.

Caffeine may produce change in one's affect. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Except that recent studies have shown that the use of some drugs, acid being one, "unlocks" schizophrenia and other mental problems. 

That doesn't mean he was perfectly fine before. There may have been psychological trauma or mental issues previous, clearly. That's a common factor is drug users for many reasons, including socioeconomic and genetic or familial correlations. 

HOWEVER, I have a sister in law who was very sane before her drug use.  Great background, solid family. Once she escalated to meth, it was a very short time before you could see the mental issues (paranoia, schizophrenia, manic-depressive, and ever borderline personality disorder) arise. These were non-issues before drug use, and even now that she is sober, they are a new companion to her, and something she will always have to fight/live with.

There is an issue with under-treated and misunderstood mental illness in the country and world, but it is not as cut and dry as many think. We often times cut out personal accountability where we shouldn't (and vice-versa).  Do you have a citation for the lsd study? I try to keep up to date in that area, and haven't come across it. The most recent large scale cohort I am aware of seemed to identify lower rates of psychotic illness in lsd users.

http://www.ntnu.edu/news/2013-news/lsd-survey
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I've read that caffeine is also a phophodiesterase inhibitor, which prevents the breakdown of cAMP in cells with adrenergic receptors that respond to epinephrine/norep. The effect being increased cellular response to adrenaline. If cells aren't transmitting epinephrine caffeine effects are hindered. So after dinner coffee when one is super chill might not amp a person up for that reason.  can you re-describe this in a more lay-man term? i notice caffeine gives me anxiety. even when i was on lexapro (ssri). i have yet to try it now that i'm on effexor (snri). Yes, caffeine is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, but this effect is only seen well beyond normal physiological dosages.

http://qph.is.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-d752689573a5f0b9f6787ece612db896?convert_to_webp=true

0.01 mM corresponds to 2.5 mg/kg. The effects of PDE inhibition really kick in at toxic dosages. If you stop drinking caffeine for long enough, do those receptors still remain or do they eventually decrease in number? (i.e., if I start drinking less coffee will my body revert to needing less caffeine to get the same effect?) Yes, after a week of not taking caffeine your body will go back to the original number of Adenosine receptors however this 1 week process can result in headaches and irritability (withdrawal symptoms) which can be unpleasant but you can break the 'addiction' if you like in under a week. So what happens to the receptors? Is my body disassembling them or something? Or do they naturally break down over time and my body just replaces fewer or something? Everything in the body is in dynamic equilibrium. A constant value of something just means the rate of construction is equal to the rate of breakdown. 

Without caffeine the rate of construction goes down, and thus the number of receptors fall until a new equilibrium is reached. The human brain / body is really amazing.

This 1 week number sounds a bit low though? Thought it would take longer for the receptors to return to a normal level. Different receptors have different cycling dynamics. Some opiate receptors will proliferate and dimerize on opiate exposure and once drug presence isn't there, the receptor won't be recycled for a very long time.

That's why a lot of people report after chronic opiate use that they can never achieve the feeling of the first exposure.

I'm not positive on adenosine receptors cycling frequency but you're probably right. It takes 3 weeks for a lot of people to fully shake off quitting caffeine. I can't speak to the receptor issue, but as someone who has broken addiction to coffee a couple times, each time after years of use, I can tell you that the withdrawal symptoms, for me anyway, took less than a week to dissipate. Both times I took advantage of having a cold, and therefore having headaches anyway. I don't know if that would have an effect on how long the withdrawal symptoms last. In order to fight the withdrawal, could you instead wean yourself off of it slowly, like they do to drug addicts? Honestly, it's such a weak withdrawal that probably the most powerful factor for successfully quitting will be what type of personality you have. Just choose whatever method sounds easiest to you.

Personally - with cigarettes or alcohol I'd rather wean off, with caffeine it's pretty damn easy to just stop doing it. [deleted] Interesting.  Which is probably why we give the 6mg and then a 12mg dose.   I feel like this is something I learned but somehow misplaced in my brain 

Thanks! What do you give your patients adenosine for? I had always assumed it was just endogenous, but it looks like it is used for certain heart things. It's commonly used to treat certain heart dysrhythmias when the heart is malfunctioning and beating too fast.  I don't care how long I look at it, "dysrhythmias" will never look like a real word rather than someone banging on the keyboard with their feet. It's used to treat supraventricular tachycardias, when the heart starts beating out of control, by effectively blocking electrical conduction between the atria and the ventricles for a couple of seconds and allowing the heart to kind of reset to a normal rhythm.  Is that the injection that they give heart patients and it brings on a temporary sense of doom or belief they are dying?  I saw it on a medical show but couldn't get my head around what they were doing.  It looked awful. Exactly, it's awful, but it only lasts for a few seconds. Apparently some people feel it worse than others. I was given two shots of it. Didn't work, was given clonazepam and propranolol.  Adenosine blocks the atrioventricular node, a specific part of the heart, helping physicians to identify abnormal heart rhythms or even treat them. 

I was given adenosine when my heart rate went up to 150 after taking a pill for headaches containing isometheptene. I don't if it was because of the isometheptene alone or also the caffeine from two espresso shots but the doctor said my heart didn't behave as expected (it didn't "block"). It's was very uncomfortable, though, you feel like dying, somehow, but it's just for a few seconds.  [deleted] [deleted] So, this might have been asked somewhere down the line, but there are too many comments now to read *all* of them. 

Anyway, if you have more receptors, then does that mean that your body has a greater volume of Adenosine when you wake up, leading to an even greater sleep inertia? Or is sleep inertia just sleep inertia regardless of the number of receptors? Not necessarily greater concentration of adenosine in the blood, but all the receptors that are normally blocked by caffeine are now being hit by adenosine, and you have more receptors than a non-caffeine user.  (Or, to be more accurate, you before you started using caffeine regularly.)  So yes, you would be feeling the effects of normal amounts of adenosine more because of the greater number of receptors.

How many times have you heard people say "I can't function before my first cup of coffee" or the equivalent?  This is why. Can we say then that caffeine increases the effect of adenosine (and sleep inertia) as consumption of caffeine results in increased number of the receptors? Do these receptors ever go away? I used to abuse caffeine for my workouts, taking about 700mg in powder form during a workout. Eventually got up to about a gram a day. I stopped taking caffeine when I needed that much just to feel normal... 

Anyways, I have become super sensitive to caffeine now. A medium coffee at lunch will keep me elevated for at least ten hours. I'd describe it almost as a weak version of cocaine. I get aggressive, talk more, become quite impulsive. It's also very euphoric. A medium coffee is actually a bit much for most days.  &gt;When you take Caffeine on a regular basis, your body produces more of these receptors therefore you must take more Caffeine to make up for the increase of Adenosine receptors.

Woah. Caffeine works just like cannabinoid do on the endocannabinoid system. This is how basically all neuroactive substances works, and the basis for physical tolerance. Are there receptors that take in information better than others?  It would be kind of interesting if we could do something similar for learning.  Of course, when we took in the substance we would have a harder time learning for a short period of time.  Interestingly enough, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor systems have been found to have a positive effect on cognitive function. So nicotine helps with cognitive performance and tasks involving memory and learning. Most pronounced in Alzheimer's and dementia patients. Normal people probably wouldn't see an effect. 

See: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15018837

"Although normal individuals are unlikely to show cognitive benefits after nicotinic stimulation except under extreme task conditions, individuals with a variety of disease states can benefit from nicotinic drugs. Attentional function/dysfunction may serve as an endophenotypic therapeutic target for nicotinic drug development." while you're marveling at what all coffee can mimic in your body - caffeine also mimics the receptors that nicotine uses- resulting in increased cravings among smokers.

thats why you see so many smokers are also heavy coffee drinkers.
 can you explain more about what you mean when you say it mimics the receptors?  im an ex smoker who also just recently quit binging on coffee. nicotine and caffeine have an overlap in which receptors they use in the brain - so they end up "blocking" eachothers effect to an extent.

the more coffee you drink, the more cigarettes you need to smoke to have the same effect on your brain- and the reverse is also true - the more cigarettes you smoke, the more caffeine you need to get the same "high"- it turns into a vicious cycle.

i bet you've never met a chainsmoker that wasnt holding a cup of coffee 24/7 (I myself am a victim of the cycle)

Counter-intuitively: its easier to quit them Effectively at the same time than it is to try and quit one or the other. Nicotine reinforces cues, so you'll have some of those effects making caffeine addiction or really the need to drink coffee worse. I would post a [study](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16240165) I know for sure talks about it, but unfortunately my access is limited on my personal laptop. I believe this one does. I just was at a lecture by the author, Alan Sved, for this last week, it's very fascinating when you get into the more speculation-oriented ideas that derive from reinforcement. Yes. Theophylline has the same effect. In these cases a dose closer to 12mg may be required.  That's the whole reason why caffeine works to wake you up.

Interestingly, adenosine-A2A receptors block the effects of dopamine. Caffeine antagonizes those receptors, making dopamine mor effective. That's why amphetamines (like adderall) are stronger when you drink coffee. What are we doing when we "fight"? Clearly we aren't prying the adenosine from its receptors. What does our will to stay awake translate into? Most likely, the "fighting" is a simple act of concentration. Forcing yourself to think and move stimulates the body to start clearing the adenosine from the system and preparing for daytime activity. The more demands you place on the brain, the harder it tries to compensate for the effects of the adenosine.

(Don't take my word for it, I don't know for sure) That's a difficult question to answer in terms of neuroscience as you're talking about how "will" (a concept that doesn't exist at the biological level) is "fighting" against sleep inertia.

But here is an example of something that might, plausibly, happen, in far more layman's terms than really is appropriate:

The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has many functions, but in psychological terms it's considered essential to [executive function.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executive_functions) This hardly means the PFC is where "will" comes from, as the concept of having "will" or "drive" would include other areas of the brain such as the [limbic system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limbic_system), which are inhibited or stimulated by the PFC (and vice-versa.)

However, for simplicity's sake, let's assume your desire to wake up is an executive action that begins as a propagation of neuronal excitement in the PFC. You "feel" this propagation as the "will" to "open my eyes". Heavy use of quotations here to emphasize how subjective (and hard to explain at a biological level) the problem is.

First, to even get the "will" to open your eyelids, the PFC has to get a propagation of neuronal excitement. This is made more difficult by the fact the [reticular activating system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reticular_activating_system) is likely not exciting the PFC very much (to over simplify, once again, this may be a part of the reason you feel the need to go back to sleep.)

At this point I'd like to note that if the reticular activating system didn't already wake you up enough that you could even think about opening your eyes, all of this is moot. We're just talking about "fighting" at the sleep-wake transition to wake up and not go back to sleep, not saying that the RAF doesn't do most of the work already.

But somehow the propagation gets enough steam (overcoming inhibitory forces) that you feel the will to open your eyes. 

The PFC, in this case, would send excitatory signals to the part of the brain that controls eyelids - I would assume this would be to the motor cortex, but don't know for sure.  Once again, along the route and in the motor cortex the propagation of excited neurons would have to overcome inhibitory forces, including inhibitory neurotransmitters such as adenosine. If it's strong enough to open your eyes, the muscles in your eyelids would cause your eyes to open. 

At that point you create a huge change in the brain. If there's light, you help activate the [Suprachiasmatic Nucleus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suprachiasmatic_nucleus) which sends signals to release hormones such as [cortisol,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cortisol) as well as activating the [occipital lobe.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occipital_lobe) In general this causes an increased state of wakefulness- counteracting the effects of adenosine, etc.

Which is why after you've opened your eyes, turned on the lights, etc, it becomes easier to stay awake vs. if you just layed in bed in the dark. Has there been a study on whether or not a changing "wake up time" has an effect on sleep inertia? IE, does getting up at the same time every day produce less inertia than someone who wakes up at different times in the day? In a way, yes. Long naps in the afternoon are known to cause more sleep inertia. Sleep inertia seems to be worse when the sleep period is not in tune with the circadian rhythm.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21463024 Okay I have a question for you. In situations where you're awake during dark hours doing a mundane task such as just staring into the abyss. When sleep deprived. The point where you are nodding off but trying your best to stay awake to the point caffeine doesn't do any benefit anymore. What's going on there and how can you more effectively stay awake? Simply put, there is so much adenosine floating around in your brain that the caffeine can't block it from binding. You can try taking some central nervous stimulants such as amphetamines, but there are obvious drawbacks with them. Eating protein and some light exercise can help. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I thought caffeine activated protein kinase A Indirectly. Caffeine stimulates epi/ne excretion, and through the epi/ne receptors activate a g-coupled protein to signal AC to form cAMP, which activates PKA. Taking it further, PKA up regulates HSL which increases triglyceride metabolism. Exactly. So isn't the "buzz" of caffeine due to increased ATP from gluconeogenesis and TAG metabolism rather than simply blocking adenosine receptors? Obviously blocking those receptors affects drowsiness but so far nobody has mentioned the other mechanisms of caffeine metabolism and it seems to be pretty important. You're correct. The stimulant effects of caffeine are due to the many metabolic pathways. I'd say the predominant pathway is caffeine's ability to have an insulin-like effect by translocating GLUT-4 in skeletal muscle, which in turn allows for glucose to enter the cell for glycolysis/krebs/etc, production of ATP. However, high doses of caffeine can translocate so much GLUT-4 which will reduce blood glucose levels too rapidly, leading to hypoglycemia. But we can't just point to one effect and say, "this is why caffeine is a stimulant," since it has a part in so many pathways. This is an important point that's often lost in any drug.

A useful convention is to describe a drug via the simple interaction with one neurotransmitters, but this conception can easily take over in popular discussion as the primary or even exclusive method of action. So this is the same thing as waking yourself up from a nightmare? Just more intense because you are deeper asleep. I was able to have one eye open once while fighting to wake up and the other eye was still seeing the dream. It was crazy. The wooden fence in the dream melded with the bottom of the bunk bed above me and the dream literally shook apart like an earthquake as I forced myself awake. I don't think I have every fought like that in my life.  &gt; can last as long as 30 minutes

Only up to 30? I've had days where I was groggy for 3 hours before I felt fully awake. But caffeine take about 15-30 minutes to kick in right?  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Might this be why I find the most restful naps come from taking them right after I down some coffee?   Upon waking, the caffeine is working full force causing you to be ready to go when you open your eyes. Yes! There's actually a theory that a 15 minute nap right after a cup of coffee should be most restful, because it takes about 15 mins for the coffee to kick in anyway.  Is "receptor antagonist" synonymous with "reuptake inhibitor" or are they different mechanisms? Different things.

A receptor antagonist is a chemical which binds to a receptor but doesn't cause the effect of the endogenous chemical, but does block the endogenous chemical from binding, thus reducing its effect.

Nerves communicate by releasing neurotransmitters. So that the effect doesn't persist indefinitely, there are transporters in the nerve end which transport the neurotransmitter back into the nerve it came from. Reuptake inhibitors are believed just to gum up the transporter, so that it can't transport the neurotransmitter away any more. Do you know the connection between caffeine intake and migraine? Basically, your brain adapts to the levels of caffeine and upregulates adenosine receptors. Adenosine is also a vasodilator (enlarges blood vessels).  When you don't drink caffeine your adenosine has more receptors to interact with and this leads to greater blood vessel dilation than usual.  This increase in pressure in your blood vessels around your brain is the cause of headaches. I thought the whole vasodilation effect in migraines had been invalidated?  So says my neurologist.   Last I looked, there was still a bit of contention over whether or not migraines are vascular in origin, neurologic, or a combination of both.

One thing we do know, 5-HT is a decently effective treatment for a migraine, and does happen to be a [vasoconstrictor](http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/804034_13).  So drinking a coffee might actually remediate some of the symptoms of headache? Caffeine is a common treatment for migraines (with the caveat that caffeine withdrawal is a common *cause* of migraines). 

My backup plan if I don't have a maxalt available is a can of redbull. Usually works. Many over-the-counter migraine medications are painkillers + caffeine. [deleted] During the week I fight that grogginess for 10 hours while I'm at work and then am wide awake after work and unable to go to sleep at a reasonable time.  30 minutes?  
  
I'm an "airport to city" coach driver.  
When I'm on an early shift I go to sleep a 7pm, wake up at 2am, at work for 3am and on the road at 3.30am. (There's also a 4 and 5 o'clock start too)  
  
Every "early", generally about 5.30 I get waves of tiredness thats hit me like a wall. It is all I can do to keep my eyes open. My concentration is trying desperately to keep me conscious.  
  
Is this the same thing? Probably not- if you're getting tired at 5:30AM after waking up at 2AM sleep inertia would've worn off. Sleep inertia is the effect right after waking up, if you get tired later that's either sleep deprivation a mis-aligned circadian rhythm. 

What you're talking about isn't uncommon for people who have very irregular sleep schedules due to work. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shift_work_sleep_disorder what does it mean if i wake up, drink caffeine but then it puts me right back to sleep? I've drank a half pot of coffee and passed right out before. [deleted] It mainly has to do with the regulation of circadian clocks. Apart from adenosine (which accumulates during the day), melatonin is the primary hormone that signals the body to go to sleep. It accumulates when no longer exposed to light, which literally keeps you asleep during the night.

Wakefulness is maintained by exposing your eyes to blue light (present in sunlight and even more so in your computer screen) which is detected by a pigment called melanopsin in 2% of retinal cells (intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells). These cells signal to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), which in turn is the master regulator of the body's "clock". Thus, at night your body is signalled to become asleep by various mechanisms (adenosine, melatonin, blue light absence) as well as others which are largely dependent on oscillatory "clock genes"; hormones such as vasopressin and cortisol are strongly controlled by the clock. To wake up, the levels of all these hormones need to be brought back to their "awake" levels and it takes time for this to happen after your brain is signalled to do so (blue light received and/or end of the cycle).

Some basics: http://users.rcn.com/jkimball.ma.ultranet/BiologyPages/C/Circadian.html

Review on clock genes: http://hmg.oxfordjournals.org/content/15/suppl_2/R271.full

TL;DR: blue light keeps your body awake and sets the timer on your inner clock. Yep, you're fighting a clock.

EDIT: grammar.
 If I were to setup a lamp with a blue light in it on a timer just above my bed, would this help me wake up faster? They have alarm clocks that are attached to lights that slowly grow brighter as it approaches the time set for your alarm and help you get up better. So probably yes. For the blue light, is that why there are apps or programs that will give the screen a warm Orangish glow? I have one and it's much easier on my eyes  as well [deleted] F.lux is actually what I use on my phone right now, but I'll check out Cf lumen since I'm rooted "Nerve-signaling chemicals called neurotransmitters control whether we are asleep or awake by acting on different groups of nerve cells, or neurons, in the brain. Neurons in the brainstem, which connects the brain with the spinal cord, produce neurotransmitters such as serotonin and norepinephrine that keep some parts of the brain active while we are awake. Other neurons at the base of the brain begin signaling when we fall asleep. These neurons appear to "switch off" the signals that keep us awake. Research also suggests that a chemical called adenosine builds up in our blood while we are awake and causes drowsiness. This chemical gradually breaks down while we sleep." - http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/brain_basics/understanding_sleep.htm

I think 'adenosine' may be what you're looking for.  But after sleeping for a whole night, shouldn't the adenosine levels be at their lowest point? Yeah I'm confused. Is he/she saying adenosine is the answer or are they just speculating?  That is speculation. In nothing I've ever read on sleep did it ever have any information about what precisely we fight against to wake up in those situations. The research simply hasn't been done. Adenosine, imo, doesn't make sense as the right answer. I can only speculate as well, but it is educated speculation, and I'd say it is our conscious mind attempting to reach parts of our body currently under paralysis from sleep. If our consciousness/attention can be alerted enough, we will become awake (like if something touches us or our name is heard), so we have to alert *ourselves* while asleep and dreaming in order to wake, which isn't terribly easy. Bottom-up attention is when something has grabbed our attention, and top-down is when we have forced our attention on something. While asleep, top-down attention is greatly hindered. 

EDIT: because it is relevant, [here's this article](http://www.psypost.org/2015/04/what-is-going-on-in-your-brain-when-you-sleep-33254) on what is going on in our brains when asleep. I just saw it in /r/psychology.  Actually the neurotransmitter of adenosine makes perfect sense as to why you struggle to wake up in the morning. But for you to understand why we must first understand the 4 stages of sleep and what happens when we wake up. Often when we're dreaming and waking up we're in the two lightest stages of sleep which are stages 1 and 2. Which is why you we tend to remember our dreams and such. It's also during these periods we're the easiest to wake up.

The neurotransmitter adenosine would be better thought of to be released in stages 2-3-4. More being released in the deeper stages of sleep making it easier to fall asleep if woken up during the more beneficial parts of sleep. So when your woken up by your alarm clock in the middle of a sleep cycle you tend to fight this neurotransmitter. However if you actually manage to plan your sleep you can wake up refreshed and ready to go if you wake up in stage 1.

Now to address your argument about ourselves alerting ourselves while dreaming/asleep is false. Your body runs on the sleep cycle. Each cycle lasts about an hour and 30 minutes. And during stages 3 2 and 1 you can be awoken by an outside source. In stage 4 although rare you can also be awoken. This is when people experience sleep paralysis. 

Although there are times where you can consciously bring yourself awake while sleeping. That still only occurs at stage one. When your practically awake. The wave patterns resemble our awake state allowing our brains to function. This is also when that neurotransmitter would be at it's lowest. Just a few corrections, we are generally thought to dream in REM sleep, not stages 1 and 2 which are NREM sleep. Usually remembering dreams is related to waking during REM phase, not NREM stages.

I havent seen any research that adenosine is released during sleep. Adenosine increases with sleep debt. It is a cell byproduct which is reduced during sleep. It is at its highest at sleep onset, not its lowest An we don't know that slower wave sleep is more beneficial then any other stage at this point.

Sleep paralysis doesn't occur during stage 4 sleep, it generally occurs right before falling asleep or waking. By "alerted," do you mean adrenaline? When you bolt awake from something, I'm assuming some rushes your system to speed up that process of overcoming paralysis.  Short answer: maybe. 

Long answer with more info than you're asking for just to make sure it's clear: If it is jarring enough, perhaps some adrenaline (aka, epinephrine) is utilized. However, for the most part, I think it is simply one of the sleep areas of the brain which is in control of many others (within the suprachiasmatic nucleus), so as soon as that nucleus gets the go-ahead from our attention/alert areas of the brain (thalmus, hypothalmus, prefrontal cortex), then it can begin sending excitatory neurotransmitters to those areas which are, at the time, keeping certain parts of the brain suppressed via inhibitory neurotransmitters. While asleep, the areas of our brain don't shut down or anything, they're still active, but inhibitory neurotransmitters are overcoming the excitatory ones being produced, thus stopping signals from being sent along their respective pathways. Neurons are often constantly receiving signals from other neurons, either excitatory or inhibitory, and often both. These signals are "added up" within the axon hillock, and whichever one is more powerful, either excitatory (telling the neuron to fire) or inhibitory (telling the neuron to do nothing), that's what the neuron goes with. Once the excitatory signals can overcome the inhibitory ones, activity will commence as normal (one such signal of activity is known as an action potential - this is what is meant when a neuron is said to be firing). This could be done via a release of epinephrine, or, depending on the area of the brain, a normal presynaptic (that is, the neuron sending the signal to the other neuron) signal of serotonin, dopamine, glutamate, or acetylcholine, to name a few. It could also be done by the presynaptic neuron ceasing its GABA production. This is a very simplistic explanation, as sometimes these neurotransmitters may be inhibitory instead of excitatory, as it often depends on the synapse and receptors receiving the neurotransmitter as opposed to just the neurotransmitter being released to determine whether it is excitatory or inhibitory. I'm not aware of any instance wherein GABA is excitatory, though that doesn't mean they don't exist. 

I just woke up, so if this is unclear anywhere, don't hesitate to ask.  I would suggest to anyone who hasn't read about polysomnography and sleep physiology to Google the text *Fundamentals Of Sleep Technology II*, it's a great read on exactly the answer to this question, as well as describing how the knowledge we now have has been obtained. I will absolutely check this out!!! Thank you. I, unfortunately, don't have as much access to a lot of academic texts as I'd like.  Like /u/tendorphin said, it's speculation.

All kinds of things may play a part in this, along with adenosine, such as...

* histamine

* orexin

* catecholamines (dopamine, nor/epinephrine)

* serotonin

* neuropeptides

* other unknown mediators

We know some things, but there is so much more we don't know. I do not think we have enough information to conclusively answer OP's question. Adenosine is related to why we get sleepy progressively during the day, but isn't the reason we fight to wake up. 

Fun fact: caffeine exerts its primary effects by antagonizing adenosine receptors.  (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20164566)

As for fighting to stay awake, the major issue is the inhibition of the reticular activating system (RAS).  The reason why it's inhibited is a complex interaction of the endocrine system, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus.  
(http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reticular_activating_system)

There isn't a single clean answer to the question. There never seems to be with the brain - the best we can usually do is associate functions with a few key areas.

Edit: I guess the best way to directly address the original question is that it's a conscious fight to deliberately excite the RAS by focusing our attention in some fashion, while the RAS inhibition works to prevent our ability to do so. And how exactly one "fights" a neurotransmitter level? What's the mechanism of "willing to stay awake"? Yeah, that's what I interpreted the OP to be asking, instead of what chemical our will is trying to counteract or disobey. I'd say it's probably that the act of fighting produces epinephrine and norepinephrine release, as your brain feels like it's fighting. Further and rather interestingly, one of the key reasons caffeine 'wakes you up' is because it has uncanny structural similarities to adenosine, and sort of 'impersonates' it to be obsorbed in-place of adenosine and the blocks the receptors (ELIF).

There's a lot more to the process but that's the TL;DR.

[Source](http://lifehacker.com/5585217/what-caffeine-actually-does-to-your-brain) or [source](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20164566) Does taking melatonin help deplete this? Adenosine is also the reason why you crash after drinking coffee roughly 6 hours later. [deleted] It's funny because I typed that response this morning while making coffee! But from the way I understand it is the caffeine binds itself to the adenosine receptors of the brain, that's where your energy boost comes from. As the caffeine wears off, loads of adenosine start to bind to the receptors and that's what causes the tiredness. It's actually the opposite.  Regular caffeine intake lowers your baseline, to the point that the only thing a cup of coffee does is make you temporally "normal" again.

Edit -- Sources:

[Overall, there is little evidence of caffeine having beneficial effects on performance or mood under conditions of long-term caffeine use vs abstinence. Although modest acute effects may occur following initial use, tolerance to these effects appears to develop in the context of habitual use of the drug.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16001109)
____
[With frequent consumption, substantial tolerance develops to the anxiogenic effect of caffeine, even in genetically susceptible individuals, but no net benefit for alertness is gained, as caffeine abstinence reduces alertness and consumption merely returns it to baseline.](http://www.nature.com/npp/journal/v35/n9/full/npp201071a.html)
____
[Appropriately controlled studies show that the effects of caffeine on performance and mood, widely perceived to be net beneficial psychostimulant effects, are almost wholly attributable to reversal of adverse withdrawal effects associated with short periods of abstinence from the drug.](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00213-004-2000-x) &gt; I think 'adenosine' may be what you're looking for.

 is that the ATP thing? That's "Adenosine TriPhosphate" but it's the phosphates that make ATP useful as a short term energy store. so is the build-up of Adenosine due to the consumtion of ATP? They come from the same source. But the ATP used during respiration is constantly turned into AdenosineDiPhosphate and remade back into ATP without ever becoming a single adenosine. The processes aren't linked to my knowledge. It's like carbon itself being used for something versus some big molecule with carbon in it. It's just a building block. Yes, ATP is adenosine triphosphate. ATP is converted in to ADP (Adenosine Diphosphate) and AMP (adenosine monophosphate) as energy is used by the cell. 

Its role as a neurotransmitter, though, is different. So if we kill our adenosine levels we won't feel tired? That's what coffee does! Caffeine binds to the adenosine receptors in your brain so the they don't know the adenosine is there. Which is why you crash so hard on caffeine. It doesn't get rid of the neuro-transmitter, just hides its presence. Once the caffeine wears off all of the adenosine that's been building up hits you again. Yes, and adenosine has to do with longer term effects too. The longer someone has been using caffeine, the more adenosine receptors they develop, which makes them more sensitive in a way to caffeine. That sensitivity might be felt by caffeine users without caffeine, and make them more tired than people of the same situation who don't use caffeine. Caffeine withdrawal is slightly different, however, and has to do more with dopamine and noradrenaline. So what you're saying is, my alarm clock should be a caffine IV on a timer. Recent studies have revealed what they're now calling the "glymphatic system" in the brain where there are channels in between neurons that open up to allow Cerebrospinal fluid to flush out the interstitial spaces between neurons.

When you wake up, those spaces may remain open for a little while and you'll be groggy until they close up again. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glymphatic_system

 Curious how this relates to adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP), the chemical necessary for the body to do anything.  Does it relate at all? Sleep operates on a 'flip flop switch' mechanism, where circuits that promote sleep inhibit those that promote wakefulness, and vice versa.

In a 2 process model of sleep, sleep inertia can be attributed to neurotransmitters promoting sleep remaining elevated during wakefulness, or your circadian system may be primed to promote sleep and according to your body's clock, you're awake at the wrong time. Lack of adrenaline = heavy sleepness.

No adenosine = less urge to fall asleep.

Adrenaline agonism (or reuptake inhibiting) = wide awake feeling even if you're tired. 

Anything resembling PEA (phenylethylamine) does this. Including Curcumin and amphetamines. 

Increasing dopamine efflux also has an indirect effect on reducing the quality of sleep and may make some people insomniac.

This explains why even on downers you feel you dont quite get decent sleep if they happen to increase dopamine levels. The only exception being GHB due to its dopamine inhibiting effects. "Adrenaline agonism". Are you saying that coke is all I need? Coke does a bunch of different things, almost all of which will help you wake up in different ways. Psuedoephedrine yes coke lol no. Coke is a dopamine reuptake inhibitor.

Would indirectly raise adrenaline but i daresay curcumin would do a better (and much healthier) job at keeping you up for longer if you need to. [deleted] Then being an insomniac myself how is it that I can function on 1-2 hours of sleep and I rarely feel that grogginess of adenosine ? A problem with my receptors not allowing me to feel sleepy ? I would give my left arm for a full 6-7hours of proper sleep :( If you can function on 1-2 hours of sleep and not feel sleepy, so why do you need 6-7?
 I don't feel particularly rested either. I need more sleep I just can't seem to get it. After a week or 2 of that I might get one night of 4-5 continuous hours and feel better then back to 1-2 hours a night .  Related question:  

Sometimes I'll suddenly leave my dream and gain "consciousness" but I have no control over my body.  I can feel and sense everything around me but I can't move.  This causes a kind of desperate panic as I'm trying my hardest to gain control of my body.  I feel like I'm suffocating and it feels like a life or death struggle.  What's going on here? It's pretty terrifying and it happens frequently.  Especially if I'm over sleeping or taking a nap.

I thought you were going to ask this which is why I clicked and is why I'm asking it now.  This happens most during REM sleep, when you're dreaming. If your body acted out all you were dreaming about, you'd hurt yourself pretty quick. So in REM sleep, the brain shuts off the circuits to the motor system. Ie, you're essentially paralyzed when you're dreaming.

If you wake up too fast, it takes your brain time to un-paralyze you.

This is said to be the origin of the medieval idea of the 'succubus', a demon that sits on your chest and suffocates you when you're half asleep. Sounds like sleep paralysis maybe?  We're not meant to wake up fast.  If you sleep in and allow yourself to wake up slow, pay attention to what you think about during that time.  You're integrating your sleeping mind with your waking mind.  If you wake up fast, you lose whatever your sleeping mind was thinking about. &gt; We're not meant to wake up fast.

I know a day-care operator who wakes the kiddlies from nap-time by softly playing classical music, and then opening the drapes to let the sunlight in. She won't come to my house and do this for me. I do not know if this has been mentioned already but here is my input. When you sleep your brain switches brain waves and changes neurotransmitter levels, a good example of this is melatonin. Sleep is not a well understood part of Neuroscience in regards to what actually goes on in the brain during sleep. Despite this we know a few things, you have levels of sleep, deep sleep is where you have the most rest and no dreams, whilst dreaming occurs just under conscious levels of brain activity and to make it even more confusing your brain, in some areas, is actually more active than it is when your awake. If, in a very light period of sleep, felt the need to wake up adrenaline would wake up you up quite quickly, a feeling of anxiety about what time it is or if you are over sleeping might be sufficient to release necessary adrenaline. As to what is fighting to keep you asleep I don't think there is anything but that feeling might be attributed to the rest of your brain coming back 'online', getting back to conscious levels of activity. What makes you feel groggy? I would imagine that this would be due to less blood flow to some areas of the brain and hence oxygen and also changes in neurotransmitters again higher melatonin. You also have to remember that during sleep your muscles are paralysed to prevent you acting out your dreams which would contribute to groggyness. I used to be able to use my guilt mechanism to wake up.  However, lately my brain takes advantage of my inability to recognize irrational situations in a hypnic state in order to distract me.  Usually, it will make me think that I have some important problem to think about, but it's all just nonsense. Back before refrigeration, it was common practice for people living in the north during winter to cut blocks of ice from lakes and store it in the cellar covered in sawdust.  The sawdust was so effective an insulator that ice could be kept almost all year long. indeed, ice blocks cut out of walden pond in Mass. were covered in sawdust and shipped (by sailing ship) all the way to madras, india, so that the british could get ice in their drinks.   Wow. Its amazing how utterly impossible it must have been to cool things down below ambient temperature.  Not in India, indeed.

But in desertic places with large day-night temperature excursion it was possible to use [windcatchers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windcatcher) instead. First time I've heard of windcatchers and they're pretty cool. Any reason we don't make more use of that type of architecture today? An evaporative air conditioner is effectively the same type of thing (at least those windcatchers that incorporated evaporation), with the fan in place of the wind. So a swamp cooler without a fan? Where do you use them?  In locations with high humidity heat or just dry heat (such as Los Angeles/Las Vegas)?

What temperature is it recommended to use those vs AC? I grew up in California near Sacramento. They were awesome there. I live in Texas now and you do not see them in this area due to the high humidity. I prefer them over a AC if I am in a dry climate.  I live in Las Vegas.  Some older houses have swamp coolers instead of AC.  Someone told me that swamp coolers can only cool structures down about 15-20 degrees below the outside temperature, so once it gets over 105-110 here (which is about 2-3 months), the "cool down" effect from a swamp cooler is not that noticeable and its still too hot in the structure.

I have a storage at a storage facility.  They use a swamp cooler; I think because its a lot cheaper to operate one than constantly burning electricity to use AC.  Our electricity rates here are very high thanks to NVEnergy (relative to other SW desert cities), so that may play a role in that as well (When it is 110+, our AC here goes almost all the time; even if you have your AC set to a low 80's temp). I usually go to Vegas during the high summer heat (late July to early August) and just being in the pools makes it feels nice until you get out and are dry within a few minutes.

The worst temps I got in Nevada was when I was visiting the Hoover Dam and it was 114 degrees out with 10-15 MPH winds...it felt like a convection oven.  In the 10 minutes I was outside my top lip dried out and I had to be putting Chap Stick all day for the next week.  During those times leaving a nice air conditioned casino at midnight means walking into 100 degree weather at night.  I love the place but to live there, no thanks! &gt; Where do you use them?

It needs to be dry heat. If it's humid, there's little room for water to evaporate, and also a cold humid room is not exactly pleasant (you can actually feel pain in your joints). _EDIT_: in fact if it's humid a de-humidifier can provide a lot of comfort alone, even without air conditioning.

The main advantage of evaporative AC is that it's much cheaper, and doesn't need a huge appliance outside. They're much much cheaper to run, less than a dollar a day to run 24/7 at local electricity prices. They usually have a relatively limited maximum temperature delta, though a good system with an insulated building can do better than ten degrees C, which is pretty significant.

The big problem is that they increase humidity in the building being cooled quite dramatically so if the climate isn't super dry they make things substantially worse. 100 degrees and dry is much less unpleasant than eighty and humid. Swamp coolers are best in dry heat, since the water evaporates more easily in low humidity.  They also chew through water like crazy, since they work by evaporation.

Unfortunately, this puts them in a nasty spot: the places where they are most efficient at saving energy in cooling are the places that have the least water. Variations have been used forever. As someone else said, swamp coolers have been in use for a long time. A lot of houses also used similar concepts for cooling; there used to be 'house fans' which were basically giant fans in the attic which would draw cool air from the ground, up through the rest of the house (these were sucking air and pushing it out the top of the house, rather than pushing it in). Houses used to be built with through and through designs so that you could open windows in both ends and get air flow, and you'd have wrap around porches to create extra shade.

The real answer to your question of 'why don't we do things like this' is electricity. It's cheap as hell, ubiquitous, and allows constant thermal regulation regardless of set up, which in turn allows the maximization of living space. Plus for things like air conditioning to work, you have to seal the house, which inherently fights natural air flow systems like this.  And people don't want bugs, dirt, dust, animals, or people to be able to access their home through venting systems, which vastly decreases the function. It's easier, cheaper, takes less space, is more customer controllable, etc. to install an AC unit than to build a windcatcher.

Windcatchers also "waste" water, which may be hard to come by in the same places where they work the best. an evaporative unit "swamp cooler" costs perhaps $40/mo to run 6 days a week for a few hours while a central AC unit will run 5-8 times that much in electricity cost. And piggy-backing off of /u/canyouhearme, they don't work so well.  I'm in Tucson, and most of the houses here have Evap Coolers if they're older and/or rentals (read: most of them in Tucson proper.)

If you want a demonstration, go into a steamy bathroom after a shower.  Dry yourself off, stand in the steamy room, and turn a fan on.  

Essentially it feels "nice," by going from AZ to Louisiana with a fan. That's not how an evaporative cooler works, in fact it's very counter to how it works.  With the correct setup they can be damned efficient and work well. But then you have to factor in square footage, cfms, air intake, a cracked window or door for exhaust, etc. All in all, it takes a very correct setup otherwise they don't work well. Which is why they don't work in Tucson houses.  Half were crap to begin with and the other half have horrid additions where the ground couldn't be kept even let alone worry about air intake.  I'm an architecture student right now. We learn of passive ventilation design. Its utilized but obviously it just cant adjust for all situations the way mechanical ventilation can. Still, the small ways it can be put into practice are great. You should check out Paolo Soleri and his urban design experiments at Cosanti and Arcosanti. 

Funfact: these places served as George Lucas' inspiration for how buildings and lifestyle should look in a desert climate.  Another question to ask is why homes in warm climates have ovens that don't vent out to anything and instead just stay warm until ambient temperature cools them.  Even better is why don't homes in cold climates use outside air to circulate into the refrigerator.  Wouldn't you just cover it in sand, wet the sand, and just... wait? completely non scientific response from a non scientist: im assuming water wasnt something to toss around? I seem to vaguely remember a method of cooling via evaporation which would work even in hot places. . ?  Cooling by evaporation works best in hot places, but specifically hot *dry* places, when water evaporates easily.  Hot humid places don't allow evaporative cooling because water doesn't evaporate readily into an already-humid atmosphere.   [Evaporative cooling in arid climates.](http://everything2.com/title/Making+Ice+In+Ancient+Rome) This technique had limited volume, but it could be done with materials already on hand. [deleted] How would it continue to radiate heat after it was cooler than the air around it? Wouldn't it just reach an equilibrium? Wow a lot of ppl are thinking about this too. Unfortunately lots of nonsense is getting tossed around. 
There is an important factor here that is not being discussed....evaporation. It was very dry in the desert where the ice-making occurred. This is important because evaporation of water from the pot lowers the temperature of the water. Typically water doesn't evaporate all that fast but if the atmosphere is very dry ( and the wind would help too) then evaporation must occur fast enough to lower the temp below the freezing point.   The air around the water and clay bowl would be transferring heat into the water through convection and conduction.  Thermal radiation is the transfer of energy through electromagnetic waves and is transferred between two object that are facing eachother, even through a vacuum.  The rate of heat transfer is relative to the difference in temperature.  The water is radiating its heat out and nothing radiates back and it is able transfer more heat out through radiation than the air is able to put into the water through convection and conduction (the thick clay bowl and straw increase the insulation, decreasing the convection and conduction rates).  Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radiative_cooling

An example of thermal radiation would be when you are around a camp fire.  Even though heat rises, when you stand next to it, even at a distance, the parts of your body facing the fire will heat up significantly no matter the temperature of the air. 

Edit:  The example and corrections Wouldn't it just be radiating into the nearby air? Why do you look at the difference between space and the water? Wouldn't that imply that this could work at very high ambient surface temperatures? And wouldn't the air be radiating energy back into the water too anyways making it reach equilibrium with the air temperature? I am so confused haha.  Thanks for having a clue about heat transfer.  It is unfortunate that you are getting drowned out by everyone who doesn't. One would think harvesting ice from Russia would have been quicker and easier to ship to India than the east coast of the US. shipping is ridiculously cheap; overland transport is expensive even on flat land, and russia is separated by the highest mountain range in the world (not to mention that they weren't exactly friendly) Since we are already somewhat off topic.  
[Speaking of ice, sawdust and ships...](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pykrete) [deleted] It would be much more difficult to transport any significant quantity of ice down a mountain than to load it onto a boat. [deleted] Not in a form that could be cut into blocks and moved thousands of feet down the mountains with 0 infrastructure. It is much easier to ship virtually anything by boat than by land.

Today this is because you need only a handfull of people to bring a massive container ship from the eastern to the western hemisphere and vice versa.

Back in the day you had a boat that ran on wind power compared to small carriages that "ran" on horse or ox power (or camel or whatever was appropriate for the region).

But aside from the lower costs of the energy you need to transport the goods, the costs for the people involved is a very big factor. I've got no clue about how it was back in the day but today the cost savings on a ship compared to land bases transportation are enormous. Also shipping by land had a much greater risk of being stolen,  so even paying for the extra caravan guards it was more likely that your goods would never arrive.  IIRC, the ice blocks retained around 80% of their starting volume. Not too shabby for such a long trip. It was really interesting reading the chapter of [Walden](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walden) where he talks about that. How much sawdust would have to be used to make this effective? According to Laura Ingalls Wilder in 'Farmer Boy', they put down three inches of sawdust, spaced the blocks three inches apart, packed sawdust in between and covered it with three more inches of sawdust. And this finally provides the answer to something I've been wondering for decades but always forgot to research. Thank you, /u/MarcusDrakus and /u/sigbhu! many ski resorts in Austria are doing this too - they fill holes on spots in the shadow with snow, cover it with sawdust and sheets so they already have some snow for the next winter, especially for events. My great grandfather used to do this. He would cut ice from the mountains and transport it via caravan to the city.

Never understood how they managed to keep the ice from melting. I just assumed as big as the blocks were it would take a lot of time. wouldn't they get sick from the untreated water? i.e "beaver fever" For extra super duper inefficiency, you can use a large amount of manky lake ice and salt to freeze a small amount of clean drinkable water into ice. I read about this in the "Little House" books. I could never reconcile my brain with it. How the heck does it not melt in 90 degree weather no matter what you use as an insulator? Permafrost doesn't melt even in the hot summers in Siberia. You just need a thick enough layer of insulation for the heat transfer to be too slow to become a problem. Heat from the surroundings (e.g. ambient/room temperature) would have to transfer to the ice to melt it. There are 2 primary modes to transfer heat: conduction (through contact) and convection (via a moving fluid such as air or water).  Sawdust and blankets both block convection, as no moving air contacts the ice to warm it up.  Also, they are very poor conductors of heat, so they prevent thermal energy from reaching the ice. As an illustration, blankets and sawdust feel warm to the touch because they do not conduct heat well; in contrast, things like metal feel cold because they conduct heat well, and pull heat from the part of your body in contact with them (until the metal warms up). Your body is warmer than room temperature, so the metal is 'cold' relative to your skin. &gt; There are 2 primary modes to transfer heat: conduction (through contact) and convection (via a moving fluid such as air or water).

There are three actually. Radiation, like the sun on your face and the source of most of the energy ever on this planet.
 the same way you don't freeze when you wrap yourself up in blankets, only the sawdust is much thicker and very fluffy.  Air can't penetrate all the way through the sawdust and so the warm air outside can't add energy to the cold air inside. The air goes right the way through. It just can't move, so there is little to no convection. An Englishman proposed building an [aircraft carrier made of pykrete - ice and sawdust](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Habakkuk) - during WWII when steel was short in supply. It would have melted more slowly and been much stronger than regular ice. Apparently Lord Mountbatten, his patron, prepared a demonstration in which he shot a block of regular ice and a block of pykrete. The bullet ricocheted off the pykrete and grazed an admiral's trousers So why didn't they use pykrete? Essentially, it would have melted.  There were of course elaborate plans to use a massive refrigeration system, but the cost in metal and industrial tech was higher than a regular aircraft carrier which was much more practical to propel.


Mythbusters did try it.  They found newspapers were far stronger reinforcement than wood pulp.  They make a skiff and sailed in waters just above freezing.  But it really didn't take long for the melting to set in.  Their 2" thick hull was basically dissolve into wet pulp inside of an hour.
  But can jet fuel melt pykrete?

Legitimate question, wouldn't the aircrafts on said carrier melt the thing? Quick, somebody should start spreading lots of sawdust on the polar ice caps! They do that in Peru. [LINK](http://www.pri.org/stories/2012-09-25/sawdust-and-paint-locals-fight-save-perus-glaciers) We still do that.  The local ski facility makes a big pile of snow and then covers it in sawdust over the summer, so the ski season can start early in the fall regardless of when we get our first snowfall. That said, keeping ice this way usually resulted in losing 90% of it due to meltage. The amazing thing is that ice vendors could get rich off that 10%. [deleted] On a tangent, this is also the reason you can potentially kill someone suffering from severe hypothermia, by wrapping them in blankets. They are too well insulated from their environment to absorb heat back into their bodies and raise their core temperature.  How could that happen? If the person is wrapped in a blanket during hypothermia your body will begin to raise in heat once again. You get hypothermia because you are exposed to too much environmental cold temperature exposure. A person with severe hypothermia, has a critically low core temperature. They need to be warmed up gently and slowly. If you wrap them in blankets you are insulating them from external heat sources. Their body, at this point, will most likely be unable to warm itself up. 

Rough handling of a person in this condition can also sometimes result in cardiac arrest of the patient.  Yes.

Blankets don't "trap heat" as we're commonly told.  The main mechanism through which blankets keep us warm is by preventing [convective heat transfer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convective_heat_transfer).  When you cover yourself with a blanket, it (mostly) prevents the air under the blanket from mixing with the air in the room.  Your body heats the air under the blanket, and that air pocket remains trapped, so you feel warmer.

This works in the exact same way for a cold object.  The cold object cools the air in close proximity to it, and the blanket prevents that cold pocket from escaping and mixing with the warmer air of the room, which keeps the object cold longer. Not just convective, but conductive as well. Blankets are filled with very low density materials like feathers which trap billions of their own air pockets and are extremely inefficient conductors. 
 And also radiative heat transfer, because the blanket blocks IR radiation from escaping. Not that IR makes a huge difference in this case, but the blanket does help. &gt;And also radiative heat transfer, because the blanket blocks IR radiation from escaping.

No the blanket mostly absorbs the IR thereby taking heat away from the object. To insulate  against radiation you need a reflective  material that redirects the IR back to the object instead of absorbing it. This is why thermos flasks have mirrored interiors.

 Not necessarily, the blanket will absorb your radiation, and thus heat up, slowing the rate at which the air that you've heated loses energy to the blanket, and the blanket will re-emit some of that back towards you, as well. 

The [emissivity of cotton is 0.77](http://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/emissivity-coefficients-d_447.html), the emissivity of [human skin is 0.98](http://www.thermoworks.com/emissivity_table.html). So even if the surface of the blanket did heat up to the same temperature as your skin, you would still be losing less energy to your surroundings through radiation than you would be without the blanket.  While it's the least of the three, mylar survival blankets help greatly in part because of the IR reflectivity of the material. Radiation is actually a significant heat loss mechanism at room temperature. It's comparable to natural convection. I don't think so. The blanket itself emits heat as radiation and if its emissivity is higher than that of your skin, heat loss by radiation could be greater with the blanket than without. In either case it's quite a small amount compared to convection/conduction and is balanced by radiation from your surroundings.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emissivity But it'd still be less because it's be a lower temperature, compared to your skin. Having a blanket will lower loss (or absorption from the outside) by radiation. The first layer of blanket while indeed absorb some of the radiation it receives (according to its constant of emissivity). But then it too will radiate, and some of that energy will be reflected back towards the original source. This happens at each layer. A smaller fraction will be emitted outward by the final layer. The emissivity of cotton is 0.77, the emissivity of human skin is 0.98. So even if the surface of the blanket did heat up to the same temperature as your skin, you would still be losing less energy to your surroundings through radiation than you would be without the blanket.

 Thanks for the numbers. Do you know what makes the skin's emissivity so high? &gt;The blanket itself emits heat as radiation and if its emissivity is higher than that of your skin, heat loss by radiation could be greater with the blanket than without.

I don't believe this is possible unless the blanket also conducts or convects heat from your skin much more efficiently than the air it's replacing would. In fact the blanket surface facing out should be only slightly warmer than room temperature and so net radiation will be at a minimum, whereas your warmer skin would have had a much higher net radiation no matter what the relative emmisivities.

I'm 60-80% confident here. So is this a similar phenomenon as to what goes on when we wear layers to stay warmer? I think multiple layers would actually be less efficient of an insulator than one very thick layer. The unsealed gap between layers allows air to mix. 

Layers are great because the amount of insulation can be customised to the environment (you can take one off if it gets too hot), and the material characteristics can be different (like sweat wicking base layer and wind blocking outer shell).  Thank you so much! With all the talk about layers of blankets it just got me thinking about my parents telling me to wear layers growing up! Is it more beneficial to have millions of little air pockets or one large one? Much better to have millions of small, because convective heat transfer allows fluids to rapidly reach equilibrium. Small pockets are seperated from eachother and cannot transfer heat by mixing.  Your idea indicates that The air pockets make your blanket absorb less heat from your body through physical contact, interestingly they also explain how 'convective&amp;radiative heat transfer' is reduced,which are the major heat transfer without the blanket in my view.  [deleted] Because the packed insulation is more capable of conducting heat. The properly installed insulation has those billions of teensy air pockets that greatly hinder heat conduction, which are pushed out when you tightly pack it. The downside to not packing it in is that it makes it possible for caverns to allow the cold air to simply fall behind the fiberglass and pour out in the room through the holes in the wall. 

I had this problem in my house. The electrical outlets felt like they pumping out air conditioning in the winter. When I tore the drywall off I saw that the insulation wasn't packed tightly enough and there was dead space in front of it and behind it. This allowed massive amounts of convection in the open space. The coldness would transfer through the outer sheathing, the air would fall behind the fiberglass matting, and simply pour right into the room through the outlets. didn't he just answer that? mini air pockets and all... [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I would guess that he teaches. He phrased that exactly like many of my own instructors would have, force us to think about the information, and put the answer into words, furthering our understanding of it. Or, since you're a student, that's just what you perceive. Heuristics and biases are incredibly interesting! When you compress it, the material becomes more dense, and these air pockets that normally exist between the fibres of the fibreglass get squished out, which makes the insulation much more conductive.

The glass fibres themselves can transfer heat fairly well - their function is the hold onto air (which is a much worse conductor) and trap it. When you compress insulation, you put many more of these glass fibres in contact with each other, and reduce the air content, which allows conductive heat transfer.  If glass is such a great heat conductor, how come artisans can hold a length of it while melting the opposite end without burning their hands? There are a few things at work here: first, the geometry of the glass being held means that it's hard for heat to propagate all the way to the end that is being held. A thin rod has a small cross-sectional area and a large surface area, which means what little heat is conducted down the rod will quickly be convected away by the surrounding air. Glass also has a low specific heat, even lower than air.  Specific heat is the energy required to heat one unit of mass (or mole of molecules) one degree. This means that glass heats up quickly, but cools quickly as well. That's why you see glass blowers work quickly, and reheat their work often. All of this adds up to blown glass not having enough energy, time, or cross-sectional area to be a problem to the artisan. /u/vendetta2115 said it. Also, I never said glass was a good conductor, just relatively good compared to air or a vacuum. Glass (and ceramics in general) are actually a terrible conductors. 

Windows are pretty good at blocking heat transfer, for example, but even with coatings and argon breaks, they are still worse than a well insulated wall.  So if air is a better insulator than glass, why bother with fiber glass wool at all? Why not just leave a gap full of good old fashioned atmospheric air? Convective heat transfer. When a fluid is allowed to freely mix, it will more quickly reach thermodynamic equilibrium than a fluid held in small pockets that are isolated from one another. This becomes an optimization problem of minimizing both conductive and convective transfer by reducing the density of the material in question and keeping the fluid it traps from interacting.  If the air is allowed to move, hot air will rise and be able to transfer heat to the opposite wall much faster than if it is trapped in small pockets that would have to heat one by one.

Essentially, unless you can use a vacuum devoid of any kind of heat carriers, the best effect can be achieved by increasing the number of heat transfer steps. That is: the more bad heat transfer boundaries you can cram in the same space, the better.

In this case, a heat transfer boundary would be any glass-air boundary, so the more times heat has to jump from glass to air, to glass, back to air, etc. the better the insulation.

Also, it is not only relevant to use better insulators, but to have boundaries with better insulation, even if the materials themselves were to be slightly worse insulators. Think about a thermos - it works because there is space between the material. If it was solid, it wouldn't prevent the heat transfer. The insulation is a similar case, where it's not so much the material itself, but the air that it traps, that keeps the heat from moving. Too packed = less air = worse insulation. As I understand it, it is because the more dense a material the more rapidly it will conduct thermal energy.  By stuffing more insulation into the same space you increase its density, and there for its thermal conductivity.  So it does "trap heat," just like it "traps" cold air. I realized that there are lots of misconceptions out there, but I think people imagine the scenario you described when they hear this phrase. I thought I was going crazy.  He started describing the mechanism of the blanket trapping heat right after proclaiming blankets don't trap heat. best way of putting it is that it slows heat transfer.  I guess it's sort of semantics at this point, but it's not really trapping heat, it's trapping air.  Heat (in a thermodynamic sense) is energy, and the heat in this scenario is contained within the air.  The blanket isn't trapping that energy, it's trapping the air that contains the energy.

It's technically incorrect to say that it's trapping heat because they work equally well with cold air, in which case it'd be trapping a "lack of heat", so to speak. I mean, if we're going to talk semantics, just because it also traps "lack of heat" doesn't mean that it *doesn't* trap heat as well. Trapping "lack of heat" is really the same thing as trapping "presence of heat" - the blanket impedes heat transfer across its boundary and thus reduces the rate at which the inside of the blanket and outside are driven to thermal equilibrium. Whether or not it keeps something hot or cold is a matter of which side you take to be "inside" versus "outside". All of the answers are correct! When speaking about convection, the mechanism by which a blanket works is by trapping air (Which I would agree in this instance is different from trapping heat. If you had a metal blanket or something, then you would say it is still good at trapping air, but it would obviously be bad at trapping heat). When speaking of conduction, we are specifically referring to the ability to prevent heat transfer, so a blanket also does manage to trap heat (and I would also agree that trapping heat means the same thing as trapping cold because it simply refers to the energy present in the system). Yeah, I just wanted to emphasize that it prevents heat transfer, both convective and conductive.

I can't say that I agree that preventing the flow of warm air (ie convective transfer) isn't *also* trapping heat... the effect is ultimately still that heat transfer is impeded. But it doesn't really matter, it just depends on how you think about it. It's not "trapping lack of heat" it's blocking heat from entering. You don't "seal silence" inside your ears when you wear earplugs.  Yes that was my point actually. A blanket prevents heat transfer, whether it is keeping things hot or cold depends on how you define it. To me, "trapping" heat means that it impedes the system reaching equilibrium, such that there is a difference in heat across the boundary. Which side you look at defines whether you think of it as trapping heat or lack of heat... both are complementary non-equilibrium states (in a closed system).

It is both keeping heat from entering one side and from exiting the other. That's how I picture it when thinking about an insulated outside wall of a house.  The outer side is trapping cold air and slowing it down from entering the house, while the inner side is trapping warm air, slowing it down from leaving the house. Trapping heat is exactly the removal or restriction of thermal transfer. It perfectly correct to say that a blanket traps heat because the blanket restricts convection and conduction. &gt;&gt; So it does "trap heat," just like it "traps" cold

&gt; I guess it's sort of semantics 

i posted a q on /r/askscience a month or two back asking if we could consistently define things (physics) in terms of cold rather than heat.  unfortunately no-one answered.  it seems to me like you'd just need to flip a sign in various places and thermodynamics should work out ok, but radiative transfer seems odd...

however, i didn't think about it too much.  absolute zero is weird, but i am not sure it's a problem. &gt;  it seems to me like you'd just need to flip a sign in various places and thermodynamics should work out ok

It doesn't seem a natural fit. I'm not sure it could be done in anything but a trivial sense, i.e. essentially replacing the word 'heat' by 'un-cold'.

Absolute zero is a thing. Absolute hot is also a thing, but it's less fundamental. So in the desert summer, would placing ice packs under my covers help keep me cool? Yes. Initially, but your body heat will be trapped and will accumulate under the covers as well, and will eventually negate any cooling the ice packs provide. You might be better off just not using covers depending on the length of time you will be under them. If you go to ice depots (as they're called) in poorer countries, this is exactly what they do. They cover ice with blankets. Try saw dust. It'll keep ice around for months and months. I remember uncovering snow and ice in july at my dad's house because it was under a pile of sawdust. There were plans during WW2 to build [semi-disposable ships out of frozen blocks of an ice/straw mixture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pykrete). It thawed out at an incredibly slow rate.  When I go hiking I usually freeze the bottles of water prior. Then I wrap the bottles and the food in my extra clothing and a towel. 

This is during the summer but even after several days of hiking, there's still ice left in the bottles and the food has remained refrigerated.  After reading all the replies to this I no longer recognize trapping and heat as words. They are just sounds now. &gt; Blankets don't "trap heat" as we're commonly told    
  
&gt;and that air pocket remains trapped,

Am I missing something? Yes.  Heat and heated air are, technically speaking, different things. Said air pocket could be cold just as easily as it could be hot.

It's just as correct to say the blanket "traps cold" as it is to say it "craps heat". [deleted] On this same topic, I spent a few months in Ecuador living in a very rural area.  There was no road access and no electricity. Whenever they had a party, they would bring in a huge block of ice (maybe 3 feet tall, and 1 foot deep and 2 feet wide) to the town on the back of a mule.  It was wrapped in sawdust and a cloth bag to insulate it.  
That this block didn't melt for a couple of days illustrates two principles: the benefits of insulation for keeping things cold, and the idea of surface-area-to-volume ratio.  Both of these factors kept it from thawing before the party started, at which point they would break up chunks of ice to keep everyone's drinks cold! So they don't trap heat specifically they just trap air? wow... this explains so much.. i always wrapped frozen cola bottles in blankets to make it melt faster.. little did i know You say blankets don't trap heat, and then you specifically (but incompletely) explain how trapping heat us exactly what they do.  yes, yes, but they trap cold equally well, like a thermos flask - that's what everyone didn't know. Is that the same on how a wetsuit works in the water?
 So could I technically take a cold bottle of water and wrap in a blanket or something and it will stay colder longer despite the hotter outside temperature? Yes.  Also, if your car AC blows onto your iced beverage in a non-thermos cup in a cupholder, it will melt your ice faster. The "cold" air is warmer than the drink, and the constant wind keeps more air flowing past to add heat to the outside of the container. So keep it out of the sun and out of the breeze on car trips. :) Is this why when my feet are cold I feel like socks just keep them cold longer? A lot of times I just end up taking my socks off but my gf says I'm nutso. No. your feet are not ice. Your feet are generating heat. If you wear socks your feet will be warmer than without. ( unless your socks are wet or moist ) This. I had pies chilled, and I had no ice cooler to hold em in. I just wrapped em up in some of my jackets and it stayed pretty chilled later when eating it.  Is that true for most clothes?  That's what my physicist friend said.  

Is that why less porous material seems warmer? &gt; The main mechanism through which blankets keep us warm is by preventing convective heat transfer.

Correct.

Interestingly, this is also how actual greenhouses work. The term "greenhouse effect" is actually a misnomer, since preventing IR from escaping is *not* how real greenhouses stay warm. If the blankets are warmer than the air, however, would it not act to warm up the cold object though? I have a question, if blankets just make a pocket of your own body heat, why are thicker blankets and other types of blankets warmer? Less percentage of air passing through? That's part of it, but also, as /u/LickitySplit939 said, blankets also prevent conductive heat transfer.  Thicker blankets do this better as well. So if I have really cold feet, does it defeat the purpose of putting them under a blanket. I know sometimes my feet feel like they take forever to warm up under the blankets, socks don't work when my feet are at that level of cold too. I usually have to put my feet in slippers and do a quick lap around the house.  No, because even when your feet are cold, they are still generating heat.  Doing a lap around the house increases blood flow to the feet and thus, the amount of heat they generate. What if the cold object is an an equally cold environment? Do the blankets have no effect? If a cold object is in thermal equilibrium with its environment, then there is no net heat transfer, you are correct.

But if the temperature of the object or environment changes, blankets will slow the transfer of heat between the two. *unless the object in question doesn't have much mass and the blankets are starting off warmer than the cold object.  

Heat will transfer faster from direct contact than just through the air.   So if the blankets start off at room temperature while a small object is much colder,  wrapping the object will cause heat to transfer much quicker.  If you add too many blankets the compression under the gravitational force will cause heating. &gt;The cold object cools the air in close proximity to it, and the blanket prevents that cold pocket from escaping and mixing with the warmer air of the room, which keeps the object cold longer.

side note: If you're dangerously cold don't rug up and get in front of a heat source like a fire, you need to get as much skin as possible near it with as few barriers as possible between you and the source. Don't put a blanket on and stand near a fire to warm up, take your shirt off instead, you need skin near that heat source, the blanket just keeps you cold, and if hypothermic, may kill you. So if I was to get a good 2 ft of dirt on me while laying on my back will I also become warmer?  Actually, yeah. Before people had blankets they used dirt and plant materials like moss (a really good blanket if you find yourself stranded in the middle of nowhere and cold) and leaves.  Thank you for the straight answer.  How long could something stay cold like that? For example if I were to dig a hole and throw everything from my fridge in it, then put a ton of blankets over it, would I need my fridge anymore? For the love of science - don't be afraid to do your own experiments!
This question was begging to be answered using the scientific principles and experimentation.

1. Get two cold objects (icecreams, sodas, icecubes, beers whatever)
2. Wrap one in a blanket.
3. Leave the other one unwrapped.
4. Leave system for 60 minutes.
5. Examine, and measure (use thermometer, or visually inspect ice cubes, or icecream, or taste beers etc).
6. Voila, you are an experimental scientist, and you are much more likely to remember the result. You may also come up with other variations that you never thought of just asking a question.
 In the age of the internet, this is something we too often forget. Thanks for the reminder. It's more efficient that way. Stand on the shoulders of giants and all that. I agree 100%; I just hope we don't ever lose the mentality to experiment for ourselves. It will be a good idea to put the ice blocks in ziplock bags first... Although this will somewhat confound the result, nobody likes wet blanket at the end of the day.

Also, ice in blanket might melt first due to heat transfer from the blanket itself in this case. For this experiment to work, the ice "cube" might need to be big enough to make that factor negligible. Don't forget to repeat the experiment ay least 3 times to confirm your results. 

This is the best excuse I've ever heard for drinking 6 beers and eating 6 icecreams in one sitting.  As someone who worked delivering frozen food , yes they do and very well actually.

To test this. Take 2 can of soda/beer in the fridge and wrap one in a blanket. Set them somewhere and comeback later. The unwrapped one will be at room temperature and the other one will be much colder. What if this blanket is shaped like a coozy?  Coozies absolutely help keep drinks cold. They don't cover the whole can, but the part that does get covered is next to a poor conductor of heat.

Edit: also try a blanket, a coozie, and a control to see how much difference it makes. I do this every time I go to the beach. Since I ride a motorcycle and cant really bring a cooler, I just wrap the food/water/beer in my spare clothes and they stay quite cool the whole time.

It also has the added affect of providing me nicely chilled clothes to wear after a hot day at the beach. There is no condensation that makes your shirt all wet? This is a good time to talk about the boundary layer.

The air isn't all at the same temperature.  Obviously.  Some places are warmer, some are cooler.  The thing is, air is actually pretty bad at conducting heat.  If you heat up some air, it will do a very bad job of heating up the air around it!  However, warmer air is less dense than cooler air, so it rises, and when it does, cooler air comes in and takes its place because low pressure sucks in what's around it.  This means that the difference in temperature causes air to move around.  And if you take hot air here and put it over there, then over there becomes warmer.  This is basically what convection is.

But if you have a hot *object*, it will heat up the air around it -- but *only* the air immediately around it.  That's because, again, air is bad at transferring heat.  That bit of air around it is called the boundary layer.  The object will lose some of its heat to the boundary layer, but as long as that boundary layer doesn't move, the object is in equilibrium: it's losing heat to the boundary layer just as much as the boundary layer is heating the object.  But boundary layers, generally, *do* move!  If you blow some wind at them, for example, you sweep away some of the boundary layer, and the object has to lose more heat to basically bring the new boundary layer to equilibrium.  (That's how fans work!)  If you put some water on them, the water will eat up some of the heat to evaporate, which will, again, cause the object to lose more heat.  (That's how sweating works!)  On the other hand, if you put the object in a blanket, it'll help keep the boundary layer undisturbed, because it won't have anywhere to go.  So it'll keep a warm object warm.  In the case of a person, remember that a person is a machine that turns food into, among other things, heat.  So a person is constantly producing heat, and if you put a person in a colder environment, the person will need to produce more heat to stay warm.  Put the person in a blanket, and now the boundary layer doesn't go away so the person doesn't need to produce as much heat to stay at the right temperature.

But will it work on a cold object?  Actually... yes.  Let's define "cold" as just colder than the ambient temperature.  Something cold has less heat than something warm (basically).  The very same processes will bring the object to equilibrium -- except that the *air* in the boundary layer will lose heat to the object until it's cold enough that the air and the object are in equilibrium.  But the boundary layer mechanism is the same.  So blowing air at a cold boundary layer will sweep it away just like with a warm boundary layer.  Similarly, wrapping it in a blanket to preserve it will work whether it's a cold boundary layer or a warm one.  But putting water on a boundary layer will only work to make it lose heat, though.  However, if you put enough water in the *air*, depending on the temperature and moisture on the surface, you might make it so that the boundary layer is drier than the air around it, so in equilibrium, the air gives more water than gets evaporated, and you could see a warming effect instead of a cooling effect.  This happens when you fog up some glass, for example. Thank you for the detailed explanation. I have two questions.  When the boundary layer warms up (or cools down), does that air continuously rise (or sink) and get replaced?  Can a layer of aluminum foil keep warm objects warm (or cold objects cool)? Aluminum foil will help in most cases, but more because it reduces the amount of heat that is lost through radiation. Besides that, it may reduce convective losses, yes, but it can depend on a lot of different factors. To store ice commercially, they used buildings called Ice Houses. They were really cool! They were shaped like a beehive, with a hole in the top. Their design was such, that as the ice on top melted it would flow down to the bottom and refreeze. They worked incredibly well, and were in use for literally thousands of years, as well as spanning across all of asia and europe. These things existed in deserts they worked so well, it just took a lot of insulation and a very clever design.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ice_house_%28building%29 Yes, it acts as an insulator to keep heat transfer from happening between the cold object and outside temperatures. I typically buy two energy drinks from the gas station every morning. I drink the first one immediately and wrap the second one in a hooded sweatshirt in order to keep it cold for later in the day.  I used to do this in Iraq. Back before "Mission Accomplished" the lines of supply kind of sucked. We were issued 3 1.5 litres of cold water. And had a water buffalo that was filled nightly. Some dipshits would drink the cool 3 right away and then suffer through the hot buffalo water at noon. I would get the days ration and put it in my sleeping bag or poncho liner. I would then fill yesterdays bottles with cool water from the buffalo. When I finished the refills I still had the cold water for the afternoon. Then we got a refrigerator, and lived like kings. The insulation should help slow down the transfer of heat between the object and the surrounding air. (If the air around it is warmer, the object will warm slower if wrapped -- AKA "stay cold" longer)

If the object is currently cold but generating its own heat (like a person, let's say). Then the heat inside the blanket will be slower in transferring to the surrounding air as well. Whether this adds up to "staying cold" longer depends on how much heat is being generated vs. the heat in the surrounding air and how good of an insulator the blankets are. Probably well known but kinda on the subject of---bar-tending/backing trick for when you are running low on pre-chilled bottles/cans to serve: wrap wet paper towels around dry bottles/cans and throw 'em in the freezer. They will be chilled and ready to serve in about 1/3rd the time it would normally take for them to cool down in the fridge. Yes. Anything that insulates (better than the object's natural surroundings, that is) will keep the object cold for longer. It works the same as if the object is hot, you've merely switched which side of the insulation is the cold side.

In the case of a blanket, its insulating properties don't actually come from the blanket material itself. If you had *solid* blanket material touching the object, it would probably conduct heat away faster than if you had still air around it. The way the blanket works is by trapping air and preventing it from moving, so that it can't effectively carry heat away from (or in this case, towards) the object. Thermal energy always moves from a high energy system (hot) to a low energy system (cold). Thermal energy is transferred by three methods, conduction, convection, and radiation. 

**Conduction** is direct heat transfer - your cold object sitting on a relatively warm surface, the thermal energy of the surface is heating your cold object directly.

**Convection** is moving air - warm air circulating past your cold object will warm it up.

**Radiation** is infrared radiation, like a heat lamp or direct sunlight. If your cold object is out in the noon day sun, it's going to receive a lot of heating rays.

Blankets typically help all three of these things - it blocks radiation to some degree (emergency blankets are good examples of that), it blocks conduction (if you're camping in very cold weather, you definitely want something insulating underneath you), and mostly convection - it prevents air from circulating around.

So whether the high energy system is a casserole or the low energy system is an icy margarita, insulation will help slow the thermal energy transfer. I don't understand how conduction and convection are different. 

At the molecular level, isn't heat basically measured by how fast the particles in an object are moving? So a hot object would have fast moving particles and a cold one would have slow moving particles. The hot objects bump into stuff around them and transfer that momentum in other objects, so heat naturally transfers to cold objects around them because the fast moving particles hit the slow ("cold") particles and this makes the cold particles move faster and therefore get "warmer". Isn't that the real essence of this whole thing at the molecular level?

If my understanding is correct, then I really don't see the difference between conduction and convection. Both of them seem like "direct heat transfer" to me. Your cold object sits on a warm surface, and therefore the molecules in the cold object get hit by fast moving moles in the warm surface, they take some of the momentum and move faster too.

In your convection example... warm air circulates past the cold object and... well... it does the same thing to heat up the cold object, doesn't it? It is still just molecules bumping against each other. Where's the difference...? If you wrap a small cold object (say a single ice cube) in a warm blanket, even a blanket at ambient temperature, the heat in the blanket will warm up the cold object before the insulating effect of the blanket gets to work. It's only with relatively large objects (such as a large block of ice) that a blanket can do some good. http://energy.gov/energysaver/articles/insulation explains insulating pretty well, and from what they say and what i know, as long as the blanket has a smaller rate of heat transfer than the air, it should reduce the amount of heat lost, so yes, wrapping a cold object in blankets with make it stay cold longer Yes.

 Since blankets just provide insulation they keep the warm air away from the cold whatever.

It works very well actually. When I am sitting in my bedroom trying to get some work done comfortable I often stick several cold beverages inside of one of my pillowcases and lay another pillow on top. I've kept half gallons of milk cold for hours this way and even woken up after falling asleep in the middle of the night to find sodas and beers still well chilled.  Yes, the blankets will effectively trap a layer of air around the ice which acts as an insulator. This limits the amount (rate) of energy the ice can suck in from its surrounding environment, thus staying colder for longer. Firstly cold is a relative term.  If you mean the object is colder than the surroundings then yes, a blanket will keep the object cooler longer.  As others have pointed out this is because of convective heat transfer.  Think of a cooler you take to the beach.  It keeps food and drinks cooler because the heat does not readily pass through the walls of the cooler.  A good way to think about it is that cold doesn't actually exist.  There is only heat and then the absence of heat.  Heat can only travel to a place which has less heat (cooler) than it.  The blanket makes it harder for heat to travel to the object.  In the opposite case a blanket makes it harder for heat to travel to the cooler surroundings. Regarding sawdust. A prototype boat was made completely out of ice that could actually go out to sea. It was a war boat and used sawdust within the ice as an insulator, the sawdust was mixed into the water pre-freeze. The U.S. President at the time approved of it until they realized that it would have 0 defense against military attacks. The idea was originally proposed when supplies of metal were low during a World War - can't remember the small details, I'm surprised I remember this much from HS history.  You're talking about [Project Habakkuk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Habakkuk). It was actually a British project with a prototype produced in Canada; ultimately what doomed the project more than anything was a combination of continuously increasing demands on the design combined with remaining unsolved technical problems (particularly long-term deformation of the Pykrete that formed the vessel, requiring considerably more steel reinforcing than originally expected). And it became more expensive than steel itself I believe, right?  That's Pykrete, the sawdust isn't just an insulator, it also strengthens they ice by adding a lot of tensile strength, which in turn makes the ice much less brittle. The main issue is that any light is intense enough to push a human would literally vaporize someone. For a 100 pounds force, you'd need roughly 130 gigawatts focused on someone. A 1-watt laser is enough to cause burns. What if you coated the human's skin with some super-mirrored paint that reflected all the light? Wouldn't it double the force from the light as well as reduce the heating? Yes. However, no such material exists :( not with that attitude it doesn't!

No but seriously - let's say it diiiid exist - could it still be possible? mathematically speaking? Yes! It's actually called "Radiation pressure"! 

For example, if you put a reflective 800x800 m mirror in space facing our sun it would produce roughly 5 Newtons of force.  

For reference, the force of holding 5 big king sized candy bars on earth is equivalent to 5 Newtons.

The acceleration is small, but it is a simple propulsion system that just uses a stream of momentum carrying photons as fuel! That's the idea behind solar sails, right? Yes but if it takes a 800*800 sheet to get 5 newtons of force then its unusable since Aluminum Foil Just 1/2 a millimeter thick at that size is 320m^3 of aluminum.  
&amp;nbsp;  
864 metric tons of aluminum would accelerate at roughly 0.00000579 m/s^2 if it trurly only created 5N of force.

Edit: Seems as though this maths was incorrect. I fixed it now. Which is why real designs don't use aluminum foil; they use mylar or another polymer.  [Japan already made a solar sail satellite which flew past Venus and is currently orbiting the sun](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IKAROS).  Its 7.5 um-thick sail has a mass of only only 10g per square meter. But solar wind is also made up of a for amount of charged particles, right? It's not like it's purely photon powered.  Pretty sure it's thrust comes primarily from photons. To steer it uses LCD patches which can switch between reflective (silvery white) and absorbent (very dark grey). To get a differential thrust (and therefore to turn) it switches one side to absorbent while keeping the rest reflective, because it's constantly rotating it actually needs to cycle through the patches so the reduced-thrust side is always the same.

If it were getting its thrust from charged particles then this LCD concept wouldn't work (the particles would be absorbed no matter what). Theoretically you should be able to use the charged  solar wind to produce thrust but you need to use strong magnetic fields to do so. Its an interesting read. It still only accelerated at 0.0000759 m/s^2 but its a nice proof of concept that if you wait a few months the cumulative Acceleration does add up. The nice part about that type of acceleration is that zero propellant is carried and the "propellant" being used by the solar sail is moving at the speed of light.

I forget the formula but the upper speed boundary for a "rocket" is limited by the speed of the propellant.  That's 6.5 m/s per day in acceleration to give a more graspable number. Or 2400 m/s after one year.  That's only slightly slower than an ion thruster, but really we're looking at super-saver shipping. Humans will want to use express mail options like VASIMR or fission fragment rockets. Also, the fact that it is a constant acceleration is appealing.  

By comparison, Voyager 1 is currently traveling at 17043 m/s (according to google).   It would take our japanese probe ~ 7 years to reach the same speed.  This is actually pretty great because it took Voyager 38 years to reach the same speed.

The other issue I believe is that you will loose acceleration as you move farther from the sun, so only really effective in the solar system. 


 To be clear, it didn't make it to Venus on its own. It piggybacked with the Akatsuki orbiter using traditional chemical rockets. Only after it was already on a trajectory to fly by Venus was the solar sail deployed. wait up we getting light mixed with solar "wind"

Solar Wind: It consists of mostly electrons, protons and alpha particles with energies usually between 1.5 and 10 keV. The stream of particles varies in density, temperature, and speed over time and over solar longitude. Very true, however, if our goal were some sort of long distance travel and we used a material lighter and more reflective than aluminum over time the craft could get to decent speeds. Mylar sheeting, for example. Much, much thinner than 1/2mm thick (more like 120um or less). 'Sail' is an apt term - it'd have to be rigged, and tacked much like a sailing ship, but you could go almost anywhere in the inner solar system with one quite efficiently. I'd always thought of these as "downwind" only, but now you've got me wondering if you could "reach" or even "beat" with a solar sail. Dynamics obviously very different from sailing with wind on earth due to near lack of any other forces.  My gut instinct is you might build a reaching solar sail but not anything for beating toward the sun. Efficiently if you're not worried about how many people would die waiting...  If it was 0.5mm thick wouldn't that be (0.5/1000)m x 800m x 800m=320 m^3 ? Anyway, according to wikipedia, common household foil is only 0.016mm thick, and heavy-duty household foil is 0.024mm, which would give volumes of 10.24m^3 and 15.36m^3 respectively. At 2.70 g/cm^3 , thats 27648kg and 41472kg, which gives 1.81e-4m/s^2 and 1.21e-4m/s^2 for acceleration. A good bit faster than 5.79e-7. My understanding is that solar sails also would use the particles ejected from the sun, but I might be mistaken. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Funny you should say that! I took a couple economics courses and ended up creating an economy with perfect competition where there was no asymmetry of information between the supplier and the consumer. I even saw the invisible hand. Yes. [deleted] [deleted] I'm from the Fox News press room.  We already have this story on the books, the title is "Bone-crushing light endorsed by Obama and the democrats"
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What if a person was between a wall and a theoretical panel that was optimized to change light into motion with very little heat?   Like a solar powered car? Ha, I like that, but  that's not what I was thinking... 

How about a person against a wall with a sheet of plywood (or something similar shaped) on the other side that could turn light shined on it into motion efficiently. Could you crush someone like that... assuming most of the energy was not lost in heat and was turned into motion.
 How is what you're describing different from running someone over with a solar powered car? hes describing someone being compressed between two barriers via force originated from light and you're talking about a guy being crushed by a tire... what is similar? so how about a wall and a solar powered bulldozer? Is said wall also solar-powered? With that car, it's more of a real world situation. I'm looking for a more physics based question where you are not turning the light into electricity and then after that turning electricity into motion via a motor, but more wondering about the potential of light turned into very efficient (100% or nearly) motion with no loss of heat or other exchange into motion.
  
I guess what I'm really curious about, is if you could shine a light on a 4 by 8 foot sheet of plywood and it would transfer all that light into motion, how much light would it take to squish someone?   A flashlight? A spotlight? An industrial spotlight? A high powered laser? A percentage of the sun? Etc...?  The [2012 nobel prize](http://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/2012/popular-physicsprize2012.pdf) was given to a team that made a reflective surface that reflects light in a 2.7cm cavity for over 0.1 seconds (at speed c). This amounts to 1.1x10^9 photon reflections per photon absorbed. Thus a 1000GW source on such a source would only provide 900W of heat energy which is less than that of a kettle and could be managed with insulation while providing 1000 pounds of force which could probably kill you.

tl;dr the reflective material exists It's not as difficult as you make it seem. Look up meta-materials. Although too expensive to manufacture now, it's possible to make a perfect mirror using meta-materials that form patterns smaller than the wave-length of light.  Making a very large Bragg reflector is completely feasible and not overwhelmingly expensive.  Wouldnt that reduce the force because the momentum of the photons is being redirected somewhere else instead of being put completely into the target? Momentum is a vector. The photons, in turning around, will impart a greater impulse on the body...

Consider that a photon going toward the body has some positive momentum--in bouncing off with the same momentum in the opposite direction, it has gone to the same magnitude of momentum, but negative. The difference is two times the initial momentum, and that is the impulse imparted. Are they really turning around, or are they being absorbed and re-emitted? I believe that is the mechanism they use, but the important part is the net result is an equal number of photons traveling in the opposite direction from our magic perfectly reflective surface. I'm not quite following that. If you set up two of these mirrors in parallel and the photon bounced back and forth wouldn't the momentum of the system keep increasing?

EDIT: Also, the photon has a certain momentum when it is moving towards one such mirror. When it bounces off it is traveling in the opposite direction doesn't it have the same momentum in the opposite direction when it bounces off. how can it impart momentum to the mirror if it has the same momentum before and after? Where is the energy to apply the force on the mirror come from? The photon that bounces off still has the same speed (speed of light), but has less energy (longer wavelength). Is that why mirrors approach the color green? The effect is not tangible to humans. The reason mirrors are green is the composition of the glass No, common mirrors just tint the light to green because of an iron oxide impurity in the glass. Even low-iron glass will tint the light a little bit, and when you line two mirrors up the tunnel image will look greener the further it goes. Even if you had no-iron glass, you would then see the image take on a yellow tint, because of impurities in the silver backing.  If you visit the pentagon, the 3" glass they use is a greenish tint. It is because it is cheaper to get green glass than clear glass. There are companies that make "clearer" glass and they charge a premium for making sure to get less impurities in it, if you are trying to get 3" glass I'm sure the slight green tint outweighs the extra cost you would tack on after that.
 A perfectly specular surface will reflect all colors equally; our mirrors are imperfect and have a slight favor for the green wavelengths. So the reason why two mirrors don't appear to keep reflecting infinitely, and the reflection eventually fades out, is because the wavelength of the light eventually leaves the visible range? If not, and the reflection just keeps getting smaller until the human eye can no longer resolve it or it just gets too green for us to distinguish it, how many times would visible light (lets say red light) need to be reflected before it leaves the visible range? I believe he is talking about a perfect reflector that loses no energy to thermal excitation. First, momentum has direction. It's a vector. Before the collision, the mirror is at rest, and the photon is moving toward it, with momentum +m (units and numbers omitted for simplicity). After the collision, the photon is moving away, with momentum approximately -m, and the mirror is moving in the direction the photon was originally going, with momentum approximately +2m. Both before and after, the momentum of the system as a whole is exactly +m.

If you add a second mirror, the collision repeats at the opposite mirror. This is where it starts to matter that I put "exactly" and "approximately" above. Energy is conserved as well; at each collision, the mirrors accelerate a little bit, and start moving, gaining both energy and momentum. Because the mirrors are heavy compared to the photons, they don't move very quickly. The photon loses only a tiny bit of energy at each collision, but the energy loss is not precisely zero. When photons lose energy, they get redder. (This is basically where non-Newtonian physics starts to become relevant.) Over many bounces back and forth, you'll end up with the two mirrors moving apart. Eventually, almost all of the energy of the photon will be converted into kinetic energy in the mirrors. (The mirrors will still be moving exceedingly slowly; photons are tiny.) The photon will be deep red (or off in the radio spectrum if you wait long enough).

See also: solar sails / light sails. What would happen on an extremely long timescale? Is there any kind of limit to how little energy/long wavelength a photon can have? In a realistic scenario, the photon would just travel through the mirror at some longer wavelength. I'm not sure what would happen if you had a perfect reflector. Probably something to do with calculus and integrals. I think to really treat this, you need to fix your frame of reference, however since the mirrors are accelerating you can't use those as your frame. I think it's most helpful to imagine the mirrors are attached to U-shaped piece of metal so that when one accelerates it brings the other one with it as it would be in a real laser cavity. Otherwise the cavity will grow over time. If the cavity doesn't grow, then the photon will stay the same colour on average. On a given bounce, the photon redshifts in the FoR of mirror one, but it has now been blueshifted in the FoR mirror two. After many bounces you won't see a continuing decrease in photon energy which makes sense because if the mirrors are stationary, there is nowhere for that energy to go. How does a photon lose energy? What type of energy does it have to lose? Kinetic? How can it lose kinetic energy and still travel at the speed of light? Does it shift the wavelength and this is one of those dual nature of light issues? The energy of a photon is related to its wavelength. So when a photon loses energy, it's wavelength increases. E=hf where f is frequency and h is plancks constant. As a photon loses energy, it's frequency decreases. Thank you. Great explanation. The momentum is of the same magnitude before and after the collision (if not slightly less after) but in the opposite direction. The total momentum is still constant: the mirrors have opposite momenta that sum zero. 

Imagine the mirrors aligned from left to right on a little rail, free to slide without friction. A photon is going from left to right, and it's going to hit the first mirror. 

Instant 1: photon have 1 unit of momentum, going from left to right. 

Instant 2: the photon hits the mirror and is perfectly reflected. So, now the photon still have 1 unit of momentum, but going on the opposite direction (*right to left*). We could represent this by saying that it is actually - 1. This means that it's momentum changed by 2 units. So, by the law of conservation of momentum, the mirror must have a momentum of 2 units left to right, so that the total sum is still 1 unit left to right. 

Instant 3: the photon bounces over the other mirror and the same thing happens. The second mirror aquire a momentum of -2 and the photon will have +1. The total sum is +1-2+2=1. So, it's always constant. 

There are two situations: in one, the two mirrors will have momentum of equal magnitude and opposite directions, so that they sum zero. In the other the first mirror will have slightly higher momentum to balance the fact that the photon is going in the wrong direction. 

The problem here is not conservation of momentum. It is conservation of energy. Energy is a scalar and have no direction. Thus it doesn't matter if the mirrors are going in the opposite direction, if the magnitude of their momenta keep increasing, their combined energy will keep increasing. This energy must come from somewhere, and there's only one thing to supply this energy: the photon. 

So, this means that this reflection can't be exactly perfect: the photon that's coming out must have slightly less energy. How much less? Exactly the same every the mirror got from being accelerated.  If I throw a brick at you and you catch it, you have cancelled its velocity, absorbing force x from the brick (its kinetic energy). If I throw the same brick at you, and you fail to catch it, and it bounces off your head coming back at me at the same speed, the brick has not only stopped (LOST X ENERGY) but then started going again in another direction at the same speed (GAINED X ENERGY). While this may seem to cancel out (the brick loses X then gains X) it doesn't actually because direction matters. In this case, we're talking about a perfect reflection back the direction we came, so you need to put in X energy to stop it, and another X to send it back where it came from. Due to newton's third law, since you are the source of that energy, you get pushed back proportionally, and that proportion is twice as much as if you had simply caught the brick.

To restate it another way, imagine if I threw an entire bullet cartridge at you really fast. You catch it, and doing so pushes you back a bit. Then you put it in a gun and fire it back at me. The fact that you fired it back has some recoil, which pushes you back even further. If you never shot it back, that second recoil wouldn't ever happen. The analogy isn't perfect, but it illustrates that stopping something's momentum and moving it another direction are two different actions that require as much energy. Oh i get it. If i were floating in space completely stationary and someone threw a ball at me and i caught it i would start moving backwards.

If i were again floating in space completely stationary and i threw the ball to you i would start floating backwards.

So if a ball bounces off me then i would move back the same as if someone threw the ball at me, i caught it, then threw it back at them. If the mirrors were fixed, then there is no distance that the force pushes through, so work = force * distance = 0. No energy. Assuming perfect mirrors, the photon bounces eternally.

If the mirrors are being pushed apart, then there is a Doppler effect stretching the wavelength. Longer wavelengths have less energy.

You don't need energy to create a force - gravity does that all the time. &gt; You don't need energy to create a force - gravity does that all the time.

Um, how come?

Gravity is basically the manifestation of potential energy of mass (and other stuff in the stress-energy tensor) with regards to other masses. That's what General Relativity is all about. Spacetime is expanding thanks to a mysterious force, that is proportional to distance between stuff, so pushes the equilibrium state a bit "apart", but otherwise potential energy of stuff bends the spacetime manifold causing a Newtonian force toward the center-of-mass of the whole system. [[1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metric_expansion_of_space#Effects_of_expansion_on_small_scales)]

Gravity as we see it is - in this sense - a direct result of the big bang. No. The magnitude of the *difference* in momentum is twice that of the initial momentum but that's simply because you're going from -*X* Ns to +*X* Ns (or vice versa - depending on what you consider the 'positive' direction). The magnitude of the momentum remains constant: *X* Ns. All optical cavities have a loss channel which dissipates the energy within.  Thus even if you could trap a single photon indefinitely, your loss channel would deplete the energy of the photon after a certain amount of time.  It would red-shift upon each bounce until it stopped being able to maintain it's mode inside the cavity. what happens to a photon when it loses all energy? Photons are only energy, so they can't have none. In this situation, a photon would become longer and longer wavelength until it escaped from it's containment (which is sort of an odd problem re: wave-particle duality and quantum tunneling and stuff, so I'm not gonna talk about it cause it's late right now. I have a question while we're talking about reflecting photons. Of the ones that reflect back, do any collide with oncoming photons? What happens if they do, do they get hit back towards the mirror? Photons do not interact with each other. The strength of interaction with the electromagnetic field is a particle's charge, and photons have none. There is a low possibility of indirect reflection if the photons have enough energy (gamma-ray photons become electron/antielectron pairs, interact, pairs annihilate into new photons doing something different). The angle the photons leave at is random, but the probability distribution is calculable from quantum electrodynamics. Think of newton's third law (for every reaction there is an opposite but equal reaction). You actually impart more momentum by having the light bounce off instead of being absorbed.  How would it double the force? Ok, now the important question: do we have the technology to build this? [deleted] Yes.  In fact, there are several 1-petawatt lasers currently being used in research physics, and there are supposed to be 10-petawatt lasers in the near future.  The catch is that they only shoot for a few femtoseconds at a time, otherwise they would consume a gargantuan amount of energy. So... would an individual wearing a mirrored suit standing in front of one of these get blown back by a femtosecond pulse? Or would it just punch right through them like a tiny bullet? Or nothing perceivable at all? it would create a little plasma hole in your tummy, which would then violently explode.

Edit: didn't read the *mirror* part. I'm guessing you wouldn't feel anything because the total energy imparted is still pretty damn low. The National Ignition Facility could do such a thing. That name almost sounded like a joke (National "Blow things up with lasers" Group). But it's definitely not a joke:

https://lasers.llnl.gov/about/how-nif-works/beamline/target-chamber

&gt; Pulses from NIF's 192 high-powered lasers, in a journey that originates more than 100 meters away in the master oscillator room, race towards the target bay with incredible precision. When they arrive at the center of the target chamber, they deposit up to 500 trillion watts of power for 20 billionths of a second on an eraser-sized capsule containing a target the size of a BB Texhnically speaking, that much light would plasmise the outer layer of their body, creating an expanding layer which  would crush them through inertial confinement! OK, so how about rephrasing the question to one where there is a plate behind the human (in order to push or throw them) protecting them from being vaporised? Then, combining the two answers above: 5000N of force to crush the skull, 100 pounds from 130 gigawatts, 4.4ish newtons per pound.

130gigawatts=440N
1477gw=5000N

A 1.477terawatt laser should do the trick.
 Note that US nuclear power plants [produce between 500 and 4000 MW](http://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.cfm?id=104&amp;t=3). So it would take 400 to 2000 nuclear power plants to create a laser that continuously emits that force. (Someone else, please tell us about capacitors or whatever.) I believe the system of lasers at the National Ignition Facility are over 500 TW when fired.  Lasers like that are usually fired for billionths of a second though, making the power consumption manageable.

Edit: The 500 TW laser will operate for a few picoseconds, or a few trillionths of a second. If it ran for 3 picoseconds it would consume 1500 joules of electricity, or about a third of one Calorie (kcal). If that laser was shot for that amount of time at a person would they feel anything? Would it have the same effect as a lower wattage at more time? well, since E = p^2 c^2 + mc^2 the total momentum imparted by massless particles should be at 100% efficiency just the energy of the beam:

1500J/3e8^2 = p^2

So doing more math, we get:

p = 1.3x10-7 kg m/s

Wolram alpha says this is 1.4x the momentum of a soccer ball. Thats kinda interesting actually. So if you didn't turn into a star, you'd basically get hit in the face with a soccer ball of light.

Edit: I was wrong guys. this momentum is actually on the order of a mosquito going 0.05m/s. Thanks to /u/Zarmazarma who checked my math. Also soccer balls are not 4.5kg. For massless particles like photons, the relationship is p = E/c = hv/c = h/. 

The energy of each photon is E = hc/. The NIF laser beam is 351nm ultraviolet light. So E = (6.63x10^-34 m2 kg/s)(3x10^8 m/s)/(3.21x10^-7 m), or about 6.2 x 10^-19 joules/photon. 

Our beam has 1500 total watts of energy, which means it must consist of 2.42 x 10^20 photons. Each of these photons have a momentum of h/, (6.63x10^-34 m2 kg/s)/(3.21x10^-7 m), or 2.07 x 10^-27 kg m/s. 2.07 x 10^-27 * 2.42 x 10^20 = 5 x 10^-7 kg m/s. 

Or we can just use the energy over C. 1500J / 3e9 = 5x10^-7 kg m/s.

Next, there's no such thing as the "momentum of a soccer ball", because momentum is a property of mass AND velocity. Even if we assumed all soccer balls were the same weight, we couldn't assign them a momentum without knowing their velocity. 

A 440g soccer ball (pretty average) being rolled along the ground at 1 meter per second has a momentum of .44 kg m/s- or 880,000x more than the 1500 joule laser.  It would be less than 130 gigawatts because the combustion of the surface flesh would help push them back, right? So about 476,190 [Luxor light beams](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luxor_Las_Vegas#Luxor_Sky_Beam)  
That's gonna be expensive. And bright. Very bright. Doesn't the wavelength matter?  I mean you obviously don't want it to be UV, infrared or even microwaves, but how about really long wavelength radio? could a technology like this be useful to "push" an asteroid away from it's course? [deleted] [deleted] A 25 milliwatt laser is enough to cause burns.  Granted, it's a 20 micron spot size...Also it's infrared so it reacts with skin nicely.  Well I'm sure his ashes would be pushed backwards upon vaporization? But if the pulse is sufficiently short, you get a dense plasma cloud that would exert higher impulse than the mere momentum of the photons that generated the plasma. So the real question is how many joules you need in a very short impulse to generate such a crushing plasma blast. What matters in this case is the flux (or photon/unit area). If it weren't so late I'd do the 'back-of-the-envelope' math for a ballpark number, but I'd guess it's of gigawatts of peak power per 100s of square micrometers, based on past experience. 1 watt vs 130 gigawatts... thats like killing a fly with a sledgehammer. FUN FACT: How multistage fusion weapons work is by ablative compression induced by the xrays released by the primary fission charge. That is to say, the xrays evaporate the surface of the secondary, and the reactive force from the highly energized gas boiling off compresses the fussile material to the point that fusion can occur (Along with things like a fission "Spark plug" heating it up). This same principle is used at the national ignition facility to cause their various fusions; The gold pellets act as the compression medium by ablating.

So in the given example your vaporizing skin would actually make it easier to crush you with a laser. I'm assuming you'd just put the light source on a frictionless surface and have the poor chap stand behind it. Bruh....I have a 150w Vape.mod box...set me up with a .3 ohm later and my box will output that And 1.21 gigawatts is enough to send your DeLorean back to the future if you can get it up to 88 mph Likewise, you would need a volatile and dense chunk of matter to be able to produce that much light in a targeted area. I estimate that the mass of said object would be so great it would collapse into a black hole and the light would never reach a person to crush them. If you could get around this, would you run into a problem getting enough light per unit of space for the force to be concentrated enough to matter? I question the validity of that statement.  
As in: Won't all that energy won't simply collapse into a singularity? Well, lasers more powerful than that already exist. The energy density required for a black hole is much larger. You'd need something like 10^41 Joules in a cubic centimeter. You'd have to blast that laser for longer than the age of the  universe. That's a lot of radiant pressure from "just" a few gigawatts.

But thanks for putting getting my orders of magnitude straight. :) 

E=hf
E=6.6261 x 10^-34 * 0.00000060 meters         [0.00000060 being yellowish light]
E=3.97566 x 10^-40 joules

E=mc^2
m=E/c^2
m=3.97566 x 10^-40 joules / 299,792,458 m/s
m=1.3261374 x 10^-48 kg

At most it would take about 1600 psi to break a strong bone, or around 28,573 kgs/ square meter.
If your average human male is 1.9m^2 for surface area, an instantaneous force from light hitting him needed to completely crush him would be about 2 times the "kg/m^2".

28,573 kg/m^2 * 1.9m^2 = 57,146 kg

So, the number of photons will be (L)...
L=57,146 kg / 1.3261374 x 10^-48 kg
L=4.3092066 x 10^52 photons

or

43,092,066,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 photons ALL impacting him at the same time from every direction to break his bones and smush him up. That's minimum for if he's only made of bone, flesh would be WAAY easier. But I'm not doing that. I have grade 12 homework to do. Good night reddit.

EDIT: After reading through some replies I realized how narrow minded science folk seem to be. He doesn't want your "Well you see it won't cause" answers. He wants a number. Even if heat would kill the man, CRUSH HIM! CRUSH HIM WITH LIGHT! You write m=E/c^2, but in the calculation, only divided by c once. Your formula should have given something on the order of 10^-56 kg.

But more importantly, the force exerted by light cannot be computed from its mass equivalence, which after all has units of mass, not force. To compute the force exerted by light, you want to figure out the momentum transferred per second. Momentum has units of Newton-seconds, so momentum-per-second has units of Newtons, i.e. force. So the dimensional analysis checks out.

A photon obeys the relation p = E/c (p is momentum), so a photon of energy 4 * 10^-40 J has momentum 1.3 * 10^-48 Newton-seconds. A flux of this much momentum per second therefore produces a force of 1.3 * 10^-48 Newtons.

This happens to match what you got, but through sheer luck - the bad arithmetic exactly cancelled the wrong formula. Maybe it would be best to estimate injury with overpressure charts used to estimate explosive range. From what I can find, it takes about 5000 N to crush a human skull. I imagine the rest of the human would also be crushed under similar pressure. Light pressure is about 300 MW/N, so that comes out to 1.5 TW. For comparison, the total power consumption of the US in 2005 was 3.34 TW.

That being said, a much smaller amount of light could vaporize someone's skin, causing it to expand rapidly and crush them with the force of expansion.

Edit: A human weighs about 700 N, so to throw someone around you'd need over 200 GW, which is around the average power consumption of the first stage of the Saturn V rocket. The post above messes up the units a fair bit, equating force and pressure, and energy and power:
The force needed to crush a human skull is about [5000N](http://www.sciencealert.com/game-of-thrones-exposed-the-science-of-skull-crushing) spread evenly across the side of the skull. My skull is about 20 cm by 20 cm when viewed from the side, giving a necessary pressure of 125000 N/m.
By the law of [Radiation pressure](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radiation_pressure), the maximal radiation pressure P that a light beam of intensity E can produce is P = E/c, yielding E = 3.74710^13 W/m. Assuming your light source is a perfectly focused square of 1mx1m, and assuming a conversion efficiency of 10%, you would need p = 3.74710^14 W to power your device (and a hell of a cooling setup). That is about 350 times the [peak capacity of the US electricity fleet](http://www.eia.gov/electricity/annual/html/epa_01_02.html) and about 67 times [the world's total capacity](http://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/iedindex3.cfm?tid=2&amp;pid=2&amp;aid=7&amp;cid=ww,&amp;syid=2008&amp;eyid=2012&amp;unit=MK). Actually, this isn't entirely correct either. As you pointed out, force and energy aren't the same thing. Crushing something requires energy more than it requires force which is why cars are designed to crush to absorb the energy of a crash rather than withstand the force of the crash. Therefore, we need to answer the energy question just as much as we need to answer the force question. I'll get to that in a second, but I'd like to talk about your analysis first.

In your analysis, you assume the light field is applied over a 1 m^2 area, but the pressure is applied over a 0.04 m^2 area. There is no good reason for this mismatch unless you want to assert it's impossible to focus this much light into 20 cm x 20 cm, but it is somehow fine to do it on 1 m x 1 m. If you apply the power to only the necessary area, your incident power requirement drops to only 1.49 TW (as calculated by your parent comment) which is a much more reasonable power to achieve. Today, the NIF can produce 500 TW pulses which they use to crush fuel to start nuclear fusion; clearly a much higher pressure than what would be required to crush a person. They have something more going for them though which I will get into more in a moment. There are also benchtop lasers that can produce TW-class pulses (some of which I've worked with), but head crushing is not a safety concern when using them.

The real problem with radiation pressure becomes applying enough energy through it. The NIF is very powerful, but it can't apply that power for very long. You'd have to apply that pressure over a distance of say 0.1 m to half-crush someone's head (I'd say half crushed is as good as fully crushed) requiring an energy of 0.149 TJ. Here the NIF falls far short of the goal. It can only do 1.85 MJ.

A few other nitpicky things before I get to the real answer:

1. Industrial lasers with wall-plug efficiency of well over 30% are available today. The NIF isn't nearly close to this efficient, but if you could get that kind of efficiency and keep some of the peak power capability, one would only need to store up 138000 kWh of energy (the consumption of about 12 average US homes for a year) and successfully deliver it through the laser system to achieve your goal of a half-crushed head.

2. If we operate under the assumption that the target head is covered in an absolutely perfect reflector that retroreflects all the incident light, then by Newton's 3rd law, all of our requirements are cut in half.

However, there is no such thing as a perfect reflector (as far as I know at least) in the macro scale. There will always be some significant absorption and at these power levels, which means the target will be thermally damaged. In this case, things suddenly get a lot better for us optical head crushers, even if we don't let the human head get burned. Suppose we allowed for a metallic face mask to be in direct contact with the head, but otherwise free to move. We'd also make the face mask thick enough that the heat from the light wouldn't make it to the head. What we'd find is that it requires much, much less light to crush the head because as the light vapourized the top of the face mask, the vapour would apply significant recoil pressure to the mask. This pressure would be much, much higher than the radiation pressure alone. (Again this was alluded to by the parent comment) The confounding factor here is that the escaping mass would also tend to temporarily block some of the beam from hitting the mask, making this into a dynamic problem which would be quite difficult to simulate. People do this kind of stuff, but they are modelling a few hundred to a few thousand atoms; not a whole head.

Just as a note to those who are interested, there are people who can take multi-terawatt lasers and focus them down to a few hundred microns creating intensities well into the zettawatt/cm^2 regime; way, way more energy density than thermonuclear weapons; enough to distort the conventional laws of light-matter interaction. As a bonus, they get to use their laser for multiple experiments because while the power is very high, there is, once again, very little energy per pulse. I consider "crush" to mean that the force is evenly distributed and still breaks it. If you have some tiny point that you put all the force on, it's more like cutting. Cutting? So this principle could be applied in a more elegant fashion than crushing? If we could wield this concentrated light, via some sort of...oh I dunno, saber... If you want to kill someone with light, your best bet is to vaporize a tiny portion of their flesh, wait a tiny fraction of a second for the explosion to move most of the debris out of the way, and repeat. This is explained [Atomic Rockets page on energy sidearms](http://www.projectrho.com/public_html/rocket/sidearmenergy.php), subsection "Blasters". It takes about the energy of a bullet from a 10mm pistol. Hmm.. Yes.. Some sort of .. light producing saber... a light-saber if you will... Serious question: Would that amount of light look like a kamehameha? 

In other words, what would it look like? Side note, those little light bulbs that have a spinny thing inside don't use the momentum of light to turn. 

The light heats the dark side more than the mirrored side, and the tiny amount of gas inside the bulb bounces off at a higher temperature (speed). This is what causes the spin.  That's a partial explanation, see the wikipedia page [for details on the full effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crookes_radiometer) Wow, that's neat. If I understand it correctly, it is because the hot gas (low density) behind the black side pulls some air from in front of the white side, almost like a really, really, really tiny rocket.  Humans require pressurized dive suits beyond about 100 ft of depth, which is roughly 4 atmospheres. Lets bump this pressure up to 10 atmospheres and say that the human would be sufficiently crushed  to death (i.e. bursting cardiovascular system and etc). 

10 atmospheres = 1 megapascal of pressure. 

Other assumptions are:
Surface area of a human ~ 2m^2
Indestructible box with perfect mirrored interior etc ~ 3m^3

There are a couple ways to think about how light exerts pressure.

We can think of the pressure of a classical wave absorbed by the human. In this case, the pressure or force exerted by the wave is 

P = Ef/ c xcos(theta), where Ef is the flux in watts/square meter, c is the speed of light, and theta the angle of incidence. 

We want a pressure of 1Mpa, so we require an energy flux of 3x10^14 watts per m^2. That's the same amount of energy you'd receive if you were 270 meters from the surface of the Sun. If you were using a man-made lightsource to shine on all 2 square meters of human, it would take 6x10^14 Watts of energy, which is 30 times the world's energy consumption in 2010. 

Naturally, at that distance from such an energy source you'd be totally vaporized by the light itself.

Lets imagine you had a 100% superconducting superreflector that was indestructible to damage from light (but would not prevent you from being crushed). Instead of being absorbed, the light now bounces off, which transfers twice as much momentum as light which is absorbed. So we need half the amount of Watts per square meter, which we would find around 390 meters from the sun. 

So, wearing your fancy suit, strapped to the outside of a spaceship that's stationkeeping at 390 meters from the surface of the sun, you'd be crushed to death by the radiation pressure. 

But that's fairly inefficient. It would be far easier to use a big collecting surface, concentrate that sunlight into a box somewhere, and fill the box with light (and humans) until all the light crushed all the humans. 

From Wikipedia, "A body in a uniform radiation field (equal intensities from all directions) will experience a compressive pressure. It may be shown by electromagnetic theory, by quantum theory, or by thermodynamics, making no assumptions as to the nature of the radiation (other than isotropy), that the pressure against a surface exposed in a space traversed by radiation uniformly in all directions is equal to one third of the total radiant energy per unit volume within that space."

While the theory behind the above statement is complex, the application isn't. The pressure is simply a third of the energy per cubic meter.  

Let's suppose we build, in orbit around the Earth, a collecting dish with 10 square km of area. Pointed at the sun, it collects 13.6 Gigawatts of energy. Since our collector also uses sunlight to stationkeep around a lagrange point, it can only reflect 20% of the light it receives from the sun into our crushing chamber ( it uses the other 80% to deflect sunlight at different angles to produce thrust and correct its orbit). 

Also, because our chamber is leaky, it lets out a bunch of light - say 90%. Even with these conservative estimates, our 2m^3 chamber reaches 1.5 MPa of pressure after only 30 seconds in operation. After 5 minutes, the pressure is in the tens of MegaPascals, enough to start crushing and deforming brass metal. 
 Actually, we don't get crushed to death. We get suffocated to death since there will be enormous pressure on your stomach. There are fishes down at the bottom of the sea to prove it. They adapted by using lipid instead of regular fat and have minimal to zero air bubble to reduce the effect of the pressure. Pressurized suit are for making sure nitrogen doesn't kill you. I forgot exactly how but nitrogen bubble forms under pressure. In fact, if you take any pills that prevent bubbling effect, you can theoretically go to any depth, providing that you can still breath through enormous pressure.
 The power housing used to support a light emitting laser capable of the kind of force you're suggesting, would not be buildable on Earth due to sheer size. In fact, if it were built in space and you were to observe it from a typical planetary/satelite distance, you'd frequently mistake it for a moon. Soooo... Dear Star? Dear Star,

Tonight I saw you shining brightly. 
I thought you were a UFO for a second. 

Sincerely, 

Me.  Dear Star,

Tonight, while I was gazing at your marvel, I discovered that it was actually in the middle of the day, and you were the Sun. Irreperably damaging my retinas, I shall gaze no more.

Yours truly,
Also Me. I love questions like this!

First off, let's make some reasonable assumptions. The person in question is resilient enough to withstand less than 500kg of mass if it were placed on them, so that equates to the crushing force that the light needs to produce. Let's also assume that the area over which the force will act is 1m^2, because it's reasonable and makes life very easy. That means we are assuming that a person under a not-so-heavy 1m^2 plate will be crushed if we place a 500kg bock on it, or 4905Pa (call it 5000Pa) of pressure. We need to do this with only light.

Some more assumptions. We will use an ultraviolet scale wavelength of light, which occurs at around L=400nm. This means that each photon contains E=hc/L (h=Planck's constant, c=speed of light) which, according to Einstein's energy-momentum relation, means a momentum of p=h/L (N.B. we could have got that from the de Broglie relation too). Now, let's assume that the plate is a perfect mirror and so deflects the light and does not absorb the energy. That means that the momentum change is 2p=2h/L. From Newton's second law, we know that the force applied to an object is equal to the rate of change of momentum, and we need a force of 5000N. This means that 5000/(2h/L) photons per second need to hit the mirror.

That number is 1.51\*10^30.

That's 15100000...then twenty more zeros...then these five here...00000. Let's call it N from now on.

Now, the energy of this many photons is E\*N. The power(wattage) of an appliance that can produce this many photons is also E\*N. So the wattage is E\*N=N\**h*c*/L = N *pc* = 5000\*p*c*/(2p) = 2500\*c = 7.5\*10^11 or 750Gigawatts.

One could, with such a device, go Back To The Future 750/1.21 = 619.8 times, though how one goes back to the future by the odd 0.8 times is left as an exercise for the reader. I know you're probably talking about conventional sources of light like lasers or flood lights, but technically if anything crushes a human or throws them around, it's light. When you touch something solid it feels solid because electromagnetic forces in your finger and the object are repelling each other. That means that you're really feeling the electromagnetic force. The carrier particle for the electromagnetic force, the thing that let's the force act at a distance, is the photon (AKA light).

Edit: This is wrong. Sorry. Solid objects feel solid because of the Pauli Exclusion principal, not because of the electromagnetic force. Cool way to look at it. But aren't those virtual photons communicating the force? Is it fair to call them light? No. They're real photons. Photons are what propagate the electromagnetic force. No, it's electrons, that don't want to occupy the same space at the same time. That's not really true.

Firstly, the imperviousness of matter is due to Pauli exclusion, not due to electromagnetism as had been previously assumed. Dyson showed this in the 1960s. http://scitation.aip.org/content/aip/journal/jmp/8/3/10.1063/1.1705209

Secondly, light/photons are (quanta of) electromagnetic *waves*, but not everything about electromagnetism involves photons/waves. If you just hold a magnet still or stick it to your fridge then there's an EM field but no photons. Many other answers are correct  given that a person is not properly shaped or reflective enough to avoid being burnt up before moving, being crushed.

However there are a number of ways to power a projectile using lasers. If you had something to focus the laser force onto the human you could substantially reduce the energy required and protect them enough to be crushed before burning up. One example would be the use of a parabolic shaped dish found on experimental laser powered satellite delivery systems like [lightcraft.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAdj6vpYppA) Some can use lasers to create plasma that forces the dish forward.

Another alternative would be propelling person up to sufficient velocity and impacting them with enough of an impulse force to crush them, though this doesn't seem to address the spirit of the question.
 "If light emits a minute force" it does. However photons from light waves are more efficiently transferred as light energy and heat energy, thus with all that light intended for crushing, you'd much sooner be vaporized by the heat. Related: Randall Munroe has made the calculation for radio waves (which are invisible light) and a car: https://what-if.xkcd.com/87/

Quick excerpt: 

&gt; Of course, maybe *using* the apocalyptic radar gun wouldn't be necessary; just the threat of a nuclear strike against drivers would probably deter speeding. Seems relevant to me, approval pending... Another, hopefully related question. Why is it that we cannot create a box, fully reflective on the inside, capable of bouncing back light indefinitely?
Imagine a box lined with mirrors and a source of light on the inside, which is turned on for just a second and then shut down. Actually such a system - or the though experiment of such a system - was very important in the early roots of quantum mechanics

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_body#Cavity_with_a_hole Theres a lot of forums on the net that have discussed this but the short and simple answer is:

&gt;**Almost.** We can't because we haven't invented a surface that reflects light perfectly.

While mirrors are reflective, they still consume some of the energy so there is always a loss. Light travels with quite a lot of speed, just imagine how many times it bounces off the mirrors in just a split second. The light's energy will be absorbed into the mirrored walls of the box, resulting in heating up the box a tiny bit. Optical tweezers can theoretically throw someone around, although we haven't figured out a good way to scale up the technology. 

This would drastically reduce the amount of force/heat needed to move someone with just EM radiation, although I don't have any calculations on hand and have only heard about this through pop-sci channels. Could someone with a better understanding of this technology talk about it? You might want to look at [solar sails](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_sail) or [light sails](http://sail.planetary.org/) if you want a serious answer other, "Dher, you'd be vaporized."

It's a surface area to mass to energy issue, setting aside, for the moment the vaporization issue.

[Laser propulsion ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laser_propulsion) and [beam propulsion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beam-powered_propulsion) systems have been pretty well planned out and the math is solid.  Problem is, you need a lot of power.  Generally it makes more sense to use the beam to heat something that reacts or boils and uses that escaping mass for propulsion.

I'd slowly accelerate them at slow power and ram them into something at speed.

Using light by itself, in a vacuum, becomes more of a question of how fast do you want your acceleration to be.

If you assume spherical cows it seems that a relatively minimal amount of power should get you moving (@1 watt/kg in a vacuum), but in the real world it gets far more complicated and there are some good answers in this post attempting to address the real-world difficulties. XKCD's what if has a question like this involving lasers and the moon. 

In the end it turns out shining a laser at the moon and seeing it is possible. But going one further you *could* move the moon with just the intensity of the light but in doing so would destroy the earth. 

I will get a link soon if someone does not beat me too it. Collect the emitted light energy from the sun with a solar sail to create momentum for a mass, say an anvil. Put human, in space suit of course, in the path of the solar sail and attached anvil. Steer sail directly at human. Crush will occur. I suppose the mathematics determining the amount of force needed depends on the size of the sail, the distance needed to travel to reach crush velocity and the mass of the anvil. Consider this:

A laser is nothing more than focused light.

Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation.

What happens when it hits a mass?  The mass burns...

So now you have a new problem: You have to keep the human from burning before the light has a chance to crush it. Since there is nothing to push back against the cloth, the only physical forces governing the movement would be the three laws of motion. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton%27s_laws_of_motion (this is always true, but I mean the actual results are simple enough that it's easy to understand exactly how it will act)

If the ship isn't accelerating the cloth wouldn't move at all. If it ship is accelerating the cloth will point away from the direction of acceleration. If there is a quick change it will bounce around a bit. So to get it to wave in a cartoonish fashion the ship could do a bunch of tiny stop and go? Better yet have the flagpole be on a separate motor that does that? Wouldn't the ship have to go side to side while lightly accelerating forward? or just save on fuel and crew sickness and have the bar the flag is hanging on wave from side to side! The motion of the bar would have a counter force on the ship, causing the ship to sway side to side ever so slightly. The crew could still get sick! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; active spaceships

While a funny point, correct me if I am wrong but there aren't any current corporate entities that have actually done a full orbital flight and are actively doing them. SpaceX and the others are all still at a sub-orbital stage with rockets that have yet to deliver any payload (e.g. a development stage, not active spaceflight).

EDIT: I was wrong, you can stop down-voting. Or not. But seriously, still no manned missions from US -- that's disappointing considering how long we have been in this race. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Let's say it rotates - with their relative sizes, there shouldn't be a problem. It doesn't need to wave side to side, just have the pole oscillate like the head of a sonicare toothbrush only at a much lower speed. That would get the actual "wave" action like what would be reproduced by the wind due to the inertia in the flag. When you say ever so slghtly are you talking fractions of a millimeter each second, slightly similar to the movement you feel when a light breeze hits your house? Or save on fuel and engineering effort and have the flag be stationary, because no one will be seeing it anyway :P [deleted] Heck, you could even just paint the likeness of the flag on the side of the ship. Or just stage the whole thing - people are going to spend the next forty years debating its authenticity regardless. Better yet, stage the stage on stage with stage performers and stage coaches. It's free floating cloth, it could probably look like anything at this point. No; because the flag is not rigid, the starting and stopping will cause compression which will create waves that change the direction of the energy. Rockets vibrate. Movement of people and equipment within the ship, as well as the rockets, cause vibration. Also the momentum from the waving the flag had been doing while in the atmosphere would be undiminished. some sort of sine wave horizontally while maintaining constant acceleration?

We have the technology. At a certain point it becomes more sensible to put a skeletal system in the flag and have it wave itself. Or just paint a damn flag on the ship and not waste energy waving your flag [deleted] [deleted] If you have a spaceship that requires a waving flag for some purpose of aesthetics, I doubt the relatively miniscule energy needed to wave said flag is an issue.  [deleted] Put the flag inside the ship and get a Simulated Wind Creator aka a fan Can fans work without the presence of air? I'm genuinely curious Inside the ship. Fan would not work outside, unless my understanding of physics is dramatically wrong.  It would work outside in the vacuum, within its mechanical principles. All you'd get is a rotating blade... but it wouldn't have any air to move by the blades. So operate, yes, but intended function, no. Would there be any measurable change in say the solar wind?  Would the mechanical blade be capable of moving anything or would it require modification of the blades to impact things in any measurable way? If by modify you mean would likely have to have blades several light years long and be powered by something approaching the sun, then yes, yes it would need to be modified to produce any measurable change. It would work, as in the blades would turn, it just wouldn't move any air since there's no air to move. Technically the fan would work, as in it would rotate, however with nothing to push through it, it wouldn't be doing anything productive. Air is a fluid and all a fan does is push fluid. Almost exactly like boat/submarine motors, which are literally large rear-facing fans to push fluid back and thereby create forward acceleration for the vehicle. Thanks this is exactly what I wanted to know I wonder what effect the vacuum would have on the motor, from what i understand box fans use a simple motor that governs itself via air resistance. would it over-rev and tear itself apart? need to go find a fan and a vacuum chamber, only one way to know for sure... Not exactly what you are asking but somewhat related, I work with ultra-high vacuum chambers and one of the types of pumps we use to pump out the chambers and maintain the vacuum are essentially just powerful fans spinning at 1500 Hz to create a pressure differential. They cannot be run at atmospheric pressure and need backing pumps to maintain a pressure of about 100 mtorr on the high pressure side.  I imagine the motor would overheat and burn out since most atmospheric fans would be designed with the expectation that air would be flowing through it to carry away waste heat. Like will it run?  Yes, they use electric motors, which don't rely on combustion.  One would work underwater, since water is a fluid, but if you mean to put one in space, it would just spin pointlessly.  There would be nothing for it to push. Basically the flag left on the moon, didn't it have a rigid bar across the top to keep it unfurled? Yep, that is correct. Pretty much a piece of piano wire, although I suspect they used something lighter than piano wire. 

 Interestingly enough, they couldn't get the bar to extend fully on Apollo 11 so it left ripples in the cloth.  Since it made it look like the flag was waving, they left it that way. Would an airvent and one of those floppy car wash things work?  You don't want to waste your ship's air on that, do you? At least electricity can be replaced by solar panels or what have you. Solar panel flag waver? Maybe only break out the waving business when you're approaching a new civ and really want to impress them with your wreckless display of wasteful air.  If you put it on a flagpole chances are it will vibrate causing ripples in the banner. If you were at a light enough acceleration it might look right. Why not create a glass box on the side with the flag and a fan that points towards the back? 

Real flag. Always waving.  If the ship serpentines, the flag will wave along with it. Longer the flag, the more noticeable it will be.  A separate motor could do the side-to-side, but wouldn't have much luck constantly accelerating if the ship itself were not. I actually think it could oscillate about its equilibrium point a bit.  Even in space, there will be friction/damping (such as in the flag's hooks or hinges), but it would presumably gather some inertia in a direction perpendicular to the direction of motion as it "swings" into place.  Without air to make it behave like a weather vane, it could take a while for this motion to dissipate.  Almost like a pendulum.  

So while it wouldn't "flap", it could move around for a while when you change directions. As well, vibrations and such from the ship would congtribute to some wobbling/waving. Your first statement is incorrect, depending where the ship is.
If the ship is within our solar system, then there would be a solar wind, that would (eventually) push the flag away from the direction of the sun even if the ship was at rest.
This effect would also be present around other stars within their termination spheres.

Of course any practical motion in the ship would likely be more powerful a force than the solar wind, and as such, would be the predominant force in the system and it would behave as  you described.

Furthermore, a spacecraft at rest (or under no acceleration) between stars would also be subject to the less directional turbulent forces of the interstellar medium. 

There may indeed be locations however where all forces in all directions equal out, and there is a kind of doldrums effect. Just to put this into perspective...

At 1 AU, the pressure exerted by solar wind tops out at about 5 nPa. This means that if our flag is 1 m, and the flag's surface is all facing the sun,  the force will be about 0.5 ug. This is akin to taking a grain of sand, smashing it into 6 pieces, and *gently* spreading *one* of those pieces over the surface of the flag.

So given enough time, yes this will move the flag. However, if any other movements are made, even a hard drive spinning up in a laptop in the ship, the solar wind effect could easily by swamped by other forces. The radiation pressure by the sun is much stronger than the pressure by solar wind: About 5 Pa at 1 AU (for a perfectly absorbing flat flag).
A 1 sqm flag weighing 100 g floating besides your very heavy space ship would lag behind 10 cm after one minute, 324 m after one hour and 190 km after one day. Ahh, thank you. Yes, this is much stronger than the solar wind. I can't believe people sometimes forget factors that are so insignificant they couldn't even be measured in parts per billion. On the time scale of space ship flight, and in the locations where a space ship would be realistically located, the interstellar activity is pretty much still.  To add to that, would not the lack of inertia cause the flag to just more or less bounce back and forth? Similar to the way an object inside of the ISS will just bounce of a wall and keep traveling. Any object with mass always has the same amount of inertia - it is a property of matter. &gt; Similar to the way an object inside of the ISS will just bounce of a wall and keep traveling.

Friction will stop that object eventually. There's less friction for an external object like a flag, since there's no air dragging against it. But the flag still has forces internally as it bends and flexes, and eventually that will drain the energy out of any motion. So unless you add movement in some way, the flag would be motionless after a little while, and remain so indefinitely. when the ship stops accelerating and starts going at a steady speed, would the flag remain pointing away from the direction of movement? Well, this mostly depends on the material properties of the flag.

If the material is totally non-elastic it wont move at all from its previous position. If it's elastic it will rebound.

The flag is just as happy pointing toward direction of movement as any other. Yes. Unless its made out of some kind of elastic and starts to crumple up itself. Cloth would likely be stretched a bit by the acceleration and when the acceleration stopped it would snap back a bit. [deleted] That's due to solar radiation vaporizing particles from the comet. The tail isn't attached to the comet, it's just a trail of dust and gas pushed off due to the sun - the comet's movement doesn't pull it along. But the thing is, space isn't empty. There are particles flying around all over the damn place. I know solar wind is not actually wind in the conventional sense, but I would assume its particles would cause some miniscule amount of drag on objects in space, which may cause the flag to flap very slowly. But then this is just a guess as I don't know enough about physics and space to say for sure. Space isn't empty, it's only mostly empty. If you travel fast enough there would be impact with as many particles per second as you would get with the wind blowing on Earth. The problem is that they're then striking your flag with such tremendous velocity that instead of waving it's just going get shredded. That's why you always put your shields up *before* you engage the warp drive. A friend of mine studies this at JPL.  The reality is that things like that ex: solar panels) do all sorts of strange things (like break) when subjected to the variables that exist in real life. When I'm Space Emperor I'm going to demand that my ships have cloth flags and that goddammit they are going to **flap**.

Get it done, minions! When the Apollo astronauts planted a flag on the moon it had a wire frame in the upper seam to keep the flag extended out.  Planting the flag in the lunar regolith involved a twisting motion of the flag pole, and this imparted a pendulum motion on the lower part of the flag that some less informed people took to be the flag waving in a breeze, and was *evidence* that the landing was faked.  Of course, it wasn't faked. One other point about the flags on the moon is that by now they're most likely completely white. Any cloth will fade with exposure to sunlight, and since there's no atmosphere to protect them from the UV rays, all the colour in the flags would have faded by now. If you attached a banner to a spacecraft it would suffer the same effect. Someone smarter than me could probably figure out how fast it would fade, but in any case it'd need to be replaced after a while. [deleted] Followup question:  Will the paint of the red dot cure in space?  Or is that a reaction with oxygen? Depends on the type of paint. There's a lot of different types that do a lot of different things. I'm sure someone's come up with a paint that requires mixing with a second chemical to cure instead of air. Just use a red sticker It probably wouldn't stick very long. Lack of an atmosphere causes a lot of materials (such as adhesives) to experience outgassing. The loss of gasses in the material causes it to lose structural integrity and adhesive qualities. Good point.  2 thin red circle magnets then. One on either side.  Boom flag looks good on both sides do magnets work the same off Earth?  Yes, unless it's a compass, but that would make no difference to two magnets simply attracting to eachother.

Edit: they would actually work *very* slightly better. Air acts as a dielectric (it insulates) in between 2 magnets (very very slightly), and therefore decreases the strength of the field. Its pretty much negligible, but yea. 

Edit2: But wait, the flag would be an even stronger dielectric than air, so for this application they would work slightly worse. They could use a velcro patch then. Plus the next people up there can just rip it off and put their flag over it. Reminds me of that old US vs. USSR story about US's expensive space pen and the Soviets just using a pencil.  That's because pencils need to be sharpened, and the last thing you want on a space station/craft is razor-sharp, almost imperceptible shards of wood and electrically conductive graphite floating around (no gravity, remember? [Ok, yes, there is gravity in orbit, you just don't feel it because you're technically in free fall, but you know what I mean]).

So an expensive zero-g pen wasn't too bad of an idea.
 I'd imagine it also has a lot to do with "preservation of records".  

Write something in pencil, it can always be erased.  Pen is preferred for that reason.  

I don't think ISO-9001 was around back then, but im sure there was a standard they were held to. Epoxies will cure without oxygen I believe? I'm sure there is a type of paint to make this possible but I think the sun would fade all but the most carefully engineered pigments after a while. As an aerospace engineering student and painting enthusiast, this is an interesting question that I really don't know the answer to!

Edit: after reading some more, maybe you could paint it with a dye made from minerals of the proper color. In Minecraft, lapis lazuli is made into blue dye and realistically I think it's plausible and wouldn't fade, you'd just have to get it to stick. You could do the same thing with rubies or red diamonds or something and have really expensive paint that won't fade! There is something called "Structural color".  Most dyes and pigments don't have it, but the ones that do can last until they actually wear away. Paint chemist here. Yes, there are some types of paint that could cure in space. A lot of epoxy paint is two component - the two different types of resins react chemically to make the polymer chain, and do not necessarily rely on evaporation as part of the cure mechanism. Put some red pigment in there, and you would have yourself a red dot. I'm not sure if the reaction would take place in extreme cold, but if it were warm enough it definitely would. What if it weren't made of cloth? Does metal "bleach" it's color in space too? 

Edit: I suppose the better question is, "is there any material that doesn't bleach in space?" Even if they painted a flag on metal it would still be the paint that bleaches. What kind of material could be used to color a flag that wouldn't suffer the same bleach fate?  The "bleaching" is just the molecule decomposing. There is no "rule" requiring it to decompose to something white, except that colored molecules are more rare than no-color.

Just find a molecule that is stable enough that UV doesn't have the energy to decompose it. Many traditional pigmints fade, but it would depend on how your banner or flag was coloured. If all else failed there are reasonably minerals of various colours that you could paint your banner with. Those minerals are generally what paints are colored with. Sun eventually oxidizes them so they turn white. This brings up an interesting point though: the funny thing about oxidizing, is it requires oxygen, so maybe it wouldn't happen in space? 

edit: just learned that sun bleaching is different from regular bleaching. durrr. [deleted] [deleted] Well, I saw the flag in Superman 4 and it looked good. Has anyone seen it more recently? serious question: is the lunar landing site visible from earth using commercially available telescopes? If so, why isn't this commonly used as evidence that the landing occurred? If not, why? Is there some feature of geography that obscures it from earth?   No, it isn't visible.  However there are several pieces of absolutely definitive evidence.  The first is the hundreds of kilograms of material brought back from the moon.  The second is that the astronauts set up retroreflectors on the moon that anyone with the right equipment can bounce lasers off of.  These are used to accurately measure the distance to the moon and show that it is slowly receeding from the Earth by a few centimeters a year. Can you measure the moon recession without the retroreflectors? Yes but it would be harder and less accurate. With the reflectors you get enough photons returning from exactly the same spot year after year to both distinguish these from photons that might be bouncing off of other stuff like the regolith and to accumulate a sufficient sample size to make a good measurement at the required precision. But people bounce stuff like radio waves off of the moon all the time (EME) which do not require the reflectors. Occams Razor...why would the US build and launch a rocket powerful and sophisticated enough to go to the moon and back and fake it anyway? No, the lunar vehicles are not visible from the Earth's surface using current telescopes.  The problem is not geography; all of the landing sites are on the lunar near side, and none are close to the limb as seen from Earth.  The problem instead is the physics of light.  Light diffracts around any obstacle, including the aperture of a telescope, and this limits the achievable resolution.  The largest optical telescopes have apertures of about 10 m.  Using 500 nm blue-green light, the best achievable angular resolution by a 10 m telescope is about 0.01", from the Rayleigh criterion.  At the distance of the Moon, this corresponds to an object size of over 20 m; the lunar landers and such are more like 2 m in diameter.  Smaller objects than this can be seen, but only if they are significantly brighter than the background, and then only as points of light.  

Short answer is that we'd need telescopes more than ten times larger than any currently built in order to have a chance at seeing the lunar landers from Earth. Other than proving moon deniers wrong, would there be a compelling reason to build telescopes that large on earth? Astronomers would go beserk if you could actually build us a 100 meter telescope.  If you could put it in space, it'd be even better.  More resolution, more light gathering power, virtually everyone would want to use it.  They're going to be a very long time coming, though. No, absolutely not. It's way too small to be visible through telescopes, even the Hubble. The only thing that can kinda sorta see them is the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter going around the Moon.

However, one of the things they placed on the Moon are [laser reflector plates](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/ae/ALSEP_AS14-67-9386.jpg/768px-ALSEP_AS14-67-9386.jpg). If you aim a laser precisely at one of those plates, you can get the reflection back and time the speed of light. This is out of reach for the private citizen, but universities around the world can do it. Why is it out of reach? 

Strength of laser required or the quality/expense of the equipment needed to collect/measure the results? The trajectory/coordinates (?proper term?) you'd need to hit the plate should be publicly available information. Yes, you would need a very powerful laser, very sensitive equipment to detect the reflection (even with a strong laser, it will be quite faint), and some way of very accurately pointing the laser at a specific location.

When I say "out of reach for the private citizen," maybe not for someone willing to spend big. But John Q. Public is not doing this in his backyard. "Faint" is a serious overstatement. Even with the hugely powerful and well collimated lasers they use for this, you can count out the individual photons one by one as they are detected. It is my understanding that the technology to actually make this measurement did not exist at the time the reflectors were installed, so it's very lucky they had the foresight to put them there. 

There are however plenty of people doing "moonbounce" radio communications in their backyard. A friend of mine is building a station for 1.2GHz EME. It's not cheap, but it is well within the reach of a hobbyist. You can of course calculate the rough distance to the moon by listening to your own signal return. Interesting thought: Shining a laser that powerful into the sky would probably require a permit of some kind. The Apollo "hoax" is one of the dumbest conspiracies out there.  If America had faked the landing and made such a public display of it, the Soviets would have called BS the very next day.  And later the reds would have sent a probe to the moon to disprove it directly.  They had the technology and the motive; there's no way they would have kept silent. One thing that gets me is that if by some freaky chance it was faked then why do it 6 times?  I agree the Soviets would have screamed to high heavens about it. hold up, i thought i generally knew stuff, but there was 6 moon missions? i thought like, 2. The first one and the golf ball one.  OK, I  did screw up in one aspect Apollo 11 was the first landing and there was a subsequent landing for each through Apollo 17.  The only exception was Apollo 13 which developed problems and the landing had to be aborted.

The total actually was 5 not 6.  I goofed in that regard.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Apollo_missions

If you scroll down about 2/3 of the way down you'll see a list of each mission. Like /u/Deson says, there were 5 manned moon landings, but there were also two manned missions that went to the moon, but did not land (Apollo 8 and 10). The 60s were wild. But they were in on it too, *maaan*! If they called us out on it the reptilians wouldn't be happy with either of us! I have a small correction to all the other answers, but mostly they're correct.  The flag will not move unless the ship is under acceleration.

Except, every move that cloth makes is stretching some fibers somewhere.  It acts like a spring in many different ways.  When the ship stops accelerating, the tension will be released and the cloth will relax and crumble to a slack position.  It may oscillate as it finds a rest state.

There is also likely to be vibration from any working machine on the ship, or any living thing, even if they're only breathing.  That can cause the flag to move. Is there a force acting on the cloth to bring it to its rest state? Why wouldn't it just wiggle around forever? Some kind of small scale friction between the fibers?  Yes, there would always be friction between fibers of the cloth, creating a dampened spring motion. The acceleration stretches the cloth much like a spring, and it would slightly crumple and re-stretch until it came to rest once that acceleration ends.  Yes, there is a force acting on the cloth, but it's an internal force.  The bits of fiber that were near the mount point are stretched, and so they pull at both the mount and the outer end of the flag, bringing them closer together.

As /u/cdcformatc said, there is a lot of internal friction that will eat up the energy fairly quickly.
 There is some ambiguity here, so I'll try to go through it.

**If the spacecraft is in space, and is "in motion" around a body, but *not* accelerating by its own engines**

The flag will remain stationary in whatever configuration it was in.

**If the spacecraft is in space, in motion, the flag is affixed, and then the spacecraft accelerates with its own engines**

The flag will realize a moment of fluttering as the acceleration acts on the craft, then the flag pole, then the parts of the flag. Afterwards, it will remain perfectly straight (assuming the engines push *perfectly* in the same direction, and no lateral movements occur).

 Would it really remain stationary? I would think that without gravity, the effects of solar wind and static electricity would cause all sorts of strange movements and behaviors. Solar wind is a very, very tiny effect. If the flag accumulates charge for whatever reason then that could have a larger effect. I have no idea if, e.g., solar wind would tend to do that to cloth. 

 The photovoltaic effect will induce a voltage in the cloth. But unless the cloth is a decent conductor it won't build up charge uniformly just in certain spots. Also even if it was a conductor any charge would likely escape through the pole. If the flag is made of a fabric with any stretch to it, the flag would continue fluttering for a small period of time whenever the acceleration ends. It would have a dampened spring like motion in this time period.  Wouldn't the momentum imparted to the flag during acceleration cause it to "bounce back" and move around somewhat chaotically over time? &gt; The flag will realize a moment of fluttering as the acceleration acts on the craft, then the flag pole, then the parts of the flag. Afterwards, **it will remain perfectly straight** (assuming the engines push perfectly in the same direction, and no lateral movements occur).

Uh, no, because the flag has stiffness, elasticity, and inertia. Because of its material properties, it will likely "bounce" back once the acceleration is relieved (as a spring under the weight of a mass would; the fabric will have some nonzero elastic coefficient), and eventually fold into some preferred configuration. Would the motion of a typical spaceship have side to side movements? I'm finding it hard to imagine that the engines push perfectly straight, straight enough to make a flag point perfectly straight.   It wouldn't flap around purely as a result of the face that it's moving, but in reality every time the ship accelerates (speeds up, slows down, changes direction) the flag will experience forces that will make it move, and the flag would carry on bouncing and flapping around after the acceleration finishes. In relation to this question, and as an example.  At about 0:10 into this video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC1zmLgUjco, the solar shield of Skylab can be seen "flapping".

Would this have been caused by RCS/EVA propellant in close proximity to the craft? Residual atmosphere?  Solar wind? When accelerating, inertia would make it bounce around. If accelerating fast enough, it would snap back, but wouldn't appear to be waving unless the ship is creating a vibration too. Otherwise, it would eventually settle down again due to loss of energy to whatever flag pole it was connected to and just stay in whatever position it settles in. Until the ship moves again or passes through a dust cloud or something to make it move again.  It would be straight, but any change in speed or direction would cause it to move. Also, vibrations from the ships machinery, assuming there is some, would cause it to move. I would think that the ships own gravity, depending on the size of the ship, the pull the flag in the direction ship's cent of mass. I am uncertain, but solar winds might also cause it to move, given they are strong enough, but it wouldn't be anything like wind in an atmosphere.  Depends on the motion really if the craft is constantly changing direction the cloth would lag and snap because it has some elasticity like when they were placing the US flag on the moon you can see this happen but if it were just going straight it would flaten out Depending on the properties of the flag material, you might still see some fluttering when the flag changes direction, from vibration. Many cloths would probably not do this, but something particularly elastic might do it. You also don't have any air resistance damping out the vibrations (although you do have mechanical losses in the flag material). The flag will exhibit periodic motion as a result of small perturbations during the acceleration phase of the space ship. This periodic motion could continue for quite a while depending on how the flag is attached. Since everyone is trying to find an idea cancelling the movements of the superflag they've put on their spaceship, I propose an idea that will solve the problem, definitively: Put a nice screen displaying a waving flag on both sides of the ship, and since I know somebody will say that it will use power from the ship that is scarce, let's put 2 dedicated solar panels for it, and turn it off when there's not enough energy from them. Problem solved.

But the question was interesting :) The simplest simulations of cloth tend to ignore more complex effects like air resistance so its a good visual for what would happen in space.    

I found this video that even compares itself to the flag left on the moon, its simulated under constant acceleration so your spaceship isn't drifting in this case but otherwise its accurate.  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qOvb3WLAX0E It would move but not from wind.  Besides acceleration of the whole ship causing the flag to move you have to consider pendulum like residual activity from the cessation of acceleration.  In addition, the vibration in the ship's hull due to internal motors or expansion/contraction due to temperature variances would also imbue small accelerations causing the flag to appear to be waving. Try to imagine a model space ship here on earth.  The ship has a heavy chainmail "flag" attached to it, hanging from the bottom.  Since it's a chainmail flag, it's pretty much unaffected by weak air currents in your room.  

If you are not moving the model ship, it's as if it was in space accelerating at 1 G.  What is your chainmail flag looking like?  Now imagine that you apply different accelerations in other directions, such as sideways, you should be able to visualize what a cloth flag in the vacuum would look like. Thanks, this was very helpful.  Someone further down pointed out you *could* **waste** air by having a vent exiting the spacecraft that blows on the flag.  My question is could you make a believable flag of a certain material and create a simplistic "waving in the wind" simulation by "venting" something other than air?  For example, solar sails capture photons... Could we make a believable flag from solar sail material and hit it edge on with enough photos to make it "flap in the breeze" or would the existing sunlight make that impossible? I can see it now....

 "But Mr. President."

"No."

"Mr. President, it will cost hundreds of thousands of dollars and take up precious pounds we NEED for cargo space."

"I want a picture of the US flag waving in space. It'll be the perfect wallpaper."

"But..."

"WALLPAPER!" You could attach the flag pole to a simple motor that swings it slightly left and right to create a wavy motion the the flag. Here is video to help answer your question: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=26QWMMT1c8Y

The video is of space walk 30.  

The big thing to keep in mind the ISS is going around the earth at 17,100 mph, so it is definitely moving. Notice though that most of the fabric and cords remain still (aside from being jostled by the crew members).  

As pointed out in previous comments, this is because the ISS is traveling at a constant velocity (for this context).   In addition to everyone else's comments, if we're talking about some near-light-speed sci-fi ship, the universe is technically full of a very thin layer of hydrogen (and other) gas.  That might have some impact on the flag at relativistic speeds, but realistically we won't see anything resembling the vortexes created around a flag in an atmosphere. Obviously it depends on the mass of the flag relative to the pressure exerted by the solar wind and the sun's photons. However, for a normal flag, the effect of the solar wind and radiation pressure are esdsentially neglegible, meaning that the flag will stay taut as long as the ship is accelerating. Once the ship stops accelerating the flag will remain in the same orientation bit not pulled taut. If you want the flag to flutter you need a flag that is extremely light for it's surface area and the ship cannot be accelerating. Answering this in the spirit it was asked,  an atom is empty to about 13 orders of magnitude.  That's pretty empty to be sure.   If a hydrogen atom were the size of the earth,  a proton would still only be about 200 meters across.

That is still nothing compared to the universe.  The universe is empty past 20 orders of magnitude.   Our best estimates show about 1.1e57 cubic meters of stuff, keeping it all at its current density as compared to 2.7e37 cubic lightyears of space in the observable universe.  There is fewer than 5 atoms of "stuff" for each cubic meter of space in the observable universe.  I answered this question a few months ago so I'll shamelessly tack this on to the top comment.

For a simply toy model, everything is made of atoms, so atoms are 
the densest thing that there is (barring white dwarfs and neutron stars, etc). Think of a block of gold- if you cut that gold block in half both halves will have the same density as the original bloc. If you continue the halving process until you only have one atom, then that atom should, by induction, have the same density as the matter you started with.

A galaxy (or universe) on the other hand, is not solid like a brick. It is mostly vacuum. Asking what's denser: an atom or a universe, is like asking what's denser: a single brick, or all the bricks in the neighborhood? Obviously the lone brick will be denser because when you try to find the density of the bricks in the neighbohood, even though some are clustered into houses, you have to consider all of the space in between them when calculating the volume they occupy, which is going to drive your density way down. 

Don't mind me though, OP gave a solid answer, and other commenters have already debunked the "atoms are mostly empty space" misconception, so I won't bore anyone with that here.  It could be formulated as simply as: "So long as the universe is larger than the atom that occupies it, the Universe is less dense than the atom."

This observation adds greatly to the post you are tagging onto. Hope you go higher. Broken down:

Assume everything in the universe is made of atoms

Facts

1. Atoms exist in a universe

2.  There is some empty space between the atoms in the universe

3.  Atoms have mass

4.  Empty space does not have mass

Therefore

5.  The mass of the universe is equal to the sum of the mass of all the atoms in it.

6.  The volume of the universe is larger than the volume of the atoms in it.

Therefore

7.  The universe is less dense than the atoms in it.

Edit: sspelling

Edit 2:  There are things that exist in the universe that are not atoms and are much more dense than atoms, but for simplicity, we are operating under the assumption (not fact) that /u/VeryLittle gave that "everything is made of atoms."  

But let's say we do include black holes in this.  As far as I know, black holes have infinite mass, and the universe has infinite volume.  The question we then have to answer is, is the universe bigger than a black hole is massive?  I have no idea how to answer this.
 More simply, if the universe was packed with atoms, it would have about the same density as one atom. If there is any empty space made in the universe, then the universe's density drops below that of the atoms.  Yes, that's true, but I think OP's question has an implication that we don't count the empty space inside an atom when calculating the density of the universe.

i.e. treat all the space inside of an atom (even if mostly empty) as non-empty when calculating the density of (the rest of) the universe.


 I see what you mean, treat it as non empty because technically, even though it's mostly void, you can't put anything else in it due to repulsive forces.  Not entirely perfect assumptions (neutron stars are only partially made up of atoms and are denser than atom nuclei*), though the exceptions aren't nearly enough to outweigh them. Every time I hear about neutron stars, I remember how cool the universe is. [Magnetars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnetar) baby ! Not just your common, ordinary or garden type neutron star. This part: 

"As described in the February 2003 Scientific American cover story, remarkable things happen within a magnetic field of magnetar strength. "X-ray photons readily split in two or merge together. The vacuum itself is polarized, becoming strongly birefringent, like a calcite crystal. Atoms are deformed into long cylinders thinner than the quantum-relativistic de Broglie wavelength of an electron."[2] In a field of about 105 teslas atomic orbitals deform into rod shapes. At 1010 teslas, a hydrogen atom becomes a spindle 200 times narrower than its normal diameter." Couldn't the space between the subatomic particles in an atom be a vacuum as well?  What kind of "air" would fit inside of an atom if air is made of atoms? &gt; Empty space does not have mass

This is not quite right. "Empty" space does not have **rest** or **intrinsic** mass.

&gt; The mass of the universe is equal to the sum of the mass of all the atoms in it.

This is also not quite right. The mass of, say, a block comprising 1 billion iron atoms depends on it's temperature (i.e., its energy content).
 Don't forget the not insignificant amount of light, neutrinos, free electrons, and dark matter throughout the universe (and maybe gravitrons)  Quite right! There's also a simple gedanken experiment I like to pose when considering the universe's seeming emptiness.

Stand anywhere on the Earth under a clear night's sky. Looking up, you will see the stars, planets, galaxies, dust, and etc that pervade the cosmos. Focus on one part of the sky. Then, take a step left and you will see largely the same, though from a slightly different angle. Take a step back and again you will see largely the same thing, though from a slightly different vantage. Catch a flight cross country and focus on that same part of the night sky. Now, hop aboard a spaceship to the Moon and continue to focus on that same patch of sky.

What can be inferred here? Perhaps it has long been understood that light is largely a radiant phenomenon, but the implication is that there is informational content pervading the cosmos. The Universe is filled with electromagnetic radiation (and other forms) that encodes the wonders of itself. This is definitely a thought that would take me a few showers to come up with, but logically and after hearing it it seems so intuitive. The explanation there is actually not right, the right explanation is that if the Universe is atoms and space, its density is a weighted mean of the two and so is between the two densities (one of them being 0) Follow-up question...

Does the universe end somewhere? 

Where?

How is the size of the universe typically defined? Does it refer to the [convex hull](http://i.imgur.com/DwRAp5J.jpg) that envelopes all the stars and planets, using the [smallest convex](http://i.imgur.com/twl6alZ.jpg) possible?  The size of the Universe is usually defined as the observable Universe. This means all things close enough that light has had enough time to travel from there to here since the beginning of the Universe. This isn't the same as age of Universe * speed of light because space has been expanding since the beginning (and thus things used to be closer together).  Somewhat related: if the universe started from a singularity exploding outwards, how could there be reaches of the universe that light hasn't reached? Doesn't this imply that the universe expanded faster than light moves?

This could be a pathetically naive understanding of the Big Bang, full disclosure. 

Edit: copied and pasted from my other comment. Thought a response might be more likely this way.  Space does indeed expand faster than c. The speed of light(c) is a limit of how fast something can move in space. It does not limit the rate at which space itself can move. ...insofar as expanding is "moving". You've got it backwards: it isn't that there are places light hasn't reached, it's that there are places that have light *which hasn't reached us yet*. The Big Bang happened everywhere and there is no reason to think the regions we can't see look any different from the ones we can. (Don't think of the Big Bang as expansion from a point, there was no point. Think of it as a change in the average density of the universe.) The big bang did not originate at a point in space it was the beginning of space.  From our point of view we can observe a finite amount of space (our observable universe)  but that doesn't represent everything in the universe.  Basically light has reached everywhere in the universe there are just regions so far away (exacerbated by expansion) that the light hasn't reached Earth yet. ALso, two points in space at opposite ends of the observable universe can move apart from one-another faster than c (relatively) without actually exceeding c themselves, meaning that objects at the far end of the observable universe may never be observable, because we are traveling apart from one-another faster than light. As I understand it, the expansion of space is not limited to the speed of light because it is not "motion through space" &gt; Does the universe end somewhere?

Short answer: The universe is believed to be either infinite (goes on forever in all directions) or finite with positive curvature (travel far enough in any direction and you'd end up back where you started).

[This wiki article explains the possible configurations of the universe.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shape_of_the_universe)
 Current knowledge suggests the universe is flat and thus infinite.  Care to provide a source for this statement?  The Cosmic Microwave Backround (CMB) radiation is where we look for evidence of global spacial curvature at present. Planck is the name of a spacecraft that has made significant modern observations in this regard:

2013 data : http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.5076  
2015 data: http://arxiv.org/abs/1502.01589

From the 2013 abstract:
"Including curvature, we find that the Universe is consistent with spatial flatness to percent-level precision using Planck CMB data alone."

For more info on the Planck spacecraft itself:
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_%28spacecraft%29

For further info look up curvature in the CDM (Lambda-CDM) model of space. That is at present our best (at fitting data) large scale model of the universe that most experts agree with. CDM stands for  Cold Dark Matter where  is the symbol in Einstein's equations to denote the cosmological constant. We attempt to measure the curvature of the universe based on total energy density of everything the universe contains. Clearly this is very hard to measure. If the density is higher than the so called 'critical density' then we live in a positively curved universe, flat if exactly *at* critical density, and negatively curved if we're below critical density.

A positive curvature implies a finite universe that eventually curves back onto itself. Flat and negatively curved imply an infinite universe. According to the [Flatness Problem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flatness_problem#Measurement) wiki page, we can "constrain 0 to be 1 within 1%." Where 0 is the density of the universe and a value of 1 means critical density. So at the very least we're *close* to flat.

But, the theory of inflation says that a positively curved universe may have expanded extremely fast to what we now observe as a flat universe. So who knows? An infinite universe is hard to imagine, but then again, so is 4D space.

Disclaimer: I only took one Cosmology course (which I passed.. just). Put simply, the Universe has all the free volume within its constituent atoms plus all the free volume where there are no atoms (vacuum of space). Water and water vapor won't have the same density, yet are made of the same atoms. I don't see how we can say that an atom has the sme density as the material it comprises.  I'm with you there, you definitely said it better than I was going to. Moreover, the volumes of atoms can overlap each other. Therefore it is possible to have two atoms with a higher density than one. &gt; I don't see how we can say that an atom has the sme density as the material it comprises.


I thought the point was that an atom has *higher* density than the material it comprises.  They are putting an upper bound on the density.  As long as atoms can't 'overlap', then anything made out of atoms must be less dense than the atoms themselves, right?


As for whether atoms can 'overlap', that completely depends on what you mean when you say an atom's size.  You can define it as a bond-length (e.g. C-C bond), in which case you can have some volume overlap in compounds with shorter bonds (e.g. C=C bonds).  But if you say the size is the expected radius of an electron in the 1s orbital, you aren't going to find any atoms packed closer than this distance (i.e. no overlap) except in funky situations like neutron stars and black holes. Water vapor is compressible. At high enough temperatures and pressure water vapor should be the same (or close to) density as liquid water. At the scales we are talking about, the density of water and steam might as well be identical. On the scale of a brick? Because that's what we're talking about. The density of a brick versus the density of that brick's atoms. I was responding to this thought experiment:

&gt;Think of a brick- if you cut a brick in half both halves will have the same density as the original brick. If you continue the halving process until you only have one atom, then that atom should, by induction, have the same density as the matter you started with. That's a very logical and well thought-out response. Though I imagine the original question was asked in the spirit that the person you responded to answered it. Basically, he question implied that when you consider the universe, you think of matter as completely solid. So earth would have no basically no space inside of it and basically be considered a single proton in this example (ignoring quarks and such).  Even though your answer is a correct statement, I am not quite sure, if you answered op's question.

I understood the question as "What is smaller? The volume of its electrones divided by the volume of an atom or the volume of all mass inside the universe divided by volume of the universe?". Which isn't really asking for the density. Also I think only mass of planets/stars/asteroids (solid mass?) would count here. Sorry for my poor knowledge about the terminology.

So at least I am interested in what I mentioned above, can anyone answer this? In numbers... the first post said something like "fewer than 5 atoms of stuff for each cubic meter of space in the observable universe", but I don't really get the unit of that value, especially because if you divide a volume by a volume, there shouldn't be a volume like "stuff per m of space" at all.

Of course maybe, I misinterpreted the question and/or the two answers, but I still want to know &gt;Think of a brick- if you cut a brick in half both halves will have the same density as the original brick. If you continue the halving process until you only have one atom, then that atom should, by induction, have the same density as the matter you started with.

Repeat this same thought experiment with a diamond and with charcoal. You end up with the conclusion that a carbon atom simultaneously has the density of diamond and charcoal.  More accurately, the thought experiment shows that the atom has *at least* the density of the matter you started with. The atom can be more dense than the substance, but the substance cannot be more dense than the atom. To an order of magnitude, that's not a terrible estimate.  &gt; For a simply toy model, everything is made of atoms, so atoms are the densest thing that there is (barring white dwarfs and neutron stars, etc). Think of a brick- if you cut a brick in half both halves will have the same density as the original brick. If you continue the halving process until you only have one atom, then that atom should, by induction, have the same density as the matter you started with

I disagree that the atom, by induction, would have the same density as the matter you started with. It would only have the same density if it was the smallest possible amount of atoms/molecules that could still be called "brick" ... In other words a single atom does not a brick make. In slightly different words, you can't really have "atoms" of brick....brick is made up of a lot of different molecules and atoms make up those molecules. The atoms themselves are elements. 


As to the second paragraph, you are talking about per capita density of bricks versus the density of the brick itself....these are two different things. All of the bricks together should have the same density....per capita though the farther they are removed from one another the lower the density of bricks per capita but the density of the bricks themselves shouldn't change. 

 I think he's including the space between the electrons and the nucleus.  So what's more spacious on average, the Atom with all the space between the electrons and nucleus or the universe?

I think it's an interesting question, as I vaguely remember a book relating an atom's nucleus to a marble in the center of a baseball stadium and the electrons are at the edges of the stadium.   This is a stellar explanation! I love it! Thank you for sharing. I'm having trouble accepting the comparison between a brick and a galaxy. I understand the logic right down to the individual atom - I can't reconcile different atoms (different elements corresponding to different makeups of protons/neutrons/electrons) making up your brick. Depending on the mineral composition of the brick, not all atoms are equal; at some point in the halving, you will come to the lowest repeatable molecular structure (for instance, calcium phosphate), that cannot be broken down into homogeneous atoms. Therefore, you will never halve your brick into down to just one type atom.

Galaxies suffer from the same problems, on the macro scale, in which not all material within the galaxy is the same, and thus cannot be continually halved into one characteristic building block 'atom'. 

Does this problem not arise as the matter within the atom is made of such fundamentally different particles, i.e. quarks? You're over thinking it. For the sake of the problem, you can assume every atom is the same and has the same mass- after all, 99.9% of the atomic mass in the universe is just Hydrogen and Helium. No doubt I'm over thinking it - I'm new to the philosophical brick-universe comparison!
I completely agree with the second part of your statement. My issue is with the assertion that the galaxy is mostly vacuum (empty space) and the brick, at the atomic level, is not. I don't believe the homogeneous brick theory accurately depicts the mass/empty space of the brick at the atomic level. 
Either way, your bricks-in-the-neighbourhood analogy is quite helpful. The key is the density of the brick doesn't matter. It could be a bubble (with a vacuum inside...) and the same argument applies - you're just increasing the container size by defining it as the universe.

What OP is abstracting is reassigning the density of an atom, etc to be as 'solid' as the proton/neutrons/electron(immeasurable) in an atom.

 Think about it this way. The universe consists of two things: atoms and free space.
If the universe were stuffed full of atoms, edge to edge, with no space in between (ignoring complications of how close you can actually pack atoms) then the density of the universe would equal the density of a single atom.
Now take this filled universe and start removing atoms. You can remove them in such a way that this hypothetical universe resembles our own, with planets, starts, galaxied, nebulae, etc. Obviously removing the atoms will leave space where before there was mass, lowering the density by definition.
Or, more intuitively, the universe cannot be more dense than its most fundamental unit. &gt; Think of a brick- if you cut a brick in half both halves will have the same density as the original brick. If you continue the halving process until you only have one atom, then that atom should, by induction, have the same density as the matter you started with.

It would no longer be a brick though, would it?

Your argument is like taking a lump of carbon and asking yourself if it's graphite or diamond. Let's say it's a diamond, and you keep cutting it in half until you get to a single atom. You're saying that, by induction, that carbon atom is a diamond, but I say that this is where the analogy falls apart.

&gt; Don't mind me though, OP gave a solid answer, and other commenters have already debunked the "atoms are mostly empty space" misconception, so I won't bore anyone with that here.

I'd call a pint glass with just a few millimeters of water in it, mostly empty (of course an optimist might call it slightly full but that's a different discussion). OP said that atoms are empty to 13 orders of magnitude. How is it a misconception that an atom that's 99.9999999999% empty can be called mostly empty? You're over-thinking the analogy.  Forget allotropic variations for just a second, and imagine that brick made out of whatever you want it to be made out of.  Your finished product, unless it happens to end up as a neutron star, cannot have a higher density than the simplist (logical) unit of that matter, i.e. the atom.  Ergo, the universe, must have a lower density than the atom, unless it was filled, bound to bound, with that one type of atom, in which case, it would be at least the same density as the atom.  Never more. Does the vacuum of the universe have any mass? [deleted] Couldn't a proton be considered 'empty space', made up of a few even tinier elemental particles, in the same way an atom is?

Come to think of it, could anything be said for certain to not be empty? Is there anything in the universe that we know is more than a one dimensional point and a force it exerts on the space around it? Tempted to make a 'yo momma' joke. Phew! Narrowly avoided that one...

On topic; The boundaries are fuzzy between quarks and we're not really sure if they are point-like. Additional to this confusion is the situation where virtual quarks and anti-quarks are continuously being created and annihilated inside.

There are situations where we can certainly agree that something is not empty. Neutron stars have overall densities of 3.710^17 to 5.910^17 kg/m3 (2.610^14 to 4.110^14 times the density of the Sun), which is comparable to the approximate density of an atomic nucleus of 310^17 kg/m3. [Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neutron_star) ... So essentially a neutron star is as dense as solid atomic nucleus (without the fuzzy cloud of electrons around it).

~~Electron~~ Quantum degeneracy pressure is the force which prevents the compression of matter into a smaller space - it is also the reason why we don't pass through the floor despite the floor being 99.9999996% empty space. Matter can be compressed further but it will collapse into a black hole and we can't see them - so the neutron star is a good candidate for something that we can define as 'not empty'.
 Its okay, she could stand to lose a few pounds.

Thanks for the answer! Is a neutron star basically a giant atom? Protons are already empty space... they're made of two "up" quarks and one "down" quark, which at rest mass only compose 1% of the proton's mass. The rest of the mass is the kinetic energy of the quarks and the gluon fields that hold the quarks together.

On the other hand, none of the proton's components are really "matter", as while they have mass they have no volume (they're pointlike, meaning the proton volume is effectively empty) so the proton is about as small as you get and still have something that you can poke and prod. They are not mostly empty space. Other than the quark triplet, there are many other mesons in the protons and neutrons.  As the universe expands, will it become even less dense? Yes. The metric expansion of space is continually spreading the existing amount of stuff (mass/energy) within the universe over a larger and larger volume. 

That's why right now the most widely predicted ultimate fate of the universe is considered "heat death". Over trillions and trillions of years, everything will end up so spread out that even individual photons will rarely encounter each other. There will be so little stuff spread out over such an immense amount of empty space that the average temperature will be insanely close to absolute zero, and there won't be any meaningful interactions between anything anymore.  I thought "locally", at something like galaxy scale, gravity counteracts the expansion? ... though I see star formation can't go on forever because matter's continually being "lost" to dwarfs and photons and neutrinos and whatever else.

From [the WP article on the subject](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ultimate_fate_of_the_universe#Theories_about_the_end_of_the_universe),

&gt; Random quantum fluctuations or quantum tunneling can produce another Big Bang in 10^10^56 years.

which got me actually laughing out loud at the sheer absurdity of it. 
~The absurd is born of the unreasonable silence of the universe~, indeed.
 Gravitationally bound objects can indeed be held together against the expansion of the universe. It's just that over long enough timescales, other phenomena will basically break up those objects into radiation and scatter them across the universe.

It's not proven that the proton is infinitely stable, although if it does decay, its half-life is absurdly long. But still, forever is even longer, so if it does decay, then eventually pretty much all the matter in the universe decays to radiation and wanders out into the void. 

But even if the proton is stable forever, over even more ridiculously long amounts of time, pretty much everything would either fall into a black hole or quantum tunnel into a black hole, which would eventually decay into radiation. 

Either way, it happens on timescales so huge that they're basically meaningless to us silly humans. 

 I always understood the expansion included the space itself - like, a ruler would still be 30cm long to us even if the universe expanded to twice its size, because us and the ruler etc.. are all included in that expansion.  I assumed this followed through to measurements like density - the apparent density would remain the same.  perhaps if we could sit outside the universe and look in, we would see it at 1/2 the density?
I get the feeling I've got that all a bit skew-whiff? The expansion doesn't include the space itself, it is the space itself. But all of the stuff within space isn't expanding. The space around Earth is expanding, but the forces that hold the Earth together (gravity) are strong enough to hold the planet at its same size. 

It's more like the Earth isn't part of that expanding ruler, it's just an object sitting on it as it expands. 

The universe is expanding and basically creating new space, but not new matter. The end result is that anything that isn't gravitationally bound is spreading further and further apart from everything else.  Ok, but why only the space around the earth is expanding, and not the mostly-space-between/inside-atoms also expanding?

Ahh - you say gravitationally bound. Is the expansion force very weak so all the other forces overcome it or similar?..

sorry if I'm being dim
 Yes, the expansion is extremely slow and small, at the scale of something like an atom, it's pretty much negligible and easily overcome by forces within the atom.

 Only at huge intergalactic scales does the expansion add up to really significant speeds.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You confused me for a second by comparing cubic meters to cubic lightyears which I did not notice especially since there are 20 orders of magnitude difference between the two. 

If anyone wants to know:

2.7e37 cubic lightyears = 2.28610^85 m^3 

so its just under 30 orders of magnitude

Edit: 30, not 20

 Just under 30? Because I'm having the same confusion. Converting cubic lightyears to meters? Check

Subtracting 50 from 80? Check minus. Thanks!  This is exactly what I was interested in just the observable universe is empty to 20 orders of magnitude you mean....


That's like saying that if we could only see 5% of a hydrogen atom, then that 5% of it is 20 orders of magnitude empty, but we don't know if we're looking at the edge or the center of the atom.


For all we know, 10 bagillion lightyears away from us, outside of the observable universe, is a huge blackhole bigger than the entire observable universe combined. Are we talking about volume or mass? (assuming that would change the equation)
Side question, does an atom expand and contract due to temperature? No, the atoms move faster and so the average distance between it and its neighbours increases Does this take dark matter into account?  No, those numbers do not,  but it doesn't change the game too much.  I was intentionally vague because measurements disagree.  Even if you take dark matter / energy to be 95% of the universe it only changes the final answer by 2 orders of magnitude and the analysis of "Past 20 orders of magnitude" is still true.  

This was really intended to be a more "laymen ' s" answer to what I thought was an interesting question.   I didn't expect it to blow up.  I'll try to answer in more detail when I get home from work 

 so basically the average density of the observable universe can be roughly expressed as 0. So if the universe was the size of the earth, how big would the diameter of the "stuff" be? Wow commented on a break and this blew up.   I intentionally left my first answer vague because as others have pointed out their is an amount of uncertainty in the numbers.   "Past 20 orders of magnitude" is a pretty safe assumption though taking highest possible assumptions.  Working off that,  it would be at most on the scale of nanometers, which makes it hard to provide an everyday contextual relation.  Viruses are measured in nanometers for example,  but are still hard to relate to add an everyday object. 

Also remember that's an upper bound,  the real answer is probably much smaller.  Not trying to be funny here, but since the universe is empty to about 20 orders of magnitude and the remaining matter is composed of atoms that are empty to about 13 orders of magnitude, would it be correct to say that if you include the emptiness within atoms, the universe is empty to 33 orders of magnitude?  Serious question. 
 Any citations for this? I'd be interested to read them.  That's really cool. It makes me wonder if our universe is one dense atom (or electron) of a far bigger universe, considering if something proportionally as large as we are to an atom were to the universe it may not be able to look into our universe and see it as a piece of matter like we do electrons. But that means a whole lot of crazy physics and perhaps dense sun galaxies to make their photons or something.

Just a neat thought. :) Does this explanation factor in the fact that the universe is constantly expanding? Wouldn't there be at least 5 atoms of escaped gas or dust in a meter, averaged across the universe? I was under the assumption that empty space is not a complete vacuum, there still exists trace amounts of "stuff" I'd like to ask for clarification from some of the physicists here on this question.

What exactly does it mean for a space to be "empty"?  We can try to measure the ratio of mass to volume of things, but even with its black holes and neutron stars, it's pretty obvious that the universe is less dense than an atom of a given isotope of, say, lead (right?).  What makes any given spot in space "empty"?  What about virtual particles?  Interstellar medium?  The electron cloud? I would argue that "empty" just isn't a very technical term. There is no simple, physical definition that correlates 100% with our common-sense notion of "empty."

So I would give two answers, based on how you defined "empty."

1) "There is nothing there?"

This question gets a little tricky. What is a thing? For example, if you hand me an empty bucket, I could say that it is filled with air. But we normally ignore the air. Similarly, if you hand me a section of vacuum I know it is actually filled with [vacuum energy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuum_energy). But normally we call that energy "nothing."

So, in order to ask the question "is this space empty of particles" you must first tell me what kind of particles you care about.


2) "Can I put stuff in?"

This sounds like it is just a rewording of question (1), but it really isn't. Consider hydrogen storage as an example. Many metals - including aluminum - can store hydrogen (called [hydrogen porosity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrogen_gas_porosity)). When you add hydrogen this way, the metal doesn't actually expand very much. The hydrogen just goes in there, in between the aluminum atoms.

Does this mean the aluminum metal is empty? From the perspective of hydrogen gas, yes. From the perspective of my hand, no.

So to answer this question, you must tell me what you want to put in there. &gt;So, in order to ask the question "is this space empty of particles" you must first tell me what kind of particles you care about.

Isn't there also a big issue where we aren't even necessarily aware of all the particles out there? Perhaps emptiness does not exist and instead there are ridiculously small particles that completely compose space. Isn't this possible? Replace particles with "fields and their excitations" and you're basically spot on.  Many of the answers use the fallback 'universe made up of atoms, so it must be less dense than an atom".

But the universe has neutron stars, and black holes.  This seems to violate the hypothesis given above (presumably the 'made up of atoms' part).

So what is the density of a neutron star compared to an atom?  several dozens of orders of magnitude higher? Think about it this way. A volume of space that contains a star has at least the same density as a volume of space that contains the stellar remnant of that star (i.e. a neutron star or a black hole). The only processes that we understand that form black holes and neutron stars are stellar core collapse and white-dwarfs gaining mass from another body.

 The universe, almost by definition.  Consider that the universe is made of atoms.  If it were packed as densely as possible, with no space between the outermost electron shell of one atom and that of the next, then the universe would have exactly the same 'space to stuff' ratio as the average atom.  Since it isn't (vacuum of space and all that), it must have more space per unit matter. I'm assuming OP wanted us to consider atoms as solid objects for the universe part. But that is a good point. Doesn't matter if you treat them as solid objects with some volume across which their mass is distributed, or as mostly empty volumes with all the mass in the center. The density of each atom is the same.

It's no different than if I have a container 1 cubic meter in size containing either 100 grams of liquid water or 100 grams of water vapor. Either way, the density of the container is 100 grams per cubic meter. but OP didn't ask about density, he asked about % empty. If you had a 1m^3 container with 100 ml of water, it would be 99.99% empty whereas the other one would be 0% empty assuming we define emptiness as sampling each cubic millimetre for water and saying the space is empty if we don't find any. In addition to the other answers in the thread atoms aren't really empty. Due to the probabilistic nature of electron distribution the atom outside of the nucleus can be viewed as a very low density electron cloud, as opposed to empty. Electrons aren't little balls flying in circles around a nucleus unfortunately. ...But.... wait what? Doesn't the "probabilistic nature of electron distribution" speak to the possible POSITION of the electrons at any given time? This would have nothing to do with the density of atom as far as I can tell. 

mass of matter / volume of overlap of all electron clouds = density of the atom, right? It doesn't matter where the electrons are within that volume, just that they have exist and have mass. 

Otherwise, if what I'm saying is not what you meant, then wouldn't you be suggesting that electrons aren't actually particles but are... clouds? This would be news to me and I'd ask you to explain. I thought electron cloud just referred to the possible space that the actual electron particles could be in for a given atom.  Electrons in atoms don't really exist as particles or waves but a bit of both.

Hey are something that it is very difficult to conceptualise. We talk about electron clouds which represents the space the electron, if we consider it to be a particle, could be found. But when considering how atoms and molecules interact it is better to think of the electrons as being everywhere in that electron cloud at once.

When we consider a pi orbital in benzene say, we treat the whole doughnut shapes above and below to be where the negative charge is, we don't just think that there are 6 point charges floating around in that space.

The weird thing is that we CAN observe the electron as a particle. There are special cameras that can pin point its location. If we do it multiple times then we find it in lots of different locations. Which means it must have moved, moving in a fixed volume must require some kind of acceleration, this is impossible for an electron, it would lose all its energy. That means instead of moving it was everywhere, it only had a location as a particle when it was observed.

If this is hard to grasp don't worry. Feynman said that anyone who claims to understand quantum physics, doesn't. I don't see why the electron moving means there has to be acceleration. What if the electron just has constant speed? No dv/dt, no acceleration, right?  If it had a constant speed but no acceleration, then eventually it would exit the atom by its own momentum. Since that doesn't happen, there has to be acceleration in some vector.

To make it even more hard to understand, there are thought experiments where there is actually only "one" electron since they exist in their probability cloud and we just capture the same particle representation in different minute time differences. Remember that v is a vector (speed plus direction), so change in direction gives you a non-zero acceleration also, not just change in speed.  If the electron is bound to the atom, it has to be accelerating toward it. Which is fine, because electrons have an electric charge, and they are accelerated toward the nucleus (which is oppositely charged) as you would expect. &gt; wouldn't you be suggesting that electrons aren't actually particles but are... clouds? This would be news to me and I'd ask you to explain. I thought electron cloud just referred to the possible space that the actual electron particles could be in for a given atom. 

I guess the issue is that you cannot talk of a "particle" when its location is inherently fuzzy. In fact we indeed reason in terms of clouds when we do chemistry.  Interesting, truly. This is all somewhat humorous to me. 

I recently started doing some general tutoring for a student on the side and one of the classes she's taking is "Physical Science". We got to the chapter on atoms and the textbook was relying on Bohr's model of an atom. I remember thinking, "Here I am teaching this, but I know it isn't considered correct anymore. I wonder how far off it actually is."

I suppose I found my answer... VERY OFF! And the textbook was published in 2004! 

I either have to wonder who is making these textbooks, or I have to wonder if we've reached a point where the going theories in the science has become so complex that we have to fall back to outdated models to even begin to explain the concept to young students, even if the models are severely flawed.

The whole thing seems somewhat ridiculous to me. I'm literally teaching a child lies and that's just a microcosm of what is going on in classrooms around the country. Isn't that mad? The book should probably be retitled "The History of Physical Science" &gt; the textbook was relying on Bohr's model of an atom. I remember thinking, "Here I am teaching this, but I know it isn't considered correct anymore. I wonder how far off it actually is."

Oh wow, yes, Bohr's model is really very off. However for a small kid it is a good model. As you state:

&gt;science has become so complex that we have to fall back to outdated models to even begin to explain the concept, even if it is severely flawed.

It would just create a headache to explain to a kid the concept of "orbital", I guess. However Bohr's atom can be depicted as little balls going around, which is easy to grasp and yet enough close to the reality to give a pretty good explanation of many everyday phenomena. After all, Bohr's atom was a pretty amazing improvement on previous models! You only have to need thinking of electrons as sort-of-cloud-ish when you get to talk about the whys and whats of molecular structures, reactivities etc. - I suppose a child is not concerned with this stuff yet.

It's the same for Newtonian gravity -we teach it and it is perfect for many things, even if it is technically wrong.

Edit: See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bohr_model [deleted] But this doesn't really correlate with our common-sense notion of "emptiness."

Consider the amorphous carbon -&gt; diamond transition. When you crush carbon, it forms the diamond crystal structure. The amount of mass hasn't really changed, the atoms are just closer together. So would you call the amorphous carbon "emptier"? But isn't every object "fuzzy" to some extent? of course any macroscopic objects will have very well defined position, but I thought they still had infinitesimally small fuzziness to them.

So I am technically a probability function that fills the universe...no? 

Universe is full of me. Feels good man.  but an electron cloud has very little mass, so in the context of space:mass ratio, it's still very empty Yeah, i was trying to avoid thinking about that. I was having a hard enough time with the fact that 1) the universe is pretty empty, and 2) the actual "stuff" of atoms that make us up is also pretty empty. Thanks.  You cannot ignore the fact that the energy levels of the electrons define characteristic radii for the orbits, certainly it is unhelpful to think of all of them perfectly aligned at this particular radius but the densities peak around that point, it is a characteristic length scale for the problem, the computations done here are justified. This is another misconception. The electron density for the 1s orbital (and for the total electron density for any ground-state polyelectronic atom) is at its highest **at the nucleus**. What you are thinking of is the [radial probability, which is this](http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/imgmod2/hy2p.gif) which is _not_ the density as a function of the radius but that density multiplied with the area of a sphere with the same radius, that is, the sum total of the density at a given radius. If the electron density was equal everywhere that curve would be proportional to r^2 . 

Atoms are not at all 'mostly empty' in any meaningful sense, and any peek at actual electron densities will show you that, such as [this one, for water](http://academic.reed.edu/chemistry/roco/Density/images/water_rho_relief_large.jpg) (note the peak at the oxygen atom is cropped, but it does indeed peak at the nucleus). The universe, because it's made of atoms with additional space between them.

If the universe consisted of atoms packed as closely together as possible, then the universe would have the same %empty space as an atom. &gt; If the universe consisted of atoms packed as closely together as possible, then the universe would have the same %empty space as an atom.

There are things in the universe that are packed quite a bit more closely than atoms can be, though. For instance, neutron stars and black holes are both things that exist. Black holes take up very little space, but neutron stars are relatively large blobs of degenerate matter that are very much so more dense than atoms. Those are very small sections, and if you expanded those neutron stars to their pre-collapsed star size, the universe would not just be filled with degenerate atoms. The argument still holds. &gt; The argument still holds.

The conclusion is probably correct, yes, but the reasoning behind it is extremely wrong. 

The idea that the universe is made of atoms is patently incorrect. I mean, baryonic matter is thought to only make up around 4.6% of the matter in the universe. At least 95.4% of the matter in the universe is not made of atoms. Of the mass-energy, not matter.  
According to [this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_energy#/media/File:DMPie_2013.svg) (from Planck data), there's 4.9% ordinary matter, 26.8% dark matter and 68.3% dark energy.  
So according to that, matter makes up 31.7%, so that ordinary matter is about *15.5% of all matter* (ordinary + dark), unless I made a mistake. If matter like planets and stars were actually sub-atomic particles, which would be more dense? I really love when a complex question like this is answered with simple common sense. Or with an obviously uncharitable interpretation. It is clear that the OP intended to be asking as though atoms within the universe were to be treated as discreet particles.

Answers like this are just snarky and useless unless they are accompanied by an answer of the question as it was clearly intended I don't think he's being snarky at all. I didn't think it was clear that OP intended atoms to be treated as discreet particles; he very well may just not have thought of it that way. This guy's answer was spot-on with what I was going to say with full sincerity. No need to insult people just because they didn't interpret the question the way you did. If he didn't think of it that way, then he *definitely* intended for atoms to be "solid." Otherwise he's just asking "what's more dense, this thing, or this other thing that's definitely less dense?" I don't see how it's obvious that OP meant that. This visualization made a lot of sense and wasn't uncharitable at all.  It made a lot of sense if and only if you don't consider who would ask such a ridiculous question of they were thinking in such terms. 

I did not say that the answer was incorrect, l said that it was snarky and unhelpful **unless** paired with an answer to the only reasonable interpretation of such a question of a person spends even a moment considering where such a question would come from and how the OP intended it.

Including this on a complete answer of the question is actually a very good way to fully address the question **and** address an internal logical issue at once. Offering only the answer l responded to is basically just saying, "silly OP doesn't even know enough to figure out silly simple problem" and moving on. 

You may find my criticism of the answer insulting, but l criticized the answer because l believe it to be insulting as it stands, on the same level of pointing out a spelling error or word substitution in a question rather than answering the question itself. what if you count the atoms as solid in volume for the purposes of comparison? Short answer:  The universe, not because it is made of atoms, but because it has lower density materials. Dark energy and dark matter both have theoretical densities several magnitudes lower than matter.

Long answer:  We don't know enough yet, but I still think the universe. It all comes down to how you define your question; do you mean (total _mass)/volume or (mass_volume)/(total_volume). For example, I can take two glasses with equal volumes of water and oil. Theoretically they will have the same amount of empty space, since they are both matter, but actually since each glass has different species of atoms that is not true. Thanks. As you can tell from my initial post, i really had a hard time trying to formulate the right question. Way more comple,x that i imagined.  The universe. Think about the emptiness of the atom, then think about most of the things in the universe being comprised of atoms and the vast separations of emptiness between them on top of the emptiness of each individual atom. As you might gather from some of the answers, this question raises a fundamental question regarding what counts as empty space vs. what counts as matter. Ultimately, everything is made of [elementary particles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elementary_particle), and even though we call them particles, there are different ways of thinking of them. When it comes down to it, an elementary particle is something that influences other particles. We can assign a particle a rough position by calculating where the center of the influence is, but there's no cut-and-dried definition for how far that particle extends. You can think of a particle as being a point with no extent at all, in which case all of space is technically empty, but that's not really useful. On the other hand, you could try to look at how far a point exerts influence, or how uncertain its position is, but there's no hard limit for these things. Probably the best way to look at it, rather than to ask what percentage of the space is empty, is to ask how much mass or energy there is per cubic unit of space, or, in other words, look at the density. Looking at it this way, the universe is less dense, and so has a larger percentage of "empty" space, in the way that I think of emptiness. The masses of atoms are known, as well as their volume. And the [density of the observable universe has been estimated](http://people.cs.umass.edu/~immerman/stanford/universe.html) so you can compare that way. The universe must mathematically be more empty as a %.

If the universe was 100% comprised of side by side packed atoms, itd have the same density as a single atom (as it is 100% atoms)

Since it is obviously not even remotely close to that, and is mostly composed of empty space with chunks of atoms floating about it, by proof it *must* be significantly more empty, as all the parts where it *isn't* empty, it has atoms, which are as empty as an atom is.

t;dr: a 100% full universe of atoms would have same density as an atom. Any universe not 100% comprised of atoms (with space in it) would thus be less dense than a single atom. [deleted] If the universe was absolutely filled with atoms, the universe would be as a percentage just as empty as an atom. The density of an atom is an upper limit for the universe. So by definition the universe must be at least as empty as an atom. Given that the universe is not filled with atoms, it must be more empty. This question is like asking "Which is more dense? A hollow brick, or a house built of hollow bricks?"

The hollow brick will always be denser (or in an extreme/impractical case equally dense if the house is completely filled). This is because the less dense the hollow brick becomes, the less dense the house becomes as well. I keep seeing the same answer over and over again.. But I think the question OP meant to ask is more along the lines of:
"Which would be larger, the average space between planets/stars over the average size of them, or the distance between nuclei in these celestial bodies over the average size of each nuclei." I only read the top few comments which are nice and exact... but I think there is an easy qualitative answer for this without the maths. An atom has some density and is X% empty. All matter is made up of atoms, so then all of the matter we can see is X% empty. Now we can combine atoms into larger structures like people or planets, they will still roughly be X% empty, so then the earth and a person for example should be about the same % empty. But then, we can separate large groups of those atoms (like planets) with HUGE expanses of empty space, now we have the same amount of matter, but much more space, this should drive up the % emptyness quite high since the volume is increasing but not adding additional matter within the larger volume. Now you do a bunch of math and find out that this is the case and that space is much more empty by many orders of magnitude! Somewhat related: if the universe started from a singularity exploding outwards, how could there be reaches of the universe that light hasn't reached? Doesn't this imply that the universe expanded faster than light moves?

This could be a pathetically naive understanding of the Big Bang, full disclosure.  Yes, it means exactly that. The universe is expanding at an ever-increasing rate. This will cause an interesting effect (long after we're gone) of shrinking the size of the viewable universe. As the speed of expansion increases (well beyond the speed of light), we will start to see less further into the outer reaches of the universe because the light of those objects can't reach us fast enough. 


This is all a function of the [Doppler Effect](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doppler_Effect). It's how we can tell if things are moving away or towards us as the observer and how we can determine that the universe is expanding in general. As things move away, they become red shifted. Eventually, the visible universe will shrink so much that the observer would not be able to see neighboring galaxies that are moving away from the Milky Way. And by eventually I mean, so far into the future that it's not really of concern to humans. This question has popped up before and people did some great math to calculate the differences, but we do t even need to do that.  

Think about it this way, the universe is comprised of atoms and space.  So it would be very weird if the density of the universe was actually higher than that of an atom.  Note that "empty" is not a thing.

Note that if it was, not all elements would have the same level of "empty".

Note that if it was and if they did, it would be impossible for the universe to be any lower of a % of "empty" than its constituent atoms.

The only way this question makes any sense is if you propose a definition for "empty" (for example, space where the probability of finding a particle is below a certain threshold could be defined as empty).

The only way this question makes conceptual sense is if you give different definitions for "empty" for an atom (space where you won't find a sub-atomic particle) and for the universe (space where you won't find a sub-atomic particle or empty space within an atom). To put it very simply (ignoring negligible exceptions), the universe is comprised of atoms. Therefore, it cannot possibly be MORE dense than an atom (unless there was some way for atoms to exist in the same space in any meaningful sense). If it was 100% filled with atoms that had zero distance between them, the universe would still be only as dense as an atom. The universe is very much less filled than the above example, and so therefore the universe is much much more "empty". **This is not the answer for which you're looking.**

IMO, there is no reality to the concept of "nothingness" for the simple facts that it is ill defined and attempting to measure it is illogical. How could one even define the absence of all "things" when A) it is likely that we are not aware of all "things" and B) the very concept of thing is itself dubious.

More to the point, the omnipresence of fields (electromagnetic, gravitational, etc) is inferred from all measurements. That's all besides the point.   OP's question obviously was regarding space and "things" as we understand them.    Otherwise there's no point to the question.  Not being sure of what actually constitutes the universe (to the best guesses so far there's about 2/3's of it missing), it's very hard to say if the universe is more sparsely populated than an atom.

If indeed the universe if found to have the "missing" weight, and once it's postulated where that weight has been "hiding" (in addition to how it got there), I believe we might find out the universe is not near as empty as believed. Because all that can exist in the universe is atoms or no atoms, the universe must be more empty. That is if you aren't counting the full area of an atom as "taken up" then all of the empty space in an atom is also empty space in the universe. It appears that there is a genetic component to childbirth from a [Newcastle University study](http://www.science20.com/news_releases/chromosomes_are_so_20th_century_male_genes_really_determine_baby_gender_says_study) [(full study)](http://www.collective-action.info/sites/default/files/webmaster/_TEA_Gellatly_Trends-in-Population-Sex-Ratios.pdf) that found a correlation between men with many brothers having a higher percentage of male children and men with many sisters having a higher percentage of female.  

This data is in line with a theory that there is a sex-linked gene  that determines the proportion of men's sperm. If the man has MM he produces more male sperm MF means more equal sperm and FF means more female sperm.  Currently this gene has not been identified.   The most recent scan to identify individual genes responsible for these sort of patterns [did not find any sex linked transmission ratio distorters](http://www.genetics.org/content/191/1/215.full), so while there is some circumstantial evidence that they exist in human populations (like the study you cite), there's no real smoking gun yet.

That said, we know that such things can occur in other species, so it wouldn't be all that shocking if we found good evidence for it in humans &gt; That said, we know that such things can occur in other species, so it wouldn't be all that shocking if we found good evidence for it in humans

Other species have genes that can create descendents that only produce one sex or the other? That's fascinating, which ones have these genes and does it cause problems down the line with "communities" having vastly more "boys" than "girls" (or vice-versa)? Yes. It happens.

I don't have the time to give you a good explanation, but the phenomenon in general is called [meiotic drive](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiotic_drive), and is not necessarily limited to the sex chromosomes. Basically, in males one allele will kill sperm that carry a different allele, whereas in female meiosis (which won't affect sex ratio) one allele will cheat its way into the egg more often than its counterpart (this is a non-exhaustive explanation). Oftentimes these alleles will have otherwise negative consequences (or as you correctly anticipate, if the sex ratio is involved, that can be very bad). This sets up an [intragenomic conflict](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intragenomic_conflict), as the rest of the genome evolves to shut down the distorter allele.

One mildly famous example where this has been observed is [in stalk-eyed flies](https://www.google.com/search?q=stalk+eyed+flies&amp;es_sm=91&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=29g2VfHiFY6-yAT_6YDQDg&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1440&amp;bih=806):

http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v391/n6664/abs/391276a0.html

http://www.genetics.org/content/147/3/1169.short

http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&amp;aid=3811&amp;fileId=S0016672399004218 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You got it. Lots of people bring up anecdotal evidence from their family when discussing heredity. it's important to remember that large sample sizes doesn't mean 5 or 10 or even 20, since the random aspect makes statistics a waste of time. Most species tend to have approximately 50-50 sex ratios, and there is a good theoretical reason why:

Imagine, for whatever reason, females leave more offspring than males.  Natural selection would then favor individuals that produce more female offspring, because they would more successfully pass on genes to the next generation. So, over time, the proportion of females in the population would go up and the number of males would go down.
Imagine, as an extreme example, that the sex ratio gets so skewed that females outnumber males by 100 to 1.  That is one lucky male, and he is basically guaranteed to have free reign over as many females as he wants. 
So we now have a situation where males are incredibly reproductively fit solely because they are the limiting resource.  It now becomes strongly beneficial to have a male offspring, as this basically guarantees your genes will be passed on to grandchildren.  As a result, individuals that produce more males are more successful, and start to increase in the population until there are as many males as females.  You're back to a 50-50 sex ratio. It's a negative-feedback loop.

Note that sex ratios are unlikely to skew to the 100-1 ratio I used as an example: even a 55-45 skew would be enough to strongly favor one sex over the other and bring it back to 50-50.

As another caveat, the sex ratio at birth does not need to be manifested in the adult population. In some cases, one sex suffers much higher mortality and is therefore less common in the population, but generally speaking the sexes should be approximately equally common at birth, to my knowledge.
 There is one more caveat: It is not really a 50-50 split in individual offspring that is the stable strategy, but a 50-50 split in the cost for the parents. This could explain why slightly more boys than girls are born from humans. Since boys die in infancy more often than girls, the expected cost for raising a boy is slightly lower than the expected cost of raising a girl.

The effect is more pronounced in species with bigger sexual dimorphism, and goes completely haywire in honeybees, where a good part of the colony leaves with the new queen, driving the effective cost of producing female "offspring" through the roof. I believe you're talking about Fischer's principle ... [Link](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher%27s_principle).

Interestingly, there's normally slightly more human females than males.  Minus socially inspired controls - like China, where humans breed for males as their first child to carry the name. [deleted] But males can have more offspring. With a 50/50 ratio of makes to females, the average number of offspring will be the same for males and females. Although yes the median will tend to be higher for females than for males, with more skew on the males' distribution of number of offspring. [deleted] Each child (in species with 2 sexes blah blah) has one mother and one father. Therefore, as many children are fathered as are mothered. Therefore, if there are fewer than 50% males, males are more successful on average because it took fewer of them to attain the same number of offspring. Therefore, mutations making more males than previously are beneficial, shifting the tilt back toward 50/50.

50/50 is sexual equilibrium. In expectation, each female mothers as many offspring as each male fathers, because (# offspring)/(# females) = (# offspring)/(# males). The distributions of the number of offsprings are different (the male one might be much more skewed), but the means are the same. There's an easy way to see it. Let M be the number of males, F the number of females, and C the number of children born. Each child has exactly one male parent and exactly one female parent. So the average number of children a man has is equal to C/M and the average number of children a woman has is C/F.
If M &lt; F then C/M &gt; C/F so having a son gives you more grandchildren on average and the number of males will rise. If a species gets one mating season per life time (to keep it simple) if you have 3 male offspring and I have 3 female offspring, odds are all three of my females reproduce... But only 1 of your males (could be all 3, but could also be that all things being reproductively fit, all the females are mated with males besides your own)

Best case scenario males pass on 1:1 with females... But you know if you have a female that survives to reproductivity, you're going to pass on a generation


Basically your female offspring have to not die before adulthood... Your males have to survive AND outcompete the other males... Meaning your males are less likely to be reproductively successful than your females... But if they are successful you're actually better off. &gt; having a female is definitely more reproductively advantageous (guaranteed offspring)

Not at all. Females have a natural disadvantage when it comes to reproduction. Childbirth drastically limits both the rate of offspring production and the chance of surviving for females. This disadvantage is universal to almost every species.

Males can have unlimited children, and with virtually zero risk to their health. In some cases, social factors may create a skew in which certain males produce most of the children while others produce few or none, but this varies from species to species.

But, one nearly universal rule that prevents *any* sex factor from having too big of an effect on gender ratios, is the fact that every child has exactly one male parent and exactly one female parent. So, by defintion, the same number of children will be produced by males and females, making either gender equally advantageous for the most part. (The exception is asexual reproduction, which occurs in some species, but has not been observed in any mammals.) No biologist or geneticist here, but every member of [this species of lizard](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Mexico_whiptail) is female. Interesting:

&gt;  Individuals of the species can be created either through the hybridization of the little striped whiptail (C. inornatus) and the western whiptail (C. tigris)[citation needed], or through the parthenogenic reproduction of an adult New Mexico whiptail.

So the species can arise from parthenogenesis (female producing fully fertilized egg) or mating between two different species. I wonder if the Whiptail females can mate with either of those 'parent' species to produce viable offspring. This is my favorite part:

&gt; Despite reproducing asexually, and being an all female species, the whiptail still engages in mating behavior with other females of its own species, giving rise to the common nickname "lesbian lizards". A common theory is that this behavior stimulates ovulation, as those who do not "mate" do not lay eggs.

I've also read that [Komodo dragons can reproduce via parthenogenesis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Komodo_dragon#Parthenogenesis) in a pinch, but the offspring will always be male. Females could produce males without outside influence (except lack of males of course)? Yep, in some reptiles (and all birds), they use the ZW sex determination system, where females are ZW and males are the homogametic sex (ZZ).

I think the komodo dragons produce haploid eggs like normal, but they double their chromosomes to become viable. That means that the possibilities are WW (not viable, like YY in humans) or ZZ (exclusively male). Which would make it possible for a single, isolated female to populate a new locale, provided she remained alive by the time her offspring reached sexual maturity. Granted, they'd be lacking in genetic diversity, but it's still remarkable to me.  &gt;I wonder if the Whiptail females can mate with either of those 'parent' species to produce viable offspring.

Neither *A. velox* nor *A. neomexicana* can. It is unlikely any other successful hybridizations could, either:

http://digitallibrary.amnh.org/dspace/handle/2246/6085 This species of gecko is also parthenogenic and also all female with no males at all. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lepidodactylus_lugubris Just remember that most populations across species have their growth limited by number of females. Males in a species can impregnate as many females that aren't already impregnated. So, there could be issues with overpopulation in species that have many more females than males, although nature will take its course and lack of food and other resources will cause the populations to stabilize over time.  That's a good point. I'm curious what's going to happen with Latvia's population over time. By the latest available statistics they have 1,035,788 males and 1,216,272 females, which is a pretty significant difference. 

The population growth has been in the negatives for a while although they are reporting that the births are going up every year now. So maybe over times we'll be able to judge whether that was nature's way of correcting the population decline there. Gender is an external factor to many reptiles.  I am sure this is based on genes.  So, for example, if there is a mutation that causes the temperature point where females become males to shift, it could be very common for everyone with that mutation to produce more females that males.

...or the climate could vary a small bit and the same thing could happen with no mutation, but I don think that is in the realm of the question. I have no idea where I read it, but I seem to recall that it's been established that the rate of embryo implantation varies considerably according to gender and the mother's stress levels. IIRC in a stressed mother female embryos are considerably less likely to spontaneously abort. 

This would definitely be much more genetically influenced than meiosis' proportion of gamete genders in males. I have read the same thing! I can't remember the original source I read, but here is a fun article: http://news.sciencemag.org/biology/2014/12/why-women-s-bodies-abort-males-during-tough-times

Also, the normal 105-to-100 ratio of boys-to-girls at childbirth is a fun factoid. As far as I know, this is because male sperm weigh every-so-lightly less than female sperm. The Y chromosome is much, much smaller than the X chromosome. So for 2 equally strong spermatids with an equal energy store, the "male" sperm can swim just a tiny bit faster or farther and will beat the "female" sperm to the egg slightly more often. Fun!! There's another level on which the skewed sex ratio can be explained. Copied from my comment further up:

It is not really a 50-50 split in the sex of individual offspring that is the stable strategy, but a 50-50 split in the cost for the parents. This could explain why slightly more boys than girls are born from humans. Since boys die in infancy more often than girls, the expected cost for raising a boy is slightly lower than the expected cost of raising a girl.
The effect is more pronounced in species with bigger sexual dimorphism, and goes completely haywire in honeybees, where a good part of the colony leaves with the new queen, driving the effective cost of producing female "offspring" through the roof. Wait....less likely? Could that imply the link is epigenetic?  Is it possible that it is some sort of hormone response to some kind of external stimuli? I imagine it might be not unlike the various animals that spontaneously change sex in single sex environments. Is it possible that it isn't a specific gene at all, but a controller of said genes that changes how they are expressed?

I'm thinking back to reptillian eggs and how exposure to certain temperatures will result in more of one gender over the other. 

Is it possible that a man's exposure to certain substances, lifestyles, or even mere temperatures changes his sperm in this way? In addition to this, you could have something like a homozygous lethal allele that increases the odds of all-female offspring by causing an early miscarriage in any XY embryos that receive the mother's affected X. So 100% of XX embryos would be viable, but only 50% of XY (the half receiving the non-affected X from the mother) so the "predicted" ratio goes from 1:1 to 2:1 favoring girls so a family with 4 girls becomes statistically more probable.

Or an autosomal allele that interferes with pathways that are specific to male or female development and causes a miscarriage early on, but that seems less likely. Doesn't this contradict [Fisher](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher%27s_principle)?

&gt; Suppose male births are less common than female.

&gt; A newborn male then has better mating prospects than a newborn female, and therefore can expect to have more offspring.

&gt; Therefore parents genetically disposed to produce males tend to have more than average numbers of grandchildren born to them.

&gt; Therefore the genes for male-producing tendencies spread, and male births become more common.

&gt; As the 1:1 sex ratio is approached, the advantage associated with producing males dies away.

&gt; The same reasoning holds if females are substituted for males throughout. Therefore 1:1 is the equilibrium ratio.

I'd expect genes causing such biased outputs to disappear quickly, within a few generations. Am I wrong to think this way? Maybe certain subgroups can get away with violating Fisher's principle, as long as other subgroups counterbalance it? I don't think this contradicts Fisher.  Fisher just predicts that the advantage is kept in check, not that the genes go away.

If there were no counter-genes, the genes would actually run rampant.  If we assume a balanced population and a dominant point mutation on the Y chromosome to create only male children (without loss of overall fertility), we'd get a doubling of the number of individuals with this each generation until we start hitting the limits of population size/male density.   If we call males that can beget males and females normal males (marked as nm) and males that can only beget males bad males (marked as bm) and mark females as f, we get each generation as

f(n+1) = (f(n)* nm(n)) / (nm(n) + bm(n))

nm(n+1) = (f(n)* nm(n)) / (nm(n) + bm(n))

bm(n+1) = f(n) * bm(n) * 2 / (nm(n) + bm(n))

 If we arbitrarily assume a population size of 10000, we'd get the following population development ([python program](http://pastebin.com/KCD5xFeK)):

    n =  0 f = 5000  nm = 4999  bm =    1
    n =  1 f = 4999  nm = 4999  bm =    2
    n =  2 f = 4997  nm = 4997  bm =    3
    n =  3 f = 4994  nm = 4994  bm =    5
    n =  4 f = 4989  nm = 4989  bm =    9
    n =  5 f = 4980  nm = 4980  bm =   17
    n =  6 f = 4963  nm = 4963  bm =   33
    n =  7 f = 4930  nm = 4930  bm =   65
    n =  8 f = 4865  nm = 4865  bm =  128
    n =  9 f = 4740  nm = 4740  bm =  249
    n = 10 f = 4503  nm = 4503  bm =  473
    n = 11 f = 4074  nm = 4074  bm =  856
    n = 12 f = 3366  nm = 3366  bm = 1414
    n = 13 f = 2370  nm = 2370  bm = 1991
    n = 14 f = 1287  nm = 1287  bm = 2164
    n = 15 f =  479  nm =  479  bm = 1614
    n = 16 f =  109  nm =  109  bm =  738
    n = 17 f =   14  nm =   14  bm =  189
    n = 18 f =    0  nm =    0  bm =   26
    n = 19 f =    0  nm =    0  bm =    0

So, the selection isn't against the gene as a such - it is just the entire population dying off, and quickly.

There are types of variation that could counteract this effect.  A couple of examples:

* An X-bound tendency to create more females, e.g. by aborting all males.  If this was X-dominant, it would cut at minimal prevalence in the population cut off half the male offspring of the carriers (since there would usually be only one copy); if it became more advantageous (because females can get more children), it would reproduce and become common.  And if this worked by abortion, would effectively make all the carriers of the male-only gene sterile with those females, since their offspring would all be aborted.
* A tendency in females to select normal males, e.g. by only wanting to have offspring with males that have sisters.

If you got into a situation where having only male offspring was truly bad (as you can see it would be, based on the above numbers), you'd have strong selection pressure for any variant that chose to mate with normal males, restoring equilibrium.  And for any species where the variation wasn't available, you'd have rapid extinction.  Based on this, you have to presume that for any existing species either this kind of mutation has a very low likelihood of happening, or the requisite counter-variation is available.  (This is getting dangerously close to arguing for species level selection; however, I think I'm saved by this optimizing for individual level survival.)

EDIT: Replace "selected away the bad males" with "chose to mate with normal males" as the previous formulation was easy to read the wrong way. &gt; (without loss of overall fertility)

Isn't that assumption kind of begging the question? If you're making twice as many males, then you're going to have a harder time finding them all women.

Regardless, shouldn't traits like this (tend to) disappear over time, as the few people with the alleles reproduce with the majority of other people who don't have the alleles? Or, if people are only reproducing with others in the allele group, then it's inaccurate for you to act like these people benefit from the sex ratios of humans as an aggregate group, since the only sex ratio that's relevant to them is the one of their own subgroup. &gt;&gt; (without loss of overall fertility)

&gt; Isn't that assumption kind of begging the question? If you're making twice as many males, then you're going to have a harder time finding them all women.

My formulation was a bit off; what I get for writing and editing in the wee hours.

What I meant is that in a lifelong bad-male : female pairing, there will be on average two children, just like in a normal male : female pairing.  One way of getting to "males only" is by just killing off female fetuses without necessarily replacing them with males. I wanted to exclude this and similar complications.

&gt; Regardless, shouldn't traits like this (tend to) disappear over time, as the few people with the alleles reproduce with the majority of other people who don't have the alleles? Or, if people are only reproducing with others in the allele group, then it's inaccurate for you to act like these people benefit from the sex ratios of humans as an aggregate group, since the only sex ratio that's relevant to them is the one of their own subgroup.

I don't see any reason for them to only be reproducing within their own subgroup; it was a postulate that there was no way of distinguishing them from the rest of the population, which means that they wouldn't.

As for disappearing: If the allele is Y dominant and neutral (which it is in this case for a population where there are 50% males) and the normal way of selecting the gender of a child is random choice, I don't see a reason for it to disappear over time except for random genetic drift (which would put it at risk, since it can't grow to more to more than a certain part of the population without starting heavy counterselection).  If the population has its male/female ratio vary randomly over time (swinging around 50%), it is of advantage in the periods when the ratio is more female dominant (and of disadvantage in the periods where it is male-dominant), which may keep it stable - but I don't know enough to say for sure.

Now, there is evidence for many other species that females can influence the gender of their children, so I think the allele would have a disadvantage because that strategy is likely to be better than forcing.  This may result in the allele disappearing; it depends on the quality of that strategy vs forcing in the resulting environment (which is likely to be around 50% parental investment in males/50% in females), including how that environment changes over time.  I have no idea if this would be an environment where it would be kept stable at a low level (with the same happening for opposite strategies) or if it would be extinguished. Actually, I would expect such a gene to stick around.  In a 50/50 split, neither the boy gene or girl gene overwhelms the other.  Much like eye color, there is no particular pressure to force one or the other to extinction.  But, if some catastrophe kills off 50% of the women, those groups that had a high percentage of girl genes recover faster.  Likewise, if something happens to the men.  Since mild versions of these 'catastrophes' are going to happen just by random chance, each gene is kept going in the gene pool. No, it's just part of how that observed balance is achieved.

Remember that **evolution occurs at the level of populations, not individuals**.  Individuals don't evolve, populations do.  So long as a population is near 1:1, it's in good shape.

Consider this.  If you have an allele to have mostly girls, and the general population is 50/50, then your daughters aren't really at a disadvantage.  So, at the level of the individual, variation in offspring sex ratios isn't that big of a deal.

Now if a population is out of whack, you've got problems.  60% girls means that male offspring are, generally, going to have better fitness.

However, in that population exists some variation, and some alleles that favor having boys are out there.  Any individual with those alleles will have more boys, which will in turn have more offspring themselves.  In other words, there's a good amount of selective pressure for those alleles.

Basically, everything balances out on it's own.  You can have lots of variation at the level of the individual, but what really matters is allele frequencies in populations.  This is actually a very common misconception, and part of why communicating about evolution is so difficult.  It's a very nuanced concept and has more in common with statistics and math than it does biology.


 I came to this post thinking the answer was obvious, males produce x and y gametes in equal amounts...I had no idea that there's a gene involved, but how exactly would most of one gamete be produced more if the spermatagonium splits twice, creating 2 x and 2 y? What if the sperm containing the X gametes were found to not survive as well after ejaculation than the sperm containing Y gametes? [deleted] [deleted]  &gt; presence of a Y chromosome "causes" a female  

One of the two of us is confused about embryology  
^or ^there ^may ^be ^typos  ^(I haven't done a complete read of that study yet)

Have we noticed any ethnicities where this is more prevalent or "completely" absent? Is there any proof of concept?  Should be easy to get 100 men with different sex ratios among their siblings, collect sperm from each, and karyotype a sample of each sperm collection. Wouldn't it only be passing on an x or y and if it's an x it's a girl and a y it's a boy? I'm confused :/ Yes, but this hypothetical gene (separate from the sex chromosomes) would change the X:Y ratio in the sperm, effectively biasing sex. Sperm contains more than just an X or a Y chromosome. It contains one copy of each normal chromosome plus either an X or a Y. It would be in these normal chromosomes that the gene if it exists would be located. Wouldn't that just be the YY or XY or XX? YY cannot exist as a viable human.  Sperm carry either X or Y, eggs carry only X. But we're saying that it passes directly through the male line, correct? So it's presumably a male only gene and your mother's family has no influence on the gender of your offspring. Not sure if this adds much, but I'm a primatologist and there is this trend in primates: high ranking females tend to have males/sons, and lower ranking females have daughters.  This is because sons have more variable reproductive success, so if they inherit your rank, it makes sense to have sons that end up with a higher than average chance of reproducing.  If you aren't high ranking, it's safer to invest in daughters because they will have fairly reliable reproductive rates no matter what their rank is.  This is achieved through post-copulatory female sperm selection.
So, maybe if rank (in humans this means job success and money) runs in families, so does a sex bias? This is famously the case with Kakapos in New Zealand. Kakapos are lek-mating (males do not provide any parental care or resources to the female and so females choose males based on their courtship displays &amp; such) and like other lek-mating species the males have highly variable reproductive success.

They're also critically endangered. Early conservation efforts used supplementary unlimited feeding. Because of this, the females of the population were in good condition and the sex ratio of the new kakapos was heavily skewed towards males as a result because each mother was "trying"\* to have the next generation's top males.

\*It's not a conscious choice, hence the quotes To add to what you said, [some studies](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/4639502.stm) show that human male fetuses are more likely to be miscarried during stressful pregnancies. I'd imagine a woman with a 'high rank' - more money, stable home, choice to not work during pregnancy - would have less stress than a woman of 'lower rank'. And thus, the woman with a 'lower rank' may terminate male fetuses due to stress whereas a 'high rank' female would be more likely to carry a baby boy to term. How are different chromosomes selected through social construct?
 Healthier diets and mothers who feel safe and secure due to their social status will create a less hostile environment in the womb which is less likely to cause a miscarriage. Males are miscarried more often than females. This can be evidenced by an increase in female births during times of famine. Studies in the US and UK found that [physically attractive people were slightly more likely to have daughters than sons](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-scientific-fundamentalist/201101/beautiful-people-have-more-daughters).

A beautiful woman is highly valued when it comes to relationships. She can often marry higher than her social standing. But an ugly woman will find it harder to be reproductively successful, even if she's born into a high status or wealthy family, because she'll mainly be judged by her (lack of) physical attractiveness. In contrast it's possible for an ugly man to be reproductively successful if he attains (or is born into) high status, wealth etc., or simply proves himself capable to provide for his children and partner. That's not really convincing. To show that that's the case, you need to both show that physically attractive people have more daughters (which I'll grant for the sake of argument) and show that those daughters have more children than the sons of physically attractive people.

Now even the first part is [questionable](http://www.stat.usu.edu/jrstevens/biostat/3.5.Beauty.pdf), but even granting that, Kanazawa doesn't even seem very interested in providing any evidence that beautiful daughters have more children than beautiful sons. He just takes it as a premise based on back-of-the-envelope calculations based on a simplistic understanding of human forager societies ("our ancestors lived in a small band of about 150 genetically related individuals"). 

It's not very good science, and [not very good science](http://www.epjournal.net/wp-content/uploads/kanazawa-statement.pdf) is what Satoshi Kanazawa is known for. [Satoshi Kanazawa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satoshi_Kanazawa)

This guy is such lols.

 "Imagine that, on September 11, 2001, when the Twin Towers came down, the President of the United States was not George W. Bush, but Ann Coulter. What would have happened then? On September 12, President Coulter would have ordered the US military forces to drop 35 nuclear bombs throughout the Middle East, killing all of our actual and potential enemy combatants, and their wives and children. On September 13, the war would have been over and won, without a single American life lost."

Since using 35 nuclear bombs like this would be the most practical thing to do and would have no further repercussions.  


 [deleted] [deleted] Not sure if it's mentioned other places, but it is also possible to have sex-linked diseases that might cause a fetus to be nonviable. 

Imagine a woman has a mutation on one of her x chromosomes that codes for an essential protein (let's call it protein xyz). Because she has one chromosome "X" that produces xyz, and one "x" that doesn't. She is Xx, so she has one functioning chromosome that produces xyz and so she is phenotypically normal.

However, all of her male children don't have the benefit of two x chromosomes, so she will get a 50% split of YX and Yx. All fetuses with Yx wont produce xyz and will thus miscarry. Because of this, she will have twice as many girls as boys, and this trend can continue for some time. There has been some very slight evidence that environmental or genetic factors can influence whether a couple tends to have male or female children. As one example, [this study here](http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/275/1643/1661) from researchers in the UK showed that there was evidence that the diet of the mother around the time of conception was correlated with having a male or female baby.

However, the best answer is that it is quite nearly 50/50 chance for a boy or girl, and statistically there are outliers in some families (like maybe yours). There is no magic "eat/do this and you will get a boy" that has been found, no matter what the old wives' tales tell us. &gt; There is no magic "eat/do this and you will get a boy" that has been found, no matter what the old wives' tales tell us.

This is a great illustration of the concept 'the more treatments there are for a condition, the less likely any of them will work'

There are literally hundreds of old wives tales from around the world about trying to get a boy or a girl. Women having been trying to control the gender of their kids throughout history. If there was a practical way to successfully do it, the old wives would have found it years ago, and there would be 1 successful way, instead of thousands of unsuccessful ones. [deleted] [deleted] Somewhat Related: There's a native reserve in Onario, directly in between a bunch of chemical plants. Girls outnumber boys 2 to 1 with many women not giving birth to boys at all. With some testing and interviews researchers found out that boys are conceived then spontaneously aborted.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aamjiwnaang_First_Nation

There's also a documentary on this, and how it's happening all across the developed world. 
http://topdocumentaryfilms.com/the-disappearing-male/ I have also heard of this happening with military men exposed to certain chemicals and such. More female children than male. I cannot for the life of me find where I read this, it was several years ago. I know if you look on a population level sex is beta-binomial distributed.  Not binomial.  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1467-9876.00103/abstract
They also suggest that larger families with exclusively one sex of children may need their own probability point mass.

In other words, it varies from couple to couple, so it's not a an equal (1-x)/x shot for a boy/girl for the whole population. if a beta binomial distribution can be simulated with urns by drawing a ball from an urn, and if a boy is drawn, replacing the ball with 2 or more 'boy' balls prior to drawing the next ball, that suggests a serial correlation &gt; 0.5, if I understood correctly. I recall reading many years ago that there was a correlation between frequency of sex (for the man) and the sex of a child. More frequent sex lead to more male children, and the converse as well. Anyone have any info on this? Was it total crap? It actually makes some sense in an evolutionary way. More sex means more female partners, so more male offspring would be beneficial. Less sex, fewer partners or humans in-general would make more female offspring more beneficial. But then again, that could have been crap... [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Given the current population, something with a chance of one in a million should be happening 7,000 times.

There has been speculation and some research for a while now into something called "meiotic drive", which is where the chromosomes that get into a gamete are chosen non-randomly, but so far the evidence in humans is pretty damned thin.

Besides, it would only work in women.  When women make an egg cell, during meiosis, half the chromosomes are chosen to go into it, and the other half are discarded in polar bodies.  But in men, the parent cell with all the chromosomes goes on to make four sperm, together carrying all of the chromosomes that were originally present.  No chromosomes are discarded; all end up in viable sperm cells.

So in order for this hypothetical mutation to work, you'd need to make it so that X-bearing or Y-bearing sperm are better, faster, or more durable than the other kind.  Given that all four sperm share a common cytoplasm until very late in maturity, this seems unlikely.

TL;DR - you're suggesting a very unusual, complex, and speculative explanation for a situation that doesn't really need explaining beyond random chance. &gt; Given the current population, something with a chance of one in a million should be happening 7,000 times

What he was saying for "one in a million" was in reference to 5 family generations. That is certainly not the same as the amount of people on Earth. The chances are much more improbable. There were billions of people alive for all of those generations.  It's improbable, but not all THAT improbable.  We can't really quantify it without knowing how many offspring were in each generation.  My point still stands. Doesn't this assume that the male parent is the sole driver of gender? I know the genetics behind why we used to think this is true, but isn't there recent evidence that the physical environment of the female (maternal) reproductive tract also plays a role in selecting the gender of the embryos that form? I think it was mostly a pH thing? Sex is determined by which sperm fertilizes the egg.  Y bearing sperm makes a boy; X bearing sperm makes a girl.

There has been some talk about some notion about how the environment of the female reproductive tract favors one or the other in some ill-defined, vague way, but I haven't seen anything at all authoritative; just chatter in places like this.  If anyone can find me an actual paper, I'd love to look at it. There's lots of evidence from pretty much every taxa except humans that females can cryptically bias sperm usage and alter the sex ratio of their offspring according to various things like resource availability, maternal condition, mate quality etc. Whether it happens in humans is another question, but the idea isn't completely outlandish. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptic_female_choice
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sex_allocation

Selfish genetic elements are pretty nuts as well - there's a meiotic driving X chromosome in Drosophila pseudoobscura that kills the Y-bearing sperm in male carriers. Might be worth starting here.

https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2013/07/mammals-can-choose-sex-of-offspring-study-finds.html There are a couple of papers / published sources.  They are not widely replicated or believed yet. Here is the pH study and its leading critique. The lack of replication largely favors the critique. 

One links mothers diet to male births. [News piece](http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=99346281) / [Study](http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/275/1643/1661.short) / [Critique](http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/276/1660/1211.short).

Also there are [studies](http://www.bio.davidson.edu/molecular/restricted/01Dom/Dom.html) showing maternal dominance may effect child gender.

Also a recent [studiy](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejm199512073332301) also refute that timing of intercourse effects child gender.  Yes but sex could also be determined by whether or not a mother carries that embryo to term.   Mother characteristics could affect gender of babies born.  And needless to say, mother can affect the genetics of the kids, including their reproductive traits, including that of sons.   I've heard that you can attempt to influence the sex of the child you conceive by timing sex relative to ovulation, because "male" sperm are faster but die sooner and "female" sperm are slower but live longer, so if you have sex several days before ovulation it's more likely to be a girl and if you have sex shortly after ovulation then it's more likely to be a boy. Based on what you've said here that seems impossible. So is that a total myth/old wives' tale? Somewhat unrelated, but studies have found some correlation between stress and the incidence of having females.  Informally known as the "frogman curse," as Navy SEAL wives apparently give birth to a disproportionate amount of girls as opposed to boys.

http://www.economist.com/node/10130882 [deleted] You can't look at it genetically, but statistically. Statistically, if you look at the number of girls born to number of boys born, it's roughly 50/50.  Now, breaking down those statistics, you are going to see trends, in which families like your have 20 boys in a row with now girls; likewise, I'm sure there's a family out there with 30 girls in a row with no boys. It's all about the coin flip.

During cellular meiosis, one cell with a complete pair of chromosomes will split into two sex cells, each with a single set of chromosomes. In the case of sperm cells, one will have the 'x' female chromosome, while the other will have the 'y' male chromosome. So exactly half of a man's sperm will produce a boy, while the other half will produce a girl.

Now, a quick google search didn't bring up any sort of difference in the quality or function between "male" sperm and "female" sperm. So assuming this is true, then there would be nothing, genetic or otherwise, that would make you lean more towards producing children of one gender or another. It's all about probability and statistics, essentially boiling down to a coin flip. There was a [really cool study](http://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2013/07/mammals-can-choose-sex-of-offspring-study-finds.html) that looked at records of births of mammals that found that they can "choose" the gender of the children.  Basically, if an animal is more likely to have fit offspring, they "want" to have sons because a successful son will give them many more grandchildren.  Females are a safer bet, but yield fewer grandchildren, so they are better if the parents are less likely to have fit offspring.  Very fascinating, but still definitely unproven since they don't have a mechanism. I'm just right now reading a book on how King Henry VII of England likely had genetics that contributed to him having unhealthy babies and a lack of a healthy male heir. (Looking at Kell + data right now.) So there are definitely some genetic abnormalities that can trigger a couple to favor either boys or girls. 

That said, I'm looking at royalty in Europe. This is not your average genetic pool at all. It's pretty shallow, and I dare say, royally inbred. (See what I did there.) These are pretty serious genetic failings and corruptions that are (occasionally) causing skewed birth ratios. You wouldn't see these issues among the common man except in instances where a population is inbred due to geography or sudden devastation. There are reasons why a tendency to have boys or girls could run through a family, if for example there was a gene that made male or female embryos non-viable. However currently genetic factors are not thought to cause this in the vast majority of cases. Environmental factors seem much more likely, there are many environmental factors that seem to influence sex, I saw one recently that suggested that male boys are more likely to be born to fathers who are or see themselves as having an "Alpha-male" position. Hence you might expect more boys among leaders or people with Napoleon complexes than you would among those at the bottom rung of a large corporation for example, or those who despite being in powerful positions have imposter syndrome or feel under stress etc... The evolutionary reasoning behind this observation being that boys are under more threat from rival males and so need more protection from their fathers than daughters. The gene in specific that is thought to contribute to male/female development is the SRY gene located on the Y chromosome.  Also, there is a slew of sex-linked disorders that can lead to abnormalities in male/female development.  I won't go deep into them here, but a few of them are turner's syndrome, androgen insensitivity, poly X, and Klinefelter's disease.  Each of these disorders effects either the number of X chromosomes or the number of Y chromosomes in an individual's karyotype.  Androgen insensitivity is a little different, but it results in the development of female genitalia, along with testes (not seen externally).   Obviously any x linked lethal disease would result in carriers moms to have carrier girls or boys with disease or of course normal girls.  If the disease was lethal in utero then all progeny would be girls.  Here is a table of x linked diseases but i dont know which are lethal in utero,  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11593/#!po=16.6667 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Ignoring genetic factors discussed in other comments, there is also  testable change in the mother's immune system response to male cells in the reproductive system.   Maybe someone else has the exact details, but the theory goes that once you have a male, the next male is easier to conceive and develop due to the immune system not attacking those cells as easily.. something like that.  The female cells in utero are more similar to the mother.
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] **Short answer:** Energy! ... Sorta!

**Long answer:** You're familiar with the idea of electromagnetic fields and waves, right? Basically, the idea is that when you have an electric charge or a magnet it will make a 'field' around it, that other charged objects can in turn interact with, and feel an electromagnetic force. [For example, when you pour iron filings around a bar magnet, they'll line up with the magnetic field.](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-EWI_p8V2fJk/Tj4cHzHLQMI/AAAAAAAAAGE/AkCxMZw750s/s1600/iron%2Bfilings.png)

Additionally, you're probably familiar with the idea of light being an electromagnetic wave. Basically, if you wave a charged object back and forth, you'll make ripples through that field- this is the principle behind antennas, and is really a core concept in electromagnetism and modern electronics. 

In summary, there is this *thing* that permeates all space, which is the field, and by putting energy into it we can make little ripples in it, which are 'particles' we call photons. A really simple analogy would have you imagine the field as a calm surface of water on a lake, and if you put energy into it by shaking a stick at the surface, you can make a wave. 

It turns out that this idea isn't limited to electromagnetism, and is a core concept in *quantum field theory.* QFT basically tells us that there are *fields* for every fundamental particle, and by exciting the field you have made a particle. A simple example is the *electron* field (which is not to be confused with the electromagnetic field). The idea is that there is an 'electron field' that permeates the universe, just like the electromagnetic field, and at certain points there are little 'knots' where a lot of energy is localized into particles of that field. Similarly, the positron - or antimatter electron, is an excitation of this field. In a simple sense, you could imagine the electron as a wave 'crest' and the positron as a wave 'trough' ([left hand column of this picture](http://www.alanpedia.com/physics_waves/waves_clip_image058.gif)) and when you bring them together they annihilate each other. This is all [an oversimplification](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirac_sea) that many practicing particle theorists will dislike, but I think it at least illustrates the idea well if you've never been exposed to it before.

Our current best quantum field theory is the [Standard Model of Particle physics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Model_%28mathematical_formulation%29#Alternative_presentations_of_the_fields). It's basically a set of fields with their properties, and thus the associated particles, and the interactions between the fields. For example, the electron field can interact with the electromagnetic field - this is because electrons have charge and energy can move between the electron field and the electromagnetic field (like when an electron and positron annihilate to make two photons). 

This just comes from E=mc^2 - the *mass of the particle* is equal to some amount of *energy* which can be exchanged between the fields. Imagine it like gold in ancient times- there is a finite amount of gold that Greeks and Persians and Egyptians can trade (imagine they aren't mining any new gold). They stamp that gold into their own coins, and they trade those coins with each other, which they melt down and stamp into their own coins. It's kinda like that with energy and fields. Each of these civilizations is like a 'field' and their gold-trade is the exchange of 'energy.' 

Anyway, you'll notice on that figure at the link two paragraphs above there is a "Higgs Boson." Basically, there is this other field, similar to the 'electron field' and 'electromagnetic field' that interacts with the fields that have massive particles. And if you've been paying attention, it means that this field must have a particle associated with it! Again, in the Standard Model, every field has its own properties and different ways of interacting with other particles and rules for what it makes particles do (e.g. electromagnetically, like charges repel), and that's a little beyond the scope of this post here, but I will leave you with this comic which I think illustrates the *idea* behind the [Higgs mechanism.](http://krbowie.files.wordpress.com/2010/03/higgs-boson-cartoon22.jpg)

As for what it's made of? It's made of the same thing as every other fundamental particle- an excitation of its associated field. Once you get small enough (smaller than atoms and protons and neutrons and all those other composite things) we say that these are 'fundamental particles.' The Higgs Boson is by definition an *excitation* of the Higgs field- which you could say has an associated energy. In a simple analogy, energy can get locked up in a little kink in the Higgs field, and that's the thing we call the Higgs Boson.  Are fields that do not have any particles associated with them hypothesized to exist? There isn't really evidence for them but there are [some ideas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unparticle_physics) to that effect. There is a field that is known to exist that may or may not have particles associated with it -- gravity.

The standard model does not contain gravitons, although some or all string theories do. I believe that solving this is related to uniting general relativity and quantum mechanics, which has not been done. I thought gravity wasn't a field and exists purely because of the curvature of spacetime?  Gravity is the curvature of spacetime.

A field just means a physical quantity that has a value everywhere in spacetime, there's nothing really special to it. 