Not quite yet, see this [NY Times article](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/15/world/americas/obama-cuba-remove-from-state-terror-list.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=first-column-region&amp;region=top-news&amp;WT.nav=top-news). Here's the relevant portion:

&gt;Cuba will not come off the list until after a 45-day review period, during which a joint resolution to block its removal could be considered in the House and Senate. The idea of removing Cubas terrorism designation has been met with considerable resistance from Republicans, including many Cuban-American lawmakers. Can someone explain the Cuban Americans against this to me? I get they dislike the Castro regime, but our policies really seem to hurt actual Cubans a lot more than the politicians.  The ones opposed to this don't just dislike the Castro regime, they viscerally hate it. They are refugees (and their descendants) who lost everything, including much of their families, when they fled Cuba. And these weren't simple peasants, they left behind a lot of wealth. Once settled in the U.S. they became very powerful politically and eventually a key voting block for the GOP. Pigs will fly before these guys ever accept legitimizing the Castros.

It's worth noting that this specific group of opponents, while still hardcore, is getting smaller every year; most of them have died, nearly all the survivors are well past their 80s. Their children, and especially their children's children, are simply not as passionate about the issue; they don't like the Castro regime, but generally support opening up the relationship. &gt; Pigs will fly

Common idiom or clever pun? Bay of Bacon When you say "a lot of wealth" I think it's important to note that (according to wikipedia) 25 BILLION US dollars in (only) land property was seized by the Cuban government.  In today's standards that relates to roughly $200 Billion.  This is only farm land value.  All private companies and major holdings were taken.  Keep in mind that this was in the late '50s/early '60s.  Some of the people who were robbed are still alive.  Certainly their children are living.  Grandchildren are certainly alive.

As a (terrible drunken) comparison: current day US.  Everyone who owns more than $200k land or makes more than $100K per year has their property TAKEN from them.  They are now penniless (or in jail if they object).  When they inevitably leave the country they go to the most prosperous country in the world where their education and (for some) drive puts them at the foremost of a large immigrant population.  They are respected for good reason.  This indoctrinates a growing population to hate the (unchanging) ruling regime of the former country.  
Since this able group of people represents the best that the confiscating group has to offer they succeed in their new country.  Political power is gained and policy is created.  Lore is passed and forgiveness is hard to find So, regime change is bad for some people.  Son of Cuban immigrants here. 

Before I get down-voted to hell - I don't necessarily agree with my parents and grandparents position, but I respect it. 

The Cuban-American resistance is not logical, it's purely emotional. The Castro regime took *everything* from these people. Literally everything. Family mementos, clothes, businesses, homes, **everything** and gave them the option to deal with it, or get the fuck out. 

Many people left, expecting to return in a few short years.

In the eyes of the Cuban-Americans who lost so much, they see any support from the USA as directly lining the pockets of the Castro regime, *not* as a benefit to the Cuban people. I'll even venture to say that if their were irrefutable evidence that this benefited the Cuban people, people like my parents would still boycott because it *also* helps the government. 

The big argument now (I live in Miami, so it's all over Facebook and the local news), is basically trying to show how Obama is a sucker and the Castro regime is lying ("as always"). They're showing how the Cuban government is just as bad as the most human-rights-offending governments in the world, and removing the state sponsor of terrorism title only serves to minimize the atrocities of the Cuban government, and in turn, minimizes their struggle and suffering. 

Again, not saying they're right, or that I agree. You're just dealing with a very sensitive subject, and I can respect that. 
 Like we don't support other governments with even worse human rights records who also support terrorists (Saudi Arabia).  Even these Cuban exiles support terrorism

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cubana_de_Aviaci%C3%B3n_Flight_455 One part of the sensitive subject you may want to remember is that it wasn't just clothes and belongings - but watching people they know get executed... that kind of sways your opinion a little.

http://www.therealcuba.com/page5.htm

&gt;Even before the triumph of the Revolution, Castro and his gang were prone to murder those who disagreed with them.
In the photo below, taken while still in the Sierra Maestra mountains, Fidel Castro's brother, Raul, is seen getting ready to shoot a young rebel soldier who disobeyed orders.

http://articles.latimes.com/2003/apr/13/world/fg-briefs13.3

&gt;April 13, 2003

&gt;A Cuban firing squad has executed three men who hijacked a ferry less than two weeks ago, sending a chilling message to anyone else considering commandeering a boat or plane to the United States.

And these are just the public executions.
 &gt;Raul, is seen getting ready to shoot a young rebel soldier who disobeyed orders.

Well, while no longer practiced in the west, execution for disobeying orders used to be practiced in both western european and especially eastern armies until quite recently.  Cuba was largely a backwards, primitive ass place in the 30's, 40's, 50's, and 60's, with rampant corruption, a secret police that didn't know what the 'human' part of 'human rights' meant, much less the 'rights' bit, and a fairly arbitrary penal system.  That such barbaric practices remained part of the rebel forces is unfortunate, but not wholly inexplicable.

It is unfair to leave unmentioned the atrocities Raul was fighting against (the context).  If I were Castro and I were to wake up one day to find on the streets of a local city, "Hundreds of mangled bodies were left hanging from lamp posts or dumped in the streets in a grotesque variation of the Spanish colonial practice of public executions."  A warning by the secret police to local youth not to join the rebellion...  I might decide that a few executions for disobeying orders are acceptable, especially if I thought the effect it would have would improve the performance of my fighting force. &gt; Well, while no longer practiced in the west, execution for disobeying orders used to be practiced in both western european and especially eastern armies until quite recently.

Desertion during war is still a capital offense under the UCMJ &gt;  Cuba was largely a backwards, primitive ass place in the 30's, 40's, 50's, and 60's, with rampant corruption, a secret police that didn't know what the 'human' part of 'human rights' meant, much less the 'rights' bit, and a fairly arbitrary penal system.

What was it like when it was a Spanish colony, before the Spanish American war? (not that I'm challenging you, I'm just curious because you seem to have a grasp on this subject and I'm genuinely interested) I think it was worse under Spain, mainly because our invasion and occupation in the early 20th century was relatively easy and accepted by the populace (compared to the Philippines for example where there was massive resistance and we had to kill and suppress thousands of rebels).

But it's hard for me to say as I don't know a lot about pre Spanish American War Cuba.  And the regime we put in place may have been initially welcomed but later as the corruption grew and the incompetence became manifest it might have grown as bad.  Certainly Battista was no better than Castro, he just was a criminal instead of a communist. I don't see how its not logical to hate something that destroyed the life you built? Hatred is not a component of logic. It is an emotional response based on a subjective premise. I couldn't help but read that in a Spock voice Well, hatred is highly illogical. The hardliners are the older generation who had property confiscated and were essentially exiled between the 60s and the 80s.  They staunchly believe that it is categorically wrong to have any dialogue or trade with a communist regime.  They believe they should hurt the Castros at any cost, and Cubans who support the government are collaborators.  A majority of Cuban-Americans born here support normalizing relations, it is the old guard who refuse to support progress, as is so common across the political spectrum.   Given how many here are trying the "Castro stole everything from them!" angle, I know I'll get downvoted. But the reason is that the overwhelming majority of those that fled were Batista supporters.

They fled, for obvious reasons, and then spent the next few decades declaring anything and everything Cuba does to be "evil" while consistently ignoring why it had a revolution in the first place. They throw huge fits every time anything that's not a tightening of restrictions against Cuba is implemented. When Cuba attempted to establish free and safe return for those who had fled Cuba, they rallied and lobbied against the ease of restrictions that would allow it in the United States. 

The biggest mistake was when Cuba allowed mass visas to visit relatives and the US agreed, somewhat, as well. Suddenly one of the biggest issues the Batista supporting Cuban-American lobby rallied against (that Castro's Cuba stopped them seeing their families) was something they themselves were opposed to fixing. It was one of the biggest turning points against the Batista Cubans by both the new generation and the old generation who finally began to realize their hatred was pretty unfounded (at least for what they were claiming).

Since then, each new generation of Cuban-Americans have consistently found the anti-Cuba hysteria more and more ridiculous and inconsistent. But like with any conservative base, the Batista Cubans still hold onto their lobbying power and still try to raise each new generation to believe there was no justifiable reason Cuba had a revolution.

tl;dr : The reason Cuban-Americans oppose any reconciliation or ease of sanctions with Cuba is because the vast majority were ousted supporters of the brutal dictator who caused Cuba to have a revolution in the first place. Bunch of rich guys who oppressed poor Cubans and are now ornery.

There is a **lot** of shit Castro has done to hate. But none of it is what these conservative Cuban-American lobbies take issue with. And they certainly have no support for anything that would resolve the problems they claim they are opposed to.

Thankfully the young generation is slowly realizing "hey, wait, we see what's so bad about Castro...but most of that was a reaction to US attacks and sanctions after Cuba removed the previous violent dictator". Thanks for posting this.

All these people are pointing out how horrible the Castros are, and that's absolutely true. But what most of them aren't acknowledging is that, for most Cubans, the Batista regime was just as bad.

Many of those who originally fled Cuba were the economic elite. A lot of them are sour that they were deprived of that position. Their concern is less about the welfare of the Cuban people, as it is for their personal vendetta against Castro. 
 &gt; has been met with considerable resistance from Republicans

WHAT?!?! Republicans against something that Obama wants to do because Obama?!?!?!


color me shocked! Not because Obama, because many Cuban-Americans are staunchly Republican. My father and family immigrated from Cuba shortly after the revolution and they are all republican. So Republican that my (democrat) mother has told me stories of when Bill Clinton was president and they would be disgusted and call him a liar, a cheat, a fake, BEFORE Monica Lewinsky, simply because they despised the Democratic Party. 

Not everything Republicans do is to spite Obama, sometimes it's just because that's what Republican voters want.  They never forgave the Democrats after Kennedy bailed on naval and air support for the bay of pigs invasion.   Most Cuban exiles felt betrayed,  specially seeing how many of the men involved,  a lot of then friends or family to them,  ended up killed or in Cuban prisons.   On a more materialistic note,  most who had property confiscated during the revolution realized they were probably never going to get it back after that.    This is true. Also, many qualms they have with the Democratic Party is the amount of government involvement Democrats typically endorse. They see any policies moving to the left as getting closer to a government like Cuba's. They're very emotional arguments but valid simply because people vote based on them. The Republican party responds accordingly. Maybe he should use reverse psychology to achieve things? http://www.cc.com/video-clips/tnawa2/key-and-peele-obama-s-meeting-with-republicans &gt;unavailable in your location

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qMw0780Ih3I

edit:  https://vimeo.com/channels/keypeele/39115241 When he cuts off his tongue... OHHH GOOOOOD, NNOOOOO! It's got nothing to do with Obama and everything to do with Cuban-American refugees.

They vote Republican, they hate Castro, nobody really makes a deal about supporting Cuba, so it's a relatively easy base for the GOP to keep without losing much. Or you could have just read the original article:

&gt; Cuba will officially be removed from the terror list 45 days after the president's message was sent to Congress. Lawmakers could vote to block the move during that window, though Obama would be all-but-certain to veto such a measure. **Certification Of Rescission Of Cuba's Designation As A State Sponsor of Terrorism**

Image:

http://i.imgur.com/k0ZWspE.png



Text:








                                              THE WHITE HOUSE

                                        Office of the Press Secretary
                                                      
                                                      -

      



___

                 
                        For Immediate Release                         April 14, 2015


                             CERTIFICATION OF RESCISSION OF CUBA'S DESIGNATION 
                                      AS A STATE SPONSOR OF TERRORISM 

                       Pursuant to the Constitution and the laws of the United States,
                       and consistent with section 6(j)(4)(B) of the Export
                       Administration Act of 1979, Public Law 96-72, as amended
                       (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)), and as continued in effect by
                       Executive Order 13222 of August 17, 2001, I hereby certify,
                       with respect to the rescission of the determination of March 1
                       1982, regarding Cuba that:

                           (i)    the Government of Cuba has not provided any support
                       for international terrorism during the preceding 6-month period;
                       and


                          (ii)    the Government of Cuba has provided assurances that
                       it will not support acts of international terrorism in the
                       future.


                       This certification shall also satisfy the provisions of
                       section 620A(c)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961,
                       Public Law 87-195, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2371(c)), and
                       section 40(f)(1)(B) of the Arms Export Control Act, Public
                       Law 90-629, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2780(f)).



                                                              BARACK OBAMA

                        THE WHITE HOUSE,
                            April 14, 2015.



                                                      
&gt;

___



 **White House on Proposed Lifting of Cubas Terrorism Designation**

---
    14 April 2015

    THE WHITE HOUSE
    Office of the Press Secretary
    Washington, D.C.
    April 14, 2015



    Statement by the Press Secretary on the Proposed Rescission of Cubas Designation as a State Sponsor of
    Terrorism




    Today, the President submitted to Congress the statutorily required report and certifications indicating 
    the Administrations intent to rescind Cubas State Sponsor of Terrorism designation.


    Cuba was designated a State Sponsor of Terrorism in 1982 due to its efforts to promote armed 
    revolution by organizations that used terrorism. Once designated, a country remains a State Sponsor of 
    Terrorism until its designation is rescinded in accordance with statutory criteria. In Cubas case, the
    applicable criteria require the President to submit a report to the Congress at least 45 days before the
    proposed rescission would take effect, justifying the rescission and certifying that (1) the Government
    of Cuba has not provided any support for international terrorism during the preceding 6-month period; 
    and (2) the Government of Cuba has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international
    terrorism in the future.


    As part of his December 17, 2014, announcement of policy changes related to Cuba, President Obama
    instructed the Department of State to undertake a review of Cubas designation as a State Sponsor of 
    Terrorism based on an assessment of the available facts. After a careful review of Cubas record,
    which was informed by the Intelligence Community, as well as assurances provided by the Cuban
    government, the Secretary of State concluded that Cuba met the conditions for rescinding its 
    designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. The Secretary of State therefore recommended that the
    President make and submit to Congress the statutorily-required report and certification.


    As the President has said, we will continue to have differences with the Cuban government, but our 
    concerns over a wide range of Cubas policies and actions fall outside the criteria that is relevant to
    whether to rescind Cubas designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. That determination is based on
    the statutory standard   and the facts  and those facts have led the President to declare his intention
    to rescind Cubas State Sponsor of Terrorism designation. More broadly, the United States will continue
    to support our interests and values through engagement with the Cuban government and people.


Read more: http://iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/texttrans/2015/04/20150414314662.html#ixzz3XL6IYrgy

---



 **Kerry on Proposed Lifting of Cubas Terrorism Sponsor Designation**



    14 April 2015

    U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE
    Office of the Spokesperson
    Washington, D.C.
    April 14, 2015

    STATEMENT BY SECRETARY KERRY

              Recommendation to Rescind Cubas Designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism


    In December 2014, as a critical component of establishing a new direction for U.S.Cuba relations, the 
    President directed the State Department to launch a review of Cubas designation as a State Sponsor of 
    Terrorism and provide a report to him within six months. Last week, the State Department submitted a 
    report to the White House recommending, based on the facts and the statutory standard, that
    President Obama rescind Cubas designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism.


    This recommendation reflects the Departments assessment that Cuba meets the criteria established by 
    Congress for rescission. While the United States has had, and continues to have, significant concerns
    and disagreements with a wide range of Cubas policies and actions, these concerns and disagreements 
    fall outside of the criteria for designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. This review focused on the
    narrow questions of whether Cuba provided any support for international terrorism during the previous 
    six months, and whether Cuba has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international
    terrorism in the future, consistent with the statutory standard for rescission.


    Circumstances have changed since 1982, when Cuba was originally designated as a State Sponsor of 
    Terrorism because of its efforts to promote armed revolution by forces in Latin America. Our 
    Hemisphere, and the world, look very different today than they did 33 years ago. Our determination,
    pursuant to the facts, including corroborative assurances received from the Government of Cuba and 
    the statutory standard, is that the time has come to rescind Cubas designation as a State Sponsor of
    Terrorism.

________ http://www.state.gov/secretary/remarks/2015/04/240687.htm


   

Edit: More links

**Background Briefing on the Report Required To Rescind Cuba's State Sponsor of Terrorism Status**

http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2015/04/240697.htm

 Just out of curiosity (and though I'm a history guy this may be a stupid question), why is it 2015 and we have official documents that look like they were done using a typewriter in 1960?

It may just be the font, but still. I feel like there are strips along the sides of this sheet that need to be torn.  Because Courier New is the best font for legal docs. Defined spacing and history being its key features.

Edit: Please stop upvoting this comment. Please just move on. Until 2004, the State Department was using 12pt Courier New. 14pt Times New Roman is now used except for items prepared for the President's signature by Treaty Affairs and Presidential Appointment (staff?).

http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/89306.pdf 14pt? Wow, they're not fucking around. They must have been assigned a minimum page count.  Probably pushed the margins to 1.25, too. All periods are 18 point font. &gt;All periods are 18 point font **.**

FTFY Where's my monitor cleaner and non-scratch cloth again... Well they are the experts after all.  I get that this is a joke, but that's covered too:
&gt;5 FAH-1 H-626.1 Margins(CT:CH-34; 03-24-2014)Allow margins of 1 inch on the left, 1 inch on the right, and at least 1 inch at the top and bottom. For a short note, adjust the margins to produce a well-balanced page. Diplomatic notes should always have one inch margins on left, right, top, and bottom. "What?  No professor I'm not trying to pad the length of my paper; I'm using the US State Department Standard!" "I mean, if it's that important to you, I guess I can format it how a COMMUNIST would, but..." You mean a...

      COMMUNIST If I was a professor and a student pulled it on me, I would probably research it and if I could verify it I would accept. I would then specify that fact in future assignments as a point of trivia's sake and that it was not acceptable formatting for my assignments. I would not, because I would have specified fonts, margin sizes, and all that crap in the syllabus. I would, however, grade kindly a paper that makes its point well while being slightly below the page minimum, because I'm not a robot. That sounds like something a robot might say... [Cover Blown!](http://www.threadbombing.com/data/media/29/AbandonThread.gif) Wow. If I was a teacher I wouldn't give too fucks about the font, minimum size or maximum size. I'd just have the following:  

"The paper will be read in digital format thus non-serif fonts are much appreciated. Be free to use a bigger font and extra spacing, just know I'll actually be reading the work so it won't actually matter.  
The paper should be as big as you need to accomplish the objectives given. Concise and succinct works will have as big a bonus as will those who go beyond the intended scope of the work. Be sure to mention which of the bonus you're going for in the introduction."

This, imho, is the best way to grade any paper. I don't really like to punish people for having to little or too many words. Perhaps they can say everything REALLY well in less words. Which is a nice skill to have. Perhaps they get excited and go beyond what was needed, which is also good.  
Establishing a single font also removes the opportunity for your students to surprise you with a nice font you had never seen. And if you want to read every work with the same font just ask for the docx and change it with 3 clicks.  I was going to say "Have you seen how old congressmen are?"

But then I remembered that these things only ever get read by 20 year old staffers, so their eyesight should be ok. Can confirm; that's the font I use when writing an essay a few hours before the deadline.  Really? One would think Woodrow Wilson would have used 14 pt font. Is this a how to guide for bureaucracy? this shit is interesting.  That's what I figured. I just didn't know if there were any weird or TIL-worthy reasons haha Same reasoning you'd be unable to take a spot of text seriously if it were in Comic Sans - the font choice lends something to the content Who doesn't want their government to use Wingdings for official documents? The NSA would never allow that uncrackable code. `You betcha` "THE BOMB IS COMING" [Where's the bomb?](https://youtu.be/bGfm0Xaofns) I'd love to [see this all the time.](http://i.imgur.com/EOmryje.png) And it is only slightly less readable than most legal documents! Courier New is a font that strongly resembles typewriters.

If I had to guess, speaking from a graphic design background, they do this for consistency. When the government standard was set they used typewriters unless those standards are officially updated documents will continue to look like that even if they're printed on a computer.

Another thing(maybe not a benefit per say) is a clear cut, well aligned font works better with OCR software. (Optical Character Recognition) If these documents get digitized, the software can automatically recognize words, making it easier to tag using keywords in a database. I definitely agree with that last point. I had to digitize a ton of old documents last week and I quickly skimmed through the digitized versions for errors. Couldn't find any.  &gt; Another thing(maybe not a benefit per say) is a clear cut, well aligned font works better with OCR software. (Optical Character Recognition) If these documents get digitized, the software can automatically recognize words, making it easier to tag using keywords in a database.

Ok, but at this point don't they all start digital? Why go digital - physical - digital? Why not just use the already digital original? A point I haven't seen mentioned yet is the consistency obscures. Let's say an enemy intelligence gathers some of our documents. A consistent font means they have no way to date it based on the font, or what department wrote the document. I think that's a plus for secrecy or not making it too easy to infer any more information than they want. The same reason a basketball player's fake cross over and his real crossover look the same when he's winding up. To fool the opponent. Consistency?  For consistency, a copy of every official government document is still transcribed by hand in elaborate cursive onto a roll of parchment using a quill pen and ink well. And transmitted to Congress by way of pony express.  The war is over! The troops in the field will hear about this by mid-October! Aren't they just written in Courier font? I assume it's to make it look similar to older documents and therefore more "official".

Would you rather have them written in [Comic Sans](http://i.imgur.com/K1nx0b3.png)?

Edit: So many people complaining about a typo, though I guess I brought it on myself. [Fixed version](http://i.imgur.com/0YvMDPC.png). [I would have been okay with Rosewood.](http://i.imgur.com/NoDp8Up.png?1) Up vote this if you're an 1880s child.  Can't.  Dead A WASHINTONIAN- "Did you hear? Boehner and Obama are dueling on the rotunda at noon."

ANOTHER WASHINTONIAN- "Aw, shit! Y'hear that Hillary's gonna hog-wrestle Lewnisky for publicity"

                             --SCENE-- wow such diplomacy Dude can't even spell his own name. The Republicans were right. [deleted] \ _()_ /

I'm old enough to be a researcher/writer for my alma mater, but much too young to have used a typewriter as a primary writing tool. To me, that style has always looked like it was produced by a typewriter because I'm currently at the National Archives photographing 1,000+ documents from the 1930s that look identical to that commenter's image. 

For example, [I was just working with this Hoover document about an hour ago](http://i.imgur.com/TRAYXVH.jpg).  Ah, but for the true typewriter look, you need the minor defects, like the kerning on "inspect" in the final paragraph, or the slight variations on the vertical positioning of each letter.

Pixel-perfect positioning and spacing is the hallmark of the faux-typewriter style. :) Huh, Hoover was spying on Browder (leader of the CPUSA) while he was in prison.

I'm not surprised, in fact I'd be shocked if he wasn't, but it's nice to see that in black and white. I'm working on a biography with Earl's granddaughter, a professor. We've discovered a lot more than any other biographer has found before us :D No, although if you're trying to prove something you should know that the font on your post looks very typewriteresque to me. Relevant XKCD (especially title text): https://xkcd.com/1301/ Back in 1994-1995 when automatic typerwriters were actually still in use by secretaries in the White House typing pool, the State Department implemented Project DigiType to digitize their work. The system they designed and built took the output of the typewriters and fed it back into a scanner that outputted the results to whitehouse.gov as a .TIFF file. They have since upgraded the system to use PNG files. On mobile, almost thought it was written in shibe Jay Leno can't wait to get his hands on those well-preserved cars from the 50's.

EDIT: Well-preserved wasn't a good choice of words. Yes, I know about the embargo and how the people of Cuba have very few resources to work with. Yeahhhhhhh you realize those cars are put together with non-original parts to keep them running? If you see a classic GM car in Cuba and you're thinking to yourself "Man that's gotta be worth a fortune!" remember its probably either cobbled together or using parts from another vehicle.  This is true. I was thinking more cosmetically than anything else. They look great tho, no question. Oh absolutely, totally gives the island a bad ass look. It's like Michael Corleone and Hyman Roth could still be on a rooftop somewhere in Havana negotiating the terms of a casino deal Why are they stuck with all these ancient American cars?  Why didn't they end up with the same shitty cars as the rest of the communist world?  Even if Ladas sucked, they probably were still more reliable than what they had.   &gt;well-preserved

I guarantee you that every car in Cuba has seen hours of work on it. I hear the mechanics there are top notch, too. True, but without harsh winters and road salt, risk for rust is lessened. Also with trade stuff the way it was they kept pretty good care of those cars, it was all they had. If you live near the ocean, salt fucks everything up So... All of Cuba, basically? Yeah. The Cuban Missile Crisis ended basically just because their missiles got rusted. /r/shittyaskhistory  Someone knows their geography If you ever drove down the Malecon when there's a southerly breeze you'd find the first two blocks along the waterfront drenched in saltwater. We have to use a marine grade paint on our structures within 20 miles of the coast here in Texas just to provide a finish that will last a few years. Salt in the air will rust a car like nobody's business.  Salty ocean air rusts a car just like a Midwest winter, but year-round Dude, Cuba is an island surrounded by an ocean... Some of the most beautiful cars I've seen, were in Cuba  Almost every one that I ever rode in had been refitted with a diesel engine from Russia. And they weigh double with all the bondo. But you have to respect the resourcefulness of those that have kept them running despite the complete lack of any auto parts stores. They're a source of pride for the Cuban families that own them. Yah. Making brake fluid out of detergent, fabricating entirely new parts from whatever scrap you can manage to barter for.

Amazing, really. The body may look good but the internal parts are a Frankenstein of different parts.  This is incredible news. Can't wait to crack a few cocktails in Havana.

**edit: Can't wait to free the shit out of some cocktails in Havana.** You can order a cuba libre and get it with real coke. Dr. Rockso will love that! I'm a rock &amp; roll clown and I love cocaine Viva C-C-C-Cuba! Real Coke and real Havana Club. Just like you could in all but two countries in the world already. And soon we'll be able to buy a Cuban cigar in any store in the U.S., if the trade restrictions end!  

I have no doubt that tourism and trade will be very beneficial for the Cuban economy.


EDIT: Holy shit guys I get it Cubans are overrated and Dominican and Nicaraguan cigars are just as good

EDIT EDIT: Okay guys so apparently people say they are as good and/or better.  Fuck man I've only smoked like 3 cigars in my life, how would I know? Hopefully it will result in more personal and economic freedoms for the Cuban people as well. I mean, sure, but I thought we were talking about cigars. What is Batman's number? 911 He said Batman, not Pigman. Ha, ha, charade you are. Hey you, white house  YOU FUCKED UP OLD HAG You're nearly a good laugh - almost a joker. Man I'm so glad there were other Floyd fans in here. oink oink OIIIIIINKK. oink A detective with unlimited wealth, many muscles, military grade equipment, and no need for due process? Batman is Superpigman, the guy all pigmen look up to. It probably will for some. Just like it does in China. For some.  &gt;And soon we'll be able to buy a Cuban cigar in any store in the U.S., if the trade restrictions end! 

That's going to be a gigantic clusterfuck of competing trademarks. The embargo has created a situation where there's two cigar markets: the US cigar market, and the cigar market for the rest of the world. So there's cigars sold in the US under the exact same names as those used by Cuban cigars. I remember hearing that the other cigar producing countries had upped their game during the embargo and that they make as good a cigar as the Cubans. Could have been sour grapes though. Cuba already has a shit ton of tourism. Economy's still shit.  A bunch of friends of mine spent spring break in Cuba last year and said it was great. It's got a great tourism draw that's going to get a LOT bigger when Americans can go.

P.S. My friends are Canadian and there is no restrictions from Canada to visiting Cuba. You know who is pissed? The Bahamas. My visit to the Bahamas was eye opening.  

Abject poverty within 10 feet of opulent luxury.  Soldiers with automatic weapons separating the two. this is life in at least 60% of the world. try going to kenya, where they check under your car for bombs at the grocery store No thanks I'll just stay home Yep, was in Delhi the other day and they searched the HOTEL VAN with dogs and automatic weapons before allowing it into the parking area. Then they xrayed everybody's luggage when you went in the front door.  Fuck. That.

I'd rather not die after grabbing frozen waffles, thanks. 60% is a bit of an exaggeration. It's a lot of the world, but more like 20-30%. 60% does not live in abject poverty Separated from close by .001% overlords. Jamaica is the same way.  There were soldiers just walking around us with automatic rifles.  Without the tourism it would likely be abject poverty within 10 feet of more abject poverty, and the soldiers wouldn't be getting paid regularly and would likely become even more corrupt to make up the difference. Canadian here, got married in Cuba. Now I'm half commie.  You already had socialized medicine, so let's call it 3/4. &gt; going to get a LOT bigger when Americans can go

Tourist numbers have shot up recently as many want to see Cuba before the Americans get there. Heck, even the Americans want to see Cuba before the Americans get there. Leave it to reddit to turn great news about relations with Cuba into an anti-America circlejerk. There was a report on NBC Nightly News a while ago right after the US and Cuba has just agreed to begin normalizing relations.  Brian Williams ran a story about some beach in Cuba that was considered one of the most pristine and beautiful beaches in the western hemisphere.  They interviewed all these European and Canadian citizens about their thoughts, and the central theme among the whole segment was that they were getting there while the getting is good until the Americans come along and fuck it all up with a McDonald's and an Outback steakhouse.  

Personally, I can't wait to visit there at some point. [deleted] True, ever been to hawaii it's just garbage as far as the eye can see. This man is right. Don't come to Hawaii. let me have the beach to myself Europeans and Canadians like to think they're better than Americans in the same way that Americans like to think they're better than Europeans and Canadians.

It's a 400 year old sibling rivalry.  No use applying logic. No, this is a one way street. Look at the comments here. Americans making fun of themselves and everyone else making fun of Americans. America would've had to have existed for 400 years for it to be a rivalry that old. Nah you Europeans and Canadians just look like smug assholes in every thread discussing U.S- Cuba Relations. AKA they want to see the country while it's still poor and a "novelty" I think they really want to see something  that seems *real*. It's unfortunate that it seems like the the biggest sources of authenticity are also rife with poverty. I mean by all means Applebee's &gt; Poverty, and I would much rather leave it to the Cubans to decide what they want from  than the tourists. It just disappoints me that capitalism, in addition to doing a great job feeding people, would bring more "good" and less merely "profitable". &gt; It just disappoints me that capitalism, in addition to doing a great job feeding people, would bring more "good" and less merely "profitable".

As someone from a poor country...I'll literally pray on my hands and knees if it'll get us some McDonald's and create some jobs. There's nothing "authentic" about being unable to develop. 

What matters is the sustainable culture. If bits of my culture die because they can't compete with McDonald's...then they die. Most likely it's Westerners who will no longer get to experience tourist attractions that will be sad, because the actual bits of culture that are important to us are maintained by the society.

Big blockbuster movies and musicians don't kill the local art scene, and they shouldn't kill culture.  [deleted] *Smash!*

ANOTHER! No, he's putting crack in the Havana cocktails. 

Y'know, to make the Cubans develop a crippling addiction so it's easier to drive them off their land.  Meanwhile the owners of ISIS stay off the list.

&gt;[Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey: "I know major Arab allies who fund ISIS."](http://www.c-span.org/video/?c4509231/general-dempsey-acknowledges-us-arab-allies-funding-isis) The friends of our enemies are our... friends? Well they give oil so... "give"  Give in exchange for currency and political favors yes.  Also not having their leaders assassinated is on the list of reasons why. 

As long as we don't send in the jackals, the oil will flow. ...and after we send in the jackals the oil will flow again.  The ~~spice~~ oil must flow. Does 'not being assassinated' count as a political favour?
 Dempsey should provide the evidence and announce it publicly then.

Oh wait, that's because he's probably being deceptive. Not in a bad way, in a good way: "don't you dare fund them if you are, because I know you are [sorta]..." It's a bluff meant to discourage it in case any of them actually are funding it.

Everyone knows ISIS makes most of their money from black market sales, stealing weapons/ammo, and taxing their population to death. This is the *state* sponsors of terrorism list. It does't include the groups he's talking about. This move will most importantly benefit the Cuban people. Part of the deal with re-establishing relations with Cuba involved Cuba opening itself up to more telecommunications and the US taking Cuba off the terror list. 

It's important that Cuba be taken off the list so that the agreements can move forward. A recent poll showed that only 19% of Cubans feel they can express themselves freely in public. It is the most censored country in the Western hemisphere. The endgame of the US re-establishing relations with Cuba is the creation of a platform where Cubans can feel comfortable enough to debate freely and openly amongst themselves. Perhaps they will create an organic opposition that can challenge the ruling party. 

Cuba was added to the list back in the 80's due to their support of organizations like FARC. Considering FARC was harming our allies (Colombia) is made complete sense that they would be added on the list. Recently Cuba is helping to broker a peace deal between the two, so it makes sense that their inclusion would be reviewed. 

People who are saying, "What about Saudi Arabia or Israel?" are being juvenile. The world doesn't work that way. Countries are hypocritical beast who's only real motive is national interest. The US will say they care about human rights while Saudi's behead people in the street and Cuba will say they are anti-imperialist while supporting the Soviets/Russians invading their neighbors (Czechoslovakia/Ukraine). Every country has a price and will throw their 'morals' under the bus in a heartbeat. 

In this case, it was our prerogative to not do business with a country that was actively harming an ally in the region. If Cuba wanted to add us to their own blackball list, that would have been their right to do so. At the moment, our interest can be better advanced by taking Cuba off the list.  Nice, now put Saudi Arabia in Cuba's place. Yeah, there's *no way* that could have any negative repercussions. You act like people actually think on this sub.  But, but Guantanamo Bay is *full* of terrorists! "For Guantnamo is dark and full of terrorists"  The fact that Cuba is on the list and not Saudi Arabia is hilarious. The Saudi's were the major funder of ISIS, and likely named in the 9/11 Commission Report as the nation who funded and orchestrated 9/11. Gracias, Obama. My Cuban immigrant family will surely support this. I can't wait to hear how progressive they think Obama is for this. /s Hey it's you again!

Yea my family is freaking out.

You guys in Miami too? And then the entire nation of Cuba removes it's mask to reveal IT WAS NORTH KOREA THE WHOLE TIME.

And then begins the steel cage match. That's definitely not a cuban cigar you're smoking Why do I envision Obama updating an Excel worksheet and clicking Save. Please don't elect Marco Rubio; the guy says he will reverse all of Obama's new diplomatic relations decisions with Cuba.   &gt;  the government of Cuba "has not provided any support for international terrorism" over the last six months

Ummm....... That's.... That's..... Not very long ago.... Thats a review period.  That's all that the relevant law requires. As a South Florida resident who loves Cuban food, women, and culture. I anticipate my first booze cruise down there. they have that shit here already ITT: people making broad generalizations about Cuba, knowing little or nothing about it  The difficult question ahead will be what does Cuba do about the criminals that fled the US, who have safe haven on that island. They would probably be smart to flee to Venezuela or some other South American country, I highly doubt the Cuban government will protect them much further. My buddy Fredo knows a place where they have the craziest donkey shows.   But don't tell his brother. Relevant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WXhO_-e3bM Add Saudi Arabia to it now?  He should add the USA while he's at it. But now they are on the list of state's that sponsor torture, because Guantanamo.

Free bucket of friend chicken every holiday for being on that list. Compared to the United States how much terror has Cuba sponsored? "Terror" is  a word we use to describe shit we just don't like anymore. One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fight. I stopped believing in terrorism after studying the psychology behind it too much. It appears to all be a function of world view conflicts and how you were raised. [deleted] There you go. We make great landmines and chemical weapons too.  North Korea was removed from this list 6 years ago, and if even *they* can't be on it, then who can?  To be fair to the other real terror threats: the only threat North Korea has is making the world sad about how they treat their citizens. And nuclear weaponry in the hands of a deranged regime with nothing to lose. Wait, didn't Mexico just capture a N.Korean ship that was shipping Cuban Mig Air Fighter? Maybe it wasn't state sponsor?

&gt; found two Cuban fighter jets, missiles and live munitions 

http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2015/04/09/north-korea-mexico-ship/25513207/ Last July and the state almost certainly knew about it, but either way [North Korea hasn't been on the "state-sponsor of terrorists" list since 2008](http://foreignpolicy.com/2014/12/22/sorry-but-north-korea-isnt-a-state-sponsor-of-terrorism-cuba-unacceptables-list/), and for good reason. North Korea is an enemy state, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're terrorists. The US is the last country that should complain about someone selling weapons to an enemy state, it's kind of our thing. Countries all around the world buy arms from each other, that doesn't mean it has anything to do with terrorism. &gt;Saudi Arabi

&gt;Iraq

&gt;Turkey

&gt;USA

&gt;Russia

&gt;The weapon is from North Korea 

I mean, none of these countries have done any form of terrorism Sanctions on military equipment are a separate issue from terrorism. I recall that incident, and had read another considerably more detailed article especially concerning the cargo.

Basically it was two MIG-21 jets that were being sent to NK for maintenance, since they are the only sufficiently Cuba-Friendly country that still has the parts, machinery, and skill to service MIGs that old.

I mean we aren't even talking 1980's MIG jets here lol. More like 1960's jets.

Something that shouldn't have been any real concern for us. From the OPs ABC article;

&gt;In a message to Congress, **Obama said the government of Cuba "has not provided any support for international terrorism" over the last six months.** He also told lawmakers that Cuba "has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international terrorism in the future."

An entire 6 months, Obama promises... And a promise never to do anything in the future! What - Why worry? Why do you keep posting the same comment all over this thread? He's just reassuring everyone about how Cuba is totally not sponsoring terrorism, I mean its been a whole six months and obama gave his word 

I for one have had my fears put to rest Because he is a shill for the Rubio campaign and he is trying to saturate likely voters with the same shit messages and talking points. Just to piss you off. Or you're just a Rubio shill.  Or I'm just the kind of guy who likes to tell you you are wearing the t-shirt of a mass murderer when you strap on that Che shirt... and then ask when your Hitler and Pol pot t-shirts are due out of the wash... Lol so everyone who disagrees with you is a commie supporter 


ok No, I said everyone who wears a mass murderer on their t-shirt is an idiot.

I didn't say anything about commies. That is your schtick. What does that have to do with you being a Rubio shill? You're doing some major deflecting. He should add America to the list now.

M' I right folks! /r/circlejerk is calling, they want their dank memes back. Did they ever actually do anything to sponsor terror? (at least, non-communist terror, a.k.a. the modern definition) They sponsored FARC in Colombia and the ETA in Spain during the 1980's. Also, plane hijackings were first introduced by Cuban sympathizers(the first metal detectors were installed in US airports to prevent this). However, the Cuban government eventually found this annoying and eventually both governments figured something out there
Also, Cuba's government gives asylum to Tupac's aunt, the cop killer  Thanks. I asked because I actually didn't know. Why didn't you just google it? Because him asking and someone answering added to the discussion.  Not really but ok. And you add even less. dont care. Because sometimes it's better to have a human response? Not really. Why not? S/he asked a question, someone that seemingly understood the topic well enough to answer gave them a relevant answer. Googling things sometimes lead to a lot of information or irrelevant information being thrown at you, whereas asking a question in context or related to the topic not only gives them an arguably simpler but more effective answer, but also allows other people that also didn't know the answer to read it in context and not have to do further research. Are you really trying to compare the search results you can get from Google to asking a question on reddit? Seriously? Wow did you really just ask a question you already knew the answer to?  Why didn't you use rhetorical google? Asking a question leads to a short answer with context accounted for, searching Google for an answer leads to much more information but without the context of the discussion. Why should I not compare them? No, plane hijackings were not introduced by Cuban sympathizers, the first one occurred in the 1920s, and it wasn't Cuba that was hijacking planes in any case.  &gt; the cop killer

That's extremely questionable. I'm pretty sure that was bullshit. &gt;Tupac's aunt, the cop killer

Do you know for a fact that they're related? Just because she and Tupac's mom or dad chose to change their respective last name to Shakur doesn't mean they're siblings. Yes, she is Tupac's aunt, I've checked  &gt; Also, Cuba's government gives asylum to Tupac's aunt, the cop killer 

I'm not saying this is a good thing, but is it really state sponsorship of terrorism?   back in the 1980's, yes(mainly because of their sponsorship of FARC). Today they do not qualify to be a state sponsor of terrorism, they should have been taken off the list once the cold war ended and because of the Soviet Union's collapse, they cut off funds to terrorists groups  Meanwhile, the US harbors [this terrorist who killed 73 people in just one incident](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luis_Posada_Carriles#Cubana_Flight_455.2C_1976).  Even the US Justice Department wanted him kept in prison. Question : Considering the US and other countries involvement in destabilizing and topping other countries regime throughout the year, wouldn't they be on their own list too ? Like what are the criteria ?  Because funding the Contra for example, those groups were considered terrorist by their regime, so logically, they did the same thing ?   This is nothing compared to decades of American state sponsored terrorism against Cuba.  Assassinations, invasions, bombings.  

Just check out this terroist, living free in the US:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luis_Posada_Carriles Cuba has given asylum to Tupac's aunt, the cop killer. The US justice department wanted to convict him of terrorism charges in 2007 saying that he was  "an admitted mastermind of terrorist plots and attacks",, but the jury acquitted him. You can't try him again, that would be double jeopardy  if you have any clue of the context on what was going on with the BPP and the civil rights movement at the time, leading up to massive political repression campaigns and culminating in cold-blooded assassinations of community activists like hampton, it ought to be obvious that Assata should be given a fucking medal she left the BPP for an organization even more radical, the BLA.  she was a bloody terrorist who aimed to overthrow the US government. The BPP was tied to the soviets. 
The BPP is everything MLK hated. It went as far away from the ide  thanks for telling me what you think of their politics -- as they were being murdered, brutalized, smeared, surveiled and framed by the national political police in the world's most expansive post-war popular repression campaign -- and for cramming yet more bleached and bowdlerized bleating in MLK's mouth, since we haven't had enough of that already

it was an absolutely sham trial, built on a pile of horse shit, but *had* she actually shot one of them instead of being fingered to be the scapegoat, I'd say hip-hip-hooray  Well, that's not so bad, as long as this adds to Obama's personal legacy, right? And we did the bay of pigs first among other things.  
  
Plus we can't even count on one hand the number of violent terrorist groups we've given money to.   the bay of pigs was after Castro decided to nationalize pretty much all American assets  , while castro acussed the US of sinking the Le Coubre(which was most likely not sunk by the Americans, but sunk by accident(a second maine, history repeats itself). He was doing show trails in stadiums and had gotten out of control, he even turned on wealthy people that initially supported him. The Bicardi's ,who initially supported him fled after their assets got sized and have become the biggest supporters of the embargo They sent weapons to North Korea Or the USSR used Cuba as a convenient place to build some weapons, then send them to North Korea? Sending weapons to a recognized government isn't supporting terrorism. Not even if that government is a dictatorship.  I guess the diplomats are now... Havana blast If removing things from scary-sounding lists is so easy, marijuana shouldn't still be classified as a Schedule 1 drug.  Oh for fuck's sake, *we know* Well I'm glad "we" know.  I assume it's been rescheduled now. Everybody fucking knows already. Not every issue needs to be compared to weed. Remember that comedian who want it legal only so that potheads will shut up about it? Here's the thing, just because you don't like it, doesn't mean it should be an illegal substance.  

You disparage proponents of change as "potheads" because of your bias and unwillingness to accept that the law stands as it does.  

Meanwhile, people's lives continued to be destroyed everyday by being given criminal convictions and criminal records for possession.  Until that changes, it doesn't matter if "we know".  Maybe the "potheads" will shut up about it when that change is implemented.  Why do you assume I don't like it and/or don't think it should be legal? I'm not disparaging proponents of change, I'm disparaging the fact that they bring it up in every thread I was picturing a tv show plot, where cuba has to go 45 days without sponsoring a terrorist and they get to be off the list. Then i realized that it would look like any other 45 day period in cuba because they dont sponsor terrorists and they should have been taken off this list a long time ago Am I the only one finding it weird that being considered as a State spronsor of Terror only depends on if the US likes you or not, and not on if you actually sponsor Terror? Note, it doesn't seem to be the entire US either.  More like if the President of the US likes you. Cuba has killed U.S. citizens and has supported groups inside the U.S. that have assassinated U.S. citizens. And the US haven't done the same, if not worse, on Cuban soil? No. 

In fact, We have helped the Cuban people at every turn. We have granted special status and given asylum to thousands of cuban refugees fleeing the tyrannical rule of a communist dictator.   "Help the Cuban people at every turn?"

Batista would like a word with you. Enjoy Cuba guys,  it's gorgeous. Please leave some for the rest of us.  I volunteer in a sixth grade classroom.  By sixth grade, students understand that "troublemaker lists" are nothing but an empty threat, and on some level, are pathetic. Should be filed in the 'duh' category.

It's about time... Didn't North Korea just get caught smuggling arms to Cuba?  Cuba loves us. Except for Captain Ron movie. That was intense. ;)  Oh man gotta bump that one up in my que. It's been to long. No worries, turns out it was actually legs. Welcome to our banking system!  At first,  I thought jab was a joke about how snobby people pronounce job.  They took er JABS!@!!

well skeeter ......... back to the pile JAERB This is a fairly easily understood Australian reference: 

Nearly all schools in Australia, particularly during the 80's and 90s, formed an iron-clad 'no hat, no play' rule, where schoolchildren who did not wear a hat were forbidden from playing in the schoolyard at recess/lunch breaks. 

Recognition of this 'no hat, no play' rule as a slogan is near-universal in Australians aged 10-60 years old. Not on that, it's similar thematically as it's a simple rule for public health in which a child's right to avoid an avoidable disease (melanoma and other skin cancers) trumps a personal freedom or 'my child can do as he damn well pleases' argument. 

That's what this is referencing. No jab, no pay. No hat, no play. 

SkyNews.com.au is an Australian source.  &gt; ironclad 'no hat, no play' rule

I'm still bitter about getting detention on my fourteenth birthday for walking through two metres of sunlight with my hat in my hand.

It was fucking ridiculous. Like someone enforcing jaywalking on a dead straight road with zero cars on it. I didn't bring a hat at all one day and wasn't allowed to leave the classroom at all. I needed to pee  I am so confused...you people... HAD to wear hats...why is it such a big deal? There's a hole in the ozone layer over Australia and we get a lot of sunshine anyway - so skin cancers are a problem. Well that is what I was guessing while asking, so makes sense...but...damn so strict, I guess kids need it. Me today would wear a hat 24/7 with this info...but 12 year old me would have given nofucks. Everything was covered too, the only thing in the sun was the oval and tennis court. I could eat, play and go to the toilet without coming in contact with sunlight but I wasn't allowed to without my big blue circle hat

You didn't need to wear a hat at high school, that shit blew my mind.  The "hole" is over Antactica, but expanded to such a size that thinning of the ozone layer also affected Australia, New Zealand, South America, etc.
 Yep. The sun fucking *bites* here. Went to Hawaii once and couldn't believe how mild the sun felt at 33 degrees C. Didn't get burnt at all.  Aussie sun is way milder than New Zealand sun. That shit will crisp you good, and you don't realise it because its not as warm as Aus :-/ Fuck you, mister Pedroti! I was getting my tamagotchi that some cunt threw on to the basketball court. at my school even caps weren't good enough. It was either broad brim or bucket. You weren't cool until you were rocking one of [these](http://galleryplus.ebayimg.com/ws/web/230887074135_1_0_1/1000x1000.jpg). Ooh.. a hat mullet! I literally wore one of those every day of primary school... So from age 5 through to 12 I was rocking the neck flap hat... :( It's okay... so was I. So were many of us. :( Except I was one of only a few in my year who had them. Everyone else had the wide brim. i wish such a practical device wasn't so horribly unsexy Coach Z anyone? Jeoahrebs? Great jorb dare Hamstray! It just sounds weird.  They missed an easy alliteration opportunity.
No poke, no pay sounds better.     Makes sense, after all prostitution *is* legal in Australia. Prostitution is no pay no poke, not the other way around. Unless you're the prostitute. The policy is "no jab, no play". In schools here, if you forgot a hat, you couldn't play with friends at lunch time and had to sit in the shade.  'No hat, no play' is a really common saying for anyone who attended both the private and state schools in the last thirty years.  It's a play on that...no pun intended. NO HAT NO PLAY NO SCHOOL TODAY

TAKE YOUR LUNCH AND GO A-WAY In my country France, not vaccinating is illegal.

You can get up to a 3 750euros  fine and 6 months in prison.

We don't fuck around with antivaxxers here. We'll show that to Abbott and hope he introduces it. Haha it's a lifestyle choice /s ^^^news ^^^headlines: ^^^abbott ^^^shirtfronts ^^^anti-vaxxers  ^^http://i.imgur.com/FtlhDLJ.gif http://i.imgur.com/zlG2Ajo.jpg http://i.imgur.com/NQz6Q23.gif http://i.imgur.com/fCSTb8R.gif

Am I doing it right? # It would mean the rich have to comply, not just the poor, would never happen.  Best way to hurt rich people is to threaten their negative gearing tax breaks Yup. It's not welfare moms who are typical anti-vaxxers. It's the crunchy Left Coast organic crowd who take their kids to soccer practice in hybrid cars because it's fasionable and not because it's good for the environment.  Yup, it's not just religious right-wingers who buy into BS about science.  The left-wing hippie types have plenty of that too: GMO scaremongers, nuclear power scaremongers, the anti-wifi crowd, the people who think smart readers for reading power are poisoning them, etc.

Their opposition to corporations seems to tie into their opposition to pharmaceuticals and vaccines (aka corporate medicine) while justifying their support for natural/alternative "medicines" like homeopathy and naturopathy.   

"It's aaall naaatuurrraall man, it must be good for you.  Don't trust that corporate shit man, it's all chemicals."

edit: smart meter not e-meter, which is also bullshit but a very different kind I live in a very left wing town and while I support a lot of the stuff they do that is antiracist and antisexist and whatnot, there is a left wing antiscience bias that confuses me. The whole antiGMO thing is HUGE here and it makes no sense, it seems to mostly be that people here can't believe that Monsanto could produce anything that isn't agent orange. Sounds like this girl I know from High School. She's practically against "the establishment" and how "GMO's and fluoride are making us sheeps" type of gal. While she's using an ipod and driving a damn nice car. While going to a university, and working "for the man." Antivaxxer speaksmen in my country (Serbia) are presenting that France is 'free choice' about vaccinating. Those fucking liars.

They just pile up shitty arguments, and fire like 100 of them in a tv debate.. that doctor can't manage to answer them all. 

Sometimes it's information that isn't understood well.. but sometimes it's a shitty lie they don't want to give up on. Stuborn retards. They are not entirely wrong. There are only 3 obligatory vaccines which are tetanus, poliomyelitis and diphtheria (which are covered by the same vaccine  D.T.-POLIO). There are many others that are recommended but they are not obligatory Ok thanks for clarifying. Still, they focus (intentionally or not) on the part that they want. That "some vaccines are not necessary".. while ignoring the broader picture: that you can go to jail if you reject some vaccinates. 
And that selective showing of information is extremely harmful when adressing large number of people. It's literaly propaganda. Indeed, I can't understand why antivaxers would use France as an example when in France the law is among the harshest in the world for vaccination (the fact that Pasteur was French has to do with it ^^).

Only 3 vaccins are obligatory for everyone, but in the case of sanitary emergency (and epidemy) the government can impose another vaccin if required.
Also several other vaccins are mandatory for everyone working in medical centers and retirement homes. Dat gish gallop http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Gish_Gallop That's how it should be everywhere.

Endanger your own life: we don't like it but it's your choice.

Endanger the lives of unconsenting parties: fines and incarceration. But then there's the whole philosophical dilemma of forcing people to take drugs the government gives them or go to prison. Obviously we should do it but it has potential for a dystopian best seller. Well you can't starve a child. You also can't deprive them of a nutritionally sound diet, I imagine. You also can't deny them needed treatment, afaik. It seems to all fit cleanly under current requirements for those who get to live in civilization. [deleted] And that's exactly how Mississippi has the best vaccination rate in the U.S.  About the only good stat for MS,  but tying vaccinations to public school works.  On a case by case basis, ideally with an evidence based approach. The government should always fall on the side of reducing disinformation, and improving the public health.

It's illegal to have a kid ride a bike without a helmet. This is a really good law. So is restaurants allowing to refuse you service if you're not wearing shoes.

There was an example of a proposed law where infants required their own seat and ticket for safety, but the math showed the increased cost would cause some families to drive instead. This statistically would cause more harm than it would prevent, and the law was axed. All lawmakers should be able to divorce themselves from appeals to emotion, and use an evidence based approach. This kind of Change happens slowly, but that's not a good reason to stop trying.

I think you're spot on with the issues of coercion and stigmatizing. None of those examples are like what we currently do though, whereas requiring to give appropriate medicines, foods, etc, is.

I don't think that it should be tied to welfare, personally, and I doubt that Abbott showed any personal interest in it beyond the opportunity to deny welfare, since -

&gt; I wont be rushing out to get my daughters vaccinated [for cervical cancer], maybe thats because Im a cruel, callow, callous, heartless bastard but, look, I wont be. 

^ Tony Abbott just a few years ago. Your answer is well to the point. People do not understand that once the process is in place, it probably will be there still after the variables have changed. 

In this case the variables are "government forced medication". If that sounds dangerous to you - well, that's probably because it should. We won't force them, but we sure won't pay them for their ignorance.  Not drugs, medically recommended, proven effective vaccinations against terrible, life threatening illnesses. And in the Australian case, not jail, but removing middle-class welfare payments. Brave New World?  Horrible title. No one is losing welfare. It is a removal of tax concessions/deductions. so it *will* affect the rich too. makes most of these comments redundant. Not quite. In aus the government chip in about half or more towards the cost of childcare and pay it up front to the place of care. Its not a tax break as such. More an aide to go work so you can pay taxes. :p
SOURCE: Im a working father with a child in daycare. I get this benefit. I also vaccinate my child because im not a fear mongering, misinformed dickhead that wants children to get sick. &gt;They would lose a childcare benefit of up to $205 a week, the childcare rebate of up to $7500 a year or the Family Tax Benefit A annual supplement of up to $726.

either way you look at it - it's less cash in the hip pocket.  Abbott in the #1 spot on reddit's front page and it's NOT because he's done something retarded. I don't know what to believe anymore. He's placing the blame for anti-vaccination on the poor by making it about benefits, rather than making it a crime as it should be. Realistically, anti-vaccination is not a benefits-class problem and never has been. This still definitely feeds into Abbot's "fuck the poor" characterisation and realistically probably won't achieve much but be used as a stick to beat those stuck on benefits with further.  nah you're wrong, its not just about the poor.... even the middle class take advantage of tax breaks and social benefits....  Haha first good thing he has done in my opinion.  Shame it only hits the lower class. The who aren't at all reliant on welfare can continue as they please. A more equitable solution would be better.  Well to be in daycare you have to be immunized up to date unless you have a religous or medical reason. And the jabs are free even the visit to the doc is free [deleted] Tends to be the wealthier people in the inner city, rural people and those who just forget because life is busy. This'll catch the latter two. and fucking Byron Bay/Nimbin Was just at Bluesfest for five days. The New Age population of the Northern NSW coast may host the most uneducated and pretentious douche bags on the planet.

Also, apparently Eastern religions are trendy right now. The deities make great furniture and fashion and can be mixed together. It's annoying about the people, because Northern NSW is beautiful. The drive from GC to Byron is a lot of fun.  Hence rural  Byron Bay/Nimbin and Manly were the too hotspots for the pertussis outbreak around 5 years ago.
 Where I work in Sydney is a very affluent area, and as far as I understand it, has one of the lowest vaccination rates in the city. I'd put it down in that area to the same misinformation that all other income groups fall for, along with 'naturopaths' and other quacks who see dollar signs in dumb rich people.  &gt;  unless you have a religous or medical reason

Theres the problem and the reason this will do nothing to affect most of the crazys I have heard that thwy are looking to modify that rule to only include those religions that have publicly stated that they are against them The only reason one should be able to opt out should be on medical grounds. Anyone can say I don't believe in vaccinations due to my religion. At least it's a step forward so we can jab some dumbasses. come here in America. two states say only medical reason the rest have a mix of religion, personal exemption. yes personal, you can just say no yeah but then the healthcare not really free  Not really free? It's not free at all!

Even some of the government health benefits for the poor and elderly are only loans, which need to be repaid.  It's the same reasoning as drunk driving or speeding. You're not actually hurting anyone, but you are putting others at risk.  There is no religious exemption for DUI laws. I believe as Australians we should have the right to choose what enters our systems, at least in the case of smoking, eating McDonaldss for breakfast lunch and tea or using illicit drugs. At the end of the day youre only damaging your own body. Opting out for vaccinations is not the same. 

There is no fallacy, with the, its a free country argument, but there is an inconsistency with other forms of government regulation on harmful individual activities. For example whilst smoking is harmful and heavy regulated, it is not illegal to smoke. HOWEVER, it is illegal to smoke in certain public areas, such as in a car with a child. The reason it is illegal is because we accept that the strong factual damage these behaviors bring to the public cant be justified by an individuals choice.

**Ones autonomy should not put the community at large at risk.** The primary reason for vaccinations is **herd immunity**; because of widespread vaccination polio is on its way out and smallpox has been eradicated.


By avoiding vaccination youre allowing lethal antigens to continue to spread to those at risk; **endangering the lives of those who are immunosuppressed, or do not respond adequately to vaccination**. The largest group being newborns and young children. Therefore personal belief exemptions, whether theyre religious or philosophical should not be legal nor valid as they risk public health crisis and put some of Australias most vulnerable lives at stake.
 This. It's not about you, it's about the community. Pricks not vaccinating causes "herd immunity" to be invalid then kids that can't be immunize will have to suffer.

PBS's Frontline shown an example of this of a kid that had almost no immune system after therapy so had to wait like 3 years before he could get any shots done, so he rellies on other's immunity to protect him. This!

I'm all for freedom in religion as long as it **doesn't** put anyone else at risk! If someone chooses to not vaccinate cause some idiot told them how dangerous that is, then those kids are a risk for all others, especially those who can't vaccinate due to medical reasons. There were several outbreaks already that started with a kid that wasn't vaccinated, because its parents thought it was right not to vaccinate... I worked a GP practice down in the south-west of england for a while. This is an area which all the crazies particularly like to crowd in England for some reason. Vaccination rate is low. Had a family bring they're children in due to a strange rash. Turns out they had rubella. First case I've ever seen. The senior GP of the practice had never seen a case before either and he had 20 years of practice behind him. The suckiest thing abut it though was that these kids had been vaccinated, but hadn't stuck. These kids were affected because the herd immunity wasn't high enough to protect them. I am also not immune to rubella even though i've had the MMR; twice! I don't know why but I am loving this "jab" reference to getting shots. Never heard it before?

Common slang here in Australia. But then,those religions should go and pay to open there own schools. I don't want to be cruel,but the diseases still exist,your religion won't stop that. Why should they put others at risk? Giving these diseases honeypot locations so they can keep going despite near-extinction in the general population is a terrible idea. &gt;  unless you have a religous or medical reason

And anyone can claim they have a religious reason. So effectively everyone is covered. [deleted] From what I heard on the abc this arvo, the religious exemption has to be from a religious body recognised by the Commonwealth of Australia for tax purposes - and non of the recognised religions have a policy of prohibiting vax You're not allowed to exclude children from daycare in Australia. I think that if a child isn't immunised they shouldn't be allowed to attend and put other children at risk.  What a lot of people in this thread don't understand is that these welfare payments have nothing to do with poverty and applies to some very rich people who now have to pay for their mommy blogger views. 

You can be a multimillionaire in Australia and get a bundle of government handouts. Middle class welfare is the norm, not the exception here. In my experience it isn't poor parents that are the ones pushing the anti-vaccine rhetoric. Its usually wealthy to upper-middle class suburban new-ageist alternative medicine zealots.  Middle class people get family benefits in Australia, so they will miss out if their kids not vaccinated. Welfare here doesnt mean unemployed. Childcare rebate goes to those who can afford childcare in the first place - the middleclass, from whom most antivaxxing emanates.

This is *well* targeted. those wealthy to upper-middle class suburban new-ageist alternative medicine zealots ARE poor parents

 Vaccinations are free in Australia. The lower class will only be impacted if they refuse to get their child vaccinated.  Wait, how do you figure that?

My friend pays $150 a day for daycare. As much as she and her husband earn, they are absolutely reliant on the child care rebate. If it wasn't for that, they'd pretty much be no point in my friend working and having her child in day care.

This is not something only hitting the lower class *at all*. There are plenty of middle class people who need the rebate. If you mean the cost for injections - there isn't any.

Overall, if it "hits" anyone I don't have sympathy for them. Vaccinate your kids. Then again, I've never heard of a daycare in Australia that will accept your unvaccinated child in the first place.  People are assuming that the article is referring to the basic income welfare payments to the extremely poor and those unable to work, rather than childcare subsidies and tax credits.  You can't be in child care unless you have the vaccinations though  Upper/middle class tends to send their kids to daycare and children can't go without updated vaccinations. Unless for medical or religious reason. So I guess that catches them.  You can make $500k/yr and still get $7500 rebate for childcare. Rich folk will often go a long way to save a buck. That is why they are rich! And in America, at least, anti-vaxxers tend to be almost exclusively upper-middle class and [gasp  I don't get it either] reasonably well educated.  And its actually mainly the higher class that refuses to immunize more then the lower. Definaetly, double or triple the medicare levey for the rest. That way their lack of immunization can hopefully pay for the result Don't miss this fact he spoke, in order to put things in perspective: The proportion of unvaccinated children in Australia has risen from 1% to 2%. So doubled from 1:100 to 1:50. That's alarming. A school class size of 25 students? Say 6 classes a day means your kid could run into up to 3 different unvaxxed kids a day.

If they're lucky, it'll be the same student. It still could be as many as 15 interactions with unvaxxed kids in the space of a week. Not to mention recess &amp; lunch time.

*I don't know how the modern AU school systems works, just my 1990s US schooling*

e:maths,logics&amp;grammars Primary school in aus (first 8 years) you're always in the same class with the same ~25 students. We don't do the whole moving around for lessons thing until high school (years 9 to 13) What state are you in? In NSW, high school goes from year 7 to 12. There is no year 13. SA, highschool starts year 8. Year '13' is year 12, because I'm including reception as year 1 offsetting everything since someone from outside Aus won't have that context. VIC, NSW, ACT, NT, TAS are all 7-12. WA, SA &amp; QLD are 8-12. 

SA is the only state that calls the first year of school "reception" with VIC, QLD and TAS all calling it prep. QLD is now 7-12 also  The NT calls it transition, first years are called trannys My god, so many terrible jokes missed if we had only known about transgenders back then.
If I became a teacher I would probably have been laughing my ass off whenever the kids complain about the "tranny's". WA is now 7-12 in highschool as well, we changed over this year.  QLD go to high school in year 7 now.  Kindy, optional.  Prep- year 6, primary. The schools here change kid's classes around each year also.   And to complete the list: NSW/ACT call it "kindergarten", while the NT calls it "transition". Queensland is now 7-12 too. It's the first year actually :) 8 years of primary school? What state are you in? I'm nsw, primary is K-6 I have 30 in my Year 4 class (NSW) Based on [this](http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/0/1CD2B1952AFC5E7ACA257298000F2E76?OpenDocument), it means that 90,340 Australian children are currently unvaccinated and that's only the children on record. Children of temporary residents or families who have trouble with English might not necessarily be accounted for. Immigrants, temporary residents and international students are screened for vaccination in health exams as part of visa granting process. (Not sure about tourists.) Most likely, those with poor English skill that come here will have higher vaccination rate than the Australian average. Really? Here in my area of America, 2% would be a fucking celebration.  One of the counties in my state recently had a quarantine for whooping cough. 

Their anti-vax rate? 30%. remember that Australia has universal health care, and vaccinations are FREE for children all over the country. That would be part of the vast difference. 2% is 2% to many in a place that vaccinations are free and available.  Holy shit, that is horrendous. What state may I ask? The problem is that there are communities where the rate is much higher, [with at least one place having a vaccination rate of below 50%](http://www.abc.net.au/local/stories/2014/03/28/3973394.htm). As of my last vaccination lecture in medschool 97% of children are vaccinated. So that figure is 3% unvaccinated now.  I have a "no jab, no pay" policy with all of my sexual partners  I misread that as "no job, no pay," and thought that was obvious. I need to go to bed.  They might as well make it mandatory for all citizens. Leveraging social policy like this seems kinda ugly. Agreed. Interesting that so many call this sensible because they agree with immunization but if it is drug testing it is fascism. In the U.S., it's the rich and privileged Californians in Orange County and San Francisco who don't immunize. [It's the same here in Australia.](http://www.smh.com.au/nsw/lower-vaccine-rates-put-wealthy-areas-at-risk-of-disease-20130410-2hlt5.html) Wealthier suburbs show lower immunisation rates. I don't know how this policy will have any effect on these well off individuals stupidly choosing not to vaccinate their kids. They're cutting welfare for everyone else, might as well hit the anti-vaxxers  My comment from the other day:

Just so everyone knows, here in Australia the government is basically looking for any excuse to cut welfare for everyone. This just so happens to be an issue with which most of us agree. who else are they cutting welfare for Everyone. I know this comes off as sounding like a joke. Unfortunately it's not.  Australian here.  He's actually right.  Everyone except multinationals.   Everyone but Tony's daughters and Gina Reinhardt  Evidence in America shows that it's rich people who are not getting vaccinated, not the easy target poor. Not sure about in Australia, but in the US the majority of the parents who aren't getting their children vaccinated aren't on welfare. Reddit hive mind:

"It is DEGRADING and UNJUST to attach to conditions to public assistance, our most vulnerable citizens, where the state examines what chemicals you put in your body. Do not poor people have the right to privacy?"

"Oh, I thought we were talking about drug tests, not vaccines. Fuck 'em." The difference for me is that the (recreational, not habitual...abuse is bad, m'kay?) use of drugs only effects yourself, whereas vaccines are an issue where your individual choice effects the entire population.  Failing a random drug test because you smoke a joint after work to relax a couple times a month isn't really comparable to refusing the Measles vaccine for your child and contributing to an outbreak, the level of possible harm is very different in scope.  It benefits society greatly to ensure that vaccinations are up to date.  Drug tests?  Not so big of a deal. If it were uncontroversial that drug use "only affects yourself", their legalization would be equally uncontroversial.  As a child of two heroin users  "drug use only effects yourself" is fucking bullshit. Same can be said for anyone who drives under the influence.  Yep, he definitely said 'recreational, not habitual'  The recreational use of hard drugs so easily becomes habitual use. The blurred line means even recreational use is dangerous. The problem for me isn't whether vaccinations are okay and drug tests are bad, but if we should be placing conditions on welfare in the first place.

If forcing some people to have vaccinations is good for society, we might as well force *everyone* to be vaccinated. If feeding hungry children is good for society, we should be feeding them without conditions. &gt;If feeding hungry children is good for society, we should be feeding them without conditions.

We should be feeding *every* hungry child without conditions? Because right now it is extremely hip to be against anti-vaxers. More so than it is hip to be pro-poor people. So much so that many people reading this comment will assume I'm an anti vaxer just for saying this because *only someone from the other side would say anything that could be mistaken for anti-vaxing.* Yep. It's hypocritical and ignorant. Not giving people goverment money, while they contribute to crime, illegal drug trade, death and violence aka illegal drugs, makes a LOT more social, economic and ideological sense even.   You obviously dont know about the welfare system in Australia. Family benefit isnt just for unemployed people. Many middle and upper middle class people get paid the family benefit. &gt; The 'no jap, no pay' policy

Not sure what to think of this.

Edit: Quoted from the article. We're still butthurt about the whole trying to invade us thing  Less stick, more carrot I say. I'm not well versed in Australia's tax system (hell, I barely understand the US's) but simply giving people who *do* vaccinate a good sized tax break would be far more motivating than simply sticking it to the poor and uneducated.  I'm not against vaccines, but I think that it's a bad precedent to move toward making them mandatory in Australia. 

The concept of vaccines is perfect - i.e. being able to take something that prevents disease and chance of death with little to no side effects. 

Unfortunately the institutions that bring us vaccines are definitely not perfect. Moving toward making vaccines mandatory gives them a free pass. 

[The drug evaluation process in Australia](http://www.australianprescriber.com/magazine/18/3/69/71) doesn't really test the safety or efficacy of the vaccine before passing it onto Australians - it takes the information from the supplier and there is no independent testing of the vaccine before acceptance.

This should be concerning to people as falsification of medical research is widespread: 

* [Fraud and deceit in medical research, Journal of Research in Medical Science](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3702092/)
* [The pressure to fudge medical research findings, ABC](http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-10-25/scott-selling-science/5043620)
* [Tamiflu, a 'flu preventative', for which some of the papers were ghost written and research falsified, The Atlantic](http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2009/12/the-truth-about-tamiflu/307801/)
* [Prevalence of withholding data from medical research, Newsweek](http://www.newsweek.com/2014/11/21/medical-science-has-data-problem-284066.html)

Drug companies are organisations with financial pressures. If there is no scrutiny of them by the groups that purchase their products, they have very little incentive to be honest or upfront - their interest is to maintain positive perception and sell product. 

There's a widely held belief on Reddit that vaccines are tested beyond reproach and have no serious consequences however to illustrate the inadequacy of current research on MMR specifically, a quote from a [meta analysis on MMR research](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22336803) by the [Cochrane Collaboration](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cochrane_Collaboration) (an independent research body):
&gt;The design and reporting of safety outcomes in MMR vaccine studies, both pre- and post-marketing, are largely inadequate. The evidence of adverse events following immunisation with the MMR vaccine cannot be separated from its role in preventing the target diseases.

We should be demanding more transparency in research, more accountability and better quality research into efficacy and safety. 

Our current attitude of 'vaccinating is a duty' and 'everyone should vaccinate without question' simply plays into the interests of drug companies and doesn't put any demands on them to increase the quality of their research and produce better products that are safer and more effective. 

**Tl:dr - drug companies should be held to greater account for proving safety and efficacy before drugs are pushed onto consumers**
 I don't think vaccines should be a profit vehicle anyway. Not really first. In Argentina, child welfare requires immunization and school attendance although I'm not sure how well the implementation of these policies is currently working... You can't even put your kids in school if they are not vaccinated here in Brazil.

You need your vaccines up to date to get free health services and that's how we kill a lot of deseases. Never been more proud to be Aussie. As someone with an autoimmune disease who is severely immunocompromised, knowing that there's a policy being implemented that could literally save my life, gives me extraordinary comfort. The only good thing to come out of the Abbott government.  A perfect example of why vaccination gives Australia the power to protect our vunerable. 
A heartbreaking case I've read on reddit was of an infant (too young to be vaccinated) who contracted Pertusis (whooping cough) and suffered horrifically. The parents of the baby were helpless because they couldn't protect their baby from those who opted out. The baby has now suffered a stroke and will now be disabled for life.

 This is exactly the risk I'm trying to convey. It is not a 'personal choice' it's a matter of common decency and basic human compassion. Having just finished a course of a chemotherapeutic drug, contracting any of these horrible diseases would most likely result in my death. Anyone claiming their reasoning for refusing vaccination trumps my life? As an Australian living in Canada. I am all for this. half of your credentials are a bit random As an Australian living in Indonesia. I agree. As an Australian covered in fire ants, AHH!! FUCK!!! AHH!!!! As a fire ant currently eating an Australian, this shit tastes like Vegemite!  [deleted] As a New Zealander who hates Vegemite, bleugh, Marmite everyday. Marmite and lettuce... mmm What the fuck Coming from a Swede? [Surstrmming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surstrmming) As an Aussie who hates Vegemite, I'm sorry here's my citizenship I'll pack my bags and go.  As an Indonesian living in Australia, apa kabar. baik baik saja I at first read that as

&gt; As an Indonesian living in Australia, allahu akbar.

 As a South Korean who would be living in Canada but is temporarily staying in South Korea...    ? I don't understand your written language and I find it intimidating.

Edit: I understand you just asked 'what are we doing' in a polite fashion. We are Redditing. God save our souls. &gt; Australian living in Canada.

Reddit must love you. Do you vacation in Norway? I'd love to go to Norway one day actually. But I plan to go to Iceland when they set up the Pagan Temple. Now I am totally against not vaccinating children but isn't this haunting, the fact that the government can take away your welfare benefits just because you disagree with them, I mean what if (in a country where the government pays for healthcare) someone spoke out against government corruption and their health care was just cut off.  The government shouldn't do that type of stuff. People are simply not smart enough to see the downside. This sounds great on the surface, but let's be real here: it's only a matter of time before this policy is used to abuse the public's trust. There has to be a better way to achieve the outcome of a vaccinated populace without creating perverse incentive structures. considering vaccinations are free for children in Australia and can be done at the chemist and at school there cant be much more of an incentive.  Yeah, a lot of people I have seen against this (who aren't anti-vaxxers) are Americans who don't understand that almost all of the major vaccinations are given out free, at school or day care. Not actually a world first. In many European countries, vaccination is mandatory. Refusal can lead to fines and child services temporarily taking custody, releasing it after the child has been vaccinated.  [deleted] Getting everyone vaccinated is a great idea but this skews again toward making the poor do what you want in order for them to survive. It harkens to the mandatory drug tests introduced by some in order to get social benefits. Just make it a legal obligation for all. Period. If you want to live in a society then the welfare of that society should come first. Vaccinate.  Demographically how many poor people are into NOT vaccinating? It seems more like a thing for bored middle class to upper middle class people who like "causes".

Preventing plagues is much more important than whatever harm you think these vaccines do.

How many people who don't vaccinate allow their kids to browse the internet without monitoring? I think that does more harm to kids than a vaccination that prevents plagues from happening.

edited: a word I wonder what could have happened that led so many people to distrust the government and/or medical establishment to the point where vaccinations aren't pursued for their own intrinsic value, you need to twist their arms to get them to do it. Anti-vaxxers using invalidated studies and buzzwords to stir up fear is one thing that's causing it. Interesting how reddit is for people having an abortion and usage of drugs, but gets rather tyrannical if someone doesn't want to use vaccines. Probably the only good thing that Abbott has done. 100% agree look i get that this whole anti vaccine thing is crap but forced mass medicating is just fucking stupid.  There's no force involved. in allot of people financial 
situations.... having no benefits is force  No, that's not what force is. you know what i'm not even going to listen to this. you obviously don't know people in the situation where benefits are all that feeding them. trust me people who really believe in this anti vaxer stuff (which they only think because of miss information and wanting to protect there kids) now think that there government is making them choose between "poisoning" there kid (which i know is a lie but they believe it and know one been able to convince them over wise) and not having food. if that's not force i don't know what is.  &gt; you obviously don't know people in the situation where benefits are all that feeding them.

Why, because I don't see a problem with them meeting their responsibility to get vaccinated, in order to benefit from society? Rights and responsibilities go hand in hand. No one should be *forced* to be vaccinated, but everyone who can be vaccinated, should get it done. It's extremely important, and it's utterly maddening that some people refuse. If this is what it takes to get them to do it, I'm all for it. 

&gt; (which i know is a lie but they believe it and know one been able to convince them over wise) 

Well you can blame the ideologues who have been carefully spreading fear and misinformation for that situation. I don't know how to convince some people, if they didn't arrive at a belief rationally, then a rational argument probably won't get them away from that belief. 

&gt; if that's not force i don't know what is.

Then you're really not thinking hard enough. you cherry pick my words and make argument based on that..... well done. I didn't mean to do that, what did I miss from your comment that you think is relevant? Yeah, no one FORCES you to eat. ..yeah Here in Croatia, not vaccinating is illegal. This is still a shitty option since it gives the parents a choice. *It's not the poor people who are refusing immunizations...* As an Australian who has been on welfare, the system is quite easy in a sense to keep the money coming in. Vaccines are clearly better for both the individual and society as a whole and a little bit of inconvenience is a small price to pay for the benefits. I fully support this.  The epidemiology lectures we've been given in med-school on people who decide to avoid vaccinations state that it is primarily the upper class who do not vaccinate. In particular, in Sydney, it's the Inner North Shore and Eastern suburbs residents who demonstrate the highest rates of non-vaccination in the city. 

[This article from the Sydney Morning Herald only last year](http://www.smh.com.au/national/health/rich-suburbs-have-low-immunisation-rates-research-shows-20140326-35iy3.html) showed that "affluent suburbs have the lowest immunisation rates". Specifically "only about 80 per cent of five-year-old children in [wealthy] suburbs such as Manly, Paddington and Annandale are fully immunised". Compare this to complete overall vaccination in Australia to 97% and it becomes clear that in those with higher socioeconomic status, is where this particular problem lies . 

The upper class doesn't need, nor qualify for, Family Tax Benefit A (welfare). And so this law will not affect them at all. And that's concerning because they are our biggest problem group, statistically, in failure to vaccinate. 

So, who will this law affect? Poor families who rely on welfare. These which include Aboriginal rural families. 

Do poor/middle class families avoid vaccination? No that has been shown to be a systematic problem in the upper class. 

So why do we see some non-vaccination among the poor? This bearing in mind that 97% of Australia is currently vaccinated as at 2015. 

Maybe they're working two jobs to make ends meet and haven't got around to vaccinating their kids.  

Maybe their GP (family medicine practitioner), or vaccination center, is hours away from their home because of their rural location. This is the case with many Aboriginal communities and their problematic doctor shortages. Moreover the doctor shortages in all Australian regional and rural environments is a massive concern. [This article in The Age newspaper in 2012](http://www.theage.com.au/victoria/no-doctors-in-the-house-20120626-210fg.html) states that "in 2009 one million people in Australia were unable to see a doctor because they could not get an appointment when they needed one". That's almost 5% of the entire population who couldn't see a doctor purely because of a shortage. How many of these people wanted to see a doctor to vaccinate their child? How many of these people are poor and will now lose their welfare purely because of where they live? But Abbott probably thinks that ["that's the lifestyle choice they made and it's their fault for making that"](http://www.smh.com.au/national/tony-abbotts-lifestyle-choice-remark-leaves-everyone-hurting-inside-in-remote-indigenous-communities-20150313-143lh7.html). 

Alternatively, maybe they're just lazy. But what proportion of poorer people are not receiving vaccines for this reason and not the other two? Are all poor people just lazy?  

So what will Tony Abbott's new law achieve in terms of improving population health? 

The rich group will remain un-vaccinated. And because the majority of anti-vaxxers are rich that 3% of unvaccinated children in Australia is not going to significantly reduce. It would probably increase, as it had in previous years, as the rich continue to avoid vaccination on principle. 

On the flip side, poor people who didn't vaccinate because they were busy or were just too far away from a doctor will lose a chunk of their welfare. From the article this is "worth up to $15,000 per child"; a huge amount of money for a poorer family in Australia. And that's going to make life harder for the parent/s and, ultimately, their child. 

Funnily the whole point of this law is 'to protect the children' and all it seems to be able to do is harm them. 

But then it could be argued that these parents could stop what they were doing and immediately vaccinate their child. And, as a result of this, the welfare tap will open again. So it's not a big deal right? 

This is true but welfare in Australia is paid fortnightly. It will take at least two weeks before a family is paid their benefits again. And that's assuming the entire bureaucracy that is Centrelink (welfare payment office) works smoothly. For a family living paycheck to paycheck that could be incredibly problematic. 

And that's why this law is nothing more than political posturing by Tony Abbott, and in its essence, is stupid. 

It cannot possibly increase vaccination rates as it avoids the the problem group; the rich. Rather all this law will do will increase the financial stress on poorer families and remote/rural Aboriginal families. It may even lead to even poorer health outcomes amongst these groups. 

Hopefully parliament will veto this law. And hopefully the law will be amended to be something like "if you don't vaccinate your child we won't process your tax return" or how about "no vaccination, no negative gearing for you". The rich will respond to that one rapidly. And then we could finally see 99% to 100% vaccination in Australia. 

But good luck with that ever being passed. 

As it stands now this law is utter tripe. It's purely self serving for Abbot in two ways. One he receives political kudos for being tough on anti-vaccination, when at its core it does nothing. And two he gets to reduce the safety net which has been the underlying basis of his entire prime ministership. 

Remember this was the same guy that wanted to charge people to see a doctor. 

Good fucking job Tony. 

Cannot wait til the next election. 





 Immunization professional for a US state puplic health dept. here. Everything this guy is saying is accurate for the US as well. In the US, states have minimum vaccination requirements for public schools. The poor who are overwhelmingly utilizing public education, are fully vaccinated because of this. The rich, who go to private schools in many cases do not have to follow the same rules. The schools do not always even report vaccination rates to our epidemiologists since they do so voluntarily so we're not even sure what the rates are. Interestingly, the only two states in the US that don't permit religious or philosophical exemptions from vaccination requirements are two of the poorest: Mississippi and West Virginia. They tend to be rare anyway. A legislator in my state tried to put a bill forward to eliminate the religious exemption (we don't have philosophical) and we told him it was dumb. It's less than 1% in public schools and wasn't going to solve a real problem. As a current doctoral student in epidemiology the comment by the /u/desmunda1 hits the nail on the head. The target should be focused more on the rich and less on the poor (although it is equally important to have vaccination rates in both ses classes) as there is a higher prevalence of unvaccinated children among those with higher ses, the same is in the US. However, good luck trying to pass anything against the higher ses group as your political career will end very quickly and signficant improvements will not be seen.  I think the more important point is that regs should be aimed at everyone, not just one group. No jab, no tax benefits at all would be rather more effective and fair, assuming that such a law also included numerous ways to ease burdens at the lowest levels of the socioeconomic ladder. In the US, we have the Vaccines for Children program which provides free vaccines to he used for the uninsured, underinsured, Native Americans, and those on Medicaid. In this situation, independent/private schools need to take a stand themselves and they can. I worked at an independent school that required its students be vaccinated. There were a few students with compromised immune systems due to chemotherapy or disease and the school made it a mission to keep them as safe as possible.  Some do. Apparently a Catholic school in our state instituted a policy where students paying the Catholic tuition rate could not also claim a religious exemption. Good for them. If only we could limit unpasteurised milk and activated almonds to parents who get their kids jabbed ;) How on earth does one activate an almond?  /&gt;2015.    
/&gt;not activating your almonds \&gt;2015

\&gt;can't greentext Fucking mobile https://inthemadnessthereislovedotcom.files.wordpress.com/2013/03/adiet1.jpg You press the button. Stay pure! Is it also possible that being unvaccinated will become seen as a status marker of coming from a wealthy family?   Ah, Tony Abbott. Regressive policy at its finest. What is "negative gearing"? Negative gearing is where people can claim losses (interest expense) on investment property against their taxable income. This lowers their taxable income and they pay less tax as a result. Generally this tax scheme is used by the wealthy. Poor people don't buy investment properties.  So what you are saying is that the law should equally target the wealthy... are there any tax credits or deductions in Australia that are primarily for the wealthy, or at least if they used it would make sure to target a larger portion of the population (for instance, in the US maybe don't let people take the standard deduction or if they itemize, an extra $5000 doesn't count). Sort of. I'm saying the law should, rather than equally, preferentially target the wealthy. This is because their rates of vaccination are far lower than any other socioeconomic class. 

Negative gearing is where people can claim losses (interest expense) on investment property against their taxable income. This lowers their taxable income and they pay less tax as a result. Generally this tax scheme is used by the wealthy. Poor people don't buy investment properties. 

If they come up with something like, "if you don't vaccinate you cannot negatively gear your property" then, on a population health level, the policy would work. 

On a political level it would be suicide.  I have a good solution to this problem... Release large quantities of the viruses that are being immunised against into the areas with low immunisation rates.

They will all either become immunised or die, but regardless the percentage immunised will increase. To cover the innocent, those who are medically unable to be immunised will be forewarned/evacuated, so they can have a little holiday elsewhere while the problem gets dealt with. Who knows, this might end up increasing the average intelligence in the area too.

Before anyone asks, yes this is a joke, but you have to admit that it would be pretty effective. Funny but I'm sorry to burst your bubble. 

Even if you're vaccinated you can develop disease. If there's a level of pathogen above the crucial level to overcome one's immune system then disease symptoms can result.

Releasing a large quantity of pathogen will do exactly that. 

Hah, but I see what you mean.  This is why increasing the immunisation rate is important. The more people who are immunised, the less prevalent a virus is and the end result is people effectively protecting each other (herd immunity).

I just wished people had the common sense to do what they should do. At the end of the day, you could argue that not immunising your children is a form of neglect, so maybe imprisonment is a better solution. I'm not necessarily advocating it, but if that were the punishment, you won't find me protesting it. I can guarantee you that there will be a grace period. Where you have X amount of time to get your kids vaccinated. I know it's cool to bash Abbot any chance we get, but even the opposition leader agreed with this policy. So do I. It certainly won't fix the problem completely, for the reasons you state, but it may still make a significant improvement. That seems like a good enough reason to try it. If it doesn't work at all, or if the drawbacks outweigh the benefits, change it.

As for the people who "haven't got around to" vaccinating their kids - they bloody well should and that's the whole point of this policy! Even if they have to take half a day off work it's worth it from a health point of view. Now it will be worth it from a financial point of view, too.

People in remote areas are more of a problem. Perhaps this policy should be combined with something that makes vaccination more accessible to them - mobile clinics that visit remote areas once in a while, maybe? I'm talking about truly remote here. The ones that live on a farm and drive into town once in a while really belong in the "haven't got around to it" category. Simple solution - ticketed fee to those over X amount of income to who do not vaccinate their children.  [He's never been to good](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3IaKVmkXuk) &gt;The upper class doesn't need, nor qualify for, Family Tax Benefit A (welfare). And so this law will not affect them at all. And that's concerning because they are our biggest problem group, statistically, in failure to vaccinate.

You're right. This should be a two-pronged approach. I say institute a stiff tax penalty for not vaccinating, and make it a progressive tax. 

Or at the very least, add a disqualifier that prevents you from claiming a child as a dependent if the child hasn't been vaccinated.

&gt; So why do we see some non-vaccination among the poor? 

&gt; Maybe they're working two jobs to make ends meet and haven't got around to vaccinating their kids.

We wouldn't allow that as an excuse for forgetting to feed their kids, or neglecting to take them to the hospital if they have a serious head wound. It shouldn't be an excuse for this either. Damn, I'd love to live in a place where I didn't have to pay to see a doctor. Come to the UK, where the hypothermia you will catch from the unending rain will be attended to free of charge by our wonderful NHS. Mind the North though, bunch of savages the lot of them. Well, I lived in Seattle for a while and currently live in Alaska, so, completely unafraid of hypothermia. No downsides for you then. Get over here now! We have tea and biscuits, proper tea, mind, and an imperial fucktonne of bacon and egg sandwiches. Just gotta figure out a way to do it without landing and being super poor. Come to Canada, Harper may be a dick but least he's better than Abbot.......maybe   &gt; Come to Canada

Yeah... It takes quite a while before you really get those benefits when you move to Canada. It doesn't happen quickly at all.  Trust me I know, have a friend that married an aussie and it took her years to get her citizenship, she had to go back to aussie twice if I remember right. &gt;but least he's better than Abbot

Hahahahaha. Thanks for the laugh. I haven't seen anything quite so patently absurd since Monty Python went off the air. Lmao you're quite welcome good sir :P I specialize in this type of humour and take pride in it You should have heard all the complaining on talk back radio when the price of precriptions doubled from $2.50 to $5 for concession card holders. 

Sometimes I think we are a nation of whingers.

 or they will now prioritise vaccinating their kids and get their welfare So another 'fuck you' to the poor without any gain in population health? 

Did you even read my comment?  yeah I did

My point was there is a population that receives welfare and does not vaccinate their kids... for whatever reason. This scheme incentivises them to do that.

You made up a bunch of melodramatic scenarios in which decent, sincere, hard-working John Doe couldn't take the wee kids to the doctor... with absolutely no evidence at all. Yes vaccination rates are lower in higher socioeconomic groups but that does not mean everyone else just couldn't make it.

Whilst the policy does miss a problematic population it does encourage vaccination and furthermore brings attention to the issue. It's an important population health measure and it needs to be taken seriously.

I agree that it may not be as effective as the hype it's getting but it's definitely a positive step get a job plz Slouchers gonna slouch soZ. 

Not soZ  scab This goes well beyond the argument whether to vaccinate or not.  I am pro immunizations.  However punishing people who do not wish to put unnatural substances into their child's body, by taking away a benefit that they have every right to obtain, is treading in very dangerous waters.  I understand that many people want to get every child vaccinated however creating policies such as these are slowly taking away our basic rights as a human.  These are small steps and they will soon make it illegal not to be vaccinated. Do you think that a mother should be forced by law to put a needle containing unnatural substances into her baby?  So now you are all for forcing people to get vaccinated, but if they started putting some other chemicals in the vaccines that you disapprove of you cant stop it from entering into your child's body. Unnatural substances or natural measles in my baby, hmm, hard to choose really!
Edit: /s Not really when the risk of serious complications from measles is maybe 100x the risk of serious complications from the vaccine The parents are never forced to do anything. All this does is remove a government rebate if they opt out of a government service.

They have all the freedom they want. If the money they'll not receive in rebates is the deciding factor then the strength of their beliefs is clearly very poor. &gt; All this does is remove a government rebate if they opt out of a government service.

Are you ok with removing a government rebate if they eat junk food? What about if they sit around and watch TV all day and don't get exercise? What about if they don't look for a job?
 What if they murder people and roast kittens? What if they use hyperbole on the internet?!

The junk food and no excercise examples only affect the person in question, and yes, I do support the idea that healthy people who refuse to search for work over a prolonged period of time without a valid reason have no right to expect unemployment benefits. They're not unemployed. They're lazy.

Vaccines work. Whether someone likes it or not is not relevant. Well actually obesity and laziness do affect society at large. 

You should look into anger management. Is it a service that could be taken away unless I agree with your viewpoint?

Every choice a person makes can affect society at large, I will concede that point. Trying to change the topic by waffling on about anger management is just ridiculous though. Offer a cogent argument and facts to back it up, don't resort to ad hominem sniping because evidence doesn't support your argument. Well you see, I dont disagree with you at all. 

In my experience, it seems that the people who are so angry about people that wont vaccinate and want the government to force them to vaccinate, are usually angry liberal/left-leaning (choose your term) people. They are usually the same group of people that insist that requiring people on government assistance to meet any sort of obligation at all is an affront to their personal liberties. 

It seems to me that people that hate anti-vaxers believe that anti-vaxers are conservative religious nutjobs and therefore it is ok to hate/attack them.  I would go so far as to wager that upwards of 95% of the people that are rabid haters of anti-vaxers fall into this category.

Therefore I was just probing your viewpoints to see if you were consistent in your views or if you were just a rabid hater of all things conservative.

I agree with you in that if you are going to accept anything from the government (or anybody), that the giver can require certain behaviors as a condition.

My anger management remark was not a response to your argument and therefore was not ad hominem sniping because evidence doesn't support your argument., primarily because I was not arguing a point. I was asking a question.

My remark was a response to your comment: 
&gt;	What if they murder people and roast kittens? What if they use hyperbole on the internet?! 


This seemed like an awfully angry response to a simple inquiry.  I hadnt even stated an opinion.  
 Hyperbole... Not vaccinating your children can affect other children's health.  That's a bit different from the negatives sitting around watching TV has to society at large. Yes I do completely understand what your saying.  However I was more or less referring to most of the people here who want it to be against the law not to immunize your child. That's scaremongering and ridiculous absolutism from people who have a very twisted view of reality. People are buying this crap? 
This is just War on the poor. Doesn't do dick about anti-vaxxers who are mostly upper-class people not reliant on welfare.
 I'm all for having more pressure on anti-vaxxers and more consequences for those who, by their choices, harm others. But I just don't like this way of doing it. Poverty should not be used as a weapon to force compliance from those who have no other options.  The title is misleading.  It's tax benefits that every family get that will be taken away.  "They would lose a childcare benefit of up to $205 a week, the childcare rebate of up to $7500 a year or the Family Tax Benefit A annual supplement of up to $726."  So really, it's working families that take the brunt of it.  And, of course, it's less impactful for the wealthy. We're talking about people dying here. If parents don't get their children vaccinated, people will die. I don't care how poor you are, if you put other people at risk of fatal diseases, I will gladly refuse you benefits. You're committing medical neglect not only of your own children but of other people. All that aside though, the welfare ebbing referred to here isn't exclusively for poor people. Some of it is things like tax rebates for having large families, which you can qualify for without being poor. People are so willing to give up their soverngity, it's sickening. It's been a shitty news run lately.  Glad to read this. Agreed, I'm can't imagine how elated the families of these women feel.  I'm glad they get to go back home. I'd imagine the women themselves would be the most elated. I hope you're right, but given what they've gone through they've probably got a lot to deal with, flashbacks, panic attacks, intrusive thoughts, not everything ends like a Hollywood film where everyone's suddenly fine at the end. Reality's more brutal and more tragic. Still, way better to be out of that situation than to be in it. The alternative is worse. "You survived the abuse. You can survive recovery."

Paraphrased and I don't know the origin, but it's a powerful sentiment. I hope they are given access to programs or resources that help them reclaim their lives. This is Nigeria we're talking about so probably not sadly. Nigeria is one of the richest nations per capita in the developing world. If this were like DRC or something I'd agree with you but it's not like Nigera is a shithole. It's corrupt as fuck. Just bc a state has money doesn't mean that the state has the capability/desire to distribute it efficiently.  That per capita in Nigeria is only high because of the rich outliers. The ones kidnapped are unlikely the rich ones. Even with income distributed completely evenly, it's under $4,000 a year per person. Not much treatment is gonna come from that.  They were going to a private school when they were kidnapped, so they aren't the poorest people in Nigeria.  Nigeria is still pretty bad. Its not a Congo level shithole but for the most part, it is a shit hole nevertheless as a survivor of a traumatic event, this is true once you get over the ptsd. ptsd itself, well, i've been on a lot of 5150 holds. docs would always tell me "you survived the hardest part" (the event itself), which can sometimes ease some of the feelings, but for the most part, the world is shit afterward. 

I landed up doing aya in peru as a last ditch effort; i was about to be committed. no joke. so yeah, it really isn't too great once you're on the other side, either. 

i used to think there was a man hiding in my bathroom for no reason. i knew there was no man there, but i'd think there was despite knowing there wasn't. after consensual sexual intercourse, i would start to cut myself open with knives. shit like that. so yeah, the alternative realllllllly is not all that more badass for some of us. i haven't even told you how much worse it got, but i'd equate it to being a paraplegic after an accident. like sure, i'm alive, but is it a life worth living? i'm light years better after aya, btw, so hooray for that fucking miracle, but most people don't land up anything like this and they just sorta stay fucked up for a long ass time. Well there is more research being done these days with ayahuasca, it may become a useful clinical tool at some point. To be honest a lot of people would be too nervous to go to Peru to try it, especially if they read about that kid that died and was buried by the Shaman (who is a big fraud). 
 my gf was barely attacked with absolutely no damage and we still deal with her fears, I can only imagine how much worse is if you went trough the whole thing. Sorry for this, but what does aya mean? Ayahuasca. A tribal psychedelic drug that has been lately used in alternative medicine practices to help people with hardcore drug addictions, PTSD, or other psychological issues. &gt;CombatShrub 

Thanks! Didn't know this existed also username semi-relevant.
 As long as they can cope. I doubt the realization of what they went through can be understood. They have walked through hell, now they must try to exist out of it. I very sincerely hope the best for them, how can we help? You can donate to the [Victim Support Fund for Nigeria](http://victimsupportfund.ng/donate/) which has helped victims of terror.
Please make a contribution. It may seem small, but everything adds, and in the end, we can make a difference. I volunteer for camps for people who went through things like this, and it's shocking how far money goes when put towards effective programs. Being a camper has been some of the best experiences of my life, and my experience is far from unique. As a regular person? probably nothing. but it's a nice thought. Depends on the society they're going home to; in most second and third world countries girls that have been so blatantly sullied aren't likely to find a lot marriage opportunities. A good number are probably going to have to turn to prostitution to make ends meet, which given the lifestyle of most African working girls in the documentaries I've seen, they're not in for much of an improvement. Sigh...  Whenever people say "african"  anything, it makes me cringe. It's a continent, not a country. The problems are diverse and local to their particular regions, not to the entire second largest land mass in the world.  Ya, you just convinced me, they should totally have left them with Boko Haram. I think the take-away is more along the lines of pointing out the vast improvements needed in developing nations when it comes to these issues rather than claiming they should have been left with Boko Haram.

But you're probably not that dumb and knew that anyway and just wanted to purposefully act obtuse to be an asshole. I on to something here, buddy? Especially considering how many are either pregnant or mothers.  That's exactly what I wonder right away. That and how many are converted? Aka brainwashed  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] So am I. It'll be a difficult road ahead for many of them though. Don't put up banners just yet, the Nigerian Army have lied about rescuing large numbers of girls recently. As far as I can tell, no independent sources have confirmed these people have actually been rescued. Well, good news/bad news.  They saved a bunch of girls but they admitted that they aren't THE girls that made world news over a year ago. Oh, better send them back then. these are not the girls you are looking for

*waves hand* http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/04/28/us-nigeria-violence-rescue-idUSKBN0NJ2FK20150428

Not from Chibok: http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/28/africa/nigerian-troops-rescue-women-girls/ The Nigerian government have maintained that the Chibok girls were moved outside Nigeria by Boko Haram and possibly sold as wives. Boko Haram has also claimed it has kidnapped hundred of other girls since the Chibok incident so this would make sense. Thank's for the response, but I'm holding skepticism until I have confirmation from any source other than the Nigerian Army.

&gt;Nigerian Armed Forces announced on its official Twitter account.

&gt;Military spokesman Maj. Gen. Chris Olukolade said the rescued girls and women are still being screened and none has spoken to their families yet.

How do you save these prisoners who were likely raped and tortured, and not let them talk with their mom for 2 seconds? They need to gather into intel to fight Boko Haram in their active campaign. Yeah, seeing their families would be nice, but Nigeria is fighting a war where niceties get left by the wayside. Figuring out who their families are- their parents, their parents' phone numbers (if they have a phone number), its a pretty big logistical task. I bet you most kids in Nigeria don't know their mom's phone number off-hand.

Even before that, you have to get them to a safe place that has the ability to call hundreds of people. These girls were taken from rural areas in Nigeria, where infrastructure to deal with this type of stuff is minimal. 

You're thinking they're denying them calling their parents, they're saying they rescued them but they haven't called their parents yet. "Talk to their mom for 2 seconds" for 300 kids in remote regions of Africa isn't something that just happens. Actually, [87% of Nigerians](http://www.bbg.gov/wp-content/media/2014/05/Nigeria-research-brief.pdf) own mobile phones. I think your second point about infrastructure would be the bigger obstacle to communication; Boko Haram has even been known to [attack telecommunications base stations](http://blogs.cfr.org/campbell/2012/09/11/boko-haram-attacking-nigerias-mobile-phone-infrastructure/). Still, I would imagine that contacting families is not yet a priority of the Nigerian military. The area is still essentially a war zone, and there are many other people who still need rescuing.   Agree. News is shitty all the time, I run to /r/upliftingnews just for a break now and then. This was a nice find.  Yeah but that sub just reminds me of Faceboo with very poorly written articles. Just visited it and you're so right


&gt;He Is A Therapist Who Helps Autistic Children. He Is Fluffy And Very Cute. And Yes, He Is A Dog. 


MY EYES ARE FUCKING BLEEDING Why did you make me read that  "You Wouldn't Believe he did Next"  Cat therapists hate him! I take my feels where I can get 'em. Otherwise I'd be under the impression from the regular news outlets that most of the world is being simultaneously raped, rioted, humiliated, murdered, tortured, and sold as child slaves to each other. "If it bleeds, it leads" they say.  I dunno I actually find things like /r/upliftingnews more depressing like it's fake happiness, like it's great that kid with cancer got to go to disneyland but hes still gonna die. Right. Fair. Now, one of the biggest uplifting moments for me is something like seeing "300 firefighters ran back into the world trade center to search for more wounded right before it collapsed". It's not about the outcome. It's about the human spirit. Might just be me. That's a great way of looking at it.  The hope from seeing how good we can be, not the despair in how bad we so often are. Don't believe it until BBC or AJE reports it. They've said this a lot of times.  &gt;shitty news run

That's because it's the news. They rescued 200 girls and 93 women, but they aren't the abducted schoolgirls from Chibok, from a Reuters cable:

&gt;MAIDUGURI, Nigeria, April 28 (Reuters) - More than 200  schoolgirls abducted from their school dormitories by Boko Haram  militants last year are not among the nearly 300 girls and women  rescued in an army operation on Tuesday, an army spokesman said.                 
The troops rescued 200 abducted girls (not Chibok girls)  and 93 women, Colonel Sani Usman told Reuters in a text  message.  FUCK, how many groups of 200 girls have been kidnapped? Well now we're starting to ask the right questions. Sometimes the questions themselves are more terrifying than the answers to them Oh, probably about as many as groups of boys that have been murdered. Oh, you didn't hear about that?

http://www.mediaite.com/online/why-did-kidnapping-girls-but-not-burning-boys-alive-wake-media-up-to-boko-haram/

&gt; But an even more disturbing question needs to be asked now: why did the press spring to action when young women were kidnapped, but were virtually unmoved when it was young boys who were being slaughtered and burned alive?  They both equally matter. Boys being kidnapped into war, girls being kidnapped into sexual slavery...terrible. Let's just be happy some kids made it out.  Oh, I am happy that some made it out. I agree that they both matter equally. I just wish the press and political and military leaders treated them as if they cared about them equally. In my opinion, which isn't scientific, but my own two cents, its only because a school was raided in a massive 200+ kidnapping rush while in school.

 Had the girls been picked off one by one, like many boys are abducted in the night, no one would care. I personally believe a mass kidnapping of 200 boys at once would generate the same response.  But then again, thats my own opinion. 

Maybe one day these kids can not be at the mercy of warlords and rapists.  In the same kidnapping of 200 girls, the same building, remember, it was not an all girls school. It was 50% girls, 50% boys. I'm bringing this up because your comment seems to indicate you don't know what happened. They kidnapped the girls, and then, because the boys resisted, they burned every boy alive. But I have yet to read about this in a news article or comment on the incident. Holy shit I had no idea. Why the fuck did I have no idea about that? Sure, I could have been more diligent, but why wasn't that in the news reports that I read about the 200 girls being kidnapped?? It's hard to know where these guys are getting their information from.  They say this, then use the all-powerful sheild of "the media doesnt' report this" so they don't have to back it up with *any* report.

If the media doesn't know, how do you know I ask. [This](http://mobile.abc.net.au/news/2014-02-26/scores-dead-in-boko-haram-nigeran-school-attack/5284250) is what Boko Haram does to schoolboys when they kidnap the girls. This is just one report, there are many more just like it. And the mainstream media (CNN, Fox News, etc) do not report on this, that's what the guy who started this meant. Source for what happened to the boys?

I'm asking because I genuinely can't find anything reporting on the rest of the students, only that the building was burned.  According to Wikipedia, there were 530 students (many not even from the area) registered to take an exam around that time and 234-275 girls may have been kidnapped.  The numbers seem confusing overall. &gt; But I have yet to read about this in a news article or comment on the incident.

Then how do you know about this? Are you in Nigeria? You are aware they massacred the boys and the same school where the kidnapped the girls, right. That die even make the news.  Most of the reporting and activism around the missing girls was focussed around rescuing them. Can't really do the same for those who are already dead. And remember KONY? Bullshit as it was, it did get millions of people donating and talking about the little boys being turned into child soldiers. If there's ever any sort of mystery or hope of recovery then it'll be reported on more heavily. Just compare the news reports on the missing plane with all the other reports of plane crashes that followed (not a perfect comparison but still demonstrates the trend) Because in today's world lethal violence is far more acceptable than slavery. Its weird tbh Also, female victims are "girls" and male victims are "students." That's just as offensive to women as it is to men, and vice versa. I don't know mate I think it's lingering patriarchy where a man's life, even a boy's is viewed as more expendable than a woman's/girl's. If we only we all viewed both as much more important.  Seriously. When you can say "Oh not *that* group of girls kidnapped. The other one." you know shit is fucked up. I don't think it really matters. Numbers are numbers right?

Edit: I'm saying why does it matter 292 were saved from Boko Haram from one instance or another? It's results and it saved almost 300 people

Edit 2: IM NOT SAYING THE GIRLS DONT MATTER. IM SAYING THE GIRLS SAVED DONT MATTER LESS THAN THOSE TAKEN FROM THE SCHOOLS.  Damn, people really had a problem reading &amp; understanding your comment. It was clear to me, fwiw. Reddit likes drama and over reacting. But its reddit.

You cant deny your origin! I will deny Origin from anything and everything, fuck you EA your valve is really impressive.

 Party like a Rockstar. NO WE DO NOT HOW DARE YOU I'M TRIGGERED USHITLODRAJKLSDFJAUH FUILEHFILABSEFKLAJFN Yeah what you originally said vladimir_pimpin was pretty clear to begin with.... And it's like... even if that wasn't their first interpretation after reading it, how does one miss it entirely? The escalating tone of the edits is why I love/hate reddit Don't worry reddit been a bitch lately.  Right? Ever since Baltimore happened, the front page has been Stormfront vs. SRS as far as the eye can see. I laughed reading this for the first time and seeing the edit of this. Knew it was coming. Lol. Cheers mate I got more and more flustered. Glad someone got a kick out of it my man.  It does matter as it will wake some people up to the fact that this wasn't the only instance.  If all the other kidnappings didn't clue them in, this won't either. Incorrect.  It clued me in. Sometimes correcting a misconception is a better way to teach people than explaining it the first time. This is why I hate leaving serious comments. People take the seriousness one step further and start twisting words. [deleted] Well, it matters, it just doesn't mean it's not good news. I think so. These kids weren't really in the news like the 300 were, so it's like bonus girls I guess. Uhhh yeah... I guess... OH MY GOD YOU DONT CARE ABOUT GIRLS!!! I guess man Most of the Chibok girls are either dead or sold off into slavery by now.

Boko Haram used a number of them as suicide bombers as well in the months after that mass kidnapping Wow, I still thought there was still hope. Harsh reality... How many women get abducted in Nigeria? God damn. It is a country with hundreds of millions of people and a lingering insurgency. 
Edit:checked it because I wasn't sure, not quite hundreds of million, more like 170 million.  [Ongoing tragedy](http://www.mediaite.com/online/why-did-kidnapping-girls-but-not-burning-boys-alive-wake-media-up-to-boko-haram/). Story from last year, but sadly still applicable. "The freed persons are now being screened and profiled. We will bring you details later." - Defense HQ. It's a good start. I hate thinking of these scumbags in control of little children. they do steal young children and, since it's been going on for a few years, have been raising the boys as child soldiers and selling or killing whatever girls there are. 

You think it's bad, and then it gets worse. Hopefully these girls can somehow enjoy life again after what they've been through I don't think they kill the girls. More likely they sell them off. What an absolute hell for these people.  It truly is sad what evil our race is capable of.  Hopefully we evolve past it some day. Don't you think evolve is a bit of a passive stance to take?  I hope we work past it.  After all, we worked our way to space.  Nothing terrestrial ever evolved that capacity.   That's a really good point and I hope to share that feeling of positive change around to others.  Yeah! It sounds promising, but there's not a lot of information.  How many girls they think are still missing, casualties in the raid, etc.  Still, that's a lot of relieved families of they can be released soon.   Don't get me wrong, this is great news, but I can't help but think about the many who are SO hoping it's their daughter, sister, wife or mother; and it's not.  Those families will be devastated - again.  If it's real and not propaganda.  I agree that it must be devastating.  I'm awaiting a news report as to what state these rescued women are in.  If they aren't too badly (physically and emotionally) hurt, it could help raise hope that the others might be recovered safely as well.  If nothing else, knowing they people are being kept alive might be some solace in itself.   the estimate is over 2000 women/girls still gone, this is a dent but not a big enough one Over 10% in one go is a decent dent.  &gt; While confirming the operation the Director Defence Information, Major General Chris Olukolade said he could not confirm the identity of the freed victims and their origins and he could not state if any of them was from Chibok until after thorough screening and proper investigations.

I'm glad to see that the new people in charge aren't going for political mileage immediately. Buhari hasn't taken office yet.  This is still on Jonathan's watch. Chris Olukolade is not new. The new administration has not taken over yet. I hope it's true. I personally doubt the number, the Nigerian Army tends to exaggerate such things, but I'll take any good news I can get, I guess. I also kind of doubt the "daring attack" part.  But if whatever they did led to the freeing of some of these girls, it is good news indeed. When I see phrases like that from foreign sources that seem odd I assume it's some nuance that has different meanings for different cultures. From what I understand,  ambitious would probably be a better word.

It was a coordinated attack on three different camps. Wow, wasn't the election decided just weeks ago? Goodluck Jonathan on explaining how the new guy kicked so much ass in such a short time. Buhari hasn't taken office yet.
 And the fact that Goodluck Jonathan is maintaining a peaceful transition of power could be a driving force in bringing the country more together. I don't know much about Nigerian politics. From an outsiders perspective though Goodluck Jonathan appeared either corrupt of incompetent and probably a combination of the two. 

However, I really respect the way that he has handled losing the election and the transition of power to Buhari.   He was more sectarian and more or less ignored the Muslim majority in the North, which caused the military aged adult male demographic in that region of Nigeria to be at least curious about Boko Haram, which is how it got strong in the beginning &gt;He was more sectarian and more or less ignored the Muslim majority in the North

Fingers crossed that the Buhari doesn't swing the pendulum too far in the other direction. Given that he wasn't so sectarian when he was the dictator of the country though, there's some hope. It's quite a relief to see a democratic election in a troubled region not result in a Civil War.  If the trend continues Goodluck Jonathon will have quite the legacy. Nigerian here. Nah, probably not. Anyone paying attention would immediately find how corrupt Goodluck Jonathon is. Right? The best he'll be remembered for is not going all Abacha on us Haha. Pretty much. That's one accomplishment. Or maybe it's just good luck.  :) Jonathan? Yeah and even if he would have, this is less an achievement for the president as it is for the militaries that commanded the operations. Well played... well played. Weird.  Why didn't they just use a hashtag instead of a daring attack? Hashtags are only for important issues, like the waffles I'm eating right now #yummywaffles Tomorrows news:

"Uhh, we maybe just kidnapped 200 villagers children. Woops" \\\_()_/ Yeah but they were Boko Haram children so it makes it ok. &gt; None of the girls rescued from raided Boko Haram camps in Nigeria has been identified thus far as among the missing Chibok girls

[Source](http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/28/africa/nigerian-troops-rescue-women-girls/index.html)

And they STILL rescued 200? Amazing work, but the girls we are all probably thinking of are still missing. This also means that there are 300 girls and women who were just rescued that we didn't know anything about before. How many more do we not know about? Boko Haram takes civilians captive all of the time. The schoolgirls just made news because all of them were taken in one massive grab I think this is the most worrying point. We knew of several other raids on villages where women and girls were taken other than the Chibok attack.  It just didn't make big headlines because we already expected them to do so. 2000+ by some estimates.  Probably around 1/2 the number of boys and men slaughtered, which is in the thousands. Before Chibok Boko Haram would let the girls go home unscathed while killing the boys. After they killed the boys and kidnapped the girls. I'm so happy to hear this, and also incredibly sad for what those poor girls had to go through first.

With so many monsters out there, it's nice to hear of people willing to take them on.
 In order for me to be able to send them home,  I Mr. Gen. Hon. Ojofunmi Oyelude will only require your Bank Information and Credit Card numbers and a copy of your signature.... I dread to think how mentally fucked up these poor girls are after the horrors they have been put through for who knows how long. [Context for whats happening in Nigeria](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1kimbo5c0Ak) Hate to ask a downer question but, how many were they unable to save? Oh, thank goodness.  Our Hashtags finally got through! Thank you Michelle Obama!! Way to go Nigerian Army.   This inspired me to learn more about the situation by watching this Vice News segment "The War Against Boko Haram" 10/10 would inform myself again. https://news.vice.com/video/the-war-against-boko-haram-full-length So nice to hear them rescue what would be Islamic rape brides.. Sad to see so many girls have already become rape brides. Fuck radical islam
 This is a breath of fresh air! "The boys they kidnapped are still burned alive."

"lol who cares? Boys are disposable." That is awesome. About time something good like this happened. Was hoping the title was going to end with "ask us anything!" Finally some body DID something for those girls!
 So much respect Great news. Another blow to extreme Islam. Nigerian military are the truest force of good in West Africa and this is definitely a Nigerian victory.  This means a lot in Africa,  no foreign militaries or contractors involved  I cant imagine a world where I'd have to live without the freedom I have...I feel for these girls. They're alive damnit...its a miracle!  I'd like to have a minute of silence for the little or big brothers and sons of the girls that were kidnapped, but got systematically killed short after. They deserve some attention. 

And lets think about the lifelines that are cut forever. 

ex: *After 250 years of the Nkol family - the name just stopped existing because of the 2 sons that got buried alive last month...* BORING! Can we please get back to news that matters like Bruce Jenner and the Kylie lip challenge?? 

No, but seriously wish we could see more news like this Very skeptical considering the Nigerian armies' track record for lying. For all we know they slaughtered all the men in a village and took the women prisoners. I'll wait until other sources confirm their claims. Thanks Michelle Obama. Tomorrow's headline. 

BREAKING: Nigerian Army accidentally kidnaps 200 schoolgirls from neighboring Chad, bringing the two African countries to the brink of war. That would be a very one sided war. I can't express my rage and disgust Boko Haram and their ideology.

I just hope each of those rescued girls have access to STD testing and abortions as required because I'd bet more than a few are carrying jihadist rape-babies.

And before people start claiming this action isn't Islamic then wake up! This is EXACTLY how Muhammad behaved with the capture of his personal sex slaves and his sex slave trading. If Muslims want to claim that Muhammad was Allah's most perfect creation and morally perfect then they also need to take responsibility for people that actually use Muhammad as a role model. &gt;I just hope each of those rescued girls have access to STD testing and abortions as required because I'd bet more than a few are carrying jihadist rape-babies.

Me too. This makes me so sad. Times like these I'm so, so glad Obama rescinded the Global Gag rule.  Global Gag rule. Can you explain this? Google isn't being helpful
 I believe /u/littlebutmighty is referring to former U.S. policy that foreign aid could not be used to support abortion in any way. Oh wow I never new that was a thing. Thanks :) It was instated by Reagan, rescinded by Clinton, reinstated by George W, and re-rescinded by Obama.

It really really affected women in poor countries by preventing clinics that depended on foreign aid to keep running from even *mentioning* abortion. It severely limited not only abortion access, but also many other things including contraceptives. It prohibited funds for clinics that provided abortions *even when those abortions were medically necessary for a woman's health*. It also gagged clinics from lobbying in support of abortion rights in their countries **or even providing referrals** to other clinics that DID provide abortions. 

IMO it was both evil and unduly cruel. It shuttered many clinics and took away health options for poor women who couldn't afford to simply go to other clinics for help. It was also insidiously anti-free speech. Holy fuck shit YEAH, THANK YOU Jesus Allah Buddha and The Avengers. Apparently they aren't the girls abducted from Chibok Well, they still have their sheep. I don't say this very often, but man, I have really high expectations for a former dictator who took over in a military coup in Africa in the 1980s Regardless of whether or not these are the girls kidnapped from that school, any life restored to some sense of normalcy and no longer in the hands of these monsters is progress. Nice to hear something good come out of the news for a change. Finally, some news that makes me smile! Glad to hear it! Great news, considering this week has been shit for news(and it's only Tuesday!)  I hope the women get a chance to ID anyone who harmed them and any who committed acts of rape or murder on civilians are tried as war criminals.
 Glad to finally see some good news. Nothing but bad news around the world lately. Wow Finally Finally putting those G3s to good use. Oh this is wonderful news!!! This makes me happy. This read like an AMA title. Lol &gt;This read like an AMA title. Lol

"Would you rather fight 100 duck sized boko haram rebels, or 1 boko haram sized duck?"

 Hard to trust anything their military or govt says. But, fingers crossed for sure. There were no boys to save, because they're already all dead. Are THESE girls... "our"... girls??  It appears that they are not from that group. I would like to read the Fox News version please Holy shit I legit thought this would never happen... What does it take to qualify as daring? They were were double dog dared to attack Boko Haram. The girls were wearing very daring mini Burkas. Cut just above the shoe. funny how this happens only less than a month after the elections in your country to try and boost up figures.  Please don't look behind the curtains. This coming from a Muslim, Bomb all terrorists back to the stone age.  I wonder how many are pregnant? Wait a second, did terrorists just join the war on terror? I think so. Did we just become best friends!?!


Fuck no we didnt The enemy of my enemy is a douchebag. The enemy of my enemy is the guy I will be working with until they beat my enemy under which circumstance I will promptly stab them in the back.  Flashbacks to Civ 5... The enemy of my enema is a douchebag. The enemy of my enemy can still be my enemy. Maxim 29: The enemy of my enemy is my enemy's enemy. No more, no less. Churchill once said,
 
"If Hitler invaded Hell, I would make at least a favourable reference to the devil in the House of Commons."

Sounds about right.  [deleted] Wait, really? I thought the Taliban was the very definition of a terrorist force. 

Edit: The now-deleted comment I was responding to said something along the lines of how the Taliban is not really considered a terrorist force, but a government in exile. nope...the Taliban is not even on the US Government's official list of terrorist organizations

http://www.state.gov/j/ct/rls/other/des/123085.htm

the [TTP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tehrik-i-Taliban_Pakistan) is a different group than the former rulers of afghanistan, btw. Maybe you're thinking of Al'Queda? Their organization was once the rulership of Afghanistan. While their tactics use terror (frankly, so does the CIA and Mossad, and remember those soldiers raping those kids?), one could argue that their having been a "legitimate" government differentiates them from say, Al-Qaeda.  Technically, doesn't Isis qualify as an enemy government too? I mean, they are holding territory and enforcing their own laws. 

Terrorist and Government are two independent descriptors for an organization, not mutually exclusive alternatives. "Terrorist" describes its method of operating while "Government" describes its purpose and standing.  They need to have had a proper office once. And a national anthem. And funny hats. A nation needs:

* A permanent population
* A defined territory
* A government
* A diplomatic apparatus

All they really have right now is the third. The first and second are up in the air, and the 4th just doesn't exist right now. ISIS is seriously outdoing even the most farfetched "Next they're going to declare war on..." jokes.  
I wonder when they'll announce suicide bombings on Mars.  Actually, anything not aligned with their religion is a target. Mars is a Roman God. So.... give it time. ISIS takes Olympus, barters oil for climbing gear and dynamite. *The Actual Olympus Has Fallen* [deleted] Isis was an Egyptian god. How long, you think?   [A *groovy, sexy* Egyptian Goddess who doesn't cover up her face or hair!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eYmbt2RVqCg) Look out, Thursday!  You're next, motherfucker!

-ISIS &gt; anything not aligned with their religion is a target.

Including Islam. Curiosity is sending back blasphemous data! The meaning of the name alone is haram in some fundamental groups. They already launched their first attack- and they didn't make it very far [See the following](http://gfycat.com/AgreeableHatefulDrever) It's surreal how it stayed that long in the air, spinning softly. I'm presuming the occupants experienced a few seconds of microgravity and felt like astronauts before being blown to bits. &gt; the occupants experienced 

Any force that can push a car up that high that fast would have a rather unhealthy effect on the occupants right from the bang, I think. Ssshhh, leave me my fantasies. They were probably already dead. I had a dream they blew up the moon and caused a huge worldly flood. Not sure if that's how it even works, but that shit was scary.  I wish them both the best of luck. if they could somehow do it while leaving everyone else alone that would be great [](/lunasad)Yeah, that's not what's going to happen. The ones dying will be mostly civilians, along with a few low level members.

Also, I won't be surprised if they recruit more than they lose with this. They get the population afraid, then recruit them telling them it's the only way they can defend themselves from the other side. [](/rpinkieawe "I see ponies") it sucks that the civilians are going to be the ones most affected by this. I wish there was something we could do to help them.  As morbid as this may sound, it's a lot better knowing that the Taliban is *not* fighting alongside Daesh. Maybe Taliban is strong enough to inflict some damage and stretch their resources. I mean, fuck, they've held out against the British, French, Russians and countless American operations. Maybe Daesh bit off more than they can chew. Wait... that's how OUR system works! Finally! Bush's mission accomplished! American-style democracy in the Middle East! The enemy of our enemy is a friend, since both of them are the enemies of each other, then both are our friends! And since they're our friends, and they're enemies of USA, we are now enemies of USA! 0-0-0-0, launch all the nukes! I upvoted just because of nuke launch code you used. Not sure if that's a pop culture reference or you already know, but...

http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/12/launch-code-for-us-nukes-was-00000000-for-20-years/ We had to make it so easy no one would think of it Hmm, you're right.  This could work out. The problem arises where there are innocent people stuck in the middle. Then somebody better tell them to get the fuck out of the way! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] In Dari (A dialect from the middle east) it would be Boro hudubiguy. One of the first things i learned to say over there. Youdabiguy!
 Midabiguy? WEdabiguy! Is that a nice way of saying it or a rude way? Just wondering if I would be saying "please excuse me" or "move motherfucker" I believe the direct translation is "move bitch, get out the way!" This is everything we could have hoped it would be.  Operation Brownie Batter is, as of today, an official success. I can't tell if "Brownie Batter" is a racial slur or...? It gets mixed up and then just let it bake. Then we lick the spoon. I'm more excited for this than Pacquiao vs Mayweather. Vegas has 3-2 on ISIL I'd give them 2-1, the Taliban is so last century, way past their prime [deleted] The snake is eating itself!  Seriously, I hope they each find nothing but success in their pursuit of this goal.  **[serious]** Since one erasing the other from the map isn't quite possibility, could someone take a educated guess at what the outcome would be regarding their influence and traction on people? 

IS specially gather followers all around the globe in a fashion I have yet to see repeated. They capitalize on a media of their own. 

Since every bit you take away must be replaced with something (people even point out that IS would never come to be this powerful if not by the brief vacuum caused by western dismantling of ME power structures), I wonder what would surface from this confront This declaration of "war" by ISIS is a recruiting tactic in Afghanistan. For the last few months Afghans who fought with ISIS have returned to Afghanistan and are recruiting people. By declaring war on the Taliban they force Afghan jihadis to choose sides. Now any jihadi who is disgruntled with the Taliban will join ISIS. In a few months when ISIS has built up a stable base in Afghanistan they will negotiate an alliance with the Taliban. They did the same thing in Syria, first  declaring war on the Nusra Front to poach their ranks, and now allying with them. Is there a sub where everyone talks like this? I want to read more of these unhysterical, detail-oriented posts about the middle east. how have you gotten like 5 responses without anyone mentioning /r/syriancivilwar

that sub is fantastic, incredibly informative, and the discussions are regularly more civil and of a higher quality than on any other news sites I've seen.

edit: hmmm perhaps the sub should have fight club style rules......my bad.... Hi there!

Mod from /r/syriancivilwar here. We welcome all new users but I'd just like to ask everyone to pleeeease familiarize yourself with the rules of our sub. The place is actively moderated and we strive to maintain a certain standard in our comment sections.

Thanks,

-DLAMN How is something so wrong so up voted? Nusra and IS were both allied as part of al Qaeda and IS later turned on them. They are still at war to this day.  ISIS cannot really form an Alliance, they will require the Taliban to pledge undying loyalty to the Caliphate. The Taliban has so far refused to do so which is why they are waging a war on them too. Any group that does not pledge their loyalty is an enemy. They are unable to recognize other leaders as the Caliph is the only true leader.
 and now we have to use a serious tag. /r/worldnews  pretty terrible. Do the mods not care about jokes flooding the comments?  No because then you'd cry about censorship instead. Please report any jokes you see.  There's a couple major stories right now so we're reviewing a lot of comments at the moment.   The Taliban is mainly focused in the Afghan/Paki region while ISIS is battling on 3 fronts. While ISIS has that new jihadi smell the Taliban has a much better network with better experience. They are currently only selecting their battles so it could go like the World Wars when fresh American troops showed up.

Mainly it'll just end up with the victor gaining new followers, spoils, and land. &gt;While ISIS has that new jihadi smell  

I have that scent hanging from review mirror! 

edit: I will leave this horrible comment's spelling and structure and hang my head in shame.   You might want to rear view your post. [deleted] I got $100 on the Taliban I'll see your $100 and go another $100. The Taliban may have been tough in their heyday but they're just not appealing to todays holy warrior( do they even Twitter! Please...), ISIS on the other hand has managed to bring jihad into the 21st century without losing touch with their good old fashioned crucifixion roots. Back in my day jihadi fighters would play powers off each other to get things like money and stingers. Not these new fangled twittering kids ISIS has some get up and go, but they don't have staying power.  ISIS hasn't fought a real enemy yet - they've mostly terrorized militias and locals.  The Taliban, on the other hand, has gone toe to toe with the Red Army and the US Army.  Now, they got smacked around both times, but they *survived*, which is a damned impressive feat.

I wouldn't count them out entirely.

They're both a bunch of genocidal pieces of human filth, though.  Really, I'd love to see them all line up for a big showdown and then get carpet bombed. Oh good call! Let's find where they are fighting, and kill two jihadis with one stone!  I think you mean hundreds of jihadis with one BRRRRRRRRRRRRRT

EDIT: Thank you /u/PickleSlice Where did this erection come from? Freedom If they're gonna phase out A-10s, why not make this their last mission?

Take every A-10 we have, load them up and lay waste to any ISIS or Taliban encampment while they piss at each other. Conflict over and done with. Then dust off the b2s and show them that they really can hold 80 bombs each.  And then the F-117s followed by the B-17s? I was totally forgetting history there but dammit your right. I was just thinking how fast and far isis has spread but they have yet to face the test of time, not to mention the kurds are kicking their ass at every turn. Opened my eyes there, thank you.  If this thing escalates there is going to be a shortage of virgins in Heaven.   No shortage...https://youtu.be/1dxpMTFBg48 I'll take $100 on ISIS as well.. their video editing skills have me convinced they're the foremost terrorist organization in the world! But you have to remember, what we see coming out of their social media is the cream of the crop! What we don't see could be terrible, terrible executions, mock-ups of what the Taliban managed to do right, and just awful administration.

Now the Taliban... There's an organisation you can set your watch to. The Taliban represent an actual country and populace though. They have way more appeal among Afghans than ISIS does among Syrians or Iraqis. However, due to insufficiency of Shi'ite governments in the Levant, ISIS has become a "default" option for many Sunnis which is extremely dangerous. I'm putting my money on ISIS.  Their troops seem to be more spread out.  Might be easier to flank and surround the Taleban.

Unless Al Qaeda joins the battle, then I'm putting my money on them.  Those motherfuckers are like cockroaches.  Turning up anywhere and everywhere. I just think that ISIS has made too many enemies too quickly. If it was a 1v1 fight sure the Taliban would get creamed, but everyone hates ISIS, except Boko Haram.  Ya ISIS's quickscoping game is on point, and Boko has their backs with the noob tubes... its gonna be a close match True, but the Taliban have the "martyrdom" perk. ISIS's power isn't in fighting, but in propaganda and scare tactics. If the US couldn't scare the Taliban into submission with drone attacks, making them literally afraid to go outside on sunny days, I doubt ISIS could do it. Why put odds on a Steelers vs. Man United match?  Yeah, they're both "football" teams, but there's an ocean between them.

Taliban vs. ISIS theoretically could be an actual issue, given that ISIS claims to want to establish a caliphate across all the the Islamic world, but outside of their egos, the rest of us recognize that the entire, relatively stable and well-armed nation of IRAN separates the two. I hear what you're saying, but I'm still going to cheer for my Steelers to crush the Red Devils.

I specifically look forward to Rooney trying to attack when Lawrence Timmons is defending, and seeing De Gea trying to stop a Le'Veon Bell + Antonio Brown assault.
 I think we all win.
 /r/unexpectedjihad? Well done. Step 1: Announce jihad against isis  
Step 2: Get arms and money from CIA  
Step 3: Attack america and americans.  Surely they're not going to try the same trick a second time, right? Right? ~~Full~~ Fool me once, shame on.....shame on you! ~~Full~~ Fool me...ya' can't get ~~fulled~~ fooled again! Ah the old saying form Texas, probably from Tennessee  Fool me 3 times, fuck the peace sign..
Load the choppa, let it rain on you I'm so glad a J. Cole reference is being made in an ISIS vs Taliban thread.  This is truly a great time to be alive. "Don't save Her. She don't wanna be saved..." Mfw he was talking about the Middle East "There's an old saying in Tennessee, well it's probably in Tennessee but I know it's in Texas..." [deleted] Fool me once, fool me twice, fool me chicken soup with rice. Fool me three times, fuck the peace sign, grab the chopper and let it rain on you. That album is fire  The myth that the U.S. funded and trained the Taliban is fairly persistent. The Taliban didn't exist at the time. The Taliban has some of it's roots in one of the groups that was resisting the Soviet invasion, but it wasn't one supported or funded by the U.S.. There were a bunch of groups involved. They were split up into two different alignments. The Peshawar Seven, and the Tehran Eight. 

One of the Peshawar Seven was Hezbi Islami. They were closely associated with Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, which funded the madrases which eventually birthed the Taliban. The U.S. never funded either. They were funded and trained by Pakistani intelligence.

So the basis for this claim is that the U.S. funded a group resisting the Soviet invasion, that was temporarily allied with another group (who they later fought against), which was affiliated with a group that started the madrases that several years later resulted in the Taliban.

The link is so tenuous and convoluted, but is often spouted as fact. But some of the guns are the same, nonetheless. Which is why it's my personal belief we should start manufacturing dense, corn-based biodegradable weapons to help out our underdogs-of-the-moment without them coming back to shoot at us a few years down the road. Actually a lot of munitions have a limited shelf life because the explosive chemicals inside degrade. It shouldn't be to difficult to create bullets and rockets that only have a 10 year life span. Of course the launchers would still exist, but it would put big limits on ammo. I'm sure the Taliban just buys Soviet surplus ammo like everyone else. It's corrosive but boy is it cheap. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Too bad there is always collateral damage (civilians) - I'd love to see them eradicate each other.  What if we like got them to evacuate a town and advertised it to both of them as like a final showdown. Like a good old Muslim Western, except with turbans, suicide bombs, and IEDs de_dust? The terrorists win...

 But all the hostages were rescued..  The hostages are the terrorists! So who was phone? [deleted] unfortunately ISIS are quite ruthless enough to force the civilians to stay. Had to scroll way too down for this. I understand the whole circlejerk but the biggest losers in this will be the civilians who will be butchered as a show of strength. [Mirror](http://i.imgur.com/KjMiVyV.jpg) Am I the only one who thinks there must be a group of CIA guys congratulating each other on a job well done right about now? I bet Dave that he couldn't turn the Taliban and ISIS against each other, now I owe him drinks. Oh my god, this makes me think that a comedy show about the Illuminati would be the greatest thing possible. They sit around playing with the fates of the world, but it turns out that they're a bunch of incompetent dicks who don't know what they're doing. And that's the reason why no one believes they have any pull, because they utilize their power so incompetently. And sometimes, they'll be in a sandwich shop or something, and they'll joke around about it or heavily imply it, but no one would believe them. The CIA is always congratulating itself, no matter the outcome. 

It's one big circlejerk, only with guns and spies. LoL "guys, guys! We seriously got them to fight each other now!" 

"But we meant to get them to fight Iran?"

"SHUT UP STEVEN!" All we need now is for the pope to call a crusade That would be sweet. And terrifying that 70% of the world population just digressed by 800 yrs.
*Regress. 70% of the world's population will suddenly change topics to one that isn't pertinent to the main conversation? I don't think you're using the word "digress" correctly. You're thinking of "regress." Hell, that might be a valid solution, just have the whole world digress whenever war is declared.

"Tomorrow, we begin the invasion of Madeupistan!"

"How about this weather?" regressed? If ISIS ends up turning the Taliban, which is very possible, this could turn out quite bad indeed.  The Caliph almost has everything in place for widespread legitimacy, and if the the right people get taken out, the Taliban could be absorbed.

People think this is a joke of some sort, you don't understand how large armies are formed historically. Would Iran be sandwiched then?  Would we work with Iran? Could that relationship ever be repaired? idk. I don't think Iran is a priority for either group TBH, I see them going around and securing the Gulf by taking control of Iraq, Yemen, and Somalia.  They are already tied to Saudi Arabia IMO, and if they manage to get a stronger hold on the area, I'd have serious concerns about Oman, UAE, Libya, Jordan, and Syria.

I still feel like their endgame for positioning is Turkey.  And the countries separating Turkey and Saudi Arabia could become the sandwich you referred to. My biggest concern would be that they do turn the Taliban and march straight into Pakistan. The implications give me chills. The Pakistani military is the true source of power in Pakistan, along with the related intelligence community. Anything can happen, but it would not be easy to March into Pakistan. This is a state that is built up enough to oppose India. It has serious punch.

The more concerning possibility is a slow collapse from the inside. Pakistan contains a lot of religious radicals already. Pakistan is second probably only to Turkey in regards to have the most professional and trained armed forces in the Muslim world. 

Pakistan struggles with insurgents in the north, much like how even the US struggled with insurgents in Afghanistan. But in a straight up "defend your cities from an ISIS military siege", Pakistan would crush ISIS. The Pakistani army isn't going to be one that just flees its post and leaves all their tanks and guns behind (like Iraq). [deleted] This is correct. ISIS is making gains not due to their overwhelming military strength, but because of the war-weary West who is loathe to involve themselves in yet another Middle East conflict. If ISIS turns into a legitimate threat, then their destruction is virtually assured.  This comment makes me hopeful for the future a bit, but then the amount of innocents that will be killed in the process of it cancels that hope [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] this should be a plot point in a comedy sketch

 It was. Monty Python did it. The Judea Peoples Front vs. The Peoples Front of Judea Bloody splitters Fuck off! 'Judean People's Front'. We're the People's Front of Judea! 'Judean People's Front'.  You've got to *really* hate the Romans. Oh yeah?  How much? a *lot* Splitters. Spy vs Spy but with turbans. /r/nottheonion  I understand the jokes and I find many of them funny, but we mustn't forget that this is like black on black gang violence. Nothing to cheer at, lots of criminals doing stupid shit and lots of innocent people either becoming a direct victim, or an indirect one by joining in on the violence (because it's ubiquitous, all around them, because of a lack of opportunity, because the want revenge after a friend was killed, because they have to pick a side or else, etc. Very akin to gang violence).

Innocent muslims have been the biggest victims of islamic terrorism since forever, and sectarian violence is nothing new. This just reminds me of the death squads in 2007 roaming Iraq where you got shot if you were on the wrong side. This is yet another political and ideological struggle that the world doesn't need.

So while it's funny to say 'finally a jihad I can get behind', I get it... it's actually quite tragic. And the winner of the war will be the guns dealers as always.... Man, now I want to go watch lord of war... Good. So lets pull all Americans out and let them kill each other.  And while they're at it lets completely change our energy infrastructure so that oil is no longer needed from the Middle East.  I know, not gonna happen but it should. Lets all go down to the Winchester, have a pint and wait for this whole thing to blow over.  How's that for a slice of fried gold? https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CB7o10eW8AAX3sO.jpg Is ISIS in Afghanistan? In the same way that over the last 10 years, various groups changed their names to include "al Qaeda", there may be groups in Afghanistan/Pakistan who are claiming to now be associated with ISIS, but I haven't heard that any meaningful numbers of actual ISIS fighters have moved from Syria to that region.  In other words, Iran still stands between ISIS and the Taliban ever meeting face to face. &gt; lets completely change our energy infrastructure so that oil is no longer needed from the Middle East

Might as well just go straight for world peace while we're at unreasonable suggestions. "Hey ISIS! Taliban totally said you guys were a bunch of pussies!" ***WOOOOOOOOORLDSTAAAAR*** Relevant: https://m.imgur.com/JVMT0tt "And you get a fatwa! And you get a fatwa!" 1. USA invades Afghanistan due to the presence of Al Qaeda which is supposedly being harbored by the Taliban
2. USA becomes involved in a war with Taliban
3. Portions of Al Qaeda in Iraq and Syria become ISIS
4. ISIS declares war on Taliban
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Its like an episode of Deadliest Warrior! The enemy of my enemy is my enemy still, but I'd like to watch them fight. Here's the article text in case the site goes down again:
  
&gt;By KHAAMA PRESS - Mon Apr 20 2015, 4:30 pm
Mashaal Radio has published a report stating that Daesh and Taliban group have announced Jihad against each other.  
  
&gt;Nabi Jan Mullahkhil, police chief of southern Helmand province has told Mashaal Radio during an interview that he has received documents in which both the terrorist groups have announced Jihad against each other.  
  
&gt;Mashaal Radio which is related to Azadi Radio quotes Mullahkhil as saying when the matter of peace talks between government and Taliban comes into discussion some intelligence agencies make new groups to keep the war ongoing in Afghanistan.  
  
&gt;Reports of minor clashes between the fighters of Taliban group and the newly emerged Daesh have published in the past.
Both groups oppose each other.  
  
&gt;Abdu Bakar Al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIS has called Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar a fool and illiterate warlord.  
Al-Baghdadi has said that Mullah Omar does not deserve a spiritual or political credibility. While on the other hand Taliban fighters have been ordered by their leaders not to let Daesh flag raise in Afghanistan.   It's like when you find the Covenant and Flood fighting each other is Halo and you stand off to the side to let them work it out Boko Haram looks longingly at their hate/hate relationship I look forward to the 'Epic Rap Battles of History; ISIS vs Taliban'

Let's get this Jihad starttteddddd!  Well, this is kind of the middle east version of bloods vs. crips, so we should get some good rap music In the next few years. I can't wait for Straight Out of Islamabad to drop. As an Afghan I would like to remind you stupid people that this shit happened back in the early 1990's when illiterate pedo "Mujahideen" started battling each other after the fall of the last civilised government of Afghanistan. I really hope Daesh and Taliban fuck each other to death as we Afghans are sick and tired of being sick and tired of being suicide-bombed by a brainwashed sexually abused teenager. I really hope Taliban and ISIS fuckoff to hell and I pray my country can finally enjoy a moment of PEACE.  Taliban has always seemed political/economic with religious overtones.

ISIS is RELIGION &gt; ALL. 

You can't beat those kinds of zealots without wiping them out. In this fight my money would be on ISIS. They are able to draw members away from other organizations by questioning how devout they are...any doubt within an organization, and ISIS cracks appear, defections will follow. That is hard to fight against. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [Let them fight](https://youtu.be/VnY4p_ASV9M?t=1m10s). I honestly don't know which side is going to win this one. Taliban caught the early lead, but after viewing some of their videos, I think it's clear ISIS can cut a head.  Either way I'm sure it'll end with a bang As much as I hate the Taliban, they'll wipe the floor with ISIS. The Taliban have far more experience, better tactics albeit not as strong equipment. From everything I've read, ISIS just tries to overwhelm their target and is effective against low morale troops, but shit against confident troops. If they tried attacking the Taliban in Afghanistan, ISIS would be completely decimated.  Likewise, the Taliban could never mount a successful attack in IRAQ or Syria.  So, neither really has a chance at dominating the other right now.  If ISIS is able to build a successful nation (unlikely), I'd say they have a better chance in the long term because oil wealth. Decimated? If only 10% is removed then they're not really that great. &gt; decimate
&gt; desmt/Submit
&gt; verb
&gt; past tense: decimated; past participle: decimated
&gt; 1.
&gt; kill, destroy, or remove a large percentage or part of.
&gt; "the project would decimate the fragile wetland wilderness"

You knew what he meant. Don't be a pedant. I was cracking a joke you silly goose. Neither group is really in a position to be able to attack the other on their turf. The Taliban do seem to have better sticking power though, I would bet they will outlast ISIS I'd not be so quick to believe a lot of the propaganda you see here and elsewhere basically writing off ISIS as incompetent boobs just barely holding their own. They're battle hardened from a long campaign in Syria, and despite a year of eager predictions of their rout, they hold roughly as much territory in Iraq and Syria as they did 6 months ago, and they've managed to open new fronts in Libya and elsewhere. Idk, ISIS are doing pretty well with their Blitzkrieg technique Because they haven't had to fight any modern, well-equipped, experienced army yet. Well, maybe the Taliban are not a modern, well-equipped army but even the kurd militias are kicking ISIS out from their territories. The Kurds are fairly experienced, trained, very determined, and well equipped somewhat allies of the West. If they're doing well against ISIS, then that makes me very proud of them.

But it has taken a war on multiple fronts to get ISIS to this point. Before that they were tearing up huge swaths of territory out of both Iraq and Syria despite Syria being filled with fighters and Iraq having equipment left for them. We shouldn't underestimate ISIS after seeing what they're capable of. bitch please. They're guerilla. There is only one nation who knows how to Blitzkrieg. #SCHLAND Let's take it easy, Deutsche. The battle of the bulge was considered a complete operational and strategic blunder.  I'm pretty sure he meant the successful Invasion of Poland And possibly France. to be fair, France's fault was to believe they were matched with a rational enemy. 

It's like having a match with your clanmates against some randoms on de_dust2. You think they won't beat you because of your awesome team com- BRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAP p90 carrying enemy counter-rushing tunnels - 4 headshots. And your AWP guy barely manages to wait until the clock hits 0:00. That's actually a pretty fitting analogy. I think you have your lightning war confused with your divine wind. I see it the other way around. I think ISIS would likely damage the Taliban far more. Plus, ISIS is apparently recruiting at a rate of 10 to 1 so the more time that passes the less it looks good for the Taliban.  They might high phys damage because ISIS is a berserker class, but the high dex points that comes with the rogue class could make the Taliban care better over extended combat. Who has the better gear? ISIS /r/outside I dunno, those weapons matter. ISIS is fielding 21st century American firepower, Al Qaeda is largely 20th century soviet gear.

Tactically, neither excel. Al Qaeda hasn't had any formal military training, but ISIS has many of Saddam's former men. 

In short, ISIS is succeeding where Al Qaeda failed because they are a more dangerous adversary. I disagree, ISIS are crazy, hold a huge area and have lots and lots of modern weapons stolen from Iraq.  [deleted] [deleted] It's 4/20, I think they're just high. They do have some killer hash. Go home Muhammed, you're high *go to the seventh heaven muhammad, you're high on pegasus  [deleted] Fake protests with signs saying "God hates L.Ron"?  Frivolous lawsuits against WBC? *grabs popcorn* If you told me 13 years ago that one day there would be an organization so evil and heinous that I would be cheering for the Taliban, I would have laughed in your face. Well, a lot of people thought the wars in the Middle East would destabilize it. But pew. pew. America fuck yeah. K now lets go back to sleep at the wheel! Time to arm the Taliban again! Joking, joking. Where's Ronald Reagan when you need him. This kills the terror. Or strengthens it. The tragedy, of course, is that Middle Easterners have been killing each other more than other people. After a while, you don't even know why you are killing each other, just that you are supposed to hate each other. You can't kill your way out of this. Oh you can once everyone is dead  That's a lie, western countries have contributed to millions of innocent deaths in the past years. The middle east is a joke compared to how many died by the west.

Rethink your ideas on whom the real terrorists are. I hope the rest of the world steps up, deems those terroritories as inefficient wastes that we can modernize upon, and as a whole we eradicate them (civilians and everything). No shame, no regret, just a fresh restart of the entire land under the premise that the world will no longer put up with religious momentum and you must find other ways to gain power beyond brainwashing and violence. Directed by Michael bay. The enemy of my enemy is my ... other fucked up enemy. Attention US Military/Political Leadership:

We Have no dog in this fight. Repeat: Do Not Engage.

That is all. There can't be a conflict in the middle east without the US somehow finding a way to make money from it. I give it two days before Israel finds a way to claim this means Iran is going to nuke them and the republicans start clanging the war drum. I'm just picturing congress now freaking out over who to give arms to.

"But they're both bad, we can't give guns to them!"

"But senator, this is a war, and when the U.S. Isn't fighting we sure as hell are going to be sending arms"

"The problem isn't the arms, we have the crates ready, it's really which side hates America less" Why not both? (Crosses fingers)

*Please don't feed, the trolls, please don't feed the trolls...* Ideologues will always want to fight and those that profit from war will always fund the ideologues. Fuck I cannot up-vote this enough. Jihad-off! [..bro down, yo!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRpTjr4L4T4) &gt; It was on that day I put a jihad on them. And if you don't believe it, then you'd better kill me now, because I'll put a jihad on you, too.  "I like you. You have balls. I like balls." Finally, I expected this closer to the top. hmmm. http://kavkazjihad.com

I would not have suspected that. I feel like I shouldn't click on anything with "Jihad" in the url at work..  I just clicked it at home and am now fully expecting a visit from the police. I'm Arab and clicked on it. I hope Guantanamo bay has reddit! RIP They don't have that much power, yet. I'm pretty sure we are all on a list. Just remember what Snowden said: 

If you change your behaviour because of the NSA then you're letting the NSA win. Please continue sending dick picks....or something like that. Wait, he actually said that?

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M

edit: ironically not available outside the US.... Will look for a mirror. Jump to [30:54](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M&amp;t=1854) Worth checking out the full interview as it's surprisingly biting. Words of a true hero. A list so long that it's basically useless But now a NSA programm will mark you as possible supporter of terrorism. (or at least if you visit sites witch similar words in their context a few times) 
btw: Will you get marked there too if you comment in forums  (reddit?) that are critical to the US (or allied) governments? Will going to celebrity porn site celebjihad.com put you on this list? I'm asking for a friend, she goes there all the time to check out Eva Longoria's ass in a bikini. Goddamn you Mick- now I'm going to have to click that damned risky link.  Hug of death'd a jihadi website. I don't know how I feel about that. 
 Breaking news: Jihadi website killed by 72+ virgins http://imgur.com/rTQYrxV Probably not 72.  Only a few.  They seriously underestimate the power of a virgin. Apparently my opinion of this joke should fall somewhere between "It's been made before" and "()"

 Tsu? Looks like the website suicide bombed itself  It was a reddit drone strike  Yeah that stays blue for me, I like to stay off of NSA lists... Message understood. The operation will proceed as planned. Allahu akbar. ALOHAAAAAAAAAA SNACKBAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRR!!!!!!!! [deleted] I'm more concerned about the possibility of malware at that link than the NSA. Me and a buddy were watching jihad head-cutting-off videos downloaded from Kazaa or something about 12 years ago and his computer was dead within minutes.  They Allah ackbared the shit out of it.  As Snowden says, all of us are on the NSA's list, all of our digital information has most likely been recorded and stored for 'future use'. 
So if we do decide to become jihadie paddies, they will be able to sit at their desks and look at our dick picks after we've blown shit up.
Edit: some words. Then, The Fappening: Jihad Edition Already on it for typing their name.only the ranking of your name matters now. Better stay on the bottom.   Anyone have a screenshot, so we don't funnel traffic to a jihadi website? Clicked out of habit and now feeling strong regret. Dammit, they must have bought the $5 hosting. You assholes are overloading the server.

Edit: we are all on NSA watch list now. To what extent do the Web hosting companies have accountabilty in controlling what content is hosted on their servers? I'd like to assume most of these companies likely had no idea I actually have experience with a case that would have been affected by the Anonymous release.  I worked for a leading company in the web hosting market generating 2% of the global internet traffic at the time.  In the web server/application case we did in fact know that it was there, as the government informed us and insisted that we could not make any public comments or statements, and to continue hosting the message forum that was used by pro-Al Qaeda users (this was back in early 2000s), and in some cases messaging exchanges that were secured behind passwords.  I worked with the government agent to set-up a continuous packet capture device that was monitored by the FBI.  The silliest thing is that servers were not using https, which would have required a key-exchange to get the man-in-the-middle configuration setup.  They were able to grab the passwords (which is terribly easy to do via http) into the locked exchange sites to monitor the exchanges on a 24 hour basis.

The fact is that these types of sites can be flipped nearly instantaneously at the drop of a hat, in fact our company guaranteed a one-hour delivery time for new customers.  You pay, an hour later your root password is available for a new box freshly installed for you.  The problem here is that if the server owner had any clue that they were already under government scrutiny they could have wiped the drive, swapped DNS, and had the server up likely in an entirely different country in a manner of hours-minus government involvement.  Very similar the whack-a-mole Piratebay server hunt.

The companies problem is that when their customers found out, and reacted much like this thread that were terrible and had no business ethics for continuing to provide service via the company and other web-hosting message boards (similar to this reddit thread.)  So the company was basically unable to respond at all to the customer complaints, or even acknowledge them officially.  In fact 20 or so customers actually cancelled their accounts due to this exact issue (Unfortunate, but an extremely small drop from the enormous user base.)  I'm intentionally leaving the company, government, and some of the details out of it if this reads too ELI5 for some.

*words
 Thanks for the insight. It makes sense that the feds would want to keep them running, and that you can't talk about it even if there is bad PR It is a bit of no win situation, and there's not really a great answer.  Believe it or not, we actually had to remove some of the content from message board users who were a bit too accurate with their guesses.  We would always shoot them an IM that would basically read as "Sorry for deleting your post, but you're speculation could have a negative effect on the current situation." 

Now our users were pretty cool, and we didn't have any problems.  But you can see if they were able to grab that response and post it on a message board that we didn't control, the cat comes out of the bag.   Your post, "The allies will attack at Normandy", was removed because your speculation could have a negative effect on the current situation. -Eisenhower Nah, information theory would say to just load up the forum with thousands of other conjectures. I've seen at least one reddit comment hitting on this same set of issues every time something like this has happened in the past few months. This one is certainly one of the best, though, for giving insider perspective especially with how the government orders companies to refrain from any public comment. Here is the thing: How much control do you want them to have?

I am sure if you ask a pro-life supporter if pro-choice materials should be hosted on the web like Facebook and YouTube, they would tell you that no, they shouldn't because they condone murdering fetuses. So are YouTube and Facebook complicit in such matters? Should they move to remove things that a percentage of the population defines as terrorism against the unborn? 

It is a slippery slope, one that I don't think I would want companies hosting content to engage in. Hands off as much as possible, because when you ask people to control the flow of information and materials to decide what is proper or not, you are asking for trouble.  This! I understand posting the names of the companies is in protest of IS, and will probably result in the content being taken down.

But I don't want a Web hosting company to remove my content because not everyone agrees with it  That's what I am getting at. 

A vocal, Christian organization, claiming millions of members comes along and has a list of websites/businesses that support abortion. They claim that by hosting content and advertising on it, that the companies listed are "providing material support for murdering fetuses". Now what does a company do when they are faced with that? Which side do they fall on? Do they allow the content to remain or do they remove it to appease the vocal dissent? 

Those are the type of things that are happening more and more: a vocal group goes out and demands the removal of materials they find objectionable, with the belief that said companies owe them that. It is a very slippery slope, one that I don't enjoy watching unfold. The idea that the internet will come together and attempt to destroy a company or person because of a position they hold is very troubling.  It happened before the Internet. The Internet just empowers the process a little.  Morals are defined by each generation. Did you know that before ww2, eugenics was a very popular idea in the usa?  The idea of castrating criminals was highly respected and before the nazis, it was well on its way to becoming standard practice.  Hitler was impressed with our eugenics program and modeled the Reich's efforts after it.  Why is that troubling?  What if it were outside of the internet?  Abortion clinics have protesters outside constantly, isn't that the same thing?

I imagine that if ISIS had a centralized office in the US there'd be a little more than protesting going on... This is what makes this sort of thing so tricky. On one hand it sounds shocking that people are willingly hosting their content. 


On the other hand do we expect these companies to scan and thoroughly check all of their customers content? 


If so, where do we draw the line?  [deleted] Well I appreciate that. 

However, there is a specific group of people in downtown Chicago that regularly protests. One of their positions is that places like Planned Parenthood should not be allowed to have the ability to disseminate materials that advocate abortion. 

Unfortunately, not everyone thinks the same as you. Since Roe v. Wade made abortion legal, there are constant attempts being made at underhanded "gotcha" methods to make both information and availability of abortion more difficult.  &gt; Planned Parenthood should not be allowed to have the ability to disseminate materials that advocate abortion.

I get that Planned Parenthood offices do abortions.  Have any of these protestors actually gone into one of these offices?  They do everything they can to try and prevent you from having an abortion first.  In many areas, the only place to get free condoms is PP.  Plus, they offer STI testing and birth control methods basically for free.  

I just don't get the bad rap.  For every abortion procedure they do in their office, there are probably 2 or 3 people who don't even have to make the choice because PP stopped the pregnancy in the first place.  These people should get a medal; not be harassed on their way to work every day.

(Note: This is not a rant against the person I am replying to, as they are just stating facts) I get all that, but these type of people aren't the type that can be reasoned with using any fact that isn't in the bible or from their pastor. 

Planned Parenthood, regardless of any valuable service they provide, has already been linked to abortion. Ergo, Planned Parenthood=abortion warehouse.  "fact" Kim Dotcom would have an idea  Great point. It still blows my mind that they send helicopters and armed forces to apprehend a nonviolent "criminal" For content that he didn't create Didn't they also have a DMCA portal and worked with content creators? Yes. As well as complied with the DMCA process. In the mean time Dotcom was illegally spied upon by the US and New Zealand governments.

His extradition trial, to even stand trial in the US for his accused crimes hasn't even completed - before his assets were seized (and ruled to be property of the US government).  &gt;I'd like to assume most of these companies likely had no idea

Depends on if anyone reported it to them. I worked for a managed hosting company in the past. One incident we received an abuse email about a customer hosting a NAMBLA form. The customer was shut off until they agreed to discontinue hosting that site on our network. It was entirely our discretion as to what we were going to allow, and the customer was free to find another provider if they didn't like it. Here's the thing with free speech that people get wrong every single time there's an article like this:

# The US concept of Freedom of Speech is freedom from _government_ retaliation against your speech

In other words, it protects you from going to jail, but it does not absolve you of the consequences of that speech, such as a lynch mob of angry Americans boycotting your business.  In fact, that's precisely why we don't want the government deciding what is and what isn't okay- we can do that just fine ourselves, and often more effectively.

As far as I can tell Anonymous isn't demanding that the feds raid these places- they're acting as journalists in this case, bringing attention to the American public that maybe, next time you're deciding where to host your domain, you don't pick one that supports terrorism.

Edit: Many thanks to /u/Khepresh and /u/mellowmonk for the gold!! But that also being said, many companies that host sites don't necessarily monitor the content of all the sites they host. Fluffy Bunny Corporation may purchase site hosting and then place all sorts of sordid content on their website. It's not like there are only 15 websites online. Also, do you really want your hosting provider to monitor the content that you're putting up?  When you start to allow hosting providers (or governments) carte blanch to remove sites that they deem wrong or offensive, than you start down a slippery slope of censorship.   Not to mention the job is to host, not censor and judge.  A free and open internet goes both ways. &gt; Not to mention the job is to host, not censor and judge.

They don't have to censor and judge. Just don't be surprised if their decision to continue hosting influences the decision of other people to choose to host there or not. Which is perfectly valid. Is this the lone voice of sanity? 

Why are anonymous pressuring companies to censor the websites they host? 

How do we know this info comes from anonymous?  Couldn't this be an alternate method of dissemination for national security services? &gt; How do we know this info comes from anonymous? Couldn't this be an alternate method of dissemination for national security services?

If someone who happens to work for the NSA releases something as 'anonymous' then it is indeed anonymous.
 I don't think anonymous is pushing for companies, in general, to censor the sites they host. They're pushing for these particular hosts to stop hosting ISIS websites. It's like any conditionally protected freedom, if you're using it for the wrong purposes, it's no longer protected. 

Hell, they probably will immediately. Why would they risk being labeled as supporting a terrorist organization?

The hosts of these sites will probably be more than happy to take them down, I doubt they know they're hosting them at all. 

EDIT: Fixed wording for clarity.  The problem is CloudFlare doesn't HOST sites it acts as a proxy in front of them to the internet. So to say that they are hosting them is silly. &gt; I don't think anonymous is pushing for companies to censor the sites they host, they're pushing for the hosts to stop hosting ISIS websites

Read your own sentence again.

Phrase 1:

&gt; I don't think Anonymous is pushing for companies to censor the sites they host

Phrase 2: 

&gt; Anonymous is pushing for hosts (companies) to stop hosting ISIS websites (censor ISIS websites). I was on my phone, and evidently didn't phrase what I was trying to say very well. My apologies.  

What I was trying to say was that I don't believe that Anonymous would, in general, agree with the censorship of a site. However, they're posting this in the hopes that the host will cease hosting the site for ISIS, because of the fear of public backlash if they continue to do so. 

In other words, they agree that while this sort of speech is protected from *government* censorship, the people should be aware that by using these companies for their services, they are inadvertently helping someone who provides services for a terrorist organization.  Wait... there is more than just reddit on the web?! You mean you haven't found the porn yet? &gt; Fluffy Bunny Corporation may purchase site hosting and then place all sorts of sordid content on their website. 

Or, Shell Company Inc. will buy *thousands* of web domains and point most of them to parking pages. If a few of those domains end up hosting some illicit content or sending spam, well, that domain was just "hacked" or "misappropriated." Another thing people don't realize is that not all speech is protected.

"Free speech" encouraging violence or endangering others is not legal. That's a great point, but most of us who are not lawyers might be surprised just how much speech IS protected (at least under US law):

&gt;In the US, the standing landmark opinion on political speech is Brandenburg v. Ohio (1969),[30] expressly overruling Whitney v. California.[31] In Brandenburg, the US Supreme Court referred to the right _even to speak openly of violent action and revolution in broad terms_:

&gt;[Our] decisions have fashioned the principle that the constitutional guarantees of free speech and free press do not allow a State to forbid or proscribe advocacy of the use of force or law violation except where such advocacy is directed to inciting or producing _imminent lawless action_ and is likely to incite or cause such action.[32]

As I understand it (any lawyers want to comment?) saying "ISIS is our savior, and you should join them to wage jihad" IS protected speech in the US.  It's vague enough that it's not an incitement to imminent illegal action.

Saying "Tomorrow, go out and kill anyone in Boston who isn't muslim" is NOT protected speech.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech#Limitations Yep, it has to be a clear and present danger.  The guidelines for unprotected speech are understandably very tough. clear and present danger is an old standard which has been overturned.  The current standard is "imminent lawless action."

Technically, saying "kill any Muslim you find in Boston tomorrow" is still protected speech, as authorities have sufficient time to protect Muslims in Boston. I really don't think its based around whether they have enough time. Why not just make a twitter account specifically to get cops running everywhere day after day then?  It is explicitly based around whether or not they have enough time.  "Imminent lawless action" under the Brandenburg test (the current test for Constitutionality) requires "imminence" which is considered to be a temporal threshold set by the time it reasonably takes authorities to respond to a threat.

&gt;Why not just make a twitter account specifically to get cops running everywhere day after day then?

That's basically what Spike Lee's twitter account is. Huh, TIL. Cool! If you were correct, bomb threats that were made well in advance would be protected speech, but you are wrong. Inciting violence at any date or time is not protected if it is found to meet the threshold of imminent danger, imminent not being a temporal standard but a word that is synonymous with "likely to" in this context.  That's not a definition of imminent that I'm aware of. Aaaaand now you're on a list. That was quick. I wonder how it would go at trial. 

He said it.

(defense lawyer) Context. 

HE said it. 

CONTEXT

BUT HE SAID IT

BUT FUCKING CONTEXT YOU CUNTS 

 "ANSWER THE QUESTION, Mr. /u/diabloman8890: DID YOU OR DID YOU NOT SAY THESE WORDS?!"

"Well yes, I did, but - "

"YOU HEARD IT HERE FIRST, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY. HE ADMITS IT! YOUR HONOR, THE PROSECUTION RESTS." "Do we let him rot or do we kill the fuck?!" - *all of reddit* Death by the fuck rot! I believe the legal term is snoo snoo.  I admit to everything. Kill the rot, fuck the reddit. Got it. Instructions unclear: penis stuck in rot Great metal band name right there Probably a little quicker than John Oliver getting on the Snowden list. Or just hauled off to a private facility for "questioning"... "questioning" 

You mean some butt stuff right? Or is that just the TSA these days?  Naw they're all into that. But now you said that, so...

&gt;But he said "BUT HE SAID IT," Your Honor. This joke stopped being funny when we learned that *literally everyone is on the list.* ***Everyone.*** Actually, that's funny. That's assuming there's only one list. Kind of defeats the point of the list, doesn't it?  Other thank ranking, I guess. You act like he wasn't already. Or that you aren't. Or me. 

I got on the TSA "search this guy every time" list for taking a one way flight to Oakland from LA ten years ago. Still check me out. every. fucking. time. Why would you think NSA is any different? Fair assumption that every single one of us on Reddit are already on all the lists.  Maybe I'm just naive, but why would a one way flight get you put on a list? Fuck if I know. I'm even a retired vet. You tell me. I guess they thought I was up to something nefarious. Maybe they though I was going to blow up the plane and didn't waste money on a round trip? Heh. Who knows how those people think. It's certainly been a pain it my ass ever since. I guess once you're on a list it takes an act of god to get off again.  I would have guessed vets would be under more scrutiny as they know how to operate weaponry and stuff, so more watchers in case you go loco. "Wait seriously?"
  
"Yeah, just associating with me is likely to put you on the list."  
  
*face* As an American, I'm not surprised at all. We have the most liberal speech laws in the world. I'm flabbergasted when, in western countries, the police or courts take action against people for saying what they think. You're forgetting that some of us who live in the 1950's still have to adhere to the Hand advocacy test. &gt;"Free speech" encouraging violence or endangering others is not legal.

It mostly is legal.  The legal threshold in the US is "imminent lawless action" meaning you have to be aware that your speech will lead to violence so rapid that authorities cannot respond in time.

In this case, we're talking about materials that have been online for days or years, and authorities have had plenty of time to protect those at risk.

"KILL ALL THE JEWS!" -- legal, protected speech in the US

"KILL THAT JEW WHO IS STANDING RIGHT THERE!" -- probably not legal as authorities do not have sufficient time to respond to protect the Jew who is standing right there. why you gotta bring the jews into this.. I pictured him sitting at his desk, on reddit not working, and typing that out while staring at the only Jew in the office.  Dreaming of ways to get his sack of Jew gold from around his neck without being noticed. Peer pressure. That's not what "imminent" means, atleast in this context.  Its more like "going to" or "likely to" happen. Not necessarily "soon" or "right now".   

If that were true bomb threats would be protected speech. Not exactly:

"The Supreme Court has said that for speech to lose First Amendment protection, it must be directed at a specific person or group and it must be a direct call to commit immediate lawless action. The time element is critical. The Court wrote that advocacy of illegal action at some indefinite future time  is not sufficient to permit the State to punish Hess' speech. In addition, there must be an expectation that the speech will in fact lead to lawless action."

http://www.firstamendmentcenter.org/what-constitutes-imminent-lawless-action Or defaming beef apparently

Source: Hank Hill Well my friends and I received multiple death threats with proof of it and who sent it and we called the cops because they said they were gonna kill us that night or some shit and the cops said they couldn't do anything until the threat sender actually did it. So pretty much what he was telling me was that the officer had to catch him in the act or deal with it after he killed us or injured us.  The officer was wrong. Yes, he was very wrong. Direct threats are a serious crime, and they should be treated as such.

I knew a 20-some-year-old female who made threats to a female minor, and the 20-year-old ended up going to prison for a few months. It wasn't purely because of the verbal threats, though the police did take that very seriously at the time the report was made. The 20-year-old had also been involved in a few other "small" crimes which ultimately landed her in jail for a while. (Too short of a while, if you ask me.) He lives! Here is a quote from the Anonymous release: 'It is our sincerest hope that the media use this as a tool to show the world that the Islamic State is everywhere in some shape or form and that companies are unaware of their customers content or they turn a blind eye for easy profit and choose to accept bloodmoney.'

Never calling for a customer boycott, a government raid, or for other current customers to drop their service.   They are releasing the information to the media and stopping there. All the people crying foul are doing so on false pretenses. 

Edit:  Just to add to this, the media didn't even have to bring the name Anonymous into it at all.  They could have cited the release in small print like they do with AP releases; they are choosing to make this about Anonymous.  [deleted] I **really** don't want hosts running terror keyword sniffers over hosted content. Good luck keeping your Counter-Strike clan page up Agreed. It is absurd to believe that a service provider supports terrorism simply because one client of thousands uses the service for shady purposes. Wrong choice of words on OP's part. &gt; that's precisely why we don't want the government deciding what is and what isn't okay- we can do that just fine ourselves, and often more effectively.

No, that's not it! It's so that the government cannot silence dissent!

This is super important, because being able to to complain about the government is the basis of democracy. That's the main difference between democratic countries and non democratic ones, the elections are irrelevant if you can't speak freely. You're not wrong about what the first amendment is, but it doesn't really do the concept of freedom of speech justice. In effect, you've reduced freedom of speech to a weird rule that the government has to follow for some reason.

The first amendment reflects a broader principle which I'll call "the freedom to be wrong". It means that one's ability to communicate an idea should not depend on how good that idea is perceived to be, or indeed how good it is. (something which lynchy boycott mobs do not seem to support, I might add)

This may seem conceptually foolish, but it's rooted in an important understanding: we are all wrong about some things.

If I knew which things I were wrong about, I would change my mind about them, but I don't. Individually, I believe all of my beliefs are correct, but I know I'm wrong about some of them. My solution can't be to just stop being wrong about things, so I'll go with the second best option:

When I'm wrong, I want to be wrong *gracefully*.

And that means when I argue, I do it cleanly, and I do it in a way that allows for better arguments than mine to defeat me. I don't use threats of violence, I don't use social pressure, and I don't use threats of financial ruin. And I sleep soundly knowing that when it comes to the things I'm wrong about, the worst I've done is made a bad argument. I haven't bullied, intimidated, harassed or shouted over anything that deserved to win out.

This principle is easy to apply: any time I evaluate some action that I'm worried might be unproductive, I ask myself how I would feel looking back on doing it for a cause that I'd changed my mind about.

Example: I used to oppose gay marriage (blame my upbringing). So when I try to determine whether or not boycotts are a good tool for political change, I ask myself "how would I feel if I'd organized a boycott against companies that supported gay marriage?". The answer is pretty shitty. How would I feel if I'd published a list of companies hosting pro gay marriage websites? Also pretty shitty.

To me, free speech means that I am committed to making a world where dumb people feel safe communicating their bad ideas. Partly because it's the right thing to do, and partly because we are all sometimes dumb people with bad ideas, and a world where boycotts are how we get things done is a world where loud ideas triumph over good ones.

Gold! I also just realized it is apparently my cake day. Thanks, notabox. A brilliant response, and one which I suspect sums up the attitudes of many of us towards 'freedom of speech' - I don't think I've ever seen my own views expressed so perfectly before....I'm worried now.  Thanks for the kind words (and the gold). Feel free to plagiarize/reproduce/whatever. I actually really like how you've presented this, and personally I agree.  Thank you :)

My original comment was more intended to point out the difference between "freedom of speech" the legal construct and "freedom of speech" as an ideal, since many people confuse the two.  Other commenters were saying that what Anonymous was doing should not be allowed (in other words, _their_ freedom of speech should be stifled), which I'm glad to see most of us disagree with.

Had I known what an insane response it would've gotten, I would've worded it more carefully!

It takes a very mature outlook to recognize that while someone may be "right" in practice or in one given instance, he or she can still be "wrong" in principle, and vice-versa. This x10. I hate the tactics we have on political issues these days, and how every single incident is an outrage. I've never been opposed to gay marriage, but I have serious issue with the way memories pizza was treated over a hypothetical answer. Same thing with the way the right spins every discussion about social programs into "COMMUNISM! SOCIALISM!" And so on and so forth.

Your average person who holds incorrect beliefs is not a bad person. Some of the best people I know are people who are NOT informed about the issues facing the trans community, and who oppose gay marriage. They are wrong. But when all they do is express an incorrect view but otherwise treat a different group equally, they are not DOING anything wrong. I've convinced more people to support gay marriage by having a polite conversation and respecting my adversary than I've ever done by fear and shaming tactics. People will hear your arguments and consider them, if you respect them. And who knows, when you treat everyone with respect and debate topics, sometimes you learn things. A big thing that people seem to ignore is that Anonymous gets stuff wrong a lot too.  A good bit of caution should be used when stuff like this gets thrown out because we don't necessarily have proof of any actual ties but kneejerk reactions are going to be made.


Seeing as we are fresh off being angry at Rolling Stone magazine for making asinine accusations and then absolving themselves of consequences, a modicum of patience should be held with lists like this.  The problem is that Anonymous throws this stuff out there and pitchforks will come out.  They did it with the Rehteah Parsons case where they started outing people and the first few names they threw out were horrendously wrong.  But hey, no harm, no foul because of rage.

That's really my biggest concern with something like this is just how accurate is their net. Yeah but let's also remember that part of being a sensible citizen isn't looking for opportunities to form big fuck-off lynch mobs. &gt; The US concept of Freedom of Speech is freedom from government retaliation against your speech

And here's what everyone misses every time that point you mention gets brought up:

The government represents you. If you don't think Freedom of Speech should apply to your conduct because there's not a law forcing you to, then there's no reason your representatives should be held to a different standard. 

"Freedom of speech doesn't mean freedom from consequences" is a bullshit line used by shitty people to justify a wide range of shitty behaviors and tactics to silence speech they don't like.

"I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it" is the principal of Free Speech and is the standard that anyone that believes in a free and open society should hold themselves to. Yup. It is an utter disgrace and very telling that liberal-minded redditers like to trot this line out, usually to justify some guy they don't like losing his job. Their vision of free speech is pretty much meaningless. This is the Orwellian type of argument that will be used to kill freedom of speech in the new corporate controlled world we find ourselves in. Here's the thing with free speech some condescending person like yourself gets wrong every single time there's an article like this:

# Freedom of speech is not just a blurb in a legal document.

If you start a lynch mob to silence someone and expect to be free from criticism, think again. Just because something is legal doesn't make it right.

Sure, today it's terrorists and we can all feel good about shutting them up. Tomorrow maybe it's one of your parents who says something the mob decides isn't okay? Or maybe next time the anonymous internet source decides *your* website is "supporting" their pet issue's antagonist. Free speech:

http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-w33mawVRXdE/VL6Wd6Bc3rI/AAAAAAAABE4/mHv-bDu4N6E/s1600/freespeech.png I'll piggy-back off of this to say that counter-intuitively, we actually want the dummies to host websites.  It helps us keep track of them! **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* The online hacktivist group called Anonymous has released a list of websites related to ISIS and the companies that are hosting these websites.

&gt;* Weeks ago the same group released a list of 9,200 ISIS supporters Twitter accounts.

&gt;* Many other giant hosting companies including OVH (the most popular hosting company in Europe) and LeaseWeb are also in this list as they areproviding services for these ISIS supporterwebsites.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://n4gm.com/2015/04/08/anonymous-released-a-list-of-isis-supporter-websites-and-companies-in-uk-and-us-that-are-hosting-them/)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** Thank you bit of news bot! We love you :D TBH I like the TL:DR bot better A tip for folks looking for information like this:

Cloudflare isn't a webhost. They proxy and cache for other companies. If you also care about where the sites are actually hosted, don't just stop at Cloudflare.

Do a host or dig on the domain, looking for the MX record. Do a whois lookup on the IP for that. The mail server will likely be where the actual website is hosted.

For example, the first site in the site list that is listed as Cloudflare is actually probably at Fasthosts Networks UK where the mail receiving server is hosted.
 You speak the truth. Most anonymous are scrubs. I see a lot of US hosting companies in there...why are they using western fucking services while shitting on the west? To quote Lenin: "The Capitalists will sell us the rope with which we will hang them." That went really well for Lenin, right?
 He assumed he could afford the rope. Actually yes.  He died just after creating a working government structure that was revolutionary with regard to social rights, and implemented a capitalistic economic policy after the war. Then Stalin came to power and we got the abusive soviet union we remember today. Things weren't all gravy under Lenin, lots of people died because of him. The fact that he wanted to hang people for capitalism, is quite strong evidence that /u/rodot's rosy view of him is bullshit.

Lenin wanted to kill capitalists, before even the Cold War (he died in 1924). I didn't say I liked him.  I just said that it worked out for him in the end.  He died successful. They also use twitter. Well, they use Twitter and Facebook, so why not? Funny I was thinking "I wonder if my server host (OVH) is in this list"  and they are. lol.

I have mixed feelings on this, while I don't support ISIS or ISIS supporters I do agree in internet freedom. The hosts should not be held liable for ISIS actions.  &gt; Many other giant hosting companies including OVH ... are also in this list as they are providing services for these ISIS supporter websites.

Read: Walmart sold black masks to ISIS supporters Walmart supports ISIS!  :P  Jihad-Mart: Save infidels, die better(tm). I am fairly certain cloudflare does not HOST content, they only help to make sure traffic is legitimate. So just because you ping balbaljihadisthebomb.com and it comes up with a cloudflare IP, it is NOT hosted by them, but the place you hit first before being directed to the actual provider.  Was just about to write something similar, Anonymous being .. hackers ?right? should know better..

The whole list looks like someone just whois'ed and dig'ed a bunch of Islamic looking words as domain names and posted the results of either the domain provider or the host.

I call bs it's probably the media that's hired someone to do this so they have a story to post online that names and shames a few big companies... THIS, anyone Joe Bloggs could do this, it's literally just a whois on the A record that is serving their domain.


It's as basic as checks go. In the list, there are two websites: http://cyberkov.com and http://isecur1ty.com. Both of them seem to completely normal InfoSec websites. Nothing radical (or even related to Islam) on either. I went through their Twitter feeds and Facebook posts, as well as comments left by others on their pages.. nothing radical or Islam related.

Both sites contain blog posts about using Tor, crypto-related tools, etc. I suspect that those articles (because they're in Arabic) are shared on Twitter accounts associated with ISIS supporters. In that case, the list might as well just include torproject.org I have yet to find a site (that I could understand) that explicitly or implicitly supports ISIS. Most of the sites I've looked at seem to be general discussion sites for Islamic fundamentalists that don't comment *at all* on ISIS. It's entirely possible that the text portions of the websites have been whitewashed to keep censors at bay, while the men behind the sites promote ISIS off the record. But the sites them selves (from the handful I looked at) don't incite terrorism.

Take this one for example:

http://invitetoislam.org/

About as pacifist as they come Oh come on there's no reason to list who hosts them. Even Reddit has subreddits that shouldn't exist. Millions of websites get hosted and there's no way to filter through them or deny service because you disagree with your customer's views. Unless they're hosting something illegal then it's fine. By the way, Cloudflare isn't even a host and the fact that it's on the list shows you that it was done by complete retards. How is hosting websites that support ISIS a problem? Highly hypocritical seeing as anonymous argues that ISP's should not be held responsible for user data, such as with piracy sites. Angry idealists being hypocritical is basically expected at this point. It's hard to call it hypocritical once you realize Anonymous isn't one cohesive group. They are many different cells and leaders who sometimes cooperate, much like Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, ISIL, Al Shebab, etc. There is no official central spokesperson that represents Anonymous. There are just a bunch of people who rally behind Anonymous and claim responsibility for their actions in its name. Wow. Really interesting collision between the war against IS and online freedom of speech.

edit: online

edit: I think this is a *good* collision Freedom of speech does not mean freedom to create a fundamentalist army hellbent on murdering damn near everyone. You can't shout fire in a crowded theater so why would you expect people should be allowed to use the internet as a tool to recruit people to join their  terrorist organization?  You can't legally yell fire in a crowded theater but you could legally create an online forum of Professional Theater Yellers, with networking and Theater Yelling How To's and pro-tips. [deleted] You actually can yell "fire" in a crowded theater . . . if there's a fire.

Also, the example of "fire in a crowded theater" came from a now overturned supreme court case which upheld a criminal conviction for someone who was arrested for handing out pamphlets opposing the draft.  I don't think that's the example people really want to use to prove their point. Exactly.  I think the Popehat blog is twitching at the thought of this thread.  Can we please stop with this theater yelling bullshit?

It was basically an excuse injustice olliver holmes came up with so that he could throw those who thought the US should stay out of WWI in jail.

The crowded theater hasn't been an issue in decades, because we fixed the underlying issue: they were not safe in a fire. Whoa yeah obviously I just meant it was interesting in relation to all the 'net neutrality' talk there's been recently. Well, let's say your legitimate leader, King George III, has his power vested in him by God, but he's fairly authoritative, raising taxes, forcing you to house soldiers in your home, replacing the upper house of your legislature, and just generally unjust stuff.  Should that group get to fundraiser and recruit online even if they're gearing up for a rebellion and killing people?  Who gets to say who's terrorists not allowed to say anything and who's freedom fighters that want you to stop oppressing them?

Why isn't counter-speech effective against these crazy people?  We can look at a sign that says "I hate figs" and say "but figs are freaking delicious especially in a newton"; so why can't people win the argument that "you shouldn't leave the UK to fight in Syria"?  Seriously, what's the compelling side of "come to Syria and die" that we're losing the conversation to? Anonymous was infiltrated by the Fed some years ago, who then encouraged them to hack targets of their design in part to collect evidence on its key members - and in fact used this to gather testimony across members of the organization to place them in prison.

Last year the FBI [declared Anonymous completely dismantled, as all core members had been arrested and distrust sewn amoung their ranks](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/08/21/anonymous-arrests-fbi_n_3780980.html). Since then the playful nature of Anonymous's LulzSec and its preferred targets of government contractors and thinktanks have switched to a politicized target and a foreign adversary whose most problematic tactic for the administration has been its online recruitment and PR efforts - this further confounded by the new use of  production quality multimedia to communicate.

For these reasons and an understanding that I have gained by being involved in the security community, lead me to believe that Anonymous is no longer a group of Lulz-seeking 4channers, but at least partially led by the Fed.

I'm not saying that would be bad - it would actually be quite clever and as far as I can tell legal. Just leave TPB's host alone. Game of Thrones starts on Sunday. Anyone notice that Guy Fawkes has perfect eyebrows?

homeboy's brow game on fleeeeek Anonymous has wrongly accused people before, what assurance is there that this list is 100% valid? I'm surprised we didn't see Al Comcasti in this list. They're doing much more then listing them, they are actually bringing down their websites as well. government agencies use "anonymous" as a way to put out a message they don't want tied to themselves. You know what's really fucking interesting?

Bloody CAGE is on the list:

Officially http://cageprisoners.com

Redirects to

http://www.cageuk.org/

You'll recognise the name from this scumbag:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFI_iupDOlM

And this moron:

http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-31650427 wow what a shitty reporter. Ladies and Gentlemen, [Kay Burley](http://www.digitalspy.co.uk/tv/feature/a527982/9-most-cringeworthy-kay-burley-moments-making-peter-andre-cry-more.html#~p9jbXIJ6YuwjfA) The scumbag in that video is the reporter.  I felt that interview was incredibly level headed, that was a hit piece trying to smeer a totally valid opinion in the discourse on radicalisation, and you fell for it. (regarding the video) He was being a jerk, but to be fair the reporter was asking the same question to him multiple times when she probably knew he was getting offended by it for some reason. That's Kay Burley, [she's a terrible reporter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kay_Burley#Criticism).

Edit: [Here she is trying to downplay the phone hacking scandal before it blew up, and getting torn a new one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mDYalpZhG_8). Copy urls posted by known isis twitter accounts and make whois lookups on the pages. This is rad hacking 1on1. 1 kn0W H0W 70 5P33k L337 50 1 K4n K0MmUN1C473 w17 7h323 H4x0r2. pL3423 k0n74C7 M3h 1f j00'R3 l00k1n' PH0r R3cRU172. It's almost as if the US and UK want terrorists to talk to track them Mass nmap scanning begins now. When I posted there were 1234 comments, and I ruined it. I see a trend, all of them start with http.. The damned part of this is that no matter how many anti-ISIS pictures and claims of atrocities I see...

If I go to these pro-ISIS websites I can find just as many pictures and claims of atrocities committed by US-backed mercenaries.

Frankly, I think both sides are killing and raping innocents in equal numbers, but the USA-mercs have a bigger propaganda machine (news channels). Fuck ISIS Yeah, fuck em.  Fuck ISIS Fuck ISIS Hail Hydra! [Don't mind if I do.](http://24.media.tumblr.com/a6ccee8ca9a8e728ebef2e0df27e2e3c/tumblr_mi0068oALc1r0hgato1_1280.jpg) Doesn't this just inconvenience anti-terrorism agencies who already had a complete vision of ISIS' network which now may be shuffled around? If the US government wanted to shut down 20,000 Twitter accounts they would have done so already.

Seems like if this is the case Anonymous is doing more harm than good ...just like they always do when they try shit like this. You're absolutely right. That is because they are all 12 and have no idea how the world works. We should teach time about real intrigue maybe then they would do something of use. am i gonna end up on a list of terrori
sts if i visit any of the sites from 
https://ghostbin.com/paste/ce5jz was thinking the same thing, curiosity usually gets the best of me *AND IN OTHER NEWS, THE PITCHFORK AND TORCH INDUSTRIES HAVE SEEN A SKY-ROCKETING TREND IN MARKET SHARES OVER THE PAST 2 DAYS* How do we actually know if this list is legit? I'm I suppose to take the word from anyone calling themselves anonymous? You look at the sites at use your two brain cells you muppet. Most the sites are in arabic, how the hell should I know. Usually when you present a list of bad sites, it's also a good idea to tell us why each site is on the list. I see a lot of support for letting web hosts do whatever but people seem to be forgetting that the web is a powerful communications tool that can be used in lots of different ways. 

If your local radio station was broadcasting Isis radio messages I doubt you would think twice about shutting it down. This is no different their communication choices need to be shut down. Google? Yahoo!? GoDaddy? Hmm...

They're on the list as hosts. How culpable are they? My problem with this is that the international IC monitors most of these websites so the companies that are hosting them might not be deleting them on purpose because the coalition is using them to track potential or actual recruits of the militant groups I wonder if Paypal will block them like they blocked wikileaks. Their point being? Isn't everyone currently shitting itself over the fact that Indiana passed a law that made it legal to turn a customer based on religious beliefs?  'Stop fucking up our surveillance operations you twats!' - NSA &amp; GCHQ 4chan /pol/ is a hotbed for neonazis, maybe webhosts should take that down too. I hate to be the anti-pitchfork-and-torch guy but what evidence is there that these are pro-ISIS sites?  I went to a couple of them and they seemed to just be islam-related.  All I saw were articles on day-to-day shit like diet and manners.   Oh fudge, why did I open this thread. Stupid Stupid Stupid Stupid So someone's going to hack the sites an replace it with porn right?

Sounds good. Having some knowledge from working in the web hosting world, I can say with some reliability that a lot of providers on this list could have no idea. Some hosting providers have just a couple servers with a few dozen clients, and those guys could be willingly letting some of that pass. 

But the hosting providers who run big data centers (which those smaller guys typically get their servers from) have so many servers , thousands of servers easily, it's near impossible to screen every website that gets hosted. And a lot of the datacenter-sized providers' clients will chop up those servers into dozens of virtual machines or will sometimes host *hundreds* of crappy little websites on one reasonably powerful server. At that point it really is impossible to audit every single website that's being hosted on your network. However, those big companies have entire departments full of abuse personnel that will take a look at websites when they're alerted to them.

If you see these sites get taken down, it's less likely that these hosting providers were shamed or threatened than it is that they just realized those sites were running on their networks. This is a pretty shitty thing to do. Hosting companies and similar service providers shouldn't be blamed because they are not authority figures. That's not their job nor should it be. If they start deciding what to allow and what not to then we'll have a bigger problem than a bunch of ISIS cunts posting their shit when they can find other service providers anyway.

It's as ridiculous as blaming wallmarts for selling black masks. anonymous fuckin rules... using skills for good instead of hacking to get credit card number and other nefarious stuff What a surprise! Legalising something that people will use (or abuse), legally or illegally, diminishes the profits for the illegal market! It's almost as if repealing prohibition fixes all the problems caused by prohibition! Except there are still going to be a huge majority of people that still think keeping heroin, cocaine, etc. illegal is the best thing to do even though we now have proof through Alcohol prohibition AND marijuana prohibition that it only increases crime. My uncle used to be a heroin addict.  He is one of those people that doesn't think heroin should be legal because it's so bad.  I then bring up the fact that he never had trouble finding it when he was an addict, and getting arrested over it never seemed to change his behavior.  When he finally got clean, it was because of treatment and help groups that would likely be more prevalent if funding was diverted from the DEA to treatment programs.  He understands the argument when it is applied to cannabis, but somehow thinks other drugs are completely different.  He makes me face palm sometimes.

We didn't need to have tobacco prohibition to get to the point today where smoking is taboo, and smoking rates are declining.  If you educate young people, and then let them make their own decisions, you would be amazed at how many people make the right ones. He's thinking from a junkie POV, which I can understand.  In his mind, if it ever became as prevalent as alcohol (ie, at every corner store) distancing himself from it would just be one more hurdle to overcome to get clean.  Honestly, I feel bad for alcoholics in that regard.  


I'd still rather agree with your take of it than his though.  Or, maybe even better, find an opiate that get's the person high but with a mechanism preventing it to be abused as much as heroin, then make *that* legal.  Perhaps something similar to buprenorphine but with more kick?  Just throwing ideas out there.  Either way that's a long ways off. Something can be legalized without allowing it to be sold everywhere. In some southern states, there are severe restrictions on where different types of alcohol can be sold. It might be easier to be a recovering alcoholic in those places. 

If we legalize certain drugs, I would expect warning labels, advertising bans, strict age restrictions (definite jail time for providing to a minor), and restrictions on where the product can be sold. 

Legalization should not look like anyone is saying that the drugs are not harmful. It should only look like society is saying, "We are trying to reduce the harm that these harmful substances do." And to the original article, a huge part of the harm done is providing a thriving business for cartels.  You're absolutely right in saying that them being legal is *not* the same as endorsing them as safe, or good.  But much of the public views it like that.  Just talk to people about alcohol and illicit drugs.  Many people will have strong "moral" stigma's against illicit drugs, while alcohol is something completely benign in their eye.  I think this problem can partially be solved by a **much** higher standard of real drug education, not the waste of time the DARE programs were. Thank you for this.  My whole family disagrees with me (none of us have used heavy drugs thankfully but I've been around too many people who have).  I believe we need to legalize the whole thing, then use the taxes to create treatment and education programs.  If people want to do a drug they damn well will find a way law or no law.  It's better to take the money away from organized crime and funnel it back into helping addicts and better mental health resources.

People will do these drugs no matter how illegal you make it.  Why try to fruitlessly prevent the inevitable when you can strive to better understand it and redirect it in a more positive way? would you go out and do heroin tomorrow if it were legalized? People can literally order heroin on the internet and have it delivered to their door... The barrier to get drugs is SO low that most people who want to do it already are. There would be NO long term increase as people who want it will (and people who don't will continue to not) and that is not going to change because of the law. It blows me away that people think if heroin was legal EVERYONE would suddenly run out and get hooked.

People KNOW heroin is dangerous and that danger keeps them away. as long as we keep education up about its dangers people will continue to not do it no matter what the law is. In Sweden the recovery rate of heroin addiction over 3 years is 97%. They have an open door policy. Turns out, at first addicts want more and more. But as they get bored they eventually plataue. But because they aren't having to spend time looking for drugs every day, or worry about health, they rebuild their life to a point where they get bored of the drugs and stop of their own volition.

Sooooo simple. And cheap too, because a dose of heroin is marked up 15,000% on the street. I think one dose of heroin can be made for less than a nickel. It's almost as if the [Rat Park Experiments](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rat_Park) were actually valid. &gt; as long as we keep education up about its dangers people will continue to not do it

Or, alternatively, be safe when they do choose to do it. This is important as well. Things like safe-injection clinics and clean disposal bins for needles DO make a difference. That's a 1 vote Yes for legalization of all drugs from me, but 1 vote Fuck No to *trying* most of them if they became legalized, including heroin. The only ones I'd try personally are Marijuana, Shrooms, and LSD; the latter two I'd prefer to be around people who've already done it and in a safe controlled environment. Like Al Capones business ventures weren't proof enough of what happens.  Won't somebody think of the dealers! seriously, no surprise here.  I'm surprised, surprised it took so long to figure it out.  I'm surprised it took so long for the effect to be noticed considering all the pot shops in California where its somehow still considered illegal. There over 20 pot shops and delivery services near me who aren't selling Mexican weed. Trust me we noticed here in Canada, our dankest went from 2800 a pound to like 1200 a pound because you guys aren't importing as much as you used to. Quit hogging all the freedom windfalls. Ah yes, The Freedom Windfalls, my 3rd favorite indie ska fusion band. Hup hup, pick it up, pick it up Stick clicks, four on the floor kick drum and rolling bassline https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2RFI_ojJoV8 I thought it was a mutual fund How many ska band members does it take to change a light bulb?
One to drop it and 3 to pick it up, pick it up, pick it up! Good stuff.  Now take Bieber back. No. You break it you keep it.  We haven't broke him yet that's the problem. can't we enact canadian rules and set him adrift on a sheet of ice? Do you have your receipt?  nah we good, you made him. California has been living off its own weed for a long time. Mexican weed profits likely depended more on the states that border Colorado and Washington. Actually, I'm pretty sure the majority of cartel profits have to come from drugs smuggled into and sold in Texas. If they legalized it here, it'd have a monumental impact on the cartels. Think of all those tax dollars it could generate for Texas too. States are sitting on a large new source of revenue if they just legalize it and tax it. That money goes back into society and not into the pockets of drug lords. It's such a common sense policy it's crazy more places don't use it yet.  Then other huge amounts of money will stop flowing into the drug warriors, the prison-industrial complex, and the pharmaceutical companies who manufacture pain / anxiety / depression / anti-nausea (etc) pills.  

What's good for American society in general may not be good for those who started and are perpetuating the drug war in the first place. 

 Fuck the war on drugs. Marijuana was legal in India till about 1985 when the US pressured us to make it illegal. Thankfully we aren't as anal about it and some states even sell a different form of it legally in govt owned shops.  yea.....sorry about that. This exactly. Police departments make ludicrous amounts of money off of property seizures from drug offenders. Also the privatized prison industry (which is very much alive and booming in the Lone Star State) would stand to lose a fuckton of money since they'd lose 40-60% of their business if they legalized drugs, particularly marijuana. Here in Oregon, we're glad you've never heard of us.  Oregon: California's Canada and Washington's Mexico. Don't worry, a lot of Oregon's illegal supply was either from basements or illegal grows in National Forests by the cartel. They knew all along, the DEA just didn't want their funding cut so they lied about it. They already knew, it's not that nobody figured it out. It's that people make money from imprisoning potheads. More importantly. Rich finance people make a lot of money handling massive pipes of cartel money. I would bet money that they knew this all along, it it better for them to keep this as illegal as possible to maximize their own profits.  I'm shocked, shocked to discover that there is gambling going on in here. Your winnings, sir. Most people knew, but too many old people are afraid of wacky tobacky, it turns people into murderers and brain-dead zombies.

EDIT: Just to clarify, it's not all old people, it's just a lot of the conservative old people that are afraid of anything they don't understand, especially *change*, like legalizing a drug. My in-laws are a perfect example of this, them, their siblings, and their parents all believe legalization was a bad idea. This is a group of people that are all &gt; 60 years old. I'm 58, and everyone I knew well enough in high school to know if they were smoking pot was smoking pot except *one* guy. Both my parents smoked pot, and so did the parents of two of my friends. We're talking 40+ years ago. Pot was probably on its way to being legalized before the Reagan administration, which set human progress back about 50 years.  Jimmy Carter was pro-legalization. My grandma is in her 70's, and she believes the Reefer Madness propaganda, those people do exist... This is a serious issue. I once knew a guy that snorted three whole marijuanas. *Gay* marijuanas. The next day, he woke up being an atheist.

Marijuana. Not even once. &gt; before the Reagan administration, which set human progress back about 50 years. 

This.  When asked the classic time travel question, most people answer Hitler.  I answer Ron and Nancy Reagan. Hey man let's build a time machine. Fucker expired way to late. You failed though, dude. Reagan survived, and some dude named Brady got shot in the head. Can you go back and try again? But how will you fund the contras? Up, up, down, down, left, right, left, right, B, A, start? Deaths from drug cartel violence are also down in Mexico.   If only this exact thing had happened before with a different substance, we could know for sure. and if only evidence of it existed in some significant legal document known to most citizens of the country...  Yes. Yes! It could've been named something like, let's see here, bromunition. And decent normal people engaging in the production and trade of it will take away the business of the horrible murderous criminals who nobody would prefer to deal with!  Who knew? It even generates revenue for the government in the form of taxes. Win win! Well, except for the cartels.. But who cares about them? :P

Edit: Holy poop, people. It was a stupid joke. I'm not saying that we should ignore cartels. In fact, I believe we (as Americans) should give the same amount of attention to them as ISIS. I just think it's good that legalizing would cut into their revenues. Obviously that won't make cartels go away, but it's a good start. Let's not forget the CIA they are feeling the pinch as well Well, at least cocaine is still illegal. They can still sell that. /s [deleted] Tell her to quit harshing our vibe. Maybe "yucky" is just an encrypted message she's trying to send to Bob while keeping it secret from Carol and Dan. Same with MP3s.  As soon as DRM-free MP3s hit the market people started paying for them legally.  Go figure. [Relevant xkcd](https://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/steal_this_comic.png). Seriously, how straight forward is it that people just take the path of least resistance. "If you support prohibition, you support providing a niche for a black market that is controlled by violence."

Cartel leaders have THANKED us for the Drug War.

"I couldn't have gotten so stinking rich without George Bush, George Bush Jr., Ronald Reagan, even El Presidente Obama, *none of them have the cajones to stand up to all the big money that wants to keep this stuff illegal.* From the bottom of my heart, I want to say, Gracias amigos, I owe my whole empire to you." - Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman Loera, reported head of the Sinaloa cartel in Mexico,
  But... prohibition worked *so well* the first time! It worked pretty well for the Kennedy's. We should legalize cartels. Hit 'em where it hurts! WE TOOK THEIR JOBS!!! The legalization "experiment" is going exactly how proponents said it would go and exactly opposite of how police unions and leadership said it would go. That seems to either show how little they know about criminal justice or how little they care.

Given how strongly they rely on funding from drug operations, I'm inclined to think it's the latter. I take a more cynical approach:  
People/entities/corporate representatives/etc. do not speak to be *correct*, they speak to empower themselves.  It shouldn't be surprising when the truth is 'stretched' to someone's benefit, it's happening constantly. When the DEA refuses to answer a simple question that everyone "knows," that isn't just stretching the truth. That is simply corruption to secure their own future (paycheck).

The US prohibition goes much deeper than "stretching the truth."

[This is **MY local representative** questioning the head of the DEA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFgrB2Wmh5s) That video is both hilarious and disheartening.

"Is heroin worse for a person's health than marijuana?"

"All illegal drugs are bad."

 "[...]?"

"All illegal drugs..." I mean, aren't all non-prescribed drugs illegal?

what? No.

Alcohol and Tobacco are legal, as well as many OTC medications. Let's not forget caffeine or any energy drink either. Don't you fucking mess with my coffee.  Coffee and weed erry mornin &gt;"All illegal drugs are bad."

Mmmkay? They're bad because they're illegal, they're illegal because they're bad. Get it? " heroin is addictive and ...um ...." "All illegal drugs are addictive..."

It's not like the government has a website about drugs that states that [LSD is not addictive](http://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/hallucinogens-lsd-peyote-psilocybin-pcp) I'm surprised South Park didn't parody this, with Mr. Mackey being in the place of the lady. I'm surprised we haven't seen an episode where, after being taught that all drugs are just as bad and deadly, Stan tries marijuana and then becomes addicted to heroin thinking that all drugs are relatively harmless. Maybe rather than asking the people whose jobs are to enforce the law, we should just let them enforce it and legislatures make it.  I never understood why the executive branch got to weigh in on policy.  Because the DEA actually plays a substantial political role in the enforcement and categorization of drugs. What the Rep. was attempting to do in the video was essentially to put a face to said substantial political role, as the DEA has been a notoriously difficult organization to reform since the start of the Nixon-era "War on Drugs".

By going after Leonhart, he's helping to establish her as the face of what's wrong with the War on Drugs.

She's also a pretty great target as she is a terrible Administrator for the organization claiming horrifying things like [escalating drug violence and drug-related murders is evidence of the success of the War on Drugs](http://www.salon.com/2011/04/15/dea_children/) to outright lying by saying edibles can be toxic to pets (despite there being literally no evidence to support her claim). 

[She's also directly attacked President Obama](http://www.forbes.com/sites/jacobsullum/2014/01/27/dea-head-criticizes-obama-for-telling-the-truth-about-marijuana/), which is extremely unusual for the head of the DEA to do, given that the President is the DEA Administrator's boss and can fire her, but not only did she attack the President, but she attacked him for stating a fact supported unanimously by scientific studies: marijuana is less harmful to the body than alcohol. She even went so far as to threaten to start using the DEA to "push back" against the administration's tolerant approach toward marijuana legalization.

Now, on one hand, you could say that Leonhart is doing her job by trying to justify her department's budget and its methodologies for dealing with the problem for which it has been tasked. But by Leonhart's own words, we know that she is not acting in the good faith of the American people (as if any Bush appointee has).

Leonhart is willing to lie and be insubordinate to the President of the United States so she can overcrowd jails, ruin American lives, empower cartels, increase drug-related violence due to her administration's extension of failed policies, and she's willing to allow American and Mexican citizens to die in droves over a drug that is literally less harmful than alcohol. All this to protect her department's budget and a failed Nixon-era policy.

She is cancer, not just on the DEA or the government, but on America. It is insane that anyone would attempt to defend her or her actions in any capacity and it is amazing to me that the Obama Administration has not asked for her resignation. Don't forget she is also protecting her paycheck. Makes you wonder if the DEA doesn't have "influential", outside backers? Follow the money. You don't have to look far. Private prisons, big pharma, and the alcohol industry are all directly threatened by legalization/decriminalization. who gets hurt the most when you make a drug legal.. there's the money trail right there. Before thinking it's the cartels, it's not. CIA I suspect would have the most to lose, then they would have to ask congress for money and then explain what that money is for. That would be an interesting discussion. "Yeah can we a..have some money to.. um.. rig foreign elections" But all illegal drugs... &gt; I never understood why the executive branch got to weigh in on policy. 

The executive branch is the branch in charge of enforcing the laws. The legislature writes the laws, the courts make a formal judgment or decision about a disputed matter as it pertains to the law, and the executive is charged with carrying out those laws. 

If the executive branch chooses not to carry out some law, or to prioritize enforcement of other crimes, they have every right to do that. 

Lets say I told you your budget is $1m and you must do 500 things. You know you can not do all 500 things on a $1m budget. You would have the right (and the responsibility) of figuring out which of those 500 things to prioritize.  Thus, the executive, as enforcer of the laws, gets to weigh in on policy.  This may be one of the greatest things I have ever watched to come out of C-SPAN.

The woman in the back row expresses my own reactions to the administrator's answers almost perfectly. It really is. I watch this video every time it's posted because it's just the perfect reminder of everything that is wrong with our government in my mind. She's a total buffoon during the whole discussion but that doesn't matter to anyone who put her in power. She is still there. Good on him for not backing down. Her sounding like Mr Mackie definitely added merit to his point. I love how the DEA admits their top priority is the illegal use of LEGAL drugs, but states that all illegal drugs are bad. So the argument isn't that they're illegal because they're harmful, but rather that they are harmful simply by virtue of being classified illegal. Meanwhile pharmaceutical companies legally make some seriously addictive and destructive meds for which most insurance companies have no coverage to ween them off of it. 

When my mom was diagnosed with cancer last year she was put on three heavy narcotics and a strong muscle relaxer along with several others meds. Even if she had survived her liver would have been destroyed. So I'd much rather have seen her spend her last few months stoned, happy, and cracking jokes with me than doped up, defeated, depressed, and impatiently waiting to die.  Classify them as legal per his logic they are now all good. Heroin is only bad because it is illegal. Per DEA logic if it was legal it would be harmless.  I feel you. Alcohol killed my dad by absolutely destroying his liver by having sclerosis. In my state, being caught with marijuana can prove to have REALLY bad consequences, to the point where certain sentences are laughable and shockingly ludicrous. He was thrown all of these pills and liquids to take every several hours, and nothing fucking worked to help relieve the pain. So, guess what? I took matters into my own hands and managed to buy weed from a guy I know solely for the purpose of helping him not be in pain and actually laugh at things and be happy, despite the reality of the inevitable about to happen. Speaking from experience with a fatally ill person who desperately needed it but was unable to get it due to the ridiculous outdated policy that the DEA still masturbates over, I firmly believe anybody who opposes the legalization of marijuana are the scum of the fucking earth. I'm a fairly open individual who will listen to what anyone has to say on certain subjects, but when this is concerned, you don't have an opinion on the matter if you oppose it. The blatant ignorance just isn't worth listening to.  That hit home pretty hard. I've watched both my parents wither away to nothing, surviving their sickness but ultimately dying from the side affects of the treatment. Instead of my father collapsing on himself because he was so doped up on morphine I would've much rather shared a joint with him but even with medicalization in my state it wouldn't have been accepted. The one thing I regret through is not doing what I could to make them comfortable on their death beds, obviously the doctors failed that with highly addictive drugs administered to recovering patients with no prior history of them. Shit I'd probably kill myself with that many drugs around too.  Ugh, that was like pulling teeth. I like that man.  That lady, not so much.  That was a pathetic display, reminiscent of an old favourite from the UK...

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uwlsd8RAoqI It's like banging your head against a wall. It's amazing he was able to resist from yelling, "Are you fucking dense?" I don't know how your rep kept his composure. I would have got about a third of the way through and asked, "Okay, exactly how full of shit are you right now?" Just putting it out there:  that is gross.

I understand that she is trying to save her job, but fuck me it is still gross.  In her mind, her job is more important than the actual freedom of individual citizens of the United States. The war on drugs they are having is pitiful anyway. They celebrate bringing in a few millions worth of drugs or drug money when there are probably billions all around the states. It's not a war that can be won. Not without becoming the next North Korea. well, the same happened in Portugal in the '80s if i'm not mistaken, and the leader of the police union at the time recently said he was gladly wrong. Decriminalized, not legalized. How many areas of society are run congruent to what all research or even common sense says? Doesn't seem like many.

Who your surround your self with makes your world the way it is. They're in a system where dissenting opinion is snuffed out at the slightest hint. I'm guessing most believe what they preach because there the only ones allowed in to participate, it's a culture that demonizes the opposition.  Police/corrections unions and leadership knew exactly what would happen, and they care very much about the outcome. If we don't keep up this charade, a huge chunk of the criminal justice industry will be out of jobs. They care much more about keeping their current positions by maintaining the status quo, than they could ever be bothered by the destruction all of this nonsense is causing the country and *for our fellow countrymen. 

Edit: I jumbled two words. Grammar.  Yeah I would go with the fact that this also destroys the DEA and CIAs business model as well. Of course they don't like it. Potheads and growers are easy targets to keep our for-profit prison system fat and happy.  With all due respect, you're talking out of your ass.

In Colorado, Police ENDORSED Prop 64, Recreational Marijuana. There are many, many quotes of high ranking police officials when the bill was up for vote. Many LEO supporters.

There's even Law Enforcement Against Prohibition (LEAP.CC)

Seriously man, don't be a dick it hurts more than helps when you just throw out bullshit statements.
More then half of the political leadership in CO backed Prop 64, in addition to Law Enforcement.
While they all cited different reasons, the cops were pretty fucking adamant about how much of a waste of time and resources pot laws were.

Federal level might be a different matter, but state, county and local were all for legalizing weed in CO. Police support / opposition varies state by state, like here in Minnesota our governor pushed the bill back for months just to hear what all the police chiefs had to say.  And they were against it understandably because they would lose an ass load of funding.  So medical marijuana technically is legal in MN but I believe you can only get it in pill form. Good! I currently live in Southern AZ. People really have no idea how bad the cartels are. They have lookout spotters atop mountains as far into the country as Phoenix who will radio/call the drug runners walking through if they see law enforcement near them. Innocent people get ambushed in state/national forests/parks by these scumbags too. They wreak havoc on ranch lands and ruin the land with their litter. That border wall isn't merely to keep out illegal immigrants... Instead of building a wall, why not just legalize these drugs so the cartels have nothing to sell?  &gt;The votes by Colorado and Washington State to legalize marijuana in 2012, followed by Alaska, Oregon and D.C. last year have created a *budding* industry.

Time Magazine, you so funny I lit up when I saw that pun. You should be stoned for such a bad pun. i didn't even realize /u/coldacid's comment was a pun till i read your comment. I thought he legit lit up a joint as like a toast to the pun

i should probs sleep If we did that we'd weed out all the bad puns. Its high time we stop these pun trains [High grade US marijuana now being smuggled into Mexico](http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2014/12/02/dea-cartels-now-smuggle-us-pot-into-mexico) Looks like they did a lot of talking without providing any proof... that one DEA agent even took the opportunity to blame it on Colorado's new legal status... it's almost as if they are poised to start blaming something on the new legal states.

Considering the cartels' power in Mexico... what exactly is stopping them from growing the same quality weed in their own turf...????

This makes no sense. It can't possibly be cheaper/less riskier to export it from CO, than it would be to do it locally, considering the strength and size of these cartels... it's not exactly rocket science, and they certainly have the brains to do it considering they are operating a successful illegal enterprise across who knows how many borders. I dont know man, there's a lot of demand for high quality bud in Mexico. Everything thats grown here is pure schwag. I've met some people who would love to get a taste of weed from the USA.
edit-Well, I dont know if there is "a lot of demand" but Ive met quite a few people who would pay good money for it. Take that only as anecdotal evidence. Knowing this, I shall appreciate my nugs even more so. Nugs for everyone! Made in Murica! Next they need to legalize prostitution since I hear the gangs and cartels are making a killing on human trafficking now. That won't stop human trafficking.  I've read that in areas where prostitution is legal they still have problems with people being trafficked and forced to work as prostitutes. I wrote a paper on this in college, and while that doesn't make me an expert, I do have some insight on the matter. 

In Antwerp they legalized prostitution within a 3 block radius. They effectively made a "mega brothel" where no cars were allowed (to avoid street prostitution) and all workers were assigned a room where they had to thumbscan a monitor every hour they were working, in order to ensure that *they,* the certified prost, was the person occupying the room; this made it so that un-certified women couldn't have the room rented to them. This cut down on illegal trafficking immensely.

On the other hand, you had places like Victoria, Australia that implemented sweeping decriminalization. Due to the lack of localization, regulation and  legal ambiguity, it made it much easier for human traffickers to come in and pass off the captured girls as certified, consenting adults.  

So there is a right way and a wrong way to do it. One method (the Antwerp method) has beneficial effects on the problem, while the Victoria method is actually detrimental to the problem.    Do you have any sources to support your assertions regarding the detrimental aspects of legal prostitution in Victoria in comparison to countries and states where prostitution is illegal? I only ask as I'm a Victorian and have never been aware that human trafficking was a real problem here, and would be interested in reading about the issue. This is pulled right out of my source page:

Sullivan, Mary Lucille Jeffreys, Sheila Legislation, The Australian Experience. 
Violence Against Women (2002):1140-1147. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Oct. 2012

Unfortunately it's a scholarly journal, so you might not be able to find it online for free.

 Thanks for the source, I found it through my university library database. Some really good points raised and I can definitely see the benefit of the Antwerp system. A real shame the media doesn't seem to report on the wrongdoings within the sex industry in Australia. From what I recall, part of the problem is that those areas push legalized prostitution into such a dark corner of legal society that there's still tons of room for abuse of that nature. Yup. Make it an ordinary job with taxation and social security. That works pretty well in more liberal countries. Are the problems more severe, less severe, or the same? I can't really answer your question but, 


I lived in Italy for just around a year, prostitution is legal in Italy (as long as it isn't "organized") but I never once saw an actual Italian prostitute. They were always from Eastern Europe, mostly Russian. From speaking with locals they said that some of them want to leave the country they are in by choice and see this as a way for themselves to make some money. But, a huge portion of them apparently are part of sex trafficking ran by local mafia. 

I know this doesn't really answer your question but it's some insight.  Honestly our data just isn't good enough. Some say more, some say less, and some say criminalizing the purchase rather than the sale is the most effective way. I've worked with groups that advocate for all approaches, and I am continually frustrated by how little information we have on the best approach. However, it's pretty clear that legalization isn't a "clear best option." The problems are definitely different. One notable aid is that it effectively eliminates child prostitution and cuts down significantly on drug use, but in terms of whether or not it's a reduction in trafficking is nearly impossible to say. Nothing is going to stop anything. The concept is that, on the margin, rates are reduced.  I doubt it would stop too, the black market undermines regulated markets, but it would not help the market by providing a legal alternative. A slave is more profitable indeed.  If it's regulated enough that prostitution licenses require confirming the person is legal to work in the country would prevent trafficking.  Yes but i do think if people know there is a legal, regulated market and a black market most of them will go for the legal one. Obviously this isn't always the case but when slavery is a big part of the black market most people would be willing to pay more to know they aren't raping someone.  This is why we need to legalize a regulate all forms of drugs. Looking at Portugal the rate of heroin addiction has halved, as a result the rates of new HIV infections have also halved. It should be noted that Portugal did NOT legalize harder drugs.  They DECRIMINALIZED them And they didn't decriminalize dealing, so presumably the suppliers are the same (or could be the same), just at lower volume.  Thank you! There's a big difference between legalizing and decriminalizing. The decriminalization of these substances, or all drugs for that matter, could positively affect the U.S. and its economy by:

1. Depopulating prisons. So much money goes into our prison system to hold people for years on counts of drug possession. This greatly affects our economy.

2. Like in Portugal, disease would drop among drug users, as they would use safer methods, or seek treatment. Addiction is a disease, and addicts need treatment.

3. Drug use could also potentially drop. It was found that drug use dropped significantly in the countries where all drugs were decriminalized. The people who continued to use drugs were mostly older users who took in the habit many years ago. 
 Exactly. And if people had access to good drugs, there also wouldn't be epidemics like Krokodil, Bath Salts, Meth, or Spice. Treating drug addiction as a health issue rather than a criminal issue seems to work rather well. It changes their perception on what it is to be a drug addict/abuser.  As a recovering heroin addict, this would make my so fucking happy. It may take a while for the stigmatization of drugg addicts to decrease enough, but either way it would help save sooo many lives. Legalizing drugs would also save lives - directly and indirectly. Addicts will be able to know EXACTLY what is in what they're using, and the strength - reducing overdoses. We could have much, much better harm reduction if it wasn't so stigmatized. Obviously it would also help the kind of people who grow up in ghettos and turn to drug businesses/gangs. This this this. I can't find it now, but a retired police chief explained, at great length, how this is the solution. Not only would it decrease drug-related gang violence, police and tax dollars would be focussed on all other crime. The war on drugs has been particularly expensive. [Retired Police Captain demolishes the War on Drugs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W8yYJ_oV6xk) Legalize it, tax it, regulate it. guarantee product quality and safety of those producing it and using, as well as creating government jobs to regulate it and extra tax revenue. Knowing our gubment they'd do something stupid like make it 20x the price of street drugs, or have insurance compaines some how get in on the action.   Look at Colorado and marijuana.... yes it's taxed, but not astronomically.  Supply//Demand Meh, I wouldn't lump Methamphetamine in with the rest of those. Methamphetamine use isn't a result of anything else being available, those other ones are a result of 'good' drugs being unavailable/too expensive. But they didn't legalize it... Just sayin. Sort of. The availability of high grade marijuana nation wide is killing the cartel trade. They import shit weed in high quantity's, no one wants to smoke that. But I like spending hours de-seeding shitty weed just so I can smoke it all day and get nothing more than a bad headache! 90% of the mexican population that smokes weed does that. When I introduced my friends to actual weed, they all came together. I did the same thing when I lived in East LA but mostly because I was a poor college student and it was better than nothing. See also: generic drugstore whiskey. Hopefully unintentionally, this article misrepresents the case of the 43 missing Mexican students. They weren't merely abducted; they were killed. There are countless references to the investigation's conclusions online that are very easy to find. This massacre is THE most shocking evidence of municipal/govt. corruption in the Americas for years. It's a shame that this article trivializes the significance of this atrocity. At least, link/reference to other clarifying sources, jeez! Pr&amp;#1077;tty s&amp;#1086;&amp;#1086;n th&amp;#1077;y'll h&amp;#1072;&amp;#957;&amp;#1077; &amp;#1072; l&amp;#1086;bbyist &amp;#1072;t &amp;#1089;&amp;#1086;ngr&amp;#1077;ss m&amp;#1072;king sur&amp;#1077; n&amp;#1086; &amp;#1088;&amp;#1077;sky Am&amp;#1077;ri&amp;#1089;&amp;#1072;ns &amp;#1072;r&amp;#1077; g&amp;#1077;tting th&amp;#1077;ir l&amp;#1077;g&amp;#1072;l gr&amp;#1077;&amp;#1077;n. I've wondered if whether criminal orgs haven't thought of funneling cash to anti-marijuna political candidates or attempted in some fashion to push back legalization efforts.  Most absofuckinglutely. [deleted] From a purely business perspective, I'd have a hard time imagining any "business" organization accepting competition moving into and taking over their customers without a response of some type.  I used to be part of a pro legalisation political party in the uk. I was forced to quit because of threats against my family from Moroccan dealers. 
The only people who want it to remain illegal are the people who make the most money from it.  That clearly happens. Hell growers in California fought so hard against it. Thats why Colorado got it legal before we did. They'd have to cover their tracks really well because literally all the opposition would need to do to sink their opponents campaign is expose the drug money donations. There's black cocaine? Had to look it up. The article says it's "rare" and makes it sound all bomb but it's black because it's adulterated as shit and disguising it makes it easier to smuggle. So unfortunately no, there is no "rare black cocaine". 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_cocaine The most interesting piece of that entry was the last bit:

"In 2008, a new type of black cocaine was discovered by police in Spain. It had been manufactured into rubber-like sheets and made into luggage." It's made for goths. Yeah. That's basically all I took from that article. There's Black Cocaine...and no one told me?!?! Man I hope those cartels don't start running protection or kidnapping people for ransom or getting involved in legitimate buisneses like lumber or agriculture or mining to feed their wallets as well.  Legalize lumber /r/trees is leaking. Mexican weed is terrible. "Nobody could have predicted this."

-- Idiot American Politicians Somewhere in the world is a cartel hitman whose been made redundant and is moving back in with his mum. Will the Cartels be able to sue the US under the TPP legislation for loss of earnings? They mean "Has Hit Mexican Cartels working in full cooperation with US federal law enforcement, not limited to: DEA, ATF, Border Patrol." I wish I lived 100 years in the future. Its obvious where society is moving on so many fronts, but opponents will drag their feet and drill holes in the ship until the day they die.  I wonder what the true cost would be of legalising  all drugs versus the cost of fighting human nature and the desire for experiencing altered states. Which costs society more?  And how fucking long did it take to finally notice this? How many innocent people died in Mexico brutally under the cartels because of the stupid war on drugs. People were impaled over there like it's the dark ages for fuck sake. The u.s. should be ashamed of itself for instituting a ban on a plant that was not appreciated by the public for a very long time. Maybe if public language or protest actually held political meaning then those innocent people would not have died because the plant would have been locally available. It is now extremely doubtful that the unenlightened western superpowers care much about liberty or public choice within their own border based on this debacle. 

Rest in peace, innocent victims of institutional evil. I wouldnt buy mexican pesticide dirt weed even if it was $1 a gram. I can get killer dank that knocks me on my ass for $5. Cartels will have to settle for pennies and even then its still not worth getting mugged or shot at. This question is a little off topic but what is it like in places where marijuana is legalized (Colorado, Washington, etc)? Can you smoke it openly like cigarettes or is it still frowned upon in public places? As long as you arent lighting up on a bus or a train nobody cares at all. Including police. The war on drugs has finally started! Mexico and Canada might be the two places to ruin marijuana if either or both legalize it.  Both countries are partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement.  One of the main aspects of this agreement is that  you can't have protected industries.

The main reason why marijuana growers are doing so well in the US is because it is a protected industry... by the fact that it is still illegal.  If the three countries legalize it, it won't be as big an industry for Americans as they will be forced to accept sales from Mexico and Canada.

Currently it makes a hit into organized crime because there is a direct effort to prevent the flow of resources into the country while at the same time flooding the market with a moral marijuana.

In the least it'll be interesting to see how this turns out.  My only prediction for the future is that someone will be saying "I Told You So" It'll be okay if no one bans personal growing.  And no stupidly high regulation or limits either. I want at least 6 plants per person, preferably a little higher. If it's legal, what does it matter if Mexico and Canada are competing with the US?   Just toss some seeds into a pot of soil and grow it yourself. You'll likely stumble a few times before you start walking, but before you know it you'll be sprinting straight to cloud 9.  The plant practically grows itself, it isn't difficult unless you are aiming for perfection, which not everyone cares for. 

Let's also not forget that the Recreational Marijuana aspect is only one small portion of what a legalized cannabis industry could mean for the world round... there are many long-established industries that would benefit from being able to use some portion of the plant, whether it be the seeds, the psychoactive, or just the fibers. Hell, the oils derived from the plant even make a great (cold weather) adhesive. This is why for a while I've been pro-legalization, but still strongly anti-using it while it's illegal. It's also something I've never understood about the general population who uses marijuana (where/when it was/is illegal); everyone is ready to boycott chick-fil-a or some Indiana bakery or whatever because of how awful they are, but have *no problem* buying drugs imported by cartels that routinely murder, rape, pillage, and have turned northern mexico into a lawless wasteland. 

(disclaimer: yes I know not all of it is imported by cartels. If you know for a fact that your pot was grown/sold in the country by someone who isn't part of a violent gang, then I'm not talking about you) **WHO COULD HAVE FORSEEN THIS?!** Did anyone notice the number of seizures data @ 0:25 ?

http://i.imgur.com/8FkFUtP.jpg lol Thanks, I thought I was crazy for a second  Now the cartel bosses will open flower shops, gift stores etc. and live a life free of criminal activity.
 Or become 'job creators' as greedy 'small business owners'...like a chiropractor or something...or a nightclub owner [deleted] lol mcsexslaves LEOs and the prison system also lose big.  One more reason to decriminalize of drugs:  defunding wasteful, oppressive state institutions. Does that mean they will be downgrading to only silver-plated AK47's? It's gettin' so a international drug dealer can't make an honest living anymore.     
Dey terk urr jerbs! Now imagine if marijuana was legal in all 50 states. Cartels would become a small fraction of what they are now. Implying that the main income of Cartels come from weed In other breaking news: water is wet. How this hasn't been applied to every single substance the American government deems "dangerous" is beyond me. I've said it for years  you control the substance better by making it legal and regulating it. Than you can by marking it illegal and letting the black market run the show.

A few facts. The black market is going no where. The more risky you make something "a substance in this instance" the more money the wrong people can make from it.

Keep it legal, keep it moderate and keep it safe. The only reason we are in this shit in the first place is because our government lacked the foresight to control a trade they and big pharma tried to create. 

EDIT: though maybe I missed a key element in that they might make more money from the prison/court system than from any previous plans they had to make money off the product. Yay capitalism. Hell no, the same cartel guys that have been growing weed will be the same guys importing legally into the US. I hope we never import marijuana. 100% American made industry for once. Who's with me on no importation of marijuana?  No shit Mexican weed is awful. Looks like the US is finally making strides in its "War on drugs".  Its as if one of the age old arguments for legalization was completely valid. I am shocked that this would come as a surprise to anyone I like how the article uses the quantity "million pounds" then turns around and uses tons in the same paragraph instead of saying 1.3 million pounds. Come on guys. You're Time magazine. You should know to be consistent with crap like that in news articles. TLDR: No. Fucking. Shit.

You have no idea how infuriating it is to have the rest of the country lagging behind what you already know has to happen. So many subjects. War on Drugs, fear of terrorism and the Muslim Foreverwar, religion in general, economics. 

15 years from now. "Oh! You mean the economy needs CUSTOMERS to function? Ohhhhh...weeee get it now."

And what's most irritating is that inevitably, when public opinion changes, all the assholes will suddenly act like it was a foregone conclusion from the beginning.

We're already getting through most of what I want, just suicide-inducingly slowly. I blame the elderly and television.

Hang the bankers, end prohibition, stop the private prisons, stop coddling people who won't stop shovelling donuts in their face, give up the weird imaginary friend cults and lets get to the servant robots and space travel. Come on.

I'll be like 98 years old and a newspaper article will come out saying "five-year study shows basic income program has saved economy; national happiness soars"

And that's when the killing spree at my old folks home will start. I am sorry for fearing people who want to blow me and my family up.
Our country is good as it is (but we need better congress, ones that will actually compromise with each other, i'm looking at the left and the right, and our debt is bad) we have the highest scientific output in the world, lower unemployment and higher per capita GDP than most European countries, the best military to protect our interests, a navy to protect the shipment of the entire world, the highest GDP, the best health care (it is just very expensive), we are also the largest [natural gas](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_natural_gas_production) producer, have the most useful inventions, not only that but we are also champs in football and getting to the moon.  Honestly say what you want about the state of the USA but it is better off than most European countries. There are a dozen countries that are better places to live than the US. You're a mook.

http://www.realclearscience.com/lists/top_10_countries_with_greatest_scientific_impact/ (pure measurements of scientific output doesn't take quality vs quantity or population size into effect. Duh we output more. We've got more people researching. Doesn't necessarily mean we're better at it.)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_unemployment_rate (We're about halfway down the list when ordered best to worst.)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_countries_by_GDP (You got me on the GDP, but you can also pretty much attribute that to us having so many fucking people. Same with China. We horde up more of the world's resources because there's more of us to do so. It's not so black and white.)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_budget_of_the_United_States (Best military sure. Worth it? If you honestly believe that without them we'd be crawling in IEDs and Jihadists at home, sure. But that's still more of a government agency bag then the domain of a standing military, designed to fight other standing militaries. Is having the best military a good thing? If we're talking purely conjecture here, I'd just as quickly say that there are plenty of countries without a military as good as ours who are just as well off and also do not have to deal with all the issues that come hand in hand with being a militarized nation).

Per capita GDP you got me. I think we cheat and lie and do dirty business overseas and domestically and blow shit up to get there though.

http://time.com/2888403/u-s-health-care-ranked-worst-in-the-developed-world/ (Best healthcare is 100% arguable.)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_gas#Environmental_effects (We're doing good in natural gas. So good that the scale of which we are doing it could possibly be having adverse affects on the environment. As usual, very short sighted of us.)

Wtf are most useful inventions? What metrics decides this?

We're the only country that really plays American Football. We suck ass at Football.

USSR was just as good at getting to the moon. We just managed to pull it off first. So what? We sure as shit suck at space travel now compared to the rate of progress when it was first being developed.

tl;dr: say what you want about the "state of the USA," but don't mind me if I disregard you in the future for spouting bullshit. We suck. Bad.

 &gt;Wtf are most useful inventions?

Airplane, T.V., the computer you are using, the internet you are using, [and so much more](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_United_States_inventions)


The USSR only sent unmanned moon missions, and only after it starved half it's citizens to do that.
&gt;we have the highest scientific output in the world, lower unemployment and higher per capita GDP than most European countries

Like your link said we have lower unemployment than the EU, and [we](https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&amp;ion=1&amp;espv=2&amp;ie=UTF-8#q=percapita%20gdp%20of%20usa) have a higher per capita income than most of [europe](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_sovereign_states_in_Europe_by_GDP_%28nominal%29_per_capita). &gt; Best military sure. Worth it? If you honestly believe that without them we'd be crawling in IEDs and Jihadists at home, sure.

First off, let me say this: The Patriot Act needs to be repealed, etc etc. 

Look, you're either part of the biggest empire in the world, or you're not. There isn't really a time in history where there _isn't_ a most powerful country, and _generally_ things tend to suck if you're not a part of it.

Honestly though, you can look at the rate of terrorism in other countries, and (without looking at the numbers) I would bet that we have _much lower_ rates here, than elsewhere. Part of this is due to that large military spending, whether it agrees with your worldview or not.  Meant to reply to this a while ago since that is a valid point. I am not a statistician, but my guess would be the ratio of military spending to decrease in terrorist events is uh, soft capped I guess you would say? As in, the more you spend, you see diminishing returns. Our country is shit. Spare us the 'Merican Exceptionalism bullshit. The sooner we admit we are a shitshow the better off we will all be. Jebus, I just vomited a little reading that shit post. how dare you! Dont you know its heresy to say anything good about the USA on reddit or any other source dominated by foreigners? We all know the US is a third world country with debt and gun nuts, amirite europe? (i am being sarcastic, agree with you @tqpnop) [Where's my floating car, my utopia, my Mars colonies, like it's supposed to be](http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=VQV5wByzzPU)

 So it's a win-win! Money is power.  and politics is for the few. politics: one who can put the best spin on any given issue usually wins. No wonder most of them are lawyers. They are in the business of selling doubt. Not in the UK. In the US a law degree may be seen as finishing school, but in the UK politicians tend to have studied humanities subjects (iirc history is quite common), although there are a good few lawyers. For the top politicians, the [Oxford PPE course](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_University_of_Oxford_people_with_PPE_degrees) is almost mandatory, providing something like 12 Prime Ministers and Presidents of various countries over the last few decades - including the leaders of both the current major UK political parties. Which may be why they are so similar; they're starting from the same economic and political assumptions. &gt; they're starting from the same economic and political assumptions.

"You can't solve tomorrow's problems with yesterday's solutions, but you can try and get filthy rich in the process"

-- Oxford PPE course graduate Just to be clear, in the UK politicians tend to have studied or worked in law, business, or been career politicians their entire lives. See here for a the specifics: http://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/research/briefing-papers/SN01528/social-background-of-members-of-parliament

&gt;Which may be why they are so similar; they're starting from the same economic and political assumptions.

As the subject is entirely about approaching problems from different angles and developing critical thinking skills, you would expect politicians who took PPE to have a pretty diverse set of views. There's definitely no particular set of political or economic assumptions used when taking the degree - you could say at most that they might adhere to vaguely neoclassical/Keynesian economic models.

Oxford PPE is the choice for career politicians nowadays - it's basically three years studying how to consider ethical and political topics using a multidisciplinary approach, so of course it would be.

You realise that even before the cabinet reshuffle, less than half of those in the Cabinet had a PPE degree, let alone one from Oxford? And less than a third of all politicians even went to Oxbridge? "Almost mandatory" is just factually wrong.

Also, when you say that it's mandatory after specifying you're talking about the UK, and then give statistics for global PPE graduates, you're misleading people into thinking that the UK has had loads more PPE graduates in its own political positions. But the Oxford PPE course gives you a networking and connection boost. It gives you access to the peple who will be in those positions in power, and is a recruiting ground for most of the politcal parties. It's not the education that gives you the pathway , it's the networks. 

Just the same as Harvard, London Business School, and a few others are valuable for their networking, not their inherent education. Well, in all fairness, many US law school graduates have undergraduate degrees in something other than law.

Edit: added US distinction. Yeah, we do that in the US also. Or because they write laws and a law degree represents a masters-level education in understanding how laws work? Nah that can't be it. There's merit to your point in theory. In practice, I haven't seen the benefit.  I agree. Understanding how laws work isn't necessarily the same as understanding how a piece of proposed legislation affects those that you supposedly represent. Have you met many lawyers lately? There is a reason the White House has been hiring attorneys from diploma mills like crazy since Bush light was in office.  We should just get rid of the word politics.  The word itself bores or scares most people into believing it's something they aren't built to discuss or understand.  We should start calling it "Things rich people pay elected officials to do inorder to avoid taxation and keep as much of theirs and your money as possible." Sure its wordy, but I think it sums it up in a nut shell, and I think that the impoverished and bourgeois would pay a bit more attention to the hand basket our world is going to hell in.  So, tyranny and theft. We should call them tyrants and thieves. It's less wording but still expresses what you said, I think. They gotta be informed.  Politicians get called tyrants and thieves already.  The people are broke and feel powerless.  We need something to get them all on the same page so we can see real change.  People like stories.  Maybe I should write a children's book.  Political science --&gt; the science of power

Politics --&gt; the art of power Not really. Traditionally it's called Politics over here because it's not a science, there's no experimental methodology applied. It does include elements of statistics, psephology and economics but it also includes philosophy, ethics and law.

Yanks call it science because it gives it an unearned sense of confidence in what they believe. [Western countries wont change a bit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2tCcoSRZqVY&amp;t=3m15s) (e.g. 45 million poor people in the US alone) till people stop using this type of dumb euphemisms courtesy of businesses selling information (private media). They are not donations, they are fucking **bribes**.  The stock portfolios of US representatives on average outperform the market by 12%, and it's probably due to insider trading via lobbyists. Anybody who isn't a sitting representative can see this is grounds for an investigation. [deleted] Voting != bribery, the question is, how close to bribery is paying people to convince others to vote for you? The essence of the electoral part of democracy is when majorities give their vote for a policy that benefits them.

When a small minority gives money in exchange for a policy that benefits them and not the majorities (cause otherwise this exchange wouldnt be necessary), is called traffic of influence. In Ecuador for example, you could go to jail for 10+ years for being convicted of traffic of influence.

Democracy is not a form of bribery, traffic of influence is. Wow this traffic of influence theory could do well here in the states . We have a similar saying. Follow the money trail. More campaign money = better and bigger campaigns = more votes = politicians keep their cushy jobs, do favors for their donors while in office = get cushy consultant jobs from their donors (often big corporations) after they are out of office Interesting thought...at least with the vote everyone has an equal chance of pedaling influence.  This is not new, since the beginning of civilization the elite have ruled in one form or another. 

Government is using 'democracy' to give them legitimacy. The only difference between this form of government, a monarchy, and a dictator is the form of propaganda to make them seem legitimate. They have to use domestic propaganda because its a democracy which means you have to convince people of things if you want to do them. People are getting all kneejerky about democracy in this thread but given a choice there's not a country I'd choose to live in that isn't a modern democracy.

The basic lived experience of everyone here contradicts all the hyperbole they're spouting. Democracy may suck, but not as badly as every other system of governance. Representative democracy is a way for the people to exert some degree of control on their elites. It does not mean the people are actually in power.  Exactly, but some control is miles better than none at all. 

My first ever lesson in democracy was from my dad when I was young and spouting some idealistic bs. He basically told me that the only reason democracy is there is to stop things from getting too bad. Once the politicians start getting too shitty and things start affecting people's day to day life then they all wake up and vote them out. Other than that it's not really an effective tool to do anything. &gt; Exactly, but some control is miles better than none at all. 

["None at all" is the case for the average citizen, though.](http://scholar.princeton.edu/sites/default/files/mgilens/files/gilens_and_page_2014_-testing_theories_of_american_politics.doc.pdf) 'some degree of control'

Yep, about 4 times a decade this happens. I honestly think thats lower than in monarchy where peasants would have violent uprisings. Not true. Democracy started when Greek common men raised up and killed their oligarchic scum. I know you want to believe this is unique but it isnt.

Civilians will raise up, defeat their old leader and replace them with a new leader. It never changes. The only thing that changes are the faces. The exploitation of the plebeians never do. I would say the difference is that Americans pay to watch their propaganda. So much for knowledge. Modernity is proving Francis Bacon wrong.  Knowledge is power.  France is bacon. Knowledge is porridge  hehe. I remember that. No knowledge is much more powerful. If the people were informed on how this country is really run and the intentions behind the people in power, we would change things. They have no power over us unless we give it to them. However being informed and knowledgeable gives you power regardless. Money can make sure everyone else has no knowledge... Not really.  What you define as knowledge and your capacity to use it is not the same the knowledge that is useful for political success or incumbency. Power is power.  Need money to make money.  Yours is ours. I know this post is about Britain, but I like this quote:

"Many people think that Congress regulates Wall Street, but in fact it is Wall Street that regulates Congress." 

Bernie Sanders, 4/6/2015

The scary thing is that this isn't just a turn of phrase or rhetoric--that's really true. And when you contemplate the gravity of what that means, it's kind of staggering. Legalized bribery (campaign donations being an example) is anathema to democracy.  It must end. [This group needs our help as far as the US goes (but its spark could spread elsewhere).](http://mayday.us) One interesting question is: what exactly does that money buy? In the US, the money is mostly spent on media campaigns, but I do not recall seeing anything remotely similar in the UK.  &gt; A breakdown of spending in eight categories shows that most resources were ploughed into campaign leaflets and other unsolicited materials.

&gt; These accounted for 12.3m of total spending, up from 8.9m in 2005.

&gt; In contrast, spending on advertising - such as billboards - fell sharply from 15m to 9m while funds spent on rallies and other events dropped from 4.1m to 1.7m.

http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-11901914 Yes - UK electrions are fantastic. Limited campaign period, no TV advertising, very strict spending caps on local campaigns and a very low national spending cap (I think it's 20m per party).


You compare that to the US where they campaign for 2 years and spend $2bn each.

2 years / $2bn each
vs
5-6 weeks / 20m each

UK has it down perfectly. (well. not perfect but a good balance in today's World) i dunno... just seems like rich people are wasting less money. Not quite. Being bombarded by all sorts of media over a period of two years does much more to influence a person than 5/6 weeks during a designated election season. That's not to say that money doesn't influence politics, just that the UK model in theory is better than the US one.  party political broadcast? Does that cost them anything yes, but it's only about 5% of total election spending.

Across all parties a total of 1,449,884	pounds were spent on party political broadcasts for the 2010 general election and 990,293 pounds for the 2005 general election.  (These figures don't include Northern Ireland).

http://www.electoralcommission.org.uk/i-am-a/journalist/electoral-commission-media-centre/news-releases-donations/parties-spend-31-million-at-uk-general-election Wow the tories outspent labour 2:1?

 TV campaigning is banned but parties deliver letters, pay for Internet ads and often have representatives meeting and speaking to people in the run up to the election Don't forget post-election when spending limits aren't in place it allows the parties to pay people to campaign. They're called Organisers.

source: have been one
 And billboards, can't go outside in rural Kent without seeing a UKIP billboard... Ugh. Exactly. It's amazing how theoretically simple it is to win an election in modern times.

Shove your candidate's name and face down the public's proverbial throat as often as humanly possible.

Raise money so you can continue to push that "message" hard.

Rinse and repeat.

Of course, the opponent is playing the same game, so it becomes who can reach the most people the most often with their message (ie - who can raise the most money for their campaign). Though aren't there hard spending limits, at least in the UK, so this sort of thing doesn't happen? Yes, he's  talking  about America &gt; In the US, the money is mostly spent on media campaigns

You make it sound so innocent. Don't forget the difference in scale of the funding is astronomical. Max 1000 donation per person. No corporation donations of any kind. I honestly think the max should be something anyone can afford, like $5 (sorry, too lazy to look up how to make a pound symbol, typical American).  Only the rich could afford a $1000 donation to a politician.  Most people don't have an extra $1000, but ANYONE can scrape together $5 to support a politician of their choice.  In fact, hell, let's make it so that low-income families get $5 from the government to allocate to the candidate of their choice.  If you are in poverty, just go online, punch in your SS number which will show you made shit last year, and you get your $5 donation. Nobody who is 'working class' would donate 1000




 The important question, not addressed (obviously) is, what do they get for their cash ?  This is an aristocracy not just of inheritance but also, of power -- that is, the control of rights to monopolies and privileges that are given by a central state and an apparatus of fear.    Yeah if I had millions of dollars I would never give it to a politician. The money they donate must them make even more money. Do you really think that people with millions of dollars are just *giving* money to politicians? No, they are *purchasing* things from them. Tired of those pesky safety or environmental regulations? Just make a $50,000 "donation" and all your problems will be gone.  Is some start-up threatening your outdated business model? Just hire the head of a regulatory agency to work for your company and now it's illegal to compete with you. Corruption has become so rampant that politicians no longer even bother trying to cover it up anymore. I think framing it like that makes it sound a lot less insidious than what it truly is.

You're a politician that believes that promoting gay lifestyles is going to mean more people are tortured by your all-loving God for all eternity. You join politics to stop this because you're a good person and people being tortured for eternity is a horrible thing to just allow to happen. A rich person comes along and says: please accept my money because the other guy believes passionately that global warming is going to really hurt poor Africans and you say: shouldn't they be more worried about people suffering forever rather than people suffering temporarily? Sure- I'll take your money.

You get elected and you vote the way your rich doners want, not because you ever intended to allow your vote to be purchased, but simply because it's not something you think is even remotely relevant. Do this for 50% of states and you don't need to get a single corrupt person elected, you just need to make sure the people you're promoting care deeply about things other than pollution. &gt; You're a politician that believes that promoting gay lifestyles is going to mean more people are tortured by your all-loving God for all eternity. You join politics to stop this because you're a good person and people being tortured for eternity is a horrible thing to just allow to happen

I think that's certainly a possibility, but I don't really know how many (Republican) people go into politics solely for this reason. I would bet not many and mostly at a smaller local level rather than Governor or Federal.

My guess is that a significant majority of anti-LGBT law, and rhetoric from politicians, is pandering rather than any personal conviction. Hard to say for certain though.
 That's not now it works. Politicians may start out with noble ideals, but they soon will have to develop a sixth sense for what will make them cash in the green phase of the elections. They may not even sway on their main mission -- like gay rights -- but they will eventually sway on the other 90% of positions that make up their political life... or they won't be a success with the broken way campaign funding is set up in the US (and from this news bit, it seems in the UK too).

I suggest the great book Republic, Lost if you want to know more. http://mayday.us is trying to change things. Nothing you said counters what I actually said.

People enter politics to push specific issues, people find those whose issues are different than ones that would hurt them and then fund those people.

We end up with politicians who fight passionately for the things monied interests don't care about, and vote with doners on issues the politians see as relatively irrelevant.

That's fundamentally different than the tit-for-tat system the person I was replying to was claiming, despite it resulting in the same thing, and needs to be fought against differently. Sorry, I just re-read your comment and realize we're not actually disagreeing. I take back my "that's not how it works".

As far as this being a systems problem that goes beyond individual responsibility, I see the system problem (and we should try solve it first and foremost), but as a politician it's also nearly impossible to *not* see the corrupting influence of campaign donations (I have worked in a journalistic environment and money trying to influence content is all around you, and you must resist it; to pretend it's not an issue is fooling yourself, and being corrupt). Every politician of today who does not help fight the fight of campaign finance reform is unfortunately a part of the problem. The issue can't be ignored, and it has been dragged into the open by groups like the great Mayday. I think it's a combination of both. Some politicians are pure opportunists, some are sincere. Corporates buying the prime ministers time? Surely not, that's illegal.

They do sponsor the Conservative party though. For example house builders. Planning law went from 1011 pages to 76.

Described by Cameron as "removing red tape" but basically allowing his mates to buy up green belt pastures to put housing estates on rather than all that awkward clearing up of old industrial brownfield sites.

Then there's the private health co's hurrying the NHS privatisation through.

The banks having almost unlimited access to number 10.

British Gas squashing the profits/fairness investigation set up by Gordon brown. 

Etc etc.     it's a dirty game. &gt; Do you really think that people with millions of dollars are just giving money to politicians?

[Of course I do.](https://youtu.be/rNsEu7Lxd-o?list=PLD62EC6ECCA892AB3&amp;t=214) (at 3:34) Why don't we call it just corruption?  So then why not give money to them, when you know it is legal and you'll get something out of donating. And make money in return, than donate more... wait. This is exactly what people already with money are doing. And those who are  discussing the issue simply don't have Morals. Yeah, I know, they are overrated. The above is a good example of why you'll never have millions of dollars. You "donate" in exchange for future favors and influence. They get to go to the dinners with the parties leaders, there's also a coincidence that the major donors to a party often seem to get an MBE or OBE after that party gets into power, but I'm sure that's just a coincidence...

The big donors get the party's leader's ears and get to have a say in what the party sets out to do. Exactly! Who did the deeds. What laws were altered or created? What were the resulting outcomes from the investment? What effect did these changes have on the subject and on the greater economy? Were jobs created and if so, how many? How many jobs were lost in the target influence and the greater economy as a result? 

So many questions.

Government? I challenge that terminology.  &gt; What were the resulting outcomes from the investment?

See how a lot of the donors are called "Lord" that's the outcome, the scandal was called cash for peerages, it occurred under the last labour government. The present conservative government has created more peers then anyone else before them. It's also an aristocracy of inheritance of power - the next MP of my parents' constituency is the son of a former Labour party leader and is married to the Prime Minister of Denmark. (He'll be the next MP, there's basically no point even voting.) Yeah, its hard to believe politics are bought and sold, rather than being by the people, for the people. ( too many comma's? ) There's so many commas one tried to escape into the air at the mere mention of its name.  Was it a tree? No comma-ent. Comma is? No apostrophe needed.  I sure don't like that comma you put in the middle of the word commas, raising it up like that. That's an impostrophe! Why do people seem to think this is a new thing?  It's been like this pretty much since civilization started. &gt;By the people, for the people 

Is that a UK thing or an American thing? It's a democracy thing. Well, it's supposed to be. Gettysburg Address, but I don't see why it can't apply to the UK in 2015 Number of people surprised: 0 :0 :0  &lt;===3

*shhhh just the tip, don't be a dirty communist* *but being a dirty communist is my fetish*


"Mmh, a corrupt central planning office, yeah baby" im surprised. didnt know you could get it so cheap. Oligarchy in Britain? Never?! Random trivia, but David Cameron is the [great, great, great grandson of Elizabeth Fitzclarence who was an illegitimate daughter of King William IV](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Family_of_David_Cameron#Aristocracy_and_politics). He;s also related to Kim Kardashian. Pretty much everyone is a descendant of some royalty at that great a distance... Almost no one is related to royalty by just five generations, maybe if you go back 50 generations [William IV was 1765-1837](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_IV_of_the_United_Kingdom).  That's like saying everyone in America is related to one of the founding fathers. I'm related to George Washington on both sides of my family.  It's not that hard.   I'm a descendant of William IV.  Literally means nothing, This would never happen! The very notion is proposperous. Such things would lead to use of the public military to enforce trade, there is simply no way!

/s *Democracy is so [overrated.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QeKoBtMd_vw)* SPOILERS SEASON ONE HOUSE OF CARDS. They may be a lot of money in british politics but there are also a lot of laws too. Here's a video showcasing the interesting ones https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=egeMAIXYIvI Best democracy money can buy. Well most of the money for the yes campaign for Scottish independence came from a couple who won a shitload of lottery money,  I'm sure they're skewing that percentage strongly.   And jk Rowling gave like a million to the no camp How is this legal...in any country?  I still don't get it...

 At least in the UK political parties are limited to only spending 18 million quid per election AND all TV must be unbiased. Which means it's a lot cheaper to buy influence in the UK. And the majority of the individual rich donations goes to..... the Tories! -.- See? Trickle down *works!* Can you feel the warm, tangy, salty spray of the trickle working yet.  Tee hee that tickles

*blaragharghargharghagrhgahagrhahargh* It's really just a sort of mist, by the time it reaches us. Because that has anything to do with this 76 people enjoy democracy. Democracy is a charade. [Think East India Tea company x 1000.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_India_Company)

These people are behind multinationals and setting up to rig it on a global scale. It's going to take a global rising to stop it. 

Starting with the TPP. 

When they socialize the losses it's going to come in the form of taxes.  At least individual donors are tracked in the UK. In America, the rich folks get to stay anonymous so we don't even know who's steering the government.  Nothing to see here. No oligarchy at all. Nope nope nope. Keep blaming the poor, entitlements and other working class folks. Carry on, but under no circumstances suggest that the western world has become oligarchical. It's better then the 5 who make up 90% of donations in America  I'm actually surprised at how little the top contributors gave. Didn't Obama and Romney raise billions? I think there are stricter rules on political donations in the UK.  The biggest is a cap on the campaign and that donations cannot be made to an individual but have to be made to the party. That means that what you donate may not end up going to support the politician you intended it to. Parties aren't allowed to spend more than around 18 million ($27 million) on an election campaign.  There are very strict limits on how much can be spent on campaigning and on what.  No point donating billions when it cannot be used.  i think obama 1 billion and romney 900 million or something. but certainly not multiple billions. And there's not a damn thing you can do about it...

Let me expand on this.

Money is Colorless Manna.  It is Resource without designation.  No matter what medium you make your election out to be, if my pile of colorless manna is bigger than your pile, I will control the boards.

It is whatever I need it to be.  So if you make the currency of elections Oranges, I turn my money into Oranges.  If you make the currency of elections votes, I take my money and turn it into votes.  Whatever it is that becomes the medium for your election, I take my money and turn it into that value.  Guns?  I can buy more guns than you can.  Charity?  I can buy more charity than you can.  Favor?  I can buy favor.

And that is why there is nota  damn thing we can do to take Money out of politics.  No matter what you do, the people with money will use their money to work the elections in their favor. Good point. Money is just a most convenient way of transferring wealth. Wealth is accumulated resources. No matter what you do, the most influential people will be gathering more resources and getting more influence with those resources... and circle continues. 
It's funny that average redditor doesn't understand that and think that it's possible to prevent this. It's better to have system like this where the money sums are available info instead of what is happening in Russia/Ukraine/other post Soviet country where it's all oligarch's black money and there is no way society can at least oversee it You got it.

It's not just the average redditor, it's the average American in general and maybe even average westerner, as we see all the campaign finance reform laws.  I don't think there's really much oversight we can do even in our transparent world, we can see the money move and yet there's nothing we do about it.

I'll continue with my fruit analogy.  Let's say today you say the election is about oranges, and whoever brings the most oranges, wins.  I buy more oranges than you, I am set to win the election.  Now the night before the election, you change the rules and say the election will actually be determined by strawberries.  You have a great warehouse of them, so you think you have it won.  Alas, right as the polls open, my train of semis arrives from the strawberry fields, chock full of strawberries.  You change the rules that morning and say the election is about Bananas and you think you have won, until you see my Same Day express-air mailed bananas fly out of nowhere on a 747...

Now you may win this election, but guess what: whereas your looking one or two years into the future, my empire has been based on playing out the long game - we're talking fiscal policy that spans ten, twenty, thirty years at a time.  You win every now and then, which I let happen because it gives you hope and keeps you engaged, but as soon as you have your victories, I follow up with mine.  Obamacare, for example, was a HUGE win for the health insurance companies.

No matter how you craft your election, I, Mr. Big Spender have the capital in hand to play by your rules and to make your table mine.  Most people have no comprehension of this level of wealth, because they're still stuck under the concept that five figures is a huge amount of money.

Someone like this will never give up their hand, either... The fortunate thing is, there is money on both sides, hence UK politics is so competitive, and why we likely won't get a majority party leading again.

That and your comment is slightly less applicable to the UK where there are strict campaign bugdet restrictions. So you spend your money elsewhere...

In the US, this has taken the form of the Super PACs.

They have the money to evolve. It may be equal (well not really, the Conservatives are generally the better funded party) in terms of donations, but it's certainly not equal in the wider sense, when you have most of the press being extremely right wing and unashamedly dishonest in their reporting, universities forbidden from teaching non-neoclassical economics and afraid to teach anything that might upset their donors/corporate partners, and politicians and regulators being personally rewarded for their service to corporate power when they retire, and so on. The actual domations issue is a symptom of a much larger problem of money increasingly being allowed to buy power. Lobbyists need to go if we want a real government. Politics has become unbelievably and unfortunately way too much about how much money is involved rather than what kind of ideas are involved "Has become" it was always like this bro. It used to be that the rich *were* the government. They didn't have to bribe anyone to make decisions, they just made the decisions themselves. But people rose up, demanded democracy, and they got it. But the rich figured out a way to make sure we could still technically have democracy but make sure their rule was unchallenged.  And you can just see them planning nice little countermeasures for the next revolt too.. fun times. So like all of history? How many "peers" are there now? In the U.S., our chief justice equates the first amendment with unlimited campaign contributions:

&gt;They would be delighted to see fewer television commercials touting a candidates accomplishments or disparaging an opponents character, he wrote. Money in politics may at times seem repugnant to some, but so, too, does much of what the First Amendment vigorously protects. If the First Amendment protects flag burning, funeral protests and Nazi parades  despite the profound offense such spectacles cause  it surely protects political campaign speech despite popular opposition. ELI5: Why (unofficial)bribes like these are still allowed? The idea is that if you want to be a politician, you should be able to, rich or poor. Rich people are able to fund bigger campaigns and therefore potentially win more votes, which is unfair. Raising donations from the public attempts to rectify this because poor people shouldn't (in theory) be hindered in asking for money from their supporters. A lot of donations are indeed from people who support the party/candidate and want to help his chances.

Obviously it's not a perfect solution in practice.  One of the many, many downsides of democracy, elections become an advanced auction on stolen property where those who are both rich and dishonest bid to see who gets your tax money. Surprisingly, politicians can be bought so cheaply that investing in politics has a higher rate of return than any other type of investment. And what are we going to do about it?!?!?!???

^absolutely ^^nothing.  You all wanted democracy.  Impossible. Only the United States is a shitty country.  ...the people who make a profit from such investments.

Because that's what they are.. Let's stop calling them donations. I am even more interested in their connection to the select few that run America's operation. These corporate elite and family dynasties play on another realm than we do. In america 132 people gave 60% of SuperPAC money in the 2012 election. [Larry Lessig](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mw2z9lV3W1g) gave a TED talk about it. We have lost our democracy in the US and it looks like in Britain too.
 Remember when Democrats hated big money in politics? then 2008 and 2012 happened. political donations should be banned

otherwise the party has to appease the donators in some way. Imho, it is legalized bribery. So how do parties fund themselves? That's called corruption. Are there any limits on political donations in the UK? I know here in Canada there's some fairly low limits on how much individuals can donate to the party, and most of our parties' funding actually comes directly from the federal government: parties get money from the government based on the amount of the popular vote they received in the last federal election. For this reason, small parties will often encourage you to vote in order to try and meet the threshold for federal funding - the Green Party certainly did in the last two elections. But my point is that individuals certainly cannot, as far as I'm aware, donate *millions* to the parties without going through some pretty cumbersome processes. Actually they don't any longer, the conservatives killed that [law](http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/end-to-federal-per-vote-subsidy-looms-as-parties-ready-for-lengthy-2015-campaign-1.2888613). Corruption is everywhere, unfortunately. Not just the US. Nobody is surprised. "Democracy". Hah! That's fucked. If you don't donate anything you can hardly complain that 76 people did. Aye. Fucked indeed. Tis well fucked. And I was brought up to believe that this was only an American tradition. Maybe they want the gatwick oil.
 And you're not one of them! Every issue will remain unsolved until money is taken out of politics. Unfortunately, the ones who can change this are the ones who are least likely to do so.

Start voting for people who "don't have a chance to win" instead of the best of two evils. Not surprised You people are going to love the domestic terrorism that will be born from this. And thus we shall continue to be at the whims of the 1%. As a British person, I can't say I'm surprised, this isn't new news, money has always been a driving force in any country's politics. I've always felt that all "donations" should be made through an independent third party that obfuscates both where the payments come from and what the amounts given are -  though I honestly think that relying on donations to fund campaigns is hardly democratic, as major parties have to pander to their wealthy supporters' desires or risk alienating the source of their income. The parties should not be crating policies with the aim of securing campaign funds.  Those are some very generous people you have there! Thats so sketchy 'Murica!

Oh, wait... I would prefer to see political party donations banned and replaced with a balanced public fund. This ensures that everyone has contributed the same and that the rich and powerful's influence over political parties/leaders is greatly reduced. House of Cards :O I've noticed labour isn't mentioned at all in the article, yet SNP is. I genuinely wonder why. Any theories? Just watched a few George Carlin videos, he puts this into perspective quite nicely. No problem with influence here! Well the anglo-american system ber alles...
This is one of the prime reasons for american and british decadence (read corruption). You Brits think that's bad? Hillary Clinton is going to spend 2.5 *Billion* Dollars to ~~buy~~ run the next election. Some of this money is from other fucking countries!!! 

http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/13/us/politics/hillary-clinton-2016-presidential-campaign.html?_r=0 It's trickle down Politics. imagine if instade it said "76 people accounted for 41% of taxes colected in britain over the past five years" What's your point? I hate to be the "theorist" but this is basically the entire backbone to the idea of a "new world order" - where 100-200 elite control politics/governments. I'll probably be downvoted to hell for even bringing up, but oh well. Has to be said. My bosses husband works for labour but donates 6000 to them every month. What the fuck is that all about.  Maybe he really believes in their cause? He is probably making more than that thanks to them. "76 people make up 41% of britains vote"
Because liberal democracy YAAAAY!

For anyone who didnt understand why. According to Robert Dahl -political scientist, the 'vote' is not at the apex of power, instead, control of the agenda is. I.e. What questions are raised and how? Referring back to the 1st line. Because apparently in Britain 76 people decide 41% of all the topics of political debate. 

Maybe this is why immigration is more frequently discussed than the economy and criminal bankers? What's that, Britains just another Oligarchy run by corrupt parasites?

Come on now...who is honestly surprised? Take a look at the leaders, passed and present. Look at their Lords, Ministers, look at the companies and corporations their friends and family own, look at the land and property they own, the trips they take, the lines they come from...it's 100% a closed network of friends doing favours and sometimes acting as middle men between tax payers and corporations, taking their cut for the non-jobs they do. 

British politics is exactly where it was in the 1900's  Its really not, the house of lords has been dramatically changed in that nearly all hereditary peers seats have been removed from the house of lords so that the vast majority of those now sitting in that chamber are life peers who are typically appointed to the position due to some form of distinction. British politics is not a 100% closed of network, look at the leader of the opposition Ed Miliband. He is the son of immigrants, one who was fleeing the holocaust the other who was an academic who fled during WW2. He is not from a prestigious political lineage. Tony Blair didnt come from a political lineage either, he came from a pretty humble background. Plenty of MPs are not from political backgrounds, many have been miners and labourers (such as Dennis Skinner) who were motivated into political action during the 70s and 80s. Sure there are examples of families who each generation seem to produce politicians but to say  its a 100% closed off an not changed since the 1900s is ridiculous to say the least, especially considering how the prime minister used to come from the lords which would never even been considered possible today. ridiculous. this is the biggest problem of our time.  I've always felt like media conglomeration was the problem.

When so few can control the media, they can manipulate the public to vote for whomever is likely to pay out best. Back before when it was illegal to own lots of different media sources the quality of journalism was better. You had a clearer view of who you were voting for because even if one or two sources were corrupted, there'd be a bunch of others to highlight what they weren't telling you (and vice versa).
 Media conglomeration is not actually a thing anymore. Spin offs have become incredibly popular. Social media has provided an outlet for new sites to become popular.

It used to be that media conglomerates were popular and there were conspiracy theories about power consolidation. But it was always just about profits. And now that spin-offs are trendy, that's become clear. You make a good point, the rise of the accessibility and popularity of the internet has certainly given the people an excellent forum. It should come as no surprise then, that the cable sections of said media conglomerates are so very anti-neutrality.
 Ya you're probably right. The people in power don't really need to rig the system when they can just brainwash people to rig it against themselves. luckily TV has to be unbiased in the UK and this is harshly enforced, but newspapers are not which needs to be done, internet also need to be regulated by th ellctoral commission, conservatives recently started doing american style attack ads in my area on youtube The BBC is the only news network that could get in trouble if it was found to be overly biased because it is state-owned. Private networks are free to report in whatever way they choose. This can easily be solved by donating money yourself. Yeah if you're a multi-millionaire. I can spare maybe fifty quid at the moment, how much shadowy influence will that get me? about tree fiddy 50?! Check out Moneybags over here! As opposed to AIDS, polio, food shortages in parts of the world, genocide, women's rights in the developing world, global warming, etc. I think politics trumps all because those problems would be addressed better if politics was fixed. You're working under the assumption that, in a fair system, everyone would have the same opinions you do.  Yes I think everybody would be against AIDS, polio and so on in a fair system. \*facepalm* Well, he is right, no large issue can be solved without some large governing body. Yes but even a government dedicated to those things would find it extremely difficult to solve those problems Well, for example, if we didn't have large donors telling the Republican politicians and news outlets to deny Global Warming then Global Warming would be addressed more. Of course the Koch brothers don't care about Global Warming one bit, but they donate to Global Warming deniers because it divides the population and allows them to sneak their own agendas through. [deleted] Its $10 million, and that is just Koch Industries (their company). The Koch brothers themselves total gave $400 million by funneling the money through a number of [superPACs](http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/inside-the-koch-backed-political-donor-network/2014/01/05/94719296-7661-11e3-b1c5-739e63e9c9a7_graphic.html).   They didn't give $400 million through the PACs, the *PACs* gave $400 million, and are donated to by many. So though they control the PAC and ultimately the money, they similarly have to reflect the wants and needs of their own donors, meaning that the $400 million is concentrated but also reflects many viewpoints. At least to me, I see no indication that those are in the thousands, so that was $10 million and not billion. Roughly what their biggest donor was. But granted, their 6.5 million pounds is over 5 years and not 1 year. Millions... Hmm, including Koch and all groups who gave even more, $39 million went to those evil GOP and $287 million went to the Democrats.  Bloomberg's company gave more to Dems. No whining about Bloomberg buying a seat at the table. 5 unions all gave more than Koch, totally $98 million to Democrats.  Thanks for the link. Koch is nothing.  Just for kicks, I added the table.  $422 million to Dems, $96 million to GOP.  And yet the GOP kicked butt in the 2014 election.  Maybe money can't buy everything. This is a reasonable point to make. I think the thing that goes unquestioned in these threads is the axiomatic truth of "money buys political results" when the reality is (as always) more nuanced.  God bless america And technically they're the only donors who aren't even getting something out of their donation*.

*Well, apart from self-determination for their country. Meet the oligarchy  [Western countries wont change a bit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2tCcoSRZqVY&amp;t=3m15s) (e.g. 45 million poor people in the US alone) till people stop using this type of dumb euphemisms courtesy of businesses selling information (private media). They are not donations, they are fucking **bribes**.  Wonder if they all fuck kids, or just some of them I hate to drop actual facts into this circle jerk, but you could substitute "charity" and it would be equally accurate.

Wealth consolidation is real.  There's no conspiracy. Hold on. There's an election every 4 years, previous election was held in May 2010... That means, their statistics are only relevant to a single term of office. Now, if it was over a period of 10 - 20 years, then there'd be reason for concern. 
Take for example, here in Australia, one of the biggest contributors to our current governments 2013 election was Michael Ashcroft, a British businessman. Of whom, from what I've gathered, is influential globally because of his money, but also because of his interest in the political landscape.
I don't think marginalising wealthy contributors to political parties is particularly good governance. Essentially, the majority's decision at the next election will be made from campaigns financed by these apparent 'aristocrats', for your benefit. 
If people cared about fair governance, they'd take the time to inform themselves more, but for most, the election is just another day that inconveniences them.  You allow foreigners to control your country's politics? Rupert Murdoch affects politics all over the globe, and he is\was an Aussie.
 Precisely. The largest contributor to our current opposition party, the Labor Party, was an anonymous Chinese businessman named Xi Chang... Whether he was anonymous or if our audit office couldn't properly google his name is another question.
I agree, foreign investment in national political elections is a little risqu, and sparks reason for concern. But in saying that, Australia is so multicultural and intertwined with south east Asia, it's perfectly reasonable for external parties to have a bid in the election.  [deleted] The logistics of this is astounding. It's amazing what people will pull together fast, between Australia and New Zealand during the earthquake in Christchurch and the black saturday bushfires by the time the leaders could contact each other everything was so prepped it wasn't a matter of "how can we help" (there is a very long history of mutual disaster relief between Australia and New Zealand, the NZ PM is quoted as saying *"our relationship is like no other"*) it was more along the lines of "where do the C130s land, we're here to help". Australia and New Zealand, in my mind, are like the U.S. and Canada.   Pretty much, if not closer. We have special (looser) immigration rules, we give healthcare to each others citizens (so if I go to NZ my travel insurance is crazy cheap because if I need medical care the NZ government pays for it), our ANZAC day memorials are shared, it's quite confusing for visitors to see New Zealand Flags (and British often, they're kept because many of the memorials are for men who died before the advent of Australian citizenship so it acknowledges that identity) side by side with Australian flags. IIRC Australian and New Zealand Embassies store both sets of flags for the ceramony as well. Hell, the Australian Constitution even contains special provisions allowing for NZ to join the Australian federation as a State should it ever wish to do so. As it was thought NZ were more likely to join our colonies in forming a country long before even western australia or queensland would be willing to join. In reality it didn't work out that way but AU/NZ are still essentially two sides of the same awesome coin. Our Anzac brothers in arms, Australia and New Zealand are rock solid. We rib the kiwi's as a term of endearment, but the bond is more than government policy. It was interesting about 12 years ago, Rove McMannus just walked around in New Zealand asking people on the street what they thought of a A-NZ federation, just how many people were open to considering it. We could call Australia the West Island of New Zealand!  India's disaster relief team is supremely prepared and on hot alert due to all the unpredictable floods. Funny thing is India, China and the US's relief teams arrived before even our prime minister did, complaining of airport shutdown. Now all the politicians will start poking their heads from the shadows licking their lips, now that foreign aid is rolling in. Indias montaineering soldiers are going to be beast as fuck after this.  Not many people are willing to climb everest, especially for a search and rescue mission Indian soldiers routinely go on mountaineering missions. Its a necessity when you have to guard two conflicted borders around the Himalayas (India and China).

We also have a lot of Gurkhas and indigenous mountain people in the army. These people are naturally good at climbing My C17 is heading to that part of the world on routine mission and we are all hoping for a diversion to help with this disaster. One member of my crew has actually summited Everest and he has been updating on the tragedy. It's pretty catastrophic by the sound of it.  I have also dispatched my C17 I'm charging my quadcopter. It needs to stay plugged in a little longer if I have any chance of making it over the Pacific, though. Hope indian government decides to deploy NDRF contingent too... Those guys are very well trained for this kind of stuff 40 NDRF members are already there. More NDRF members have been deployed. I was just reading that 285 members have been dispatched. Good on them for preparing the rescue strategies while other countries were preparing their speeches. This is some really uplifting news mixed with depressing as shit news. What is the Everest point related to? I am so confused. The earthquake hit the Everest bases killing a lot of climbers and also triggered an avalanche. 

Edit: Source http://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2015/apr/26/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-exceeds-1500-rolling-report

So far, 17 reported dead on Everest, with 61 injured. An executive at Google was one of the ones killed at Everest. Suffered a head injury during the avalanche That there are climbers at the base? 

Hopefully not dead.  It's actually pretty demolished. Last count there were 18 dead and everyone who is higher than base camp is pretty much stranded.  It'll take a fairly sizable effort to get them out of there, too. Hopefully it goes well. i can't imagine having to mountaineer a completely different route on your way back...i've climbed some decent sized mountains and going down is always much much more difficult. i would not be surprised a lot more people are going to die unless they can get an airlift out of there. So far there are a reported 17 dead on Mt. Everest per the article linked in this post.  The Earthquake triggered an avalanche at Everest. Earthquake triggered avalanches Nepalese checking in.  
Everybody is focusing on Kathmandu now but the worst hit areas are near epicenter. We dont have good grasp of the situation in those areas. It is going to be a huge challenge to get to those areas if the roads are damaged. 
The current priority is to find all the people buried under the rubble. The second phase is more terrifying. Thousands of people have lost their homes, they would need to be given some kind of shelter. The disease outbreak can cause havoc.
Now, more than anything we need disaster management experts who will manage the resources efficiently. We cannot rely on our incompetent government. The bright side is that there has been no looting and the people are all cooperating in relief work. Would like to give big thanks to our Dear neighbor India for providing relief within a few hours. You guys rock. This worries me too. 
Kathmandu lost a lot of absolutely gorgeous and old temples, has the main international airport, and the population base to be the world's focus point for journalists, but there's still hundreds of thousands if not millions of people who live closer to the epicentre who are effected just as bad if not worse, and I fear they're going to be forgotten. 
I've spent a lot of my adult life in Nepal, and really wish I could get there right now to help in any way possible. It's my second home and knowing how wonderful Nepalese people are, this just crushes me.  I created /r/NepalEarthquake spread it if you ca we can have a collective area for news stories, updates, and help for people to go. Could we put together a fund to send IKEA Flatpack emergency shelters there?
http://weburbanist.com/2015/04/11/ikea-to-produce-ship-10000-flat-pack-emergency-shelters/ Sounds like a perfect use for those Ikea shelters.  Just was going to say this. If IKEA wants PR they need to put their money where their mouth is. Make the horse meat story a faded memory.  Horse meat story?  Apparently already faded
 Well played, IKEA.  
  
 Some time ago there was a scandal rocking the meat-industry in (Norway? Scandinavia? Europe? I don't remember the scope) where a lot of producers of ready-made meals and half-fabricates discovered that their products contained horse-meat in addition to whatever they were supposed to include. People are generally averse to eating horse, and some people (like myself) are averse to eating _undeclared_ horse-meat. The problem seemed to come from some primary meat-sources that would be a bit half-arsed about what they packed and how they declared the contents.

For IKEA's part, it was shown that the lasagna they served at their cafs had some horse-meat in them, and they swore up and down that this practice would end. Sadly, in IKEA's case horse-meat was a part of the official recipe, but neither the journalists covering the case, nor the PR-representative from IKEA seemed to know this. &gt; People are generally averse to eating horse

I've always considered this part itself strange. Horse meat is fucking delicious. It doesn't make sense at all when you think about it. Cows, pigs, sheep, deer, bison, alligator, etc, are all okay to eat, but horse is off limits and considered weird to eat? &gt; horse is off limits and considered weird to eat?

Only if it's sold as something else. The problem is this - if you order beef, and what you get decidedly isn't beef - who knows what else could be in there? It's not all about eating the wrong animal, it's about quality control. And I wouldn't trust a supplier that doesn't take quality control seriously enough to even get you the meat that you want. And it was also deliberately fraudulent.  They were relabeling   horse meat as beef to make it three times as valuable.  It has something to do with how the western world has had a longtime relationship with horses as beasts of burden and friends instead of food. Which makes sense, same aversion to eating dogs and cats. how can we make this happen?

edit: did a littl reading "IKEA just turned turned its flat pack sensibilities from the urban apartment to the global village by unveiling a comfortable, solar-powered shelter that can provide emergency housing for natural disaster victims and refugees. The flat pack homes were developed in collaboration between the IKEA Foundation and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCHR), and they can be set up in a snap to provide immediate shelter for those in need. "

so hopefully that is on the way? "Sir, now would be a good time to ship those shelters you were talking about"

"We didn't make any! I didn't think a natural disaster would *actually* happen". I hereby donate my collection of hex keys I'm Indian, currently making plans to head to Nepal to see how to help out. Never done it before, I don't know what channels to go through, but we'll get through this. 

Edit: Thank you guys, I've read all your comments and I share your concern that I'll just burden them if I have no training. Believe me when I say I've never done this before, which also means I'm not gonna just hot-headedly fly over to Nepal and start lifting bricks and mortar to save people.

I'm not trying to be a hero, just wanna do my part. I speak functional Nepali, have a good base of contacts in Nepal, and I sincerely wanna do whatever I can to *help*, not add to our troubles. 

I'm definitely gonna go informed and with as much support as I can muster. Thank you for the gold, I'll be sure to pay it forward. Hijacking top comment to raise awareness of a lost family member right near the epicenter.  [I made a post here, he is travelling solo on a 6 month rock climbing trip, and last contact was a facebook post on April 18th, saying he is all packed up and ready to go up into Khumbu](https://www.reddit.com/r/climbing/comments/33vzqt/anyone_familiar_with_khumbu_climbing_near_nepal/).  Any information would be very helpful, my family is beyond concerned right now.  Last place anyone wants to be during an earthquake is on a massive vertical wall :(.  I should have more info tomorrow regarding who he was with and what camp.  Thanks to everyone for support.

**EDIT: CHRIS HAS BEEN FOUND!!!!** I've updated both posts to reflect this status.  I can't thank all of you enough, the amount of support and advice that poured thru last night was incredible.   It's amazing how powerful crowdsourcing can be when someone needs help.  All of these tips pointed us in the right direction, and without them I truly believe it would have taken longer.  THANK YOU!!!! try this: http://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake Thank you, I posted his info on the red cross version.  He isn't showing up on google person finder for a search.  it asks me if I'd like to enter his name as a new record, but I'm assuming that's only for the rescue teams or actual missing person.  Nope, this is for anyone. Definitely post his name. Nope this is for everybody. As of right now he is missing, for all we know he doesn't have service and is helping the others find survivors. Praying for you! Good luck in your search. I don't know what I can do in California to help. :( He's from Fallbrook, CA just like the rest of our family.  Leaving a comment helps me plenty, it's awareness that counts right now.  Thank you :( Waiting for word has been both agonizing and numbing, waivering between hope and preparing for bad news...mostly hope. :)
I'm so sorry you and your family are going through this. A friend of mine was last seen in Syapru Besi, heading toward Ganchempo. With the lack of infrastructure, we are not expecting to hear from her soon. She is from SD and has been traveling with people from Encinitas. I am also in Fallbrook. Will be keeping Chris and your family in my thoughts and prayers as well. So sorry you're going through this, hope you find them. Don't just hop out there by yourself unless you have some kind of expertise in this area or can go with an organisation who does. Another pair of unskilled hands will mean not much more than another mouth to feed and shelter, and adds more burden than it alleviates.

Source: attended lectures by the UK's deputy director of the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute and director of the UK International Emergency Trauma Register (which coordinates the UK's national surgical response to international conflict and disasters). Former Red Cross employee and government emergency management planner here. You're exactly right. Its great that people want to help, but showing up without going through the proper channels just causes problems for everyone. If you don't have practical skills you should stay away. Otherwise you're burdening local transport, you're another mouth to feed and you're requiring someone to tell you what to do.

Unless they are specifically asking for people, contribute with your wallet, not your hands.  You should stay home. You will just be another body to house and feed. Unless you are a rescue worked trained to do this, medical personnel or come bearing food and water. Stay away. 

Send cold hard cash to the top disaster recovery organizations that are involved in helping these people.  The only rule is : don't expect to rely on the local facilities ; bring your food, your water, a roof... Hope everything gets better soon. If you tweet locations that need help to meaindia and pmoindia that would be helpful. Your may not like your govt but in tragedy of such scale most govt infrastructures fail, so keep hopes up, relief will be there soon. Visited Nepal to climb to Everest base camp in 2009. I don't think I've met a bunch of people who deserve an earthquake less than you guys, everyone we met was a total bro. My best wishes to you and yours. My family and friends are terrified and vulnerable. But no one deserves an earthquake. Indian here. Just saw news that a globemaster with a second round of relief material, portable shelter and food is on its way along with the national disaster management team and equipments for restoring communication, finding people under the rubble.

Also 20000 RSS sevaks for evacuation help, lakhs of food packs from the Gurudwara association of the Sikhs are on its way. Is there any online fund that will directly reach your government for sure, want to contribute for the relief and will actively spread it on social media.

Hope you guys make it out of this mess with least damage possible !

Edit: Da fuck ! Fresh tremors in Delhi now... That is terrible news... 
Which organization is the best/most reliable to donate to ?  I hope all goes well and that the situation improves. One question I had is how used is the population to earthquakes? It is the first time I hear of such an earthquake in that region. Earthquakes happen a decent amount. A 7.8 though is the worst in like 80 years or some such.  I have a friend doing the Annapurna circuit in the Himalayas right now and we finally got word from her like an hour ago. I can't even imagine being cut off from friends and family living in those regions not even knowing what has happened to them. I hope the worst is behind us, but I have a feeling those remote regions are going to just bring even more sadness. USAF (more specifically AFSOC) has methods of getting supplies into areas not reachable by roads...  We've been doing airdrops in high altitude terrain in bad weather for the past decade.  I hope that capability is being identified as a possible solution. 

We even tested dispersal patterns of MREs specifically for this instance when we assisted the Philippines during Typhoon Damyan.  indian here, who spent most of his childhood making 3 trips to nepal a year for holidays.

Those are some of my fondest memories. Never felt like I was in a foreign country because everyone spoke the language, and was soo welcoming.

I know alot of the great sites I saw (Bhaktapur etc) got hit, but I have belief you guys will stay resilient and rebuild. Its a wonderful country with a wonderful heritage. Hopefully we all come out of this stronger. Are you in or near Kathmandu? I have a local friend there and can't get in touch. Want to know if his address / vicinity was hammered or not so I can get a handle on how much to worry. 

Tx! Nepali here, big thanks to China as well for sending us their search and rescue team.

Edit: Source: http://www.cctv-america.com/2015/04/25/chinese-rescue-team-to-depart-for-shaken-devastated-nepal Pakistani here. I came over in February with a few friends of mine, and absolutely loved staying in the city. Can't imagine how difficult it is for you guys, probably going to travel there for a few weeks with the same group to help out. Such tragic loss of life :( But the focus is now on those who are injured, and to prevent further loss of life through rescue, medical care, disease prevention, providing shelter, and making sure adequate supplies are available.

I'm glad there has been a quick response from the international community, but I'm sure a lot more is needed.  

I'm glad Pakistan is contributing as well: 

Four C-130 aircraft carrying a 30-bed hospital, special search and rescue teams and relief items will be dispatched to Nepal tomorrow,

"The 30-bed hospital comprises a team of Pakistan Army specialist doctors, including surgical, medical, orthopaedic, gynaecologist, anaesthesiologist, child specialist, radiologist and paramedics. An urban search and rescue team of Pakistan Army which is highly specialised for rescue during natural disasters is also being sent. The search and rescue team is equipped with ground penetrating radars and concrete cutter. The team is specially trained to search people trapped in rubble. Food items being dispatched include ready-to-eat meal packs, eatables, water bottles, medicines, tents, blankets and other necessary items, the ISPR said."

Source:
http://www.dawn.com/news/1178231/relief-items-will-be-sent-to-nepal-today Google has set up a people finder too http://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake/ . Nepali here, its been 12 hours and we are still experiencing aftershocks every now and then. Most of us spent last night in tents away from our homes. We are in the capital city, Kathmandu so thankfully we have access to food, water and WiFi. Food, Water, and Wifi--the three basic needs.

Joke aside, I'm glad you and others are safe in the capital. My thoughts are with everyone affected. The most helpful piece of tech for us right now is probably the radio. Internet connection and phone lines are unstable, FM radio is our only source of information. Thank you for your wishes brother. I've visited your beautiful country twice. I've travelled from Kathmandu to Chitwan, rafted the Trisuli, chilled out in Pokhara and trekked in the Annapurna range. It's one of my favourite destinations in the world, with a history and culture that were overwhelming and unique. The people were among the most charming and generous I've ever met. 

You do not deserve this.

Unable to do anything practical, please know that I've been thinking of you, every minute of every day since the disaster. You are suffering greatly but you are mighty people, and you will recover. These words, written by a British soldier who had fought alongside the Gurkhas, ring especially true today:

&gt; Uncomplaining you endure hunger and thirst and wounds; and at the last your unwavering lines disappear into the smoke and wrath of battle. Bravest of the brave, most generous of the generous, never had a country more faithful friends than you.

--Professor Sir Ralph Lilley Turner MC No one deserves this.


Thank you for your kind words and support. I just did this exact trip and arrived back in Australia about a week ago. Shocking to see such a beautiful country reduced to rubble. Luckily I've been able to get in touch with all my friends in KTM already and they are all safe. How hard was Kathmandu hit? Is there a lot of destruction there? The earthquake totaled most of the ancient homes, structures and buildings (some of which were UNESCO world heritage sites) in KTM. The situation is grim. A relative is missing. His last known location was Hotel Budget Multiplex , Thamel, Kathmandu. 
Is there any way to locate him? Two people he was with have been found in the hospital - http://www.kaumudiglobal.com/innerpage1.php?newsid=63935&amp;amp;utm_source=twitterfeed&amp;amp;utm_medium=twitter 

The family is really worried.  Based on how inaccessible many of the towns and villages are in rural Nepal this figure will likely grow much higher in the days to come, and it will be incredibly difficult to deliver care to those in need.  Linked further below but I think they should be at the top. Here's how you can help:

[Unicef Relief Fund](https://www.unicefusa.org/donate/nepal-earthquake-help-children-now/24226?ms=sem_dig_2015_misc_20150425_google&amp;initialms=sem_dig_2015_misc_20150425_google&amp;gclid=CjwKEAjw9uypBRD5pMDYtsKxvXcSJACcb9AYowhuNEis_WS1VoM2tWV5bPt8427UwyyaOM9v35BQKxoCJIrw_wcB)

[Red Cross](https://www.redcross.org/combined-donate) (some users attempting to donate from outside of the US noticed that the payment page does not have a security certificate)

Thanks /u/IrishRed107 and /u/USADV for pointing these out. Does anyone know if there is a number to text to initiate a donation?  I know I've done that before (for a hurricane I think).  I lost my credit card a couple days ago so can't help with that, but I can charge it to my phone if possible.

EDIT:  Found one in [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/33vrb6/nepal_earthquake_over_1800_people_killed_4700/cqp0822) comment.

Global Giving is accepting donations via text message ($10 donation) GIVE NEPAL to 80088 http://www.globalgiving.org/projects/nepal-earthquake-relief-fund/ Yes, [Global Giving has created a Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund page](https://www.globalgiving.org/projects/nepal-earthquake-relief-fund/) that includes the ability to donate by mobile phone (US Only).

Text GIVE NEPAL to 80088 to donate $10.
 [deleted] Thanks for pointing that out. Someone also PM'd me about this issue. Not sure why that would be the case, but probably a good call to go with UNICEF then. I would add, before breaking out your wallet and donating, please look at the history of the organizations you're donating to. I myself wouldn't donate to the red cross. 

Haiti, prime example:

&gt;&gt;[One of the most notorious examples of this disparity in the delivery of funds came from the American Red Cross. Despite collecting $255 million in private donations, only $106 million made it to its Haiti relief project.](http://newint.org/features/2012/01/01/haiti-money-ngo-un/) The small towns would presumably been safer, with a much lower population and building/debris density. Yes and no. a lot of small towns are on the sides of mountains and cliffs- when I would go to visit I remember quite distinctly how incredibly hard to access these villages were even with good conditions. Roads would be no more than 15 feet across for both lanes and with no barrier saving you from a 1000+ foot drop. Now with the earthquake the roads are probably fucked, and landslides or avalanches could, and probably have, easily wiped away entire towns and villages without any survivors.  Building standards are even lower in small towns/villages in Nepal too though. They don't have the density, but there's still plenty of two or three story buildings in really rural locations. Locations that are a several hour 4wd trip away from anywhere else.  A few years ago, my ex-gf who was working for an NGO at that time went to Nepal for a research trip.

She told me that she had to go to a town that's only accessible :

- by 10 walking days from the nearest city that actually has roads

- or by plane that is supposed to make trips twice a week, but has the wonkiest schedule due to constant mechanical failures. 

My girlfriend took the plane... and the plane had only one working motor out of two. Just what the fuck, I really fear for people living in similar conditions in Nepal now... That's so scary.  Our country has no infrastructure, people are digging with their bare hands in search for survivors. Final death toll will be much higher, probably 20k+. My god this is horrifying... If you notice in the pictures, literally people are carrying bricks in buckets and you'll see no police, army, relief workers, nothing!! It's all every day Nepali people coming together to carry people to hospitals. Funny thing is the US, China and India's relief aircrafts landed in Nepal BEFORE the prime minister even made it back from Bangkok citing airport closure. What a farce. Now when foreign aid is rolling in, all these politicians will start rearing their ugly butts. Holy shit. Japan sent international emergency relief team to Nepal. Earthquake? We have TOO MUCH ENOUGH experience! Count on them!
http://news.tbs.co.jp/newseye/tbs_newseye2478079.html Do you know of a way to donate to the Japanese relief team? I feel that they might be among the most effective ones out there.  They are governmental team such as policemen, firefighters, means they depend on our tax, so I think donation for them is not needed. I'm very happy if all of my tax is used for them. I hope you find another proper way to donate for Nepal. Now I'm also struggling to find a proper way to donate though. Because I have been to Nepal and stayed with Nepali ppl for a long time. I'm totally hearbreaking and can't stay on the sidelines about this disaster anyway. I'm an ER trauma nurse and veteran combat medic living in California who's currently trying to find out how i can get over there to help in any capacity, be it medical aid or digging for survivors with my bare hands. Anyone have a fast track on a disaster relief organization taking willing applicants? I've checked local red cross chapters and i know oxfam has been sending people from the UK but details are pretty vague. Any info would be greatly appreciated.  If you're a vet it might be worth getting in touch with your former unit. I don't know how call ups work in the US, but there's an outside chance that you could join a deployment if one occurs. There is a fairly close relationship between the US and Nepal forces and the US Military has been involved with disaster planning there.

It might be a little bit too late to help in this case but someone with your skills would make an excellent addition to an Urban Search and Rescue Team etc. Try getting in touch with USAID - they should be able help you get on a list for future callups. Doctors Without Borders might also be a good option. Here is a list of charities that are setting up fundraising pages:

[Doctors without borders](http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/article/msf-sending-medical-non-medical-teams-assist-victims-nepal-earthquake)

[Unicef](http://www.unicef.org.uk/landing-pages/Donate-Nepal-Earthquake/)

[Red Cross](http://www.redcross.org.uk/nepalearthquake)

[Oxfam](https://donate.oxfam.org.uk/emergency/nepal?pscid=ps_ggl_Emergencies_nepal_earthquake_generic)

[Save the Children](https://secure.savethechildren.org.uk/donate/emergency?sourcecode=EM1002002) I don't think he wants to donate, he wants to go and help in person.

&gt;currently trying to find out how i can get over there to help in any capacity, be it medical aid or digging for survivors with my bare hands India has sent in military aircraft with medical equipment and relief teams with Israel and the United States also announcing response teams would be sent and US said it had authorised an initial $US1 million to address immediate needs. Canada sent a DART team, too.  Canada, this is no time for darts! It's all fun and games until someone loses a city.  http://www.forces.gc.ca/en/operations-abroad-recurring/dart.page
 At Narita airport and I watched a team of over 100 Japanese relief team members depart for Nepal.   love that the uk has to scope out the damage with humanitarian experts before they really help. classic uk. China also sent search and rescue teams. Just spoke to a friend in Lukla. She told me about a boulder falling just 10ft from her. She and her family are volunteering at the hospital there as they bring in people from base camp. They are indefinitely trapped with no idea how they will get back to KTM. Just experienced yet another huge quake. Local time 12:54 pm

Edit 1:02 pm I'm okay, but a brick wall collapsed in our neighborhood

Edit: 1:05pm everyone here is safe

Edit: 1:10 pm small aftershocks approximately every minute

Edit: 1:16 pm aftershocks have stopped for now. Will post pics in a while

Edit 1:27 pm the national telecom has made all calls free, but we are experiencing connection errors and internet service is really slow

Edit 1:33pm I'm having trouble uploading pictures to imgur (net is too slow) any alternatives?

Edit 1:37pm the radio says it was 6.7 on the Richter scale, epicenter: Banepa (unconfirmed)

Edit 1:48pm helicopters are flying around the city, surveying the destruction.

Edit: 2:32 pm the aftershocks have stopped, having lunch

Edit 2:34pm news came in, the buildings of a major hospital (grande hospital) has cracked because of the quake (unconfirmed)

Edit: 3:12pm Dr Brian Baptie, head of seismology at the British Geological Survey in Edinburgh explains how aftershocks will last for weeks, or even months. Source: http://www.aljazeera.com/news/2015/04/caused-nepal-earthquake-150426075723870.html

Edit 4:32pm: I don't have anything to add to this comment right now, make sure you follow this live thread ( https://www.reddit.com/live/usqod2db8ogh ) by /u/phalano 
Thank you everyone for your kind words and support. Jai Nepal.

Edit 7:00pm please take a look at this document listing out the various ways you can donate. Thank you :) https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/tNTc1VDhbBHHIzSKyltI_SA Are you in Kathmandu? I have a local friend I am trying to get in touch with. Looking to understand if his neighborhood is still in one piece. Yes, I'm in ktm. Do you know his location? Neighborhood name? Town name? Contact details? Hi. I am living in KTM but right now in India. Do you know how hard Boudha was hit by all of this? Are all cell networks down? Thanks mate.  NCell and 3G and landlines are working quite well. Lots of companies have introduced free calling, Viber Out, Airtel, BSNL and MTN (both local rates) and NTC. The 6.7 is definitely confirmed:

http://earthquaketrack.com/p/nepal/recent This terrifies me, my cousin was over there for a study abroad program and nobody has heard from him directly yet, just program leadership notifying the families of an immediate evacuation plan. That's so sad to hear. My family is back there and Im constantly checking on them. They are terrified. http://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake/

Hope this helps.  This is the twitter feed of a climber on Everest.  
  updated 30 minutes ago
  
  https://twitter.com/AlexGAVAN  
  
  A video of a base camp at the time of an avalanche just popped up on Youtube.  (some colorful language)  
  
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=45&amp;v=_JC_wIWUC2U Just felt another big one in Delhi.  6.9 they say.

Edit: feeling some tremors again.  Must have been a big one in Nepal :( They just got hit again. 6.7 at 12:20 PST how can I help? seems like that number is only gonna grow [Unicef relief fund](https://www.unicefusa.org/donate/nepal-earthquake-help-children-now/24226?ms=sem_dig_2015_misc_20150425_google&amp;initialms=sem_dig_2015_misc_20150425_google&amp;gclid=CjwKEAjw9uypBRD5pMDYtsKxvXcSJACcb9AYowhuNEis_WS1VoM2tWV5bPt8427UwyyaOM9v35BQKxoCJIrw_wcB) I'd like to add that make sure you're giving to a well established entity and not an unknown... expect a lot of scams sorry to say. Unicef and the Red Cross are probably going to be the two most helpful entities in disasters such as this.

[Red Cross donation page, it has an option for Nepal Earthquake relief](https://www.redcross.org/combined-donate) Thanks, I donated what I could.  Terrible thing in a country so remote.   Red Cross or UNICEF would be the safest places to donate right now There oughta be a couple of donation drives and such in the next few days. Man this sucks. **Here is a list of legitimate charities that are accepting donations for Nepal:**

* Plan Canada 
1-800-387-1418.
https://plancanada.ca/help-nepal

* The Canadian Red Cross 
1-800-418-1111.
Https://redcross.ca/registrant/donate

* Unicef Canada 
https://secure3.unicef.ca/site/Donation

* CARE Canada 
1-800-267-5232
https://secure3.convio.net/careca/site/Donation

* Global Giving is accepting donations via text message ($10 donation) GIVE NEPAL to 80088
http://www.globalgiving.org/projects/nepal-earthquake-relief-fund/

* Care.org  
https://my.care.org/site/Donation

*  Samaritan's Purse 
http://www.samaritanspurse.org/donation-items/nepal-earthquake-response/


* Nepalese relief organization that is NOT an international aid agency: http://www.sherpakyidug.org/forums/Messages.asp?idThread=6379
This sends money directly into Nepal.

* https://support.actionaid.org.uk/checkout/cart/

* Text NEPAL to 70123 to donate 5
http://www.unicef.org.uk/landing-pages/Donate-Nepal-Earthquake/

* https://donate.oxfam.org.uk/emergency/nepal?pscid=ps_ggl_Emergencies_nepal_earthquake_generic&amp;gclid=CJnAhq70k8UCFernwgodd2oAow

* http://www.redcross.org.uk/NepalEarthquake?gclid=CPnl6az0k8UCFUP3wgodonkAXw

 Thanks for the info!  Lost my credit card a couple of days ago and was looking for a way to donate via text. You're welcome. I'm happy to help! You are awesome for helping!!!  I'm just x-posting this so I can spread the word:
If anyone is in the area or knows of somebody in the area, we are looking for Spencer Dickinson, a 21 year old male from Petaluma, California. He was climbing Everest and heading to the first base-camp today. He hasn't contacted anybody and nobody can get a hold of him. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Here is his google person finder profile:
https://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake/view?family_name=&amp;given_name=&amp;id=2015-nepal-earthquake.personfinder.google.org%2Fperson.5081120392609792&amp;query=dickinson&amp;role=seek This is the twitter feed of a climber on Everest.
updated 30 minutes ago

https://twitter.com/AlexGAVAN

 Unfortunately there are a number of base camps destroyed, and there are a lot of casualties. Indian army helicopters reportedly are searching the area and evacuating people, but it can take days if not longer to reach everyone and/or establish communication with that area, so don't lose hope.   
  
Hopefully Spencer got 'lucky' and made it out.  I can't imagine a worse place for this to happen. I spent time there last year and completely fell in love with the place and the people. It is already one of the poorest countries on earth - it breaks my heart to think the Nepalese having to deal with this.  I share your sadness - my favourite place in the world. The Nepalese people are so welcoming and their culture is rich and beautiful.

I think of the roads between KTM and Pokhara and the reality is they're poorly built roads winding through hills and valleys, and if one has collapsed it will make access to the towns on it incredibly difficult. Doctors Without Borders/Mdecins Sans Frontires (MSF) are sending medical and non-medical staff to Nepal. Another good source to provide financial assistance besides the organizations already listed.

http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/article/msf-sending-medical-non-medical-teams-assist-victims-nepal-earthquake Hang on, you're not alone!! 
     Very sad day. I have cousins in Dhaka, Bangladesh and even they felt it. That's how huge this was. Prayers for the people of Nepal Has the Australian government responded to this incident yet?  "The Australian Government will also provide an immediate package of life-saving humanitarian support to Nepal as it responds to the devastation caused by the magnitude 7.9 earthquake of 25 April.

An Australian Crisis Response Team will travel to Nepal as soon as possible to assist in establishing the welfare of Australians unaccounted for after the earthquake on 25 April. Two humanitarian experts will also be deployed.

The Australian Embassy in Kathmandu is working closely with Nepalese authorities and other donors to assess the full extent of the disaster. Australias $5 million assistance will include:

$2.5 million to assist Australian non-government organisations;
$2 million to support United Nations partners; and
$0.5 million to support the Australian Red Cross."

http://www.foreignminister.gov.au/releases/Pages/2015/jb_mr_150426.aspx Dont know what we can do, we specialise in cyclones and tsunamis, not earthquakes in the himalayas.  Australia can still support Nepal by sending Doctors, food and water, etc. Can we please send Tony? Please? They don't want another disaster over there He'll just eat all their onions. Some of the Australians listed as missing include Ballantyne Forder, 20, from Perth, Dianne Coburn, 59, and Liam Oliver, 18, from Victoria, Zachary Sheridan, 20, from Adelaide, a 43-year-old man and Hamish McKee, 21, from Canberra. According to http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-26/nepal-earthquake-dozens-australians-missing/6422398 I am requesting my fellow countrymen, if you are in Nepal and are able bodied please help stop taking pics and help with the rescue effort.

My wife's cousin was trapped for 18 hours with no help arriving. We just heard that she passed away!

Also please stop uploading and sharing the pics and videos of the deceased. Please respect the dead and I am sure they don't want to be remembered as how they died rather how they lived their lives.


Thanks all for the support!
 I'm stuck in ktm because of the quake within friend of mine, were two foreigners, what can we do to help ? Help clear rubble, mate. That's one thing that needs to be done that won't be hampered by a language barrier.  Email or call the red cross or whatever agency they have on the ground. They need bodies for something low skill. Has Nepal ever had an earthquake of this magnitude or beyond? The [1934 earthquake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1934_Nepal%E2%80%93Bihar_earthquake) was of magnitude 8.2 and killed 10,000-12,000 people. There was one in the 1930s that was a bit stronger. Very large loss of life from what I read. The area is a seismically active zone.  Given that you have the tectonic plate of India pushing into the Eurasian plate, which creates the Himalayan mountain range. 

http://i.imgur.com/Kxv2pJ1.png The problem with donating to these causes is that in some cases the people affected never see any of it. I went with a medical mission to Tacloban, Philippines, over 6 months after [typhoon Haiyan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoon_Haiyan) hit and they were still fucked. Billions of dollars raised and there were [literally tankers on top of houses still.](http://imgur.com/uXcidN6) What we thought were sacks of rice were sacks of rocks to try and move the tanker themselves, [no one was helping them](http://imgur.com/w1FzDHt). The only construction was to the main street where the car dealership and stuff were. 

All of the donated medicine was sitting in an open air room in super hot and humid condition, unused. Our pharmacist said most of it was useless at that point. Billions of dollars and it was sitting somewhere in Manila, probably, never to be seen by the people that need it. shitty politicians wanted to make sure the victims see the goods coming out of their hands, not from volunteers. it's *that* terrible here, i hope Nepal handles this better. What the actual fuck. From all accounts this wasn't only an extremely powerful earthquake, but one that was shallow and long in duration which causes much more severe damage.  Truly a human tragedy of historic proportion. 30 seconds of uninterrupted, intense shaking. Doesn't seem like a very long time, but in earthquake time, it is quite long... I can only imagine it felt like an eternity to those who experienced it. Holy shit. 30 seconds is FOREVER.  I was in Nepal this summer. Hospitals were either three hours away or they had three walls.. Infrastructure and construction was the epitome of hap-hazard... Seeing the Dunbar square and others in Katmandu in ruins is as horrifying as it is unsurprising. The area has been projected for this activity for some time and fuck if they were ready for it.  Probably will be buried but my buddy is up on the Northern (tibet) advanced base camp and has said that he felt the quake but is ok. His group is still planning on moving forward with summiting! edit* Meant this comment will be buried... good god They should not summit. god, no... There are rescue teams being sent out. They should wait.

That said, my thoughts are with you.  Those everest climbers are nuts Horrible idea. If they get in trouble trying to summit that rescue chopper is probably not going to come, let alone the rigging potentially damaged in the quakes. Why are they going to summit in this situation? There is nationwide emergency. It will put strain in resources if anything happens.  If you are in contact with him emphasize that he should not try to summit. He may not be fully aware of the situation happening in the other parts of the region. **Travel Advice..**

This Advice was last issued on Sunday, 26 April 2015.   A large earthquake struck Nepal on 25 April 2015. The epicentre was 80 kms west of Kathmandu. Extensive damage has occurred to buildings, including in Kathmandu and Pokhara.

**Source :** http://www.smartraveller.gov.au/zw-cgi/view/Advice/Nepal My sister is in Nepal right now. She had just left for a 15 day guided trek of some sort with no way to communicate, so we have no idea if she's okay or not. Which trek was she on, Annapurna, Everest, or somewhere else?

FWIW, you can enter her data on [Google Person Finder](https://google.org/personfinder/2015-nepal-earthquake), and hopefully she (or someone else) will update. Checking in from Dhaka, bangladesh. Felt the quake for straight 30-40 seconds at 24 April 2014 at 12:11 PM (GMT+6). Terrifying experience. Longest in my life. 3 People dead &amp; 100 injured.

If you are a bangladeshi and searching for your loved ones in nepal or you are in nepal and need help, Bangladesh embassy at nepal has opened hotlines. 01.Mr.Khan Md.Moinul Hossen +977 9808 184014 02.Ms.Shamima Choudhury(1st sec.)+9779808 765071. Email - mission.kathmandu@mofa.gov.bd

Feeling very bad for the nepali people :( . Also very sad to lose historical artifacts. sad day :(

**EDIT**: If you can, Help out the relief fund https://pmnrf.gov.in/payform.php

**EDIT 2**: Holy shit, huge aftershock. 25 April 2014 at 01:09 PM (GMT+6) !

**EDIT 3**: *FOR THE PEOPLE OF BANGLADESH IN NEPAL:*

Special Announcement | Biman will be flying two special flights to Dhaka-Kathmandu-Dhaka tomorrow for rescue mission in Nepal

 First flight to depart: BG702 1410 hours (2.10 pm) BDT
 Second flight: BG704 1510 hours (3.10 pm) BDT

Stranded Bangladeshi Nationals who want to travel, requested to contact with the Embassy ( +97714390130) or Country Manager Biman (+9779851037510)

Please let your relatives, friends and families know of these special flights if they are waiting in Nepal for their return flight to home. 

**EDIT 4**: Bad news, BG702 was unable to land in Tribhuban int'l airport because there was no space for another plane. BG704 is still scheduled to lift up bangladeshi nationals from KTM. Good news is Bangladesh Airforce plane C130 has reached Kathmandu with emergency medical team and plane full of relief materials and tents. Same aircraft is expected to be back today with BFF under 14 girls football team and 75 stranded bangldeshi nationals

**EDIT 5**: Several buildings in Dhaka have been severely damaged. Any more violent aftershocks will surely demolish them

**EDIT 6**: Facebook group to co-ordinate search and rescue. Randomly found it https://www.facebook.com/groups/1573612889579406/

**EDIT 7**: Airtel Bangladesh is offering calls from Bangladesh to nepal completely free of cost.

**EDIT 8**: Another aftershock @APR 27 2015 18:39 (GMT+6). Was not as strong as the previous one. &gt;there's reports that the earthquake caused an avalanche on Mount Everest and sent mountaineers at the Everest base camp running for cover.  8 people have been reported killed.

Fuck that's terrible.  Definitely putting more than a couple bucks in for this. Discovery Channel in the states just had a special on tonight about last years Everest tragedy and at the very end they listed the Sherpas names who perished. Then it said something about the quake today in Nepal and I thought that's weird what are they talking about. And then I come on reddit and here this is. Such a shame. From what I've read and seen on TV the Nepalese people seem to be a genuinely kind and caring people who are very family oriented. I'm not sure where I'm going with this but it's tragic. That's all.  Yeah, can you imagine training and conditioning yourself for years to get in a fit enough condition to climb the tallest mountain in the world, just dreaming of the day when you would finally do it? And when you eventually get there, you are killed by an avalanche.

Nature is a cruel, cruel mistress.

(Also, [NYTimes](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/26/world/asia/everest-climbers-killed-as-nepal-quake-sets-off-avalanche.html?hp&amp;action=click&amp;pgtype=Homepage&amp;module=b-lede-package-region&amp;region=top-news&amp;WT.nav=top-news) is putting the number at 17 now) It's a very real danger in the high peaks. If it wasn't an earthquake, it could be as simple as the sun melting some seracs or a gust of wind.

It's pretty early in the season too, I don't think anyone would be super high up except for maybe the sherpas setting up fixed lines. Which is even more sad because these guys have been up so many times and know the mountain so well.  Student attending school in Kathmandu presently. On our orientation day they told us that an event like this might happen, and in that case there could be up to 5% mortality rate. That put the fear in my heart from day one and I spent as much time outside the city as possible. Thank goodness I was in India when the quake hit. 

The Nepalese people are amazing, kind and generous. Unfortunately, their buildings suck and Kathmandu is just a smorgasbord of top-heavy, horribly designed buildings. Keep Nepal and her people in your thoughts or prayers in the coming days and help if you can. It is truly an exceptional place with exceptional people.  Stories like this make me wish i was superman so i could save people... Traveling near the area. First aid, CERT certified. Wilderness survival and emergency situation trained. Im a few hours flight away from Nepal. Anyone know a organization needing a hand? Contact Red Cross. Sounds like they need as many people as they can get from the other comments I've read That's a great sentiment but definitely make sure you have the support of an agency that is coordinating relief efforts. You don't want to arrive and add additional strain on locals. I'd imagine food, water, shelter will be scarce in the coming weeks / months.

 Another 6.7 quake just struck the area :-( Here is a list of charities in the United Kingdom that are setting up fundraising pages:

[Doctors without borders](http://www.doctorswithoutborders.org/article/msf-sending-medical-non-medical-teams-assist-victims-nepal-earthquake)

[Unicef](http://www.unicef.org.uk/landing-pages/Donate-Nepal-Earthquake/)

[Red Cross](http://www.redcross.org.uk/nepalearthquake)

[Oxfam](https://donate.oxfam.org.uk/emergency/nepal?pscid=ps_ggl_Emergencies_nepal_earthquake_generic)

[Save the Children](https://secure.savethechildren.org.uk/donate/emergency?sourcecode=EM1002002) I'm in Delhi. We have just now felt another quake. It was only weak because we're a long way from the epicenter, but it felt about the same as the last one. Felt another one an hour ago, around 12:47 P.M local time here at Lucknow. The news says this wasn't an aftershock. Friends confirmed they felt it too in Delhi and Kolkata. I wonder what is happening in the region. This is scary as fuck. I have exams tomorrow and its difficult to concentrate when you have to keep running out every couple of hours fearing for your life. anyone in/around kathmandu, just checking if anyone knows about the damage the main 6.7 aftershock has done? Have some friends, Abby Harris, Becky Radcliffe, and Lucy Morris, in thamel in kathmandu, and we haven't heard from them since last night. thanks. My nation is crying, black day in the history. Wish they have quick recovery.
 [deleted] This is half a planet away, but it hit home.

I vaguely knew (went to same HS a few years after I did) someone that was killed due to the earthquake.

I'm sitting here wondering what else I can do besides donate to the relief funds and send out prayers and thoughts of hope for the survivors.

 get on a plane and help? Wish I could, but like most people I have family and job commitments. then  there is nothing else you can do. Except maybe raise awarness to others. For some reason, I feel really awful upvoting this :( Like I'm upvoting their misfortune.  You're also up voting this for awareness. I'm not subscribed here, but i was browsing /r/all. This was one of the top posts. 

Because of everyone's upvotes, I, along with hundreds of others, will be donating to the relief cause.  Yeah of course. It was just a split second thought "upvoting tragedy" There really should be a separate subreddit for it, there's going to be a lot of updates as the weeks and months progress. I created /r/NepalEarthquake spread it if you can.  ~~There doesn't seem to be anything here~~ 
 ***** 
                                                                                                                         ^^As ^^of: ^^10:17 ^^04-26-2015 ^^UTC. ^^I'm ^^checking ^^to ^^see ^^if ^^the ^^above ^^subreddit ^^exists ^^so ^^you ^^don't ^^have ^^to! ^^Downvote ^^me ^^and ^^I'll ^^disappear! Right because I was suggesting to create it. Think of it as you are upvoting the story so that people will read it and be aware, and possibly donate.  Just think you are upvoting so that more people see this thread and are aware of whats going on. The more the people see it, the more donations the nepal gets.  You're participating to a media circus. Nepal: Earthquake - Apr 2015

http://reliefweb.int/disaster/eq-2015-000048-npl **Breaking:**  kathmandu airport reopens for rescue operations .. I'm not sure that's exactly breaking news - but the situation with the airport is fluid. I imagine they're temporarily closing after each major aftershock and assessing the runway condition before allowing relief flights to land or take off. Shout out to anyone who wants to help from home.

The Humanitarian Open Street Map can use your help, updating OSM for the humanitarian teams on their way there to assist. Many of the affected Himalayan villages are in unmapped areas and it is super useful to have the roads (to begin with) mapped out.

[Humanitarian Open Street Map Team Nepal Effort](http://hot.openstreetmap.org/updates/2015-04-26_hot_activates_for_nepal_response_report_2) [This one was big but The Big One is yet to come, say experts](http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-others/this-one-was-big-but-the-big-one-is-yet-to-come-say-experts/)

This is getting really scary. :/ Surely it depends how deep and how close to densely populated areas to become a major disaster? Yeah I guess so. Problem with developing nations is that they have lot of densely populated areas because of the unchecked population thing. That applies to India too. It suffered a lot in 2001 in Gujarat's major one.  Exactly right, and probably inadequate construction of buildings. I honestly hope the region doesn't see a devastating 9.0 quake like the article says. Maybe it's taking what the expert said out of context. Who knows, I guess we will find out.  Not probably. KTM's infrastructure is appallingly weak. Another quake would be catastrophic. &gt; This one was big but The Big One is yet to come, say experts

Correct me if I'm wrong but nowhere in the article does it suggest that there is an *imminent* earthquake. Rather, experts expect there to be more quakes in the future (like any area on a fault line).  cctv footage of 7.9 earthquake as seen from tibet border https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5GTqmHOdDs0 Let me take this moment to remind people that emergency preparedness isn't something reserved for people preparing for the end of the world on "Disaster Preppers"

Often times governments aren't able to react to the individual quickly enough for you not to starve/dehydrate/bleed out so you need to have the bare necessities for 72 hours of water, food, and a small first aid kit for everyone in your family ready to go.

Seriously, it could save you and your family's lives. I think the best help they can get is from China. Not only is China right next to Nepal, the 2008 Shichuan Earthquake happened in remote area as well. So China has pretty good experience with this. Helicopters would really be helpful as it's the only way of reaching areas most badly hit This is what I was thinking. The roads are bad there at the best of times. If they've sustained earthquake damage, it could take weeks or months to get them into a state where they will be passable. There are hills that would be called mountains in between most towns and villages. Kathmandu Valley is better but still very hilly. Nepal needs helicopters, hundreds of them. Rugged, and in good condition - military grade. In most of the places I've been there are few places to land, but they could drop aid and medical workers in and collect them. DRONES!!!! Oh my god, the answer seems so obvious to me, we've been making them increasingly more bad ass for the worlds military's for the last 20 years.

They do have the capability to deliver things like water to rural nepal now. Even if it's only in small amounts.

I think in future earthquakes and disasters the use of drones will be a huge gamechanger. It could be in this disaster, except there is no way the US will put its drones that would actually be capable of the most help anywhere near china. This morning:

[China has sent a 62-member Chinese search and rescue team, plus six dogs, to Nepal's capital city Kathmandu by chartered plane, according to the China Earthquake Administration.](http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Over-600-Chinese-tourists-stranded-in-quakehit-Nepal/shdaily.shtml) Sounds like India is spearheading the relief effort, which is great, but it'd be better if China pitched in as well. China is pitching in... India is spearheading the effort and China is secondary helping. Then America/Australia/Canada/Japan and various other countries are also helping. [Sri Lanka sent a C130 with supplies and rescue teams](http://photonews247.com/2015/04/sri-lankan-air-force-loads-supplies-on-c-130-heading-to-quake-hit-nepal/). Everyone is helping, and they must because the real extent of the damage is yet not known. The death toll is expected to be much much higher and the damages could be as high as 50% of Nepal's GDP :(  It's going to be slow due to terrain  I don't think they'll leave the country afterwards though. By that logic, the US team is even more worrisome I'd be real nervous about lettin Chinese forces into a country with devastated infrastructure. That's a hell of an easy power grab, and it's not like they've never done it before. Pretty much every country that can afford it maintains an elite search-and-rescue team ready to go anywhere in the world on short notice, under a sort of today you, tomorrow me agreement. And even countries with very poor political relations will usually send them or let them in. For the next couple weeks *many* countries will have teams in Nepal searching for survivors. China isn't going to take control of Nepal. Have you not kept up with Chinese news in the last decade? They are building themselves into a powerful economy and increasing relations with basically every country except North Korea. They have even been slowly making amends with India. They are not going to try and publicly attack Nepal after an earthquake. They are actually the biggest backers of NK. The only way NJ functions is by lots of Chinese aid. The reason is that if Korea unites,it will be a Giant South Korea,  which makes China less powerful. Therefore is in China's interest to keep North Korea afloat. But this isn't important now. Donate to UNICEF!!!  Sorry, I think you misunderstood. I didn't say that they don't support NK, I said that they have been increasing relations with other countries. Their NK relations have been lessening if anything, but they are still allies. So i see Many countries will be going into Nepal to help out, many of whom are big players in the world, but I think everyone understands that relief + rescue &gt; any sort of power grab. This just makes you sound like a dick against China.

They're actually contributing to helping the disaster relief, unlike yourself  It's okay, they haven't done the power grab thing 1/10th as much as the US. Not with the whole world watching.  Did you miss what happened in Ukraine a year ago? That's Russia.

China is a bro, relax. Like in Tibet eh. Yes, I know that's Russia, but the Chinese have been jockeying for territory for most of their history. And they've been doing so recently under Xi, specifically. And of course there are idiots upvote this retard.

Can you provide any news about China just randomly invade a country like what Russia or the US did?

Seriously, can you antichina circlejerks stop trying to bash China at least ITT? 1800 people died.  Be a decent human being. &gt; Can you provide any news about China just randomly invade a country like what Russia or the US did?

Tibet - y'know, that former country right next door to Nepal - is the obvious historical example. But China under Xi has been engaging in a fair bit of territorial skirmishing lately with Japan.

&gt; Seriously, can you antichina circlejerks stop trying to bash China at least ITT?

I think this is literally the first time I've even said the word "China" on this account in the two-odd years it's existed, and I have no particular beef with China per se. Not everyone who disagrees with you is circlejerking, y'know.

&gt; 1800 people died. Be a decent human being.

I'm confused, are decent human beings not allowed to concern themselves with world affairs? Because I'd say a decent human being is *obligated* to do so. What would you like me to do, end every post here with "and 1800 people dying is bad"? Of course it's bad, everyone knows it's bad, and if I could do a damn thing about it I would. Yes, because China = Russia. You can't have such a simplistic view of world politics. my wife and i had vacations there last year.

i wish everyone from this beautiful region my heart and prayers for a speedy recovery and that you return to being the enchanting place you always have been. I am in India and a 6.9 magnitude earthquake has struck Nepal and India again.Just 20 mins before Oh no. hope its not even worse and everybody gets the help that they need I hope this doesn't go as it went in Haiti and other places... just now saw, coincidentally, Vice on HBO that it is still after some years that it's still fucked up there.

Some "relatives" of mine work/are with the Salvation Army, and told us that it hadn't worked to just send money, same thing happened with the Tsunami funding shit. 

If there are going to be some kind of donation thing, they can better ask for goods and medical supplies etc, instead op money that end up in someones offshore bank account. The Haitian govt and country as a whole were shit long before the quake there.  The failure on their govt to have a remotely successful relief effort is a tragedy. Just for comparison 

The Loma Prieta Earthquake (Bay Area earthquake from 1989) was a 6.9 and killed 63 people 

This was a 7.9.. That means 10x greater shaking amplitude and release of energy at 31.6x greater amount (if Wikipedia is right)

That's just fucking insane, I hope they are able to save as many as possible... Heck their aftershock was as big as  loma  prieta  plus this was shallower and they probably don't have builDing cOdes http://www.mercurynews.com/science/ci_27686200/big-bay-area-quake-two-three-chance-next

Hopefully it saves us against this I live near the fault with biggest chance of doom China really stepped up and did a good thing here and it looks good on them. They said they didn't want to be seen to have the capacity to take on more people and not have the heart to do it. They rescued 279 foreign nationals from 15 different countries, in addition to the 629 of their own. Good stuff. China having good diplomatic relations with the west (many people consider Japan to be a part of the west) is great for everyone. (Especially with the tensions between the two.) Japan is just really really far west 