Has a chance in hell unfortunately. The way they got tax immunity in the first place was by creating a clusterfuck in lawsuits. I want it to happen but it's a very uphill battle. Still, I'm putting in my vote. That was the just the tip of the iceburg.

Operation Snow White

[This project included a series of infiltrations and thefts from 136 government agencies, foreign embassies and consulates, as well as private organizations critical of Scientology, carried out by Church members, in more than 30 countries.\[1\] It was the single largest infiltration of the United States government in history[2] with up to 5,000 covert agents.[3]](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Snow_White) So why don't they just arrest 'em all for RICO or terrorism? If Scientology were Muslim they'd all be in jail. Well they won't get hit as long as there's a bigger religion to hate, and ISIS is doing a pretty good job of keeping Islam on that hitlist. maybe ISIS is a scientology conspiracy! TIL &gt; Jail

Guantanamo bay How many Christians have infiltrated the U.S. Government? Haha I see what you did there. Almost as funny as your defense of Comcast.  I don't get why scientology specifically. I understand if the argument were for all religions to no longer be tax exempt, but it's not like scientology is more extreme or crazy than other religions that just happen to have been around for longer.  Watch "Going Clear" if you haven't already. I knew Scientology was weird but it turns out it is completely fucked up. There is indoctrination in pretty much all religions but Scientology is straight up hardcore brainwashing for the purpose of making money. 

Edit: stop replying with semi-irrelevant comments please &amp; thank you. I'm not defending other religions, I'm not saying other religions don't try to make money and I'm not saying other religions don't have indoctrination.  I was going to mention "Going Clear" too. Definitely interesting to see that Scientology's exemption status by the IRS isn't really related to their religion, but related to the fact they're so damn annoying and crazy. 

EDIT: watch it if you haven't. It explains how they receive special treatment and it isn't because these organizations deem their "religion" legitimate. it also makes you sympathetic to tom cruise and john travolta for sticking with the "religion".  i hated on them in the past without ever considering that they were being blackmailed.  100%, I can't help but look at Travolta's recent statement in light of the movie and see the dispassion in it, like he is giving a response fed to him by Scientology.  Name a religion that isn't Indoctrination. Irrelevant. No religion should be exempt on their non-charity work. I'm not defending other religions, I'm stating Scientology is especially fucked up and that Scientology was devised and operates solely to make money.  who cares? the catholic corporation is a business. i really dont have extra hatred for scientology as compared to other religions. they are manipulating a system that shouldn't have such loopholes. Like Mormons. Not in any defense here, but any religion is just as fucked as the next in one way or another. Taxing churches is scary if you think about the political influence they already hold without paying a dime.  But no church did or could hold the IRS hostage like Scientology did.  When it comes down to it...  If we're going to bring reason to the world, taking down Scientology is a good place to start. Bringing reason into the world alone is doing the job. Attendance levels are down in churches. Even in Scientology, membership is low. Members are dropping out and taking others with them. Knowledge of what they really do is spreading and it's nuts. Plain and simple. No. If your fucked up beliefs date back to the iron age you get a skate... apparently.  I know it seems like what they are doing is worse since it's so very direct.  But honestly christianity (and other major religions) are SO much worse than this direct form of brainwashing.

Think of it like this, major religions have managed to brainwash parents into brainwashing their own children to follow blindly.  THEIR OWN CHILDREN!!! What in the fucking fuck? It's your sole job to raise your child in the best way possible and yet you are so brainwashed that you are willing to place your own child in the same situation? Most children don't stand a chance to get out of this sort of situation as what they are told by their parents is the only thing they have to go by for such a long long time that this idea that it's true becomes so steadfast in their mind.


When it comes to scientology they are finding adults who have large uncertainties about life and their place within it, then exploiting that uncertainty heavily. These are the kind of people who often already believe in mystical things, like palm reading and psychics.  While it is wrong to do, many of these adults actually manage to get out before the end of their lives and less often bring subsequent generations into the delusion.  At the same time, many christians lie on their deathbed, expecting to be moving on to heaven or hell, this deep rooted belief is far more poisonous than one that people realize is a scam long before the end of their lives.

The church of scientology now has less than 50,000 active members which is a significant drop in membership as of late.  I'm sure it won't be long before it simply doesn't even exist anymore.

Then you look at major religions and their thousands of years of persistence, persecution, and torture, and maybe you can see how scientology pales in comparison.  Just because these tortures may not be happening today does not mean they are now insignificant or meaningless.  The dark ages single handedly set back advancement in science by an amount that we cannot even estimate since it could be such a staggering lack of development that we lost.


Finally, the most important part of your statement "for the purpose of making money."  That is the main purpose of EVERY religion, they need money to gain power and world dominance.  All religions are basically that evil guy on every Saturday morning cartoon where he is trying to take over the entire world.  Now, pay your tithing or be excommunicated. Do you think Scientologist parents don't similarly indoctrinate their children?  No doubt, they do. &gt;I know it seems like what they are doing is worse since it's so very direct.  But honestly christianity (and other major religions) are SO much worse than this direct form of brainwashing.

At the Presbyterian pre-school I had to pray before lunch and snack. At the scientology school, I had to "attest" to completion of my school work while hooked up to a rudimentary lie detector.

I don't think there's a lot of merit to debating which one is worse, but I can say that I'm pretty sure you know very little about the damage dine by both the direct and indirect f op rims of brainwashing that the CoS employs.




&gt;When it comes to scientology they are finding adults who have large uncertainties about life and their place within it, then exploiting that uncertainty heavily. These are the kind of people who often already believe in mystical things, like palm reading and psychics.  While it is wrong to do, many of these adults actually manage to get out before the end of their lives and less often bring subsequent generations into the delusion.  At the same time, many christians lie on their deathbed, expecting to be moving on to heaven or hell, this deep rooted belief is far more poisonous than one that people realize is a scam long before the end of their lives.

No shit, the leadership of the CoS is largely composed of old timers that were around in the 60s and 70s, and their offspring. I never had a choice in the matter while growing up. 

&gt;The church of scientology now has less than 50,000 active members which is a significant drop in membership as of late.  I'm sure it won't be long before it simply doesn't even exist anymore.


The reason why it exists still and will continue to do so, is because of the tax exempt status. They may be true believers, but they are militant about Gross Income. It's still a tax exempt with 3billion in cash and assets that will do what it can to keep it that way.

&gt;Then you look at major religions and their thousands of years of persistence, persecution, and torture, and maybe you can see how scientology pales in comparison.  Just because these tortures may not be happening today does not mean they are now insignificant or meaningless.  The dark ages single handedly set back advancement in science by an amount that we cannot even estimate since it could be such a staggering lack of development that we lost.


Scientology has been trying very hard to catch up. If you look at scientology compared to religions as they exist today, the horror is only exceeded by death cults. 


 See, you are a bit naive on a lot of those ideas. For one, Scientology indoctrinates kids just as much as any other religion, but these guys also happen to act cult like. Scientologists are forced to sign billion year contracts if you join their militia known as the sea org; and from what I hear the sea org is a whole lot of mentally torturous acts like cleaning bathrooms top to bottom with toothbrushes and whatnot. 

You say the main goal of every religion is the money, I believe this is false. The standard goal of most religions is control via a persons spirituality. Scientology literally was created as a business by a science fiction writer, they will force people to give up their life savings and then some, which they use to sue the hell out of anyone who speaks out against them, we are talking a multi billion a year enterprise who wore down the federal government with lawsuits, not to mention they covertly seeded different government agencies with scientologists like the IRS andcriminal justice departments. Hell, they destroyed thousands of pages of files the iIRS had on them. Bottom line is that Scientology has too much money, and are too evil; and the government should start taking from their coffers the amount they aught to owe in taxes. But where Scientology may be a little crazier, it doesn't have near the same reach. Even if their methods are more extreme, which is worse, brainwashing and stealing from 50,000, or brainwashing and stealing from millions? Do you think Christianity wasn't created as a business? You haven't seen Going Clear, have you? Well, I think they're actually far more dangerous from the perspective of a nation-state.  They perpetrated the [largest infiltration of the U.S. government in history](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Snow_White) by any organization, state actor or otherwise.  They are an extraordinarily organized, effective, and directed cult.  But if the U.S. were ever going to strip Scientology of their tax-exempt status, it probably would have happened right around the time they threw a bunch of church leadership in prison. Wouldn't you say there are more devout Christians at every level of government than scientologists? OK, maybe the Christians didn't have a plan to infiltrate but they are there and their faith dictates how they govern. 

And don't get me wrong, I'm not a fan of Scientology, especially after I saw that recent HBO documentary but they're no different than other religions. Don't treat them any differently. Yet batshit crazies who say the body can just shutdown rape babies is all over your government and serve as senators, congressman and presidents and can speak such ridiculousness without fear...and you are trying to say Scientology somehow infiltrating govt is a bigger issue? Ok The allegations made in the article are that Scientology engages in illegal activities.  501(c)(3) tax-exempt status is a privilege we give to socially-responsible organizations, not a right.   If a specific group  engages in criminality, we revoke that privilege.    Like covering up child rape? Crimes such as that? Well, considering they are allegations, and not crimes - what do you think riling up the IRS is going to do? They aren't exactly in a position to do a raid on Scientology headquarters. In fact, the last time the FBI did that - Scientology *raided them back.*  Yeah, and we know about it. Snow White involved so many crimes it's not even funny. Their organization and members have been convicted of crimes in the past. They had leadership members go to jail. So if that's your criteria to remove tax exempt status, convictions, then it has already been met.  it's not a religion. Scientology is a cult and a scam and should never have been granted tax exempt status.  Yes it most definitely is. It's a money cult and no reasonable thinking human would think otherwise. It is classified as an abusive business in some countries (as it should be). I mean, aren't all religions inherently a money-cult? Just look at the Vatican or Mecca.  So we need to throw out the exemption for all religions and churches. Got my yes vote. The way the IRS just dropped all taxation on Scientology when this issue was huge is just weird. I think there is more to the story ie. Maybe CoS investigated top IRS officials, discovered dark secrets, and threatened them with blackmail.

It just seems that if this truly was about being overwhelmed with lawsuits, then the IRS would try again a few years later to make CoS pay tax. But they haven't done anything since, and that makes it look like blackmail (or something else) was used.  This, itself, needs to be a crime.  So basically, if Atheists want tax exempt status we just have to file 40,000 lawsuits? Aren't there criteria against which non-profits are measured? If Scientology failed to meet those, aren't they out by default? I must be over-simplifying this.  Why the Fuck is ANY religion exempt?

Seriously it holds land, so should pay property tax

It makes money, so it should be taxed on that


It pays staff, so they should pay tax on the income.  Edit for clarity:  stop messaging me.  Yes I know employees pay taxes.  

How is The so hard to understand? &gt; It pays staff, so they should pay tax on the income

All employees of tax-exempt organizations, including Scientology, pay income tax on their earnings. Yeah, not sure why OP seems to believe they wouldn't... During hard times my mother worked a crappy desk job at a church while we were climbing out of poverty. She definitely paid taxes on her barely minimum wage job. Exactly. Why is scientology's brand of batshit crazy any different than Christianity ? It isn't. But Christianity should not be exempt. It's not that it's different. It's a new religion so we are witnesses to what really happened and can actually investigate. It's a lot easier to prove L. R. H. was a liar than to disprove Jesus was born or did miracles.  That's a good point but I'd switch the argument around using Hitchens' razor: Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence, i.e. let THEM prove their supernatural claims, rather than us disprove theirs. I've never understood this argument. If something is supernatural then it, by definition, does not exist in the realm of nature - therefore evidence cannot be provided for it. If evidence can be provided for it, then it's natural (and therefore not supernatural). 


So you can't have a reasonable expectation that religious people could ever provide evidence of their beliefs (even though they may wish they could). So what's the point in making this argument? But I guess it's more rhetoric than an actual argument meant to change anyone's mind. It's just not the dagger-in-the-heart of religion that some people think it is. Well yeah, but no one here is arguing that either makes sense. But in the end I feel it's much more understandable that people are going to believe tales that have been in existence for hundreds if not thousands of years and are engrained in our culture. Plus, when you grow up being taught something and that teaching goes back multiple generations then you can really understand why it is, in a way, less crazy for someone to believe in Christianity than some new age religion.  Since when has religion been about proof? Isn't the point of religion to believe something blindly despite any evidence either way? Why are Scientologists less entitled to believe their crazy bullshit than the crazy bullshit of Christianity? It is possible to prove that the earth is older than 6000 years that doesn't change their claim to unjust tax exemption.  Yeah but we can actually prove LRH exists, can't say the same for the other guy.  I would argue, for a number of reasons, that Scientology is indeed crazier than Christianity. Just because both are crazy doesn't mean they are equally crazy, just like I'd call Mormonism crazier too. 

These are generalizations obviously.  Really?  Xenu is no crazier than Noah's Ark, or talking bushes or snakes, or a million other things.  You drink the blood of a 2000 year old dead man every week?  That stuff is batshit nuts too. christianity doesn't have prison-like camps where they essentially lock you in and do only zenu knows what to it occupants. Have you never seen The documentary Jesus Camp? Or something similar to that. tell me more about similarities  Not anymore, give Scientology some time to get through their Crusades / Salem Witch Trial years. &gt; Salem Thetan Trials

FTFY The Church had (maybe still has) orphanages full of abused children. Well, that's not thoroughly accurate. 

I'd be more surprised to learn that no private schools or churches had seclusion cells where they punished disobedient followers. 

I mean, the churches had some say in public admonishment, I'd wager they punished people privately or secretly as well. 

Disclaimer :not defending anyone, but let's not pretend that abuse is new.  That has nothing to do with the religious beliefs though... Scientology is really no crazier than any other religion. Or, to state it a little more accurately; every other religion is just as crazy as Scientology. 

The prison camps you refer to are a product of the Sea Org and the narcissistic/paranoid tendancies of Hubbard as well as David Miscaviage. Admittedly, Scientology is ALSO a product of those same things, but I know some people who practice Scientology outside the church, and they practice none of the aspects that make it a cult. In fact I know them to be a little less intense than most Christians I know...  I think Scientology is far worse because everyone KNOWS what they do, and why.

Most christians don't even know their own bible, and innocently pray to their god. Sure, there are people exploiting christianity for money. But Scientology's sole purpose is exactly that. So Christians are less crazy for being ignorant of the nonsense they believe? Explain that.  They're less crazy *because* they're ignorant. If you aren't aware of the nonsense in the first place, how can you be crazy for "believing" it? 95% of scientologists don't know their own 'faith' either.  You have to be in there for fucking decades before you get to the aliens and really nutty shit. You know that up until recently, the tenets of scientology were secret to all except the highest ranking members, right?  At least people in Christianity always had access to it Not true. For a long time, clergy were  not only the only people with bibles, but most of their parishioners were illiterate. In many cases parishioners were from non English speaking cultures without a bible in their native language, and so only received christianity in the form told to them. As in many previous religions, this made it easy to use christianity as a powerful means of control over a populace.  This was a huge component of the Reformation. Today, most people still trust clergy to tell them what the Bible says.  That trust/faith enables those in the chain of authority to speak for God.  
The church's emphasis of blind faith/trust (and equating that to your amount of love for God) prevents people from questioning and is an important element in maintaining power/control. And not only could they not read the bible to check what was in it, services were conducted in latin, so they had no clue what they believed. Exactly! lets go with a crazy scale of Scientology &gt; christian &gt; some arbitrary "OK" standpoint &gt; Normal people.

its still beyond a point on the crazy scale where i deem reasonable.

Tax them all. Lets just avoid the scale.  Lets call them all people and lets question why they are exempt from taxes. I mean christians like their Walking Dead and scientologists enjoy a good sci-fi flick Dude, have you seen Battlefield Earth? It's fucking horrble. I preferred the book, on l in the same sense that one would prefer a root canal performed without anesthetic to being smashed in the face with a hammer repeatedly.

There was so much story, too. You're being awfully generous with "good" there :p There's beliefs, and there's behaviour. Behaviour is what separates a cult from a religion. Well, it's all a continuum, so there's no separator.

Yes, the beliefs of Christianity are as crazy as Scientology, but the behaviour of Scientology is definitely more cult-like.  

The Skeptics Guide to the Universe podcast had a good discussion of this in the last episode. the only thing separating a cult and a religion is the spelling. The only thing separating a cult from a religion typically is size. Huh? Christianity is the one with millions of deaths at their hands and outright genocide as part of its brand  Wait till you see the scientology inquisition. They're only 60 years onto the business and are trying their best to catch up. The difference between a religion and a cult is basically that, in a cult, some charismatic leader got people to follow his batshit-crazy philosophy.  In a religion, that guy is dead.

Also, the number of followers is another arbitrary distinguisher. I believe the intent is to maintain the separation of church and state. By taxing religious organizations, you would be giving them a legitimate voice in how policy/legislation should be determined, which would violate separation of church and state.

Not sure it really works out that way in practice (considering they seem to have quite a bit of pull anyway) but that's what I was taught in school as the rationale behind it. No. Taxation does not constitute the prohibition of religious expression. Currently, there's nothing to stop them from lobbying, donating, and campaigning. I think the FFRF, the ACLU or some other group sued the IRS about their dereliction of duty on investigating churches that break the rules. But that wouldn't do any thing about the lobbying and donating.  Lobbying and donating are a little bit different than a direct right to representation. 

And "no taxation without representation." &gt; "Separation of church and state."

Separation of church and state in America is the biggest lie I've ever heard, I mean the U.S's motto is literally "In God we trust".
God is even in the pledge of allegiance that children - who probably do not understand the concept of other religions or the absence of such - have to say every morning (I think, I do not reside within the U.S).

&gt; "I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one Nation **under God**, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."

I'd also like to remind you that the *under God* bit was added afterward and that in none of the previous versions did they mention religion.
Not only that but the existence of the idea of conservatism is mostly "because God". Take a look at Indiana for example, I don't remember if they passed that pro-discrimination law but everyone who agrees with it is religious, and the only reason why it exists (or at least people didn't immediately shit on it) is purely because of religion, of the church.

I won't go on about things like homosexual marriage because I don't have the time to dwell into this right now but I felt like mentioning it was important.

Listen, maybe I don't understand what they mean by *separation of church and state* maybe America just doesn't grasp the meaning of "separation". I'd like to hear other people's opinion on this. The problem with the US's separation of Church and State is that in the US there is no separation of *Religion* and State, Churches are entities, and ARE separate from the State, however that does not stop the state from having Religion which is not an entity but an idea, this is basically a loophole that allows the State to support the Church(es) without actually being connected. Really there should have been separation of Religion and State all along. &gt;I believe the intent is to maintain the separation of church and state.

The reason they are tax exempt is because of their "non-profit" designation. 

&gt;By taxing religious organizations, you would be giving them a legitimate voice in how policy/legislation should be determined, which would violate separation of church and state.

They already have a legitimate voice in these matters. Don't you know that it's almost a requirement to be religious to get elected or appointed to a public office? &gt;Don't you know that it's almost a requirement to be religious to get elected or appointed to a public office?

Society chooses to be like that.  The few laws on the books are all legacy ones of an even more religious previous society.   It's in the constitution that there cannot be a religious test for public office.  Society *is* like that.  They don't think it be like it is, but it do. It's not like they don't need emergency services or sanitation work, they have the lord I like your thinking. If they don't pay taxes because of having a special benefactor, then they shouldn't receive any of the services that come with the tax, such as electricity, gas, water, sewerage, as well as access to emergency services. If their claims about an almighty deity are correct, then let their God provide. I argue this all the time. I live in the buckle of the bible belt, churches on every corner etc. They just opened a mega church right next to my neighborhood. I just imagine millions of dollars flowing through that place and wondering why exactly is it tax exempt? I can actually kind of see how the humble little Lutheran church down the road would be tax free, okay I can live with that, it probably should pay tax, but it's just a small establishment quietly doing it's thing. But this mega church, every sunday, has fucking 15 dudes in florescent yellow jackets out at the entrance to the road waving at every single car that drives by, and sometimes even a police officer to help with traffic. These people are not being modest with their faith, they are not being humble, they are shoving it in your face and trying to persuade you to come to their establishment in an overt manner. According to what I know, this is against the teachings of Christ and just seems so fake to me. Like I look at that huge eyesore of a complex they built right next to my home of over 20 years and find it impossible to not think of it as a giant corporation just like the Wal-Mart directly across the street. I realize all churches are pretty much a business, but I could see letting the modest little small churches get by with being tax exempt organizations, but these mega churches? That quite obviously deal in millions of dollars and gigantic complexes, that's not right that they don't have to pay a single cent of taxes. I am heavily for the separation of church and state, and I don't want religion anywhere near the government, but at the point where something becomes "mega" I feel some kind of tax should be collected.  So glad I was reading up on non profit law this week. 

In essence, as long as the organization is created for religious, enviromental, educational purposes or youth teams, excluding lobbying, and self dealing, a non profit organization qualifies for IRC 501(c)(3) exemptions.

So. Yeah. You could repeal the IRC. Which has a snowballs chance in hell of success, since that lobbying thing is  done indirectly. I agree with what you mean. It feels wrong. However I just want to play devil advocate and point out how it could at the same time be dangerous. 

Tolerating isn't respect. You don't have to respect it. However it exists. These are people's ideas you can not ban ideas or you are thought police. 

They exist with the blood of millions laid before as the foundation to these very old institutions of thought. 

Making them pay taxes here in the US now gives these lads that "no tax without representation" spiel. 

Also does that mean that religious institutions that start paying taxes form up as corporations?.. See how it gets scary fast with corporations being recognised people so what's to say a church doing that creeps me out. It can be manipulated very easily. 

Why we don't tax is because of the community non profit services they run for dense urban areas and rural towns as a Center. Center to congregate, discuss, take care of the homeless. The abused. Humanitarian missions of all charitable endeavours to help lessen fellow man's suffering. As of course all religions forget they do best. Help those in need. 

Scientology on the other hand is just. Oh man. They are just another story. Like the west borrow baptist church of pyramid schemes. 

Hey! Believe in God(s) or don't. What matters in the NOW is believing in helping your fellow man.  you are right, they should all pay taxes, however they should get 2x deductions for good works, so if half their income goes towards community support ventures - they would effectively be exempt that year.  this would also discourage the building of mega churches and jet setting priest lifestyles, while instead put that kind of money back into the community that supports them. Because then you have to tax all charities. Can't just single out religion. Why the Fuck is ANY religion exempt?

Seriously it holds land, so should pay property tax

It makes money, so it should be taxed on that


It pays staff, so they should pay tax on the income

How is The so hard to understand?

1. They are exempt because they are suppose to have a "greater cause" such as providing social services, etc.

2. It's tax exempt, so no property tax.

3. They usually don't "make" money but do receive donations and contributions. Very different from profiting off of labor and products.

4. They DO pay taxes on employee wages.

5. It isn't hard at all.

I agree with you though, THEY SHOULD be paying tax. They sell a service for sure, they send those profits to their headquarters.

Ninja edit: they do use the honor system for their services payment  though Then allow churches to raise and spend money as they please just like other organizations can as part of political campaigns, and prepare for pastors and priests and rabbis holding political office and deferring to members of their church in judgement just like junior congressmen do so for their party leadership.  

If you don't want that, don't tax them.   To qualify for 501c3 exemption, churches are not allowed to criticize any government institution.

It's worth the loss of tax revenue to keep clergy from stirring up dissent amongst their congregations against the govenment's bullshit. That's why they aren't taxed. Exactly.  I feel like we'd have less religions period if guys like L Ron Hubbard didn't exploit the tax benefits of creating them.   &gt;"Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's"

It's like the fucking bible tells you to pay fucking taxes or something. You don't want the government benefitting from religion. yes, I do.

and before you try to argue that if we take their money, they will get involved in politics, realize that they are ALREADY a part of politics.  they preach and they Pander and they fuck with politics All the goddamn time. so lets tax the fuck out of them. Well, they do pay taxes on the land. The employees do get taxed on their income. They are a "non-profit" organization. This is why they are granted tax exemption. The money gained from donations is the only thing that isn't taxed.  It's no different than the NCAA. If the religion has to struggle to spend all the money they get in order to stay nonprofit, then they are a for-profit organization and should pay taxes. http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/taxes

This sub has an article on the subject of church taxation. Sorry, but Scientology has exactly the same entitlement to tax exemption as other Religions. Definitions of scam could be applied to Christianity just as well. Shout out to HBO for running that documentary.  Bringing all sorts of crazy to light. So it seems like the general consensus here is that no religion should be exempt. Does anyone have a specific cause, petition, or organization we can work with to support this idea? The general consensus among R/Atheism maybe, but it takes a stronger argument than "I don't like religion so I dont think it should be tax exempt" to change something that has been upheld by the Supreme Court many times over. On the flip side, the only argument for making churches tax exempt is "to keep the status quo". Not really a compelling argument. No. Not unless you remove exemption from all religions. I get that you don't like Scientology, but your country has a constitution.

The crime done at the hands of Scientologists is miniscule in comparison to the Catholic church, not just historically, but even today (for example campaigning against condom use in AIDS ridden Africa, among a litany of crimes against humankind). Picking on Scientology is fine if it's just rhetoric, but once you go the route of changing _laws_ to pick on one particular religion, you are discriminating in a way that is thoroughly unconstitutional. &gt; I get that you don't like Scientology, but your country has a constitution.

What does the constitution have to do with this argument?

Tax-exemption for religions, like 99.99% of other laws, is not in the constitution. scientology is considered a criminal cult in some countries and is illegal Honestly a fairly significant number of churches don't actually meet the tax exemption requirements. It is not a given, it is mostly because no one wants to stir up shit. The church of scientology is exclusively a profit venture, they should have never been given tax exemption. Go watch the HBO documentary called Going Clear.  Scientology isn't controversial because of its beliefs.  The claim is that they engage in illegal activities with overtones of organized crime.   Lots of their leaders have gone to prison for infiltrating the US government, for example.            You realize that the entire US government is comprised of mainly Christians, right? The Vatican goes well beyond overtones. It is organised crime.  I feel there's a college liberal meme in here somewhere.   Have you no knowledge of the 18th 19th and 20th centuries?   They existed to you now, and stuff happened.


 I wonder what you're going to rant about next after you watch Jesus Camp.
 the problem is were in the 21st, and apparently we havent learned fucking anything There's that one about Amish teenagers... &gt; .   Have you no knowledge of the 18th 19th and 20th centuries?   


Of course the churches of the day comitted and encouraged all manner of atrocity. That isn't in dispute. 

 But I wasn't there at the time to complain.

I am here and now and I'm hoping to stop harmful activity happening here and now.
 Even if all of that were true, it doesn't change the context of the comment to which you reply. The horribleness of scientology notwithstanding, as far as tax exempt status would go, they are no different than any other religion. singling them out does nothing but solidify the exempt status of other religions - instead, ALL religions should not be tax exempt, and that should be the rallying cry. Well, the main difference is that christian clerics are good at avoiding prison if they happen to be caught doing something they shouldn't. It's not like Christians don't try to infiltrate the Government. IRS tried before but Scientology hired a a bunch of private  and blackmailed IRS employees No. 

This went to court in Australia years ago and it was, rightly, determined that all something needs to be determined as a religion is for people to demonstrate religious faith. 

The problem isn't that Scientology doesn't pay taxes, it's that no religion does.  Exactly. That's true separation of state and church. I've always been a bit confused by r/atheism's attachment to this. Can someone explain to me why taxing religious organisations, and therefore giving them the legitimacy to run as political parties, is a better idea than what the US has in place at the moment? It's them hating the fact they might have to pay taxes, while the church doesn't. Many, many, atheists substitute the state for god as the omnipotent authority we must all bow down to.  And while we are at it, the rest of the fantasy beliefs as well.   All religions should have to pay tax. This won't pass because it's not the government's job to decide which faiths are relavent over other faiths.  It's all or None If Christianity gets away with it, why not scientology? They should ALL pay taxes. Only if it does the same for Catholics and all the rest of the pastafarians. I don't understand the way people think. Instead of demanding someone else be taxed, why not demand exemption for yourself? The government doesn't have an income problem, they have a spending problem. Tax exemption should be removed for all churches. I don't understand why Scientology is singled out. The other religions are just as crazy and corrupt. Scientology is a whole other level of crazy bro. If you haven't, watch Going Clear. I have watched the doc, and am well versed on Scientology. Not a single thing in that film hasn't been done by one of the major religions.  Which one doesn't tell people what their own beliefs are until they pay enough money to get to a high level of the organization? That's True. It was just a little shocking to watch, if you hadn't known anything about them. All chruches and religious cults need to pay taxes. I don't see why Scientology should pay taxes. Sure they are crazy and their beliefs are insane and they are a corrupt organization. But what makes that different from any other crazy corrupt religion. After all, what homophobic, child molesting, tax evading, corrupt, evil religion with crazy ideas. So..... All religious churches should be taxed. As long as religions think they have representation in government and schools, they should be taxed.  Why is Scientology less entitled to religious tax exemption than other religions? Don't get me wrong, I think religious organisations getting tax relief is absurd and ridiculous but if the church gets it then Scientology is equally entitled.  Why? They let "legitimate" churches get away with that. Might as well just invent our own religion. Only if we demand they review Christianity, Judaism, and Islam's exemptions too. Just sayin... No religion should be tax exempt. For most of the same arguments, shouldn't every church have their tax exempt status revoked? no religious institution should be exempt All religions should have their exemption taken away. All religions should have to pay taxes!  tax all churches
 ALL religions should pay taxes... Tax exempt the people and business, tax the churches.  The IRS is a collection agency. Congressional legislation is the culprit. All religions should have to pay tax. This won't pass because it's not the government's job to decide which faiths are relavent over other faiths.  It's all or None This should include every church that gets involved in politics.  Good example of this is the LDS with prop 8 in CA. I think all "churches" should pay taxes I used to be in the camp where I *did not* think churches should pay taxes, because it would mean they would/should get true representation for their bullshit.

I'm throwing in the towel! It is obvious they are getting representation without taxation. Tax them the fuck into the ground! That would imply other made up religions about Allah and Jeebus are legit, because they are so old no one remembers who fabricated them.  
Tax the churches. All of them. But did the IRS create that exemption? I thought Congress did? Someone correct me on this please. Congress writes the "rules", the IRS (and tax courts) decide who fits the rules.   The IRS granted the exemption in the 90s.   The documentary Going Clear implies the IRS execs were blackmailed/strongarmed into giving tax status.  See http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-0412-gibney-scientology-20150412-story.html   This is why I love reddit. Thank you very much!  As a Christian. I can totally get behind this, my Atheist friends. Tax all religions. They might claim discrimination so how about we tax ALL religions! What I would like to know is why can't we all just claim our own religions and also be tax exempt What's stopping all American citizen taxpayers from forming a "religion", effectively employing every member of the church and rendering them tax exempt?  I'm sure there is a reason, probably not a good one though.  Imo there shouldn't be such a thing as tax exemptions for churches/religious groups.  What about the the NFL they operate as a tax exempt business.  I did a little searching on that.  The NFL as a body governing a trade organization is tax exempt.  NFL Ventures does advertising, merch, etc and is a for-profit. The NFL exactly fits tax law on trade organizations.  People thinking the NFL doesn't may taxes amazes me. There are dozens of articles explaining how they financial structure works and explain exactly how all the money they bring in is taxed.  Forget about just scientology. If your organization can't prove it does charitable work, it should be taxed. Period. ITT: lots of atheists that don't know the first thing about $cientology. Unless the equally wacky religions of the Christians, Jews and Muslims are also taxed I am in the odd position of defending Scientology.  What an absolutely dumb proposal, sorry to say but the problem here is not in fact with Scientology not paying any taxes. The problem is that Scientology is officially considered a religion by the USA. Now I think Scientology scores slightly higher on the bogus scale than most other religions but anyone that supports this is basically trying to get something that is completely against the constitution to happen, you can not discriminate based on religion. If you truly want this to happen then you need to change the law so all religions need to pay taxes, not complain about one religion.

TLDR: You are being unconstitutional. The problem here is that religious groups aren't taxed. Go be as batshit insane in your beliefs as you want, but pay your dues. Scientology isn't any more insane than any other religion. They should all be taxed. The problem is, religion used to be a survival mechanism. It used to be a source of information. When information was not as readily available, and people could not elevate themselves, they needed the guy in the fancy dress to sprinkle magic water and bestow upon them status, ethos, and protection.

We aren't in that time anymore. Lots of science has happened and I can get at all of it from my phone at a moments notice. Religion has turned into little more than an excuse to hate, attack, and ignore all that information.

So ya, the punchline of your comment. Religious freedom should be confined to freedom of speech. You can totally say it, but you cannot use it as a fiscal vacuum to amass resources to pour into a campaign against gay marriage. Nor can you use those amassed funds to fortify your corporate cult. Nor can you use those amassed funds to siphon into the RNC.

If you want to be a church, be a church. If you want the be the sorry examples of cults and hate companies that churches are being revealed to be, you can pay your goddamn taxes. Did you read the article?  Here's what's claimed in it: 

"Examples of Scientology using 501(c)(3) tax-exempt funds to engage in systematic violations of public policy:

* Paying attorneys to hire private investigators for the purposes of engaging in systematic acts of spying, harassment, and terroristic intimidation directed against former members of the Church, critics, journalists, and filmmakers who expose church abuses. Private investigators are paid tax-exempt funds to follow, photograph, and collect data on their targets and report this information back to the church. This is part of a Church of Scientology conspiracy to attack, intimidate, silence, and destroy these people.
* Paying attorneys to hire private investigators who then illegally purchase the phone records of former members of the church, critics, journalists, and filmmakers who expose church abuses. This illegal invasion of privacy is done in order to have Scientology-paid private eyes track the calls and contacts of former members of the church, critics, journalists, and filmmakers.
* Using illegal means to obtain the flight and other travel information of former members of the church, critics, journalists, and filmmakers in order to stalk and harass them.
* Making public the contents of private confessional data of former Scientologists in an attempt to smear, impugn, and humiliate former members who speak out against the abuses of the Church.
* The Church of Scientologys Office of Special Affairs pays tax exempt dollars to hire writers, videographers, and social media specialists to create false, defamatory, malicious, and deceptive propaganda in the form of hate websites and publications. This malicious content is directed against former members of the church, critics, journalists, filmmakers, and others who publicly expose Church of Scientology abuses.
* Paying for Google ad campaigns to promote Scientologys malicious hate websites and smear campaigns directed against former members of the church and critics, journalists, and filmmakers who expose church abuses
* Spending millions of dollars on lawyers to defend David Miscavige and the church from the legal consequences arising from their own illegality.
* Deceptive and misleading fundraising activities to gather funds to defend the Scientology religion which are really meant to fund David Misavige as he spies on former church members, critics, people in the media, and even his own father. " 
 To hell with that. I want all churches to pay taxes.  Why the hell should Scientology pay if Catholicism, Judaism, Islam or any of the other major religions don't have to? I'm way more disgusted by for profit Catholic churches going tax free just by their sheer numbers. I don't give a rat's ass about Scientology. It's no less crazy than any other religious sect. Get rid of tax exemption period. Why is this religion any worse than any other.  The allegations, believe it or not, is that the church of scientology uses  organized-crime style tactics of intimidation, harassment, and surveillance.    Watch the HBO documentary or read online about it.  it's not JUST a religion I have to pay taxes? Oh crap If any religion is exempt, all are exempt. I do not want a government deciding if a religion is "valid"

But then why can't I be the first international church of Bob and become exempt?

Maybe best to tax them all so none slip through the cracks. But I dont know, I am just a guy on reddit, not a policy maker. Scientology = scum from the bottom of my shoe

Edit: holy shit scientologists on reddit Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/AX8y0XV.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) How does one go about creating their own religion? If I bring some friends into my garage and preach about spaghetti once a week for an hour can I consider my house a church? It may be impossible to get the tax exemption taken away, be we can erode their power. Eliminate the ability for religious organizations to hold copyrights and trademarks.  Serious question; if you own a company and donated to your own church, can you get a tax deduction from the donation while saving money in your Church bank? Frank Zappa (circa 1980?) -- "Tax the churches" Demand, upvote; same difference.  Or the IRS reexamine income taxes period. I am not from the US, but you have a 'White-house petition' where you can ask to investigate church/scientology tax exempts? A not for profit organization should not have $1.5 billion in capital sitting in their bank account. Ehh, lots of non-profits have reserve funds.  Yeah billions gets a bit extreme, but it's not unusual for non-profs to carry a few million in reserves for projects, reserve funds, or building/purchasing new real estate. * but i thought anonymoos stopped the baddies Perhaps it's gotta be done the way they got the exemption  in the first place - thousands of lawsuits. This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/shitstatistssay] [Why?! God?! Why, so many atheists see the state as gawd?](//np.reddit.com/r/Shitstatistssay/comments/32k06h/why_god_why_so_many_atheists_see_the_state_as_gawd/)


[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote.)
^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot)
         That's what religions talk about, "heaven". It's here, but you're just not paying any taxes and living off the poor's incomes. 

Read some shit from a book once a week and just sit back and count your stacks. so how do i start my own church? Sounds like op needs an audit? How are you feeling today? Pffft, right, the IRS has already had and lost it's battle with Scientology. When you have an organization with tons of money, no morals, and absolutely no qualms about threatening, stalking, blackmailing any IRS people, doesn't matter how senior.  I think you'd have an easier time going after religion in general. Just thinking out loud here, but imagine if you went after Scientology. They could forever use the, "help, help, I'm being repressed. Where's my constitutional rights!"  Welcome to Israel. ~~Y~~our taxes go to people who study the Torah all day, **instead** of working.

EDIT: Yeah, I'm from Israel  Same in Belgium. Priests are paid from our federal taxes.   
Everytime secular forces object to this failure to separate church and state, it has the opposite effect: more groups are added.  
At first, it was only catholic clergy. Then, they added muslim, jewish, protestant and buddhist clergy (in that order, IIRC).  
  
It's the one area in which I envy the French. Their priests are paid via private donations, not the state.  
You can say what you want about the frogs, but they have that "secularism" shit down to a T. &gt; At first, it was only catholic clergy. Then, they added muslim, jewish, protestant and buddhist clergy (in that order, IIRC). 

It's seems like the Satanist need to make their move. They won't be taken seriously. Hindus are still unrecognized, I think, despite being more numerous than Buddhists. As a member of the Satanic Temple, I am deeply offended. Why are we not "taken seriously" and a guy who dresses up in his grandmother's bathrobe, talks to a cracker, has a relationship with a 2,000-year-old virgin carpenter in a loincloth and a crown of thorns, drinks the blood and swallows the flesh of the virgin carpenter in an act of ritualistic cannibalism, claims to be celibate at age 67 and never masturbates, is "taken seriously". All I do is pray to a goat's head and demand the exact same privileges as Christians when it comes to distributing religious materials in public schools. Our Temple even has a children's coloring book and we don't mess with science education. Because they were there first. Welcome to the United States. My taxes go to Israel in order to subsidize this shit. [$121 Billion dollars to be exact.](http://journalistsresource.org/studies/international/conflicts/u-s-foreign-aid-to-israel-2014-congressional-report#) So we spend 7 times more on Israel than we do on our space program?? The *fuck* is wrong with us?

*Edit: That's total, not per-year which makes more sense. Still, aerospace research has a far higher ROI and I maintain that NASA is woefully underfunded.* From 1958 - 2011 NASA received 526 billion. [deleted] Is this the same school district where the board attorney gets in a confrontation with a group of parents and calls one of them a [cunt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsOcR2mYKq0&amp;sns=em)? Yes. It's discussed in the radio story in the link. That is pretty much the long-term objective of school voucher programs in the Bible Belt.. Yes.  I don't get how people can't see how a school voucher system will completely fuck over every lower class student in America. For those of us living outside the USA, what is this voucher system?  Basically, in the US we have a long and legally mandated system of publicly funded schools. Over the last 20 years or so, certain groups have championed the notion that public funding should also be available to parents who choose to take their children out of the public school system.

The argument goes roughly: If the schools in a given district were funded at $1000/student/year, I should be able to take that $1000 and apply it to my childs tuition at any school, not just at a public school. 

On the surface this is a very reasonable argument, but like many things it falls apart when examined deeper. I am incredibly far from an expert on this issue, so I will leave it to you to do more research into the pros and cons of the actual debate

Edit: Holy crap, gold? I halfway expected downvotes for what seemed to me a half-assed summary written in the middle of the night when I should have been sleeping. Thank you kind stranger, it is appreciated! 

(And fwiw, I agree with the comments below that the argument even falls apart on the surface level... But writing at 4:40AM I was too tired to form a coherent argument, so I left it at that. ) Not a reasonable argument, schools are given money based on their state approved curriculum and you can not take public money to give your child publicly  unsupervised education. unlesd youre jewish, then you can do whatever you want because if anyone criticizes you then theyre a nazi This is the same argument applied for any religious school. Actually the boogeyman now is Anti-Semite "Apply it to my child's..."

So using that logic I can stop paying my school taxes? I don't have kids nor do I want kids. [deleted] &gt;I will leave it to you to do more research into the pros and cons of the actual debate

Teacher here. Schools function best if there's a reasonable ratio between difficult* kids and obedient kids. There's a few reasons for this. One is basic classroom management - a teacher can deal with a couple of difficult kids in a class of 20, but possibly not 10 difficult kids in a class of 20. 

Things like vouchers, magnet programs and certain charter schools tend to upset this ratio. The parents who care enough about their kids' education to get a voucher to stick them in a private school is likely to have one of the "obedient" kids, as kids with higher parental involvement tend to be more attentive than the difficult kids. 

While this could be a great opportunity for the individual obedient kid, removing too many obedient kids from the public school is bad for the school as a whole: classrooms become more difficult to manage and the culture of that school becomes less similar to that of a school and more similar to a fort under siege. 

So whether or not you support vouchers depends on how much you value the well-being of the school system as a whole over the well-being of a handful of individual students. 

*difficult= could mean jerks, kids with clinical learning or behavior difficulties, lousy home lives/involved parents, etc. Calling these kids difficult is not meant to pass judgement on them, but to explain things as simply as I could.  Fellow teacher (well I'm an EA) and things get trickier when you're in a district that has to put 30+ kids in a class. Last year, a third grade class I worked in had 33 students, 11 were on point sheets. Not a single student passed the state benchmarks, because math simply cannot be taught when 5 students are yelling profane insults across the room, one is screaming at the teacher that he "knows you want to kill me, so just do it already!" then throws chairs around, a girl is under her desk wailing at the top of her lungs, and so on.You're spot on with your "difficult" definition. In the low income areas I work in, with parents a) working 60 hours a week in fast food b) working 80 hours a week illegally working for pittance c) on drugs d) in jail, it is difficult for the majority of parents to be there to teach their kids serenity, or to value learning. 89% of the students at one school, 72% at my other school, are below the poverty line. These kids and their parents are more worried about where they will get their next meal or how to stay warm than they are concerned about what 7x8 equals or who signed the declaration of independence. Add into that the standard percentages of social or learning disabilities, and it can be pretty hellish.But so worth it when a handful figure out that science is *cool* and learning is *fun*. &gt; On the surface this is a very reasonable argument

No, not even on the surface. The "school" you'd send your children to with those vouchers could be anything, including the most likely outcome: science-denying, homophobia/transphobia/mysogyny-propagating religious schools. &gt; The "school" you'd send your children to with those vouchers could be anything

This is where the problem lies. The problem is not with vouchers, it's with having no standards for schools you can attend with those vouchers. 

If your vouchers only qualified for certain schools which met certain federal standards, I don't see any problem with vouchers.  Dude, if a school is accredited to give out diplomas they meet federal standards. Most people just dont realize how depressingly low those standards are. I think you misunderstood me. 

My point is that vouchers themselves are not the problem, the standards of where they can be used should be the only issue.  The issue is that not all students cost exactly 1000 dollars/year, and public schools MUST provide education to even the costliest children.  So all the best students would flee to private schools, leaving those who are poor or unable to do so in all of the worst situations.

If you take two equally capable students, but one has a SAHM who can drive him 30m to a private school every day, and one has to walk to whichever is nearest, they are not going to have an equal opportunity to succeed.  Do most religious schools in the US tend to be very hard-line and theocratic? I ask because I went to a Catholic high school in Australia and honestly, it was all very laid back (and I've only heard the same from other people who went to Catholic/Anglican/Lutheran schools - the only weird ones tend to be the really small Baptist/evangelical schools). 

We were taught evolution, sex ed that didn't emphasise abstinence, there wasn't any stigmatisation of openly gay students and, by and large, at least in the state I went to school, it was Catholic/Christian schools that scored highest in standardised testing and our equivalent to the SATs. Not all of them are; in fact catholic schools tend to be pretty reasonable here.  But there are a decent number of schools that will deny evolution, preach the "young earth" nonsense and indoctrinate students into a homophobic, homogenous, very localized and impractical worldview.  I'm very against the vouchers as the folks who want them tend to want them to send their children to those types of schools which imho should be considered child abuse. Catholic schools, in my experiences talking with friends that went to them here in the US, don't seem to have the theocratic stuff. They focus on well rounded education plus a sprinkling of dogma through mass some school days. 

The problem is evangelicals. There's a school book company out of South Carolina, I believe, that writes the texts evangelical schools use. Reading them is unbelievable.  I attended a Catholic school through high school in a state that isn't liberal, but isn't in the Bible belt either. There was abstinence-only sex-ed and tons of anti-abortion stuff. Gay couples couldn't attend prom (this was about 10 years ago). The student body wasn't particularly religious though - people partied, did drugs, had sex, etc. 

The protestant Christian schools tended to be more conservative. My friend was kicked out of one for a Harry Potter-related offence.  It also destroys community by allowing parents to "run away" from a school system instead of being forced to become part of the solution.  It makes inequality worse because the people with means to buy new homes and pay for transportation are the ones who leave. There are some genuinely good voucher schools in areas that aren't full of crazy religious people.  &gt; On the surface this is a very reasonable argument

How is that a reasonable argument?

I pay taxes on gasoline for my car, which goes towards paying for public roads.

If I choose to drive on private roads, should I be able to apply what I've paid in gas taxes to the toll booths on any road? He didn't think it's a reasonable argument. Please re-read his post... You're both saying the same thing. You can buy untaxed gas for use on private land...  See the farm industry.  They dye the gas, and if you get caught using it on public roads, you get a big ass fine. IIRC, schools are given a certain amount of money for each student that attends their school. Vouchers take the money that would have gone to the public school and give it to the parent to use to send their children to private schools.   What's the reasoning behind this?

"Public schools are rubbish and I don't want my kids going to one, so let's take money away from them?" There is no domestic problem we Americans can't solve with selfishness. More like, this school sucks and I have a chance to enroll my kid in a school that doesn't suck. OR My kid doesn't do well in school, because (personal issue with the teacher/admin/ect), this school also has awful standardized test scores, poor gradation rates, as well as low matriculation to college/university. I have the opportunity to enroll my kid in a school with better test scores, graduation, and matriculation rates. Because of those better metrics it stands to reason that the teachers are better Nd therefore my kid will "get the attention they deserve." 

As pointed out it seems reasonable at first glance with no critical thinking. However if you apply some critical thought, you realize that education is a complex web of events that doesn't begin or end at the school house doors. Parental involvement, medical issues, learning disabilities, personal conflict with other students or staff, maslow's hierarchy of needs, as well as a slew of other factors all influence a person's education. The best teacher in the history of humanity can't teach shit if the student doesn't value education in any way. 

Having been a special education (emotional disabilities primarily) teaching assistant (we did everything except, create the curriculum)  I found the largest factor in how students did in class day to day, and over all was parental involvement. Parents that didn't care, have students that don't care.  Funding isn't always the problem.  Some of the [edit] shittiest schools have some of the best funding.

When you throw 1000 teenagers together in a public school, there are going to be a lot of negative influences.    The same kids that are getting arrested for gang violence; the same kids that are out stealing cars, breaking into homes, robbing people,at knife point - those are the same kids that are in the classroom.

Voucher schools have significantly reduced enrollment rates - they [hopefully] provide a safer, more positive environment for the kids.

In middle/upper class communities, voucher programs are [in my opinion] an absurd idea... but for kids in struggling, poor communities, voucher programs can be the difference between getting bullied into a street gang and ending up in prison or being the first in your family to go to college and beating the cycle of poverty.

 And this is why public schools are rubbish. If you take their money away, what do people expect to happen? There is also the shell game that is played with the blame for why the schools are bad. The right says its the teachers that are bad and the unions that support the teachers that are to blame. It couldn't be the defunding of public education that is to blame. It is all about "hey look over here..."  Its the same thing they did to the post office. "Oh look at this shitty organization with it's socialist roots and lazy employees and parasitic union. DEFUND. Oh everyone, see, look at how bad it is!" My wife's mom is a public school teacher and the utter crap they go through each year is astounding. Between having to pay more and more lip service to bad parents, to having to meet arbitrary goals that they can't influence and having their lesson plan reviewed by people who have zero education experience, this takes the zero moral they have and makes them resentful. They are hated, they are being torn apart now at the union level and their budget is practically gone. She is now having to buy all class supplies with her own money and there is not a write off on the district level. Oh yeah, basing funding on standardized testing, Ok...fucking morons. In the US, schools are funded via property taxes.  
  
This means that schools in poor areas get less funds leading to even more poverty and lacking education. Rich areas get a lot of money and their schools have all the funds needed.  
  
In order to try to "fix" some of this, many states have vouchers that kids from poor and badly performing areas could use to attend better schools, mostly private schools that costs a shitload to attend and is normally religious in nature.  
  
It is an idiotic solution to a problem that has a very simple solution, base school funding on national or state wide taxes and each school receiving the same amount of funding per student. My mother used to teach in a district with lots of low income students.  They mostly sincerely believed that the vouchers would let them go to private schools that had higher graduation rates and college acceptance numbers. They briefly tried  vouchers in Cleveland during the mod-90s, and the low income schools were horrible. One was a Muslim school and they spent nothing on the kids. No desks, no books, in a nearly condemned building. The kids were taught nothing but Islamic dogma. Luckily the courts shut it down fast, but it made me really understand how predatory "educators" are going to take quick advantage of vouchers. Agreed. There are greedy, shitty human beings in all professions - even the supposedly "noble" ones. Any culture with cops acting as they seem to be free to act in thhe US shouldn't be at all surprised by that.

Hell, look at the health care system. If our society really doesn't care too much whether an individual lives or dies, why would they give a crap about the education of the young? &gt; it made me really understand how predatory "educators" are going to take quick advantage of vouchers.

It's the same thing with diploma mills going after Veterans who a looking to use their GI Bill and other education benefits. Under the assumption that a private school is better than a public one. Which is definitely *not* a guarantee. [deleted] Are you saying they sincerely believed because the voucher program ended up supporting the private schools more? Or because they actually still do believe in the voucher program as a way of progression in the education system?

I'm trying to ask honestly because I have never heard of this type of program. I also went to a private school, and know the unfair advantage it is for kids like me, whose parents essentially paid for my grades (many private schools have grade inflation), and then those grades are looked at with more respect by many college because my school was a private school. And further, for many students, this "advantage" only lasts until college admission, at which point you get to really see whether the students used to an easy A can hack it with a real course load. LoL doesn't matter they'll just pay off the school...

Matthew Weir, an heir to a massive sports betting business ... Uhh the name escapes me, Churchill Downs and that other Derby or horse race where people dress up,  anyways super rich kid bragged about going to Brown Uni and practically waltz through classes with a Pure Snow White powdered covered nose and flipping off professors and the Admin would write letters, "though you don't meet the academic achievement minimums ... We feel you deserve the degree anyway"

 Don't worry! When public schools are gone, religious private schools will happily open their doors to all. So many souls will be saved! Math Exam Final:
 
(A) Roberto makes $10,000 per year working at Walmart, what is the minimal amount to give back to the Lord? 

(B) How much does Roberto tithe if he truly loves the Lord?

Bonus Trick Question

Roberto was tempted by Satan and didn't know about birth control so he now has a young daughter with special needs. These needs consume half of his income. How much does Roberto tithe to the church? 
 My boyfriend went to Yeshiva, according to him there wouldn't be math in the question. It would be more like an Ox knocks over a stand in the market place. According to the Talmud what does the ox's owner owe to the stand owner. Or some other asinine thing like that. I've heard that these Yeshiva schools essentially groom the boys to become rabbis. Did your BF finish the schooling or did he leave and go somewhere else? That is exactly the purpose of the Yeshiva schools, both in Israel and in the States (mainly in NY, LA, and Chitown). We have them in South Florida.  30 schekels? I dunno what does the ox owner owe the merchant?  I'll be sure to be careful about my ox next time I take it to the market place. The bonus question would be about him "foolishly believing birth control to be effective". You mean "was tempted to use birth control by Satan, but he went bareback like any good Christian would..." A+Bonus: Everything!

B: ~~As much as~~ More than possible!

This obviously shows I'm an official genius. I know what they want my answer to be. I'll put on my fundie hat and give the answer key....

(A) The church isn't unreasonable and you have to eat. So just 10% minimum ($1,000) per year. Whether that is take-home or pre-taxes is matter a church doctrine.

(B) If Roberto truly loves the lord, he should tithe 20% (or $2,000) per year. The church needs a new sound system and projector.

Bonus: The lord will take care of the special needs child if Roberto prays enough. To show his piety, he needs to *continue* tithing at least 10%. The lord can work wonders with a 20% tithe.

I watched in horror as a hallmate cut a check for 10% of his student loan to his home church. He considered it "income". He didn't play euchre or drink but was otherwise a nice guy. Never heard from him after freshman year. The snarky side of me hopes he left due to financial reasons (UMich was always one of the more expensive state schools).
 Ask me about sending my son to a private Catholic school to avoid religious  indoctrination by the evangelicals in the public schools.  Things are sometimes fucked up here in the bible belt. The one here gives a discount if both parents go to the Catholic Church and your child is baptized.  Tell me about that. Hallelujah!  It will be like so many Latin countries.  Public schools underfunded and reserved for the poor, the ignorant, and the powerless.   Private schools for the future leaders, the movers and shakers, etc.   Plenty of people can see, but those people are poor and therefore have no political power to do anything about it.  Or, they can see it, because they want it to happen and are pushing for it to be the case. They probally can, they just dont give a fuck. Because what ever they do as a jew/christian/muslim is a good thing because they believe in their god. "Goodness is about what you do. Not who you pray to."  
 * Terry Pratchett*  Both of you make me feel like maybe there is more level headed civic minded people in our society. I'm an atheist, and I live in philadelphia- far northeast section of the city. If my kids don't get into one of the two charter schools worth sending kids to (it's a lottery system) I will send them to Catholic school, they really are the best college prep schools in my immediate area, and I'm not going to have my kids commute a long distance just to go to a good public option. I would love to be able to send my kids to public school, but the public schools are just terribly run around here. Unfortunately, a lot of it has to do with a combination of funding, teachers, and the students themselves. The highschools might as well be a detention center. So maybe this is selfish but if a voucher is available, and it lessens my monthly bills, which with 2 kids can get costly, I would absolutely take it. For a lot of people the voucher system only goes that deep- I know I don't have a sinister plans to defund public schools- it's just public schools are broken already.  Our public schools here aren't broken, but vouchers would drain money from them and would degrade them. The solution is Philly needs to fix its schools. I'm sure he would prefer that but unfortunately "fix public schools" isn't a concrete plan and will likely take time. His kids need an education now so it makes sense for him to support a plan that could take effect immediately.  Most posters on /r/atheism don't have kids and can't comprehend that a parent might be trying to do the best thing for their kid. I'm an atheist too and I will be sending my daughter to the charter school in the area because the public school is is trash. I think last year they had 30 something percent pass rate in the elementary school.  Every religion is like this. Forming religious enclaves can be problematic in this way. They've done it in Colorado, too. The school boards there are insane. Jefferson County has made the news more than once for trying change the history curriculum to put America in a positive light throughout everything. Douglas County has created a voucher program where people can leave public schools, and take their funding with them to pay for private schools.

I know people are outraged with what OP posted, but the thing is that bullshit is going on everywhere. Not necessarily with Jewish people, just with whomever is in power. People are using power not to do what is right or to represent the interests of everyone, but just to get away with whatever the hell they want. I wish there was a better way to keep school boards more accountable, and I think it should begin with--perhaps--only allowing people who have been teachers to be on the school board so it's not filled with wealthy business owners and other people with special interests. I was so proud when those honor students who were enrolled in the AP course protested the changes.  What are school voucher programs? Once they quit being distracted from the cousin fucking, we're doomed. This has been going on here for more then 20 years. I went to Spring Valley H.S. in the early 90's. And every year it got worse. Lets just say a lot of money was passed around under the table. I don't understand how they (anyone,anywhere in the U.S.) can use public funds to run a private school and not be under public governing. It's also crazy how much power a school board has and how fussy they will be over the dumbest things. Our company got contracted to do some of the pretty work at a new school they built a few years ago. Along with a few other things, they wanted to sod...not seed--SOD a soccer field. Hundreds of pallets of the stuff, because they had money to burn. We were one of many contractors, we didn't level the field, we just sodded it. So, we did, in DECEMBER. Frost was in and out of the ground, it was a mess. But we got it done. Turns out, in the following spring, they wouldn't pay because there were a few divots caused by the heaving of the frost. After almost 2 yrs, the boss finally got paid. They fucked over everybody involved in the job because they were spending the money on their own shit. Crooked motherfuckers. All of them, everywhere. count yourself lucky, i live in Montreal and the hassidic jews here have  illegals public schools, private sketchy banks, a militia etc I could actually go on for hours with stories about them.  They have a whole town in upstate NY that they run with their stupidty also. Yeah I heard about that. They have a few communities here, some even completely isolated from the world. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiryas_Tosh . From the article, I think the quebec jews are related to the NY ones (Tosh dynasty) What the fuck!? How can those bylaws be legal? Can a town do that without being sued?  Who knows, I've been wondering that my whole life Where I live, a Muslim private school got shut down because of religion. Interestingly enough, it was a completely opposite situation. The school was one of the top schools in the state, and accepted all races and religions. Most of the population was Turkish simply because more turks applied. The state shut it down because it was getting fantastic scores and embarrassing the local public schools, which were shit due to administrative problems.  I'm gonna need a source for that. Private schools outperform public schools in most cases.  This sounds like it's not the US. I'm going to need a source for that as well while we're at it. Outperform as in higher standardized test scores and higher percentage go on to higher education. There is debate about other socioeconomic factors that may influence this. Part of the reason for that is that the *private* school can opt only to have students who are likely to do better on standardized tests or go on to higher education. Public schools have to accept everyone. I agree completely. Its a selection bias. The private schools can kick out poor performers and troublemakers, but the public school has to take them. It should be a requirement that everyone on a school board have kids at that school. They have several schools in the district. Their kids do go to school in the district just not to the public schools. Also it started because of special ed funding. The Jews wanted their special ed in the Yeshivas funded by the state. Problem was the federal government didn't let special ed funding go to private schools because th eyes can't monitor what is taught. I agree with that. If they wanted funding then they need to play by the same rules as everyone else. Also that way you don't just shuttle off kids into schools that are nothing but special ed. Finally,  that's how democracy works. Sometimes you don't get what you want. They need to organize better to get the votes they need and take back their school board.  &gt; Finally, that's how democracy works. Sometimes you don't get what you want.

I totally agree with this much of what you said. Most of the rest I think is just wrong.

But the real problem is that they do not seem to have acted in their communities best interest. Instead, they acted in their personal best interest. for example:

&gt;  The 12 acre campus, assessed at $10.2 million (market value) by the Assessors Office of Clarkstown was given only a $3.2 million appraisal by the school board's own attorney, Albert DAgostino.[8] On June 8, 2011 the commissioner of the NY State Education Department halted the sale of the building stating the board failed its fiduciary responsibility to the district when it approved the $3.2 million deal.

Contrary to your claim, that is not "democracy at work" that is felony fraud. Elected officials swear an oath to act in the interest of their community (the exact wording will vary, but I think that is a fair representation of the intent of most similar oaths), and publicly owned property for 1/4th it's reasonable market value is not remotely acting in the best interest of the community. Don't get me wrong. I agree about the selling of the school. That was unethical at least, and might be criminal (honestly don't know the law in NY state about it). But they exercised their (I'm sure we'd both agree) flawed discretion when they sold it. It was their prerogative and it was absolutely right of the State to step in and stop it. But that's why they need to organize the electorate and oust the board. And violating an oath is (again) unethical, however I'm not sure it was criminal. That is for people who know the law in NY better than me to argue and decide. No one will ever out-organize the Hasids. That and my understanding of the situation (I live a few towns over) is that they've brought in outside enforcers to intimidate the rest of the electorate when they try to mount a response.  There was a guy who out organized them once. Can't remember his name but it was a sad case. Ended in suicide. Roman assisted suicide. I think he was referring to a Russian assisted suicide, about 1,975 years after your roman suicide was born.  Wouldn't that require a federal response as it is illegally interfering with elections? Why would the feds be interested in a some minor community's elections when federal elections are a joke? It's up to the local board of elections, the chairs of which have their noses completely up the Hasid's asses. What needs to happen is the BOE officers need to be fired. Fair enough. Local elections don't have to follow federal election rules. That's a matter for the individual states.

As long as they aren't interfering with elections for federal positions. I work in politics. I've taken down machine candidates. It's not impossible. Just really, really hard. But those are the kind of campaigns I love! If an elected official knowingly sold a publicly owned property for less than the market value, either for personal enrichment or for the benefit of other private individuals, and they cannot provide a reasonable justification of why this has a net benefit to the community (for example selling to a non-profit group or a company that is investing large amounts locally to offset the loss), than it is illegal. 

Certainly sometimes people get away with this stuff, but that does not make it legal, it just demonstrates that our whole system is pretty corrupt.

In a flagrant case like this one, there is a good chance that some of these people will eventually go to prison... Unfortunately the courts move very slowly, so those same corrupt officals are quite probably doing far more damge in the meantime. Even worse,  in a place like East Ramapo, NY, I doubt sending people to prison will change anything will change anything. The religious majority will just vote in new bullies to force through their ideology, and they will keep doing so as long as they hold the majority.   Like I said. I don't know what the law is in NY state. If that's what the law is, then yes someone will. And the law can move pretty quick. I would have filed an emergency injunction in order to stop the immediate sale (the harm and the immediacy of the sale would justify the injunction) and then I would have fought it tooth and nail to stop it. In the mean time I would have mounted monstrous campaigns to defeat them and if that didn't work, then I would have lobbied my elected officials (above the school board) to limit the board's power since it would have been for the greater good of the state. I would have also gotten the ACLU involved (church and state issues) and created the biggest (proverbial) fire the North had ever seen to work up the East Ramapo School District to vote and defeat them. Of course I say that while being on the outside looking in. However I've run campaigns against machines so I've got a bit of experience with uphill election battles. Orthodox Jews don't care about democracy. Only what they can take from their neighbors and give nothing back. If you try and call them on it, they'll call you anti-Semitic. If you ask that they abide by the same laws you follow, they'll complain the laws are "unjust" and not follow them. It's all there in the TAL episode. They don't want to follow special education laws, but they want you take he tax dollars anyway. Then they rig the system using that same rule of law and democratic they don't want to follow to further steal from their neighbors.   [East Ramapo Central School District](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Ramapo_Central_School_District) It is a fascinating report that I would suggest listening to.  The dynamics in it are very interesting.

You have an all white/jewish school board (who send their children to private school) controlling/cutting the education of a mostly latino and black school population.

On top of that, you have people who have fallen to legitimate anti-semitism. 

The legitimate racial issues and tensions cloud the already very difficult issue. Its an all hasidic school board. This isnt about black vs white... its about hasid vs everyone else. And politicians dont fuck with them because they vote as a community. &gt;And politicians dont fuck with them because they sue as a community.

FTFY. It's both really. And in some school districts, home schooling, tax cutting, anti-government types have been voted onto school boards and did their best to destroy public education until enough folks woke up and said enough. Ahhhh, my hometown everybody.

So glad I'm not there anymore. How is this not illegal? Does this not apply as merging church and state? Nope, the school board has the ability to allot funds as they see fit, as long as they don't place attendance requirements on the none Jewish community to the private schools, which they wouldn't anyway because they don't want them there, this is not a violation of the separation concept.  Is it underhanded and likely illegal, yes. The state has told them multiple times that it is illegal and they need to stop.  They just ignored the state.

They are currently in court with the state over the subject. Stealing from the nonbelievers. Nice. Their god must be a real dick.  he is Also dick-obsessed and has strong feelings about foreskin management. Don't you remember when he killed a bunch of babies because the Pharaoh said "no"? do you remember when he gave people free will but is all knowing and knows what will happen to you before it does so actually he kind of didn't Also he specifically "hardened pharoahs heart" so that he didn't have a choice anyway. Clearly, pharoah should have just sat in an iron chariot while making such decisions. [deleted] The orthodox are behaving like the Borg. They come into a town, take over the council (which is easy because no one votes) destroy the school system which tanks property prices thus allowing more of their kind to move in at rock bottom prices. It is religious/cultural colonialism of the worst kind.  As a reform Jew... _  Another case of slimy primitive religious jerks being dicks to everyone but themselves. Its more of a crazy cult than mainstream Judaism there. Its like FLDS compounds being lumped in with contemporary normal Mormons/LDS. Every religion spins off mini-cults. It is why they are so dangerous. They become more powerful [than you can possibly imagine.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CBiYg8cUQAAaIvk.jpg) [deleted] There are many shades of crazy  50? 50 Shades of Kool Aid? Relax, it's perfectly mormal. This needs to be top comment. These guys are the Jewish Taliban/ISIL If there's one thing more important to society than the seperation of church and state, it's the seperation of chuch and education.

1) it costs a lot of money to go to these schools. Money 90% of people don't have 

2) you HAVE to adhere to every rule an custom in this school, if not you'll be kicked out and your money wasted

3) it just takes money away from ordinary schooling. You know, the kind that's free and open for everyone. That teaches common sense and critical thinking.

From what I've seen growing up, the catholic school kids were always the crazies. They did all kinds of drugs, had the craziest parties, and did the dumbest crimes. Sure some public school kids do that stuff, but you kind of expect it from them because that's just the background they come from. Whereas almost every catholic school kid comes from a wealthy family.

 Why has no one sued them on this racist shit? Well I dont know about the US but in quebec we have communities of hassidic jews and theyre even worse than what this post says. They never get arrested, have their own public school where they dont even learn english or french, only hebrew. They also have an armed militia. No one is acting up and it's going to stay there for a while. I had a neighboor who got ran over and lost the use of a leg because he complained about an hassidic jew family to the police. Its an actual mafia here. Because if you even politely protest this shit they will call you an anti-semite.  This has actually happened multiple times. And the Hasidic Jewish communities in New York are growing at a much higher rate than the rest of the population. Why? Because in their culture they get married young, in their late teens, and start having lots of kids. Their society is so insulated that almost no one leaves. By the time they're old enough to leave they're already married with children and leaving would mean being outcast and losing every person they've ever known.  If you really want to see how morally bankrupt a person is; give them a little political power and just watch what they do.  This is obviously a good example why people who have a personal financial interest should never be allowed to make decisions with the Public's Money.
Why do School Boards exist?  It has been proven time after time that they make very poor choices when it comes to curriculum and except in a few cases they do not manage the money collected from the general public in a responsible manner.  
This is one of those areas where political reform would be a good thing.   And people look at me like I'm crazy when I say organized religion is evil. It's amazing how some politicians will go on and on and even legislate about preventing 'Sharia Law', and yet in my own regional community exists a 'village' that is completely separate from the rest of the area.  They demand special water piping rights, they demand that their children go to a private Orthodox school, yet want the taxpayers to pay for it.  They have their own stores, emergency service and transportation services.   The housing they build is sub-standard, with multiple families sharing small apartments.  They leave their trash everywhere and discard practically brand new things on the street for trash pickup.  They own a huge percentage of commercial, residential and industrial real estate.  They are a gigantic voting block for local and state politicians who, in return for votes, gets them land and water rights(paid for by public tax dollars).  They build up these communities and pay no taxes, claiming religious rights.  Local businesses that have been here for generations are leaving the area.  Families that have been here for generations are being forced out, because the local municipalities are catering to these ultra-religious folks, for fear that they may have a discrimination lawsuit on their hands, should they oppose them. 

If you really want to see what a theocracy looks like, then come up to my neck of the woods.  Only about an hour north of New York City.   This is also happening with islamic magnet schools in the US. Complete with call to prayer and hijabs. 

Separation of church and state? huh? Jail time is in order. Heard this when it aired. I was staggered how quick the board was to scream anti-Semitism any time someone questioned what they were doing. The real prince in all this is their attorney, who is a weapons-grade scumbag. It is exactly the same in Lakewood, N.J.  Fuck all of those people. That should be criminal. My former school district had the same thing happen and was mentioned briefly in the podcast (Lawrence, NY). As a non practicing Jew I find it abhorrent.  Ultra-Orthodox Jews are a blight on Judaism. And according to themselves, they are only the only "true" practicing Jews. How convenient. [deleted] *all religions Okay, then they are the pancreatic cancer of cancers. Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* This comment has been removed for using abusive language or fighting with other users (flaming), activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Connected comments may also be removed for the same reason.  Users who don't cease this behavior may get banned temporarily or permanently. 



For information regarding this and similar issues please see the [Subreddit Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. I'm curious. Has anyone sued these people yet. Cause this seems like a violation of peoples Constitutional rights. Not everyone is Jewish, so using their money to fund a Jewish school, seems illegal.  Decentralization in the suburbs is feudalistic bullshit.  Not only do you get this, but you get poorer districts at a huge disadvantage compared to rich districts. Any organized self-centered group could do this and feel fine about doing it. Right wing Tea Party groups have done this in CO except they directed the money to private schools run by business allies.  And this is on the non-Jewish population too.  The Hasidic vote the way the Rabbi's tell them to and turn out.  The non-Jewish voters don't turn out.  If they did then they could turn this around. &gt;During another controversial period this past year, a young student stood up at that rostrum there and stated that as far as she is concerned, this board cares more about money and taxes than it does about people. That too raises an age-old anti-Semitic trope of Jewish obsession with money.

&gt;"I simply won't have it. I will not tolerate, I will not have any such statement ever being made in this district. Suggesting that Orthodox Jews who do not send their children to the public school lack the moral authority to hold this office hearkens back to the admonishments of Saint Augustine, who famously stated that the Jews should be allowed to live but never be allowed to prosper. And that paved the road to Auschwitz and the crematory at Treblinka."

DAE want to break something at this point? The board *does* care more about money and taxes than it does about the well-being of public school students in their community. Not because they're Jewish, but because of *their actions as the school board*.

Not only is this an insult to everyone's intelligence, it tarnishes the victims of actual discrimination. This guy's argument reasserts the same bigoted stereotypes he was allegedly trying to deflect.   This is my old school district, which is struggling even in the best of times.  What the hasidic school board is doing there is criminal. Cunts When you've got a group who are so intensely all about reading, interpreting and abusing the rules, is it *any* surprise that they did just that? Here is the NPR radio show which featured this story on "this American life" 

http://thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/534/a-not-so-simple-majority Be wary of groups that don't make any friends outside of their group.  That's beyond fucked up. You don't even need to be atheist to see this is genuinely wrong.  Just assumed this was about Lakewood nj They need to be fucked by the federal gov.  Didn't even have to click on the link to know it was my old district east ramapo. It sickens me what they did to the schools.  Chicanerous and Deplorable. I've said it in the past, these school board members should be sued. They are not acting in good faith. They are elected to do a job and they deliberately subvert the schools. Every student in that district had standing to take all these crooks houses and clean out their accounts.  This is like a case study in religion being a disease of the mind.  Ever heard of the "not for profit" organization Kars 4 Kids? All the money goes to jewish kids even though they advertise it for underprivileged kids. They don't specifically say to jewish kids so you assume they are referring to kids of all race and religion "Oh, you don't like that we've taken over your school board (when none of our children even attend) and are depriving your children of an education?  You must be anti-Semitic!"

No, asshole, I'm anti-asshole.  Stick your fucking nose in shit that doesn't concern you and you're going to get some push-back.  Keep your concern for your own kids in their own fucking schools and stop messing with ours.  Don't want to pay taxes to support local schools?  "Find someplace else to live!"  Not so nice now, is it, asshole? i live in monsey ny, i tried telling people on reddit how none of our school board for my old high school "Ramapo High School" had any members in the actual school district, i am someone who was raised jewish, yet i became a free thinker, the school board is dominated by hasidic jews, and they use our bus system to their advantage. we've had our school budget dwindle or years on end and the schools reputation has gone down the gutters because of it. i got downvoted, because the majority of jews, who are orthodox and mostly segregationist by their nature of belief, choose to not attend the school district and go to private school to cater to their own pious proclivities. when the budget vote occurs, they vote en masse to make sure it never is passed, despite every single yeshiva trying to become tax exempt and not paying taxes and ot looking to invest into their local school system. its a damn shame that we have to deal with this. democracy has its flaws, one of them is certainly the ability to override the system by having more children than your neighbors and using that to your advantage. many 6+ childen families go to vote when the majority of families have somewhere between 2-4 kids outside of the ultra orthodox community. but if you have groups moving in day in and day out, looking to have 10+ children like my family did, attempting to have the hive mind mentality that hasidim do, expect the consequences t fall on the hands of social services/local citizens.

 It's OK because Holocaust. This sounds like what is happening here in Arizona right now.  A few more months and I get to correct my mistake and vote to recall our ass hat governor.   Same game plan as republicans. Decimate and privatize. ... cuny spring break corresponds with jewish holidays... go figure...  Their argument has as much weight as saying "I don't drive so my taxes that pay to pave the roads shouldn't go towards that, they should instead go towards my _____" Greasy [deleted] Without reading the comments I can almost guarantee this is in New York somewhere. This is America in a nutshell.  Can you guess who is not going to get in trouble for this? [deleted] Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* This comment has been removed for using abusive language or fighting with other users (flaming), activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Connected comments may also be removed for the same reason.  Users who don't cease this behavior may get banned temporarily or permanently. 



For information regarding this and similar issues please see the [Subreddit Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. /raises hand

The Jews? Don't most school districts have rules that you need to have a kid in the school to be voting on what they do with their funds? It seems like they should. It seems like there should be laws in place to keep people whose children don't go to public school from hijacking and systematically destroying the education infrastructure.  How is this not massively illegal? Goddammit, Kyle! Jews can't run a school! They didn't do this because they're Jewish. They did this because they're assholes.  Yeah, it ain't the only place in NY that has that problem.  Specifically Lawrence and Cedarhurst, Long Island (NY).  The orthodox are pricks.  Though perhaps that's a truth that transcends denomination. I'm from new York. .. it's better to avoid these people. . Not do business with them and basically just avoid eye contact and act like they don't exist. ... fyi they do the same to you That's why Hitler put them in ovens.  If you want daily updates on these pieces of human trash subscribe to r/rockland. I live in the county and we deal with this group on many levels.  This school district is near where I used to go to high school 4 years ago. Even back then, it was well known that the school board were essentially pushing funds towards the private schools, and not towards the public schools. There was a huge walk-out my senior year by the entire public high school (students and teachers) to protest this corrupt behavior. I've been following it, and even after the State said what they were doing was wrong, they defended it.

The Orthodox Jewish community in Rockland County have been finding ways around the system for years. They get away with property taxes and funnel public funds to private schools for themselves. It's really a corrupt community, and I'm glad that the State finally took matters into their own hands. It's just a shame that it took them 5 years to reign them in. And what do  they teach: Hate.
 Fuck them. What's sad about this is it's old news, many times this situation has been reported, but there is no general public outrage because of the fear of being labeled an anti-Semite. The Hasids will get there way and it will be another Kiers joel Judaism tends to be ignored by a lot of atheists who focus more on christianity and islam. I get why, but Judaism is just as bad as the other two. 

After all it's the mother of the Abrahamic religons.  Yeah, judiasm is terrible.  However, most jews are pretty secular.  

Also, a huge problem atheists have with many religions is they want to spread their religion.  Judiasm doesn't have that problem. Accusing Jews of bad behavior is anti-Semitic.

Am I doing this rite? Bad Jews behavior accusing is anti-semantic. Shut it down. The goyim know. It seems like the Holocaust is the boards answer to any criticism. America has become just a bunch of special interest groups all using the system parasitically to destroy the whole. That's what happens when you set up nonvoluntary systems like this.  It seems you fail to realize that they are God's chosen people. They're allowed to do whatever the hell they want! What an ignorant statement. They're 'chosen' to do a bunch of ridiculous tasks. It's like 617 things long. 

 What an overreaction to something clearly said in jest! The Tusken Raider definitely has the best sign.  Hard to read, but it says:

"And when I saw only one set of footprints the Lord said, Sand People travel in single file to hide their numbers." So Obi Wan is the lord? Obi is the Wan true God Thank you my child. Obi is Lord. Lord, Obi is. [Obi is Lorde](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/By6JAaiIMAAgbbM.jpg:large) Yeh I wish that was closer to the front. This above all wrangles the power of the human mind. Not only in the universe of Tuskan Raiders, who are undeniably humanoid and tribaly predisposed to tactics of survivalistic deception, but also in the minds of the writers who had the mental wherewithal to create such a base instinct in a character that also embodies the falacy of both herd mentality and the lack of inductive logical thinking in today's religious society...as pointed out by the sign wielding Raider. 


  **TL;DR** - Tribe religiosity is just as prevalent in actual 1st world society as it is in Sci-Fi hyperbole.

  edit: structure  haha rekt This just fills me with glee! Yeah, but they lose style points if at some point they didn't do this:

http://youtu.be/IrJUq6-HHOk

Apologies for the repetition.  Thanks.  I couldn't make it out but I had faith that the comments section would deliver.   I am partial to the you don't know the power of the dark side sign.   Lord Vader is really a [good guy](http://i.imgur.com/fPoerHw.jpg) compared to Yahweh. Can we get someone to stack up statistically the numbers of people/animals that Biblical God eliminated versus Vader in the Star Wars movies? Maybe break it down like Old Testament versus New Testament, first trilogy versus second trilogy? Vader blew up a planet, God only flooded one. Technically, Grand Moff Tarkin blew it up. Grand Moff Tarkin didn't blow it up, a giant laser did. When will people start understanding building giant lasers will only lead to using giant lasers on planets? Giant lasers don't kill people, people who command people who operate giant lasers kill people I made this for you:

http://i.imgur.com/akfVbCP.jpg No you didn't.

You made it for all the galaxy. I wish this was a gif.  Here you go: http://i.imgur.com/akfVbCP.gif

^(You didn't say you want it animated!) I love you. Lol you're the worst! Be the change you want to see in the world. I can make one for you. It is pretty easy. Download image, change format to .gif, upload image. Now it's a gif!!! http://imgur.com/8Btd8ZK We have a right to bear giant lasers!  If we outlaw planet-destroying superlasers, only outlaws will have planet-destroying superlasers. Yeah, will you can have my planet destroying super laser when you pry it from my cold death star. And look at where that got the United Federation over on the other side of the galaxy! They're force-less and laser-less!  yeah, but they only really need the Force anyway, what with Planet Destroying Superlasers being insignificant compared to it anyway. The only person who can stop a bad guy with a giant laser is a good guy with a giant laser! I want my interplanetary bazooka! For duck hunting. Lasers can't penetrat a planet's mantel!  Alderaan truth!  What isn't the Empire telling us? Just the kind of thing I'd expect a giant laser apologist to say The Intergalactic Giant Laser Association has a powerful lobby in the Senate. &gt;powerful lobby in the Imperial Senate

FTFY That's just what they want you to think. GLA: Galactic Laser Association 

Join now and protect your laser rights! So Vader blew it up?  Giant lasers can't melt durasteel Alderaan was an inside job!! Emperor palpatine made credits off the Galatic conquest. Lasers can't melt steel beams. Leia was going to let them blow up Dantooine.  She's not so great either! Yeah, but it was deserted by then. The old Rebel base was, I doubt the planet would be.  Not even technically, Vadar never said a word. Technically, it was Leia's lies of Dantooine. Well, no. Tarkin made it clear that he intended to blow up Alderaan *and* Dantooine, because he believed her. If she'd ratted out the rebels on Yavin, he still would've popped Alderaan. Tarkin says Dantooine is too remote to make a suitable demonstration.

He's lying. He is moff of the outer rim and doesn't want to blow up his own territory. Screw another moff instead. Regardless, whether Leia was lying or telling the truth is irrelevant to whether he blows up Alderaan. If Dantooine had been the actual location of the rebel base, he'd still have destroyed Alderaan. That's not the question though. What if she named a more central location? "It's on Corruscant"  Who knows? Yavin's not exactly a galactic hot spot, either, though. Should have said Coruscant then the remote excuse wouldn't have worked. The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the ~~Force~~Bible But take into perspective, Vader has a Galaxy to play with. God seems obsessed with our planet. Well... Blowing up the planet was pretty shitty for a brief moment of time for everyone who was alive on the planet at the time.  
  
God's been making making life worse for the majority of people on this planet for a couple of thousand years, so it's not exactly cut and dried.   &gt;  for a couple of thousand years

considering he ignored mankind for all its existence before that, I would say your math is a bit off What are you talking about?!  He's been there for the full 6000  
  
Checkmate! According to the Talmud, there were many "creations." We have no idea how many, that were created, found fallible and then destroyed, soo when you keep THAT in mind, one planet really IS insignificant.   So are you saying Lucifer didn't put dinosaur bones in the ground to trick us? That instead the dinosaurs were a creation of god that didn't work out and had to be destroyed?  Yes, tyrannosaurus rex has widdle arms to assist in praying while running and eating. The Talmud is non-canonical fanfic. That's because god is an amateur. It's difficult to quantify, since the number vary depending on how you count it. Ultimately, it depends on how responsible Vader is for destroying Alderaan, because god killed a planet's worth of life with the flood and would win by many orders of magnitude if all the deaths caused by Deat Star 1 are Tarkin's or the Emperor's responsibility and not Vader's.

Anyway in the episodes IV-VI trilogy IIRC he personally kills 5 people: Strangles a guy in the Tantive IV, kills Obi Wan, force chokes 2 admirals, and kills the emperor.  1 admiral, 1 captain No, wait, he promoted ~~Piet~~ Needa to Admiral, then got pissed after he failed, force-choked him, then demoted him just for an extra 'fuck you' after he died, I alway thought. So, when he was choked, ~~Piet~~ Needa was still an Admiral.

Edit: Piett -&gt; Needa Piett lived to the end - he's on board the Executor when the A-Wing crashed into its bridge. He force-choked Admiral Ozzel and Captain Needa. Ok, you're right, it's Needa I'm thinking of. I feel pretty sad that I was able to give that information without even *glancing* at Wookieepedia. Well God did kill all the people in the flood. But there couldn't possibly be that many people back then. Earth didnt get 2 billion people on it until 1950, which is the same amount Alderaan had. The only other people god directly killed were the first born sons of Egypt and the pursuing soldiers in Exodus. He also destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gemorah, which would not have anywhere near the population of a modern city. After that I don't think god directly killed anyone. Everything else, humans would have done on their own anyway. 

Whereas Vader personally killed countless rebel pilots, personally wiped out the jedi younglings, lead a genocide, wiped out a village of Tuskens, enslaved the wookies, and took part in the destruction of a planet of at least 2 billion people.  Well, Vader stepped in and saved his son at the last minute. God just let his son die...

*EDIT: spoiler alert, btw http://www.nooooooooooooooo.com/ According to the Wookiepedia, Alderaan had 2 billion inhabitants.. so there's that. Prior to Alderaan the Death Star had blown up the world of Despayre, where it was built though that 'only' had a population in the millions and I don't think Vader ordered that.

Generally speaking the Sith/Empire has [never had any qualms with wiping out planetary populations](http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Base_Delta_Zero), even before they had a Death Star.

I'm sorry that doesn't really answer your question Vader didn't order the destruction of Alderan, Tarkin did. 

Tarkin out ranked Vader btw.  Remember Taris! Never forget! I miss KoTorR sigh. god killed about 25 million in the bible. satan killed 10. Darth Vader escapes mention.  Is that because of the whole long ago in a galaxy far far away  well, in the New Trilogy, Vader killed younglings In the OT, Yahweh had kids ripped apart by bears for calling one of his minions "baldy". Also, the first born of Egypt. Well, yeah....but the bears showed the twisted creativity of a truly depraved mind.  I mean,  yeah, "send the hit-angel down and off those guys' kids in their beds" is pretty sick, sure, but it takes a special kind of sick to feed kids alive to bears over a minor taunt. The Bible missed a key opportunity to use the term "hit-angel".   In the NT, Anakin was going to kill his wife. *While pregnant with his twins*. Well, Yahweh ordered his chosen people to essentially finger-rape every female (adult or child!) in a conquered city to see who was virgin and who wasn't.  The not-virgins got killed on the spot, and the virgins got taken as spoils of war to become sex-slaves. Sounds like ISIS today! It's sad how true that is. In the NT, Anakin slaughters a village full of sand people. Not just the men. But the women and children too. &gt; In the NT

I read that as New Testament.

The name fits... From a certain point of view that was Vader as he already killed Anakin. Yeah.. but do the prequels really count to anyone...? The prequels are like the old testament in that regard. I am going to use this next time now. I don't count them as cannon.  That's because they're movies, not cannon. If you don't count the movies as canon you're going to be stuck with a limited franchise to enjoy. I still count the books as canon so no I could read for a long time and not finish them all /flip off disney. I'm OK with that  If you want to explore this subject in depth, there is a book called [Christian Wisdom of the Jedi Masters](http://www.amazon.com/Christian-Wisdom-Jedi-Masters-Staub/dp/111842574X). I only know about this book because I once spotted it in a thrift store. [He's a good guy compared to a lot of people](http://i.imgur.com/L0bCN0U.jpg) http://www.xkcd.com/820/

(also https://www.xkcd.com/709/) GOD HATES BOTHANS Many Bothans died to bring us this information.

*And God saw that it was good* Careful, people might start thinking [Jedi is a real religion](https://i.imgur.com/kdHqQ.png). 1. These are clearly sith.
2. Dude, papyrus, really? It's the font of religion. One of them needs a sign that says, "**Ya koon tacha poonoo nee sah, gee!**"

(^Your ^powers ^won't ^work ^on ^me, ^boy.)
 kotor? Either that or the junk dealer in episode 1 Nope, Jabba the Hutt in Return of the Jedi  to Luke. kotor? kotor? Is this a thing, now? God botherers turn up at Comicons? Comedy gold for cosplayers. Its been going on for a while, at least where the picture is (Anaheim Convention Center in California.) The same people have been there for the last few conventions I attended there (over the span of three years). Pretty respectful people from what I saw, just stand there with their signs quietly. Some convention goers buy them food and talk with them. its the same people outside of Ducks and Angels games. I've recognized like three of the same people over the past 5 or 6 years at various sporting events and concerts in Orange county, but mostly in Anaheim.  the Anaheim/Orange County area is California's megachurch/religious conservative epicenter. Rick Warren's famous  Saddleback church is in OC along with many others. It's also the site of a major white supremacy movement, surprise surprise. http://www.ocregister.com/articles/white-374363-orange-county.html  
  
 &gt; Some convention goers buy them food and talk with them.

Sweet Jesus, why???? Because you can't argue with people who are committed to their beliefs.  You can only influence them by the power of your actions.  Maybe, just maybe, if they are treated *even better* by the "sinners" than they are by their fellow believers, they might start to question what they are doing. That's pretty much why you're supposed to be nice to the Westboro Baptist Church. They *expect* and *look* for ignorance and hatred. Try surprising them. They're actually just a family of lawyers trolling over and over to get someone to kick them out of public property so they can cry "Christians being oppressed!" and sue for big bucks. A lot of people don't realize this. Even "Conservapedia" agrees with this assessment.  No, they're not. All the former WBC members have said they're dead serious. OK, but I mean in the context of "maybe being nice to them will change their mind," I don't think they actually want people to be nice to them.  I like you son.  Those guys (the religious ones), were at the Long Beach Grand Prix today. Saw them on my way to work, up and down Ocean Blvd, basically one on each corner all up and down the drive. They pick the worst demographics to target. [Diablo](http://i.imgur.com/T6jirit.jpg) loves hanging with these guys. I went to SDCC and NYCC and Blizzcon all last year. There are religious preachers are every single one of them and are pretty much ignored at each con. This would be Star Wars Celebration, but these guys also show up at San Diego Comic-Con The root problem with anyone religious enough to prosthelytize like this is that they think they are special.  

Same goes for anyone who votes for a referendum or candidate based on their religious views ignoring others views. They do this because they believe themsleves to be special. That's the human condition. It's easy to convince someone they're special because we all want to believe that we are special.  If everyone is special, then no one is. As Jesus was escorting me through heaven, I noticed thousands of enclosed spaces with high walls. I asked him what they were. He replied that they were for the various sects and cults of each religion so they all thought they were the only ones there. No capes! Thing is, everyone is. Some are even a special Kind of special. ehhh its like being different... but the same.

its one of the seemingly infinite paradoxes that pervade our confusing universe Okay, Syndrome  Religion is all about being 'special', because you're in the 'right' group.
 Well, we are all special. It's just that some of us are special because of our ideas and accomplishments and some of us are special because of the size of the bus we ride to school. "And when I saw only one set of footprints in the sand, the lord said,

Sandpeople often travel in single file to hide their numbers."

Bwaaahahahahaha This was my favorite one. And your user name  Why do Christians hate Star Wars?  They don't. Maybe an extreme Christian, but they pretty much hate everything. Like Mikey and Life cereal. Am Christian.  Love Star Wars. Pokemon.. GTA... I could keep going on but these guys are utterly insane their definition of Religion is based upon whether or not they like something or not.  As such they use their special collection of idiots to support whatever they preach. If I had to guess I'd say the "worshipping false idols" thing combined with all fun things being sinful and top that off with religion's general disdain for competition in the realm of fiction. They don't. It's more the fact that a lot of impressionable youth will be there Christians against Star Wars  These guys are present at almost everything that's at the Anaheim convention.  They were at Blizzcon last year as well. So if the original trilogy is the holy trilogy, I take it that the prequels are the Satanic Verses? At least they have a sense of humor Only one of those signs is a real proselytizer, the rest are mocking them. This picture points out the absurdity of religious belief in a way words cannot. Anaheim Convention Center? Star Wars Celebration is happening now  Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid. [I'm sorry. I can't hear you over the sound of me blocking your laser with my palm.](http://static.gamesradar.com/images/totalfilm/b/blast-off.jpg) Geeks: We INVENTED passive aggressiveness. "Your sad devotion to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure up the stolen data tapes" would have been a good sign.  "You don't know the power of the darkside" Proton torpedoes can't melt durasteel exhaust ports And the Prophet Han (May The Force Be With Him) said: Thou Shalt Shoot First.
 Christians are fucking retarded  "HOOOOO- TENEEEEEEE" All these fanatical atheists and their humorous signs, just out of control! &gt;militant At least Vader had real demonstrable power. I don't think Dark Side is supposed to be written as one word. get a brian, moran. If any stormtroopers manage to hit anything in the new movie, I'm gonna fucking shit myself. Prepare to shit yourself then.  Ahaha Anaheim convention center? They showed up for Blizzcon too. These guys are at Star Wars Celebration in Anaheim for some reason.  It's not clear why.  Do they think Star Wars is evil?  Maybe cosplay? They show up everywhere. I've seen them at Comic-Con in San Diego and football games in Pasadena. I really thought the Tusken Raider sign would say "arghargharghargh" I like that in the middle of this mess there are two storm troopers taking photos with a kid.    Testifie Hey I was working security for that event today and yesterday.  I was there today and saw this, it was hilarious. New sign: "I can feel your anger" I wanna do this except with space marines That is quite awesome, especially if they did it just to troll the xtian guy :P Lol awesome. I want to be part of something like this. Real fremen would kick the shit out of star wars sandpeople. That dude better put his sign down ASAP cuz he'll never hear death coming. A column of smoke by day, a pillar of fire by night. Everything else aside, /r/crappydesign would love the Christian's sign. you know, I could of gone down for that event for the day. but no, I had to go else where today. "You don't the know the power of the dark side."

I play prophunt too much. Darth Vader was evil though. Or at the very least corrupt and murderous. Why would they want someone like that as a persona for faith? It's called a joke. They want attention and you're giving it to them. Pissed me self when I read the Tusken Raider's placard, pure class. I just watched the original Star Wars for the first time last night. it's neat that I get it  Welcome to the Dark Side... I feel like they just have that one sign they take to all the conventions in the area ... yet oddly charming. [deleted] ***Analyzing liido***

* comments per month: 32.3 *^I ^have ^an ^opinion ^on ^everything*
* posts per month: 3.2 
* favorite sub [pics](http://NP.reddit.com/r/pics)
* favorite words: really, probably, pretty
* age 2 years 7 months 
* profanity score 0.8% *^Gosh ^darnet ^gee ^wiz*
* trust score 58.4% *^Lies!! ^so ^many ^lies!*

* Fun facts about liido
    * *"I've never dealt with somebody high on meth but I can't imagine they would be very reasonable?"*
    * *"I've seen this question asked and I believe this was the top answer?"*
    * *"I am saying of course."*
    * *"I've never won a GPP with such a low score  Your friends wouldn't think it's cool if you saw Bill Murray?"*
    * *"I've worked enough jobs like this to know it's better just to get out of a shitty situation than try to fix it."*
    * *"I am the first guy there every day I get to pull the space heater in to the stall with me and take a nice toasty dump."*
    * *"I am now."*
    * *"I've seen this all over, it's like a 4 foot drop below them  No I think it would be more blasphemous to have an android and MacBook."*
    * *"I've been doing it wrong this whole time...."*
    * *"I've only seen her in an episode of the office, other than that i have never heard of her What is this in reference to?"*
    * *"I've noticed after it expands the pop is always flat."*
 This is photoshopped. Look closely at the "Holy Bible" sign. The word bible was poorly put over trilogy. The text doesn't align with the waves on the Christian sign. This was most likely a joke some Star Wars people did and someone photoshopped a Christian thing into it so it seems like it is out of line. It's not photoshopped. Like where were these religious people when star wars first came out? O right, nowhere because this is just some bs someone decided in the last 10 years and people can't think for themselves and need others to think for them. I've got no problem with religion but damn they love fucking band wagons.  Whoa those guys sure OWNED them Bumperstickers are getting really bloody specific.  "I'm proud that my great-grandfather supported the decision by the (Idaho) Freeman district court to vote against the Supreme court on the Coleman v. Miller case!"

*Ninja edit: I wonder what the most oddly specific bumper sticker is* I don't know what it is about "magic happens"-stickers on cars but every time I see one I wanna get out my permanent marker and sneak over and write underneath it "so does cot death".

 Tim Minchin Your social security number The most oddly specific one I've ever seen accurately cited multiple state court cases on the right to bear arms. There are more concise ways to say "ask me about my guns." Like "Ask Me About My Guns." Whenever a vehicle has a gun related decal or sticker all I see is "Break into my car". "Break into my car and Ill walk outside with my other gun" Why would you break into the car of someone you know is armed? To steal the gun... Maybe if I believed in an afterlife I'd be willing to take that chance, but in states that allow it I'd be willing to bet anyone who is serious enough into gun rights will most likely be carrying. Oh, no doubt. I think if criminals weren't willing to take chances, they wouldn't be criminals. 

Look at how often mom and pop gas stations get robbed even though they're more likely to have a gun behind the counter.  That's why you do it when the owner isn't there. Shh, he's a gun owner busy wanking to the thought of someone trying to carjack him, ignoring that 99% of all car breakins do not occur with someone in, or even NEAR, the car. Because that's where the guns are, and where it's really easy to tell if *people* are *not*.

Vehicles, especially outside the garage, are incredibly easy and tempting targets for content theft. So only idiots make a point of telling others that there's damn near guaranteed to be something worth stealing in their vehicle. I want a bumper sticker that says 

*My opinion fits conveniently here* I saw one (on a truck covered in stickers) that read "I express my individuality through mass-produced bumper stickers" I want a ribbon sticker that says "Support Ribbon Stickers". We have one. Do you have one with the image of Mohammed? 

 I want one that says "Imagine this is my rebuttal here."  I want one that says, "Yeah, I'm just enough of a twat to think that you strangers sitting in gridlock give one miniscule fuck about my interests and beliefs." It is a good idea because it is too many words for potentially violent coal rolling assholes to read. I see, obfuscation through general sesquipedalianism during locomotion to prevent dastardly vehicular misdeeds.  I want a bumper sticker that says "Bumper stickers are for hypocrites" What do the atheists in the bible belt drive?

Miatas.  The answer is always Miata. Mazda3 over here. GMC Sierra. 

But I also own a Mazda CX-7.

Maybe it's just Mazdas.  2000 Saturn SL. Every day I pray she'll start, and every day, some deity somewhere answers. I dunno who the prayers go to, but whoever they are, they're kinder to me than the Christian god ever was. Its just Christian God trying to get you back.


Its the god equivalent of standing outside your room window with a boombox on their shoulders. ...all the evil, fucked up shit in the world, and God chooses making sure my car starts to try and bring me back into the faith.

You know, I'm just gonna go ahead and chalk this one up to Hephaestus. Anyone know where I can find a ram and a sacrificial stone altar? Ooh, and one of those fancy ritual knives! Can't have an animal sacrifice without a fancy knife! :D mazdaspeed3 over here Shit. This is our tell. '99 checking in. NB Miata all day. Good choice, *M'miata.* Sexier curves than the NA and NC, but no pop up headlights :( Nothing's sexier than those NA pop-up headlights.  Top down: Always be vigilant for sky pasta.  

May noodles overflow your Miata as it has been foretold.

 I giggled. Miata driving athiest from the South checking in.  Yep, that would be me. Although I would never put a bumper sticker on my car, wtf am I a soccer mom? Can Confirm: MX-5 MazdaSpeed (Miata) driving Atheist living in the bible belt here. White male southerner atheist from Alabama, here. I drive a pickup truck. If you saw me on the street you'd swear I was a church going member of the Sean Hannity fan club &amp; crisis pregnancy center. 4 Door Jeep Wrangler here and mistaken for a good ol' girl all the time. :) Caught me :/  350z here ;/  I dig the Mazda speed versions though Psh, some of us go all the way and drive Evolutions.  I'm a miata in the bible belt here, it's true Can confirm. I am an athiest  that once proudly owned red miazda in the bible belt. [serious] is there a context to this? i don't live in the bible belt, but i loves me some miata cars. i'd get one if the trunks weren't so tiny (no bueno for outdoor activity trips). if you frequent /r/cars and ask almost any question along the lines of, "which car would be good for......?" someone will invariably respond with, Miata.  It's a car thing.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8EsO83qRYEk

http://jalopnik.com/5654312/miata-the-answer-to-every-question Miata

Is

Always

The

Answer Ford: Fix It Again, Tony You're thinkin' of a Fiat, Dale. Ford would be:   Found on road dead, fixed on repairs daily

Ford Backwards: Driver returns on foot They are perfect for [track day!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kp1kuo6xkbE) YOU BASTARD.

i'm trying to leave work and you introduce me to this channel?! XD solution: hitch mounted cargo carrier

even better: http://www.lightweightmiata.com/trailer/ Isuzu Nissan checking in! :/ I no longer have my little red rag top. Fiat Spider. Directionaly similar Ford F150 here. A 1995 chevy tahoe here with the engine of a 1999 gmc sierra.  Toyota tacoma Yep. In Bible belt, currently drive my sister's miata.  Toyota Cressida here In Alabama. Drive a Honda. As a fellow ~~Miati~~ ~~Miato~~ Miata driver, the answer is *always* Miata. Subaru here. FR-S here. Does it count if it's a competitor of the Miata? Same idea of a car, so yes. I drive a BRZ and a Miata. :/ Honda civic hybrid... gotta suport the eco system since religion isnt making the bad stuff magically dissappear. Jeep wrangler, I'm thinking about buying a luxury car soon. Fj cruiser here I got a VW IS250 here the miata and the mustang are the cheapest convertibles to maintain, that's why.  Lol, your faith has been restored?  Title level: gem [deleted] Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* Using stereotypical reddit troll lingo or outright trolling or shitposting, activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Breaking this rule may result in immediate banning (temporary or permanent).

If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. Hi can you please ban me I will never have anything to add here. Thanks! 38.74% of voters in Alabama voted for Obama. While a minority it's not exactly rare.  This is the sort of thing that people always forget. Even in Utah and Wyoming, more than 1/4 of the people voted for Obama in 2012, and in all the other states it was at least 1/3 (Idaho and Oklahoma are the only ones that got there): http://elections.nbcnews.com/ns/politics/2012/all/president/#.VS1cBJTF-gQ

And even the most conservative demographic group (white evangelicals) still gave 20% of its support to Obama in 2012: http://www.pewforum.org/2012/12/07/election-2012-post-mortem-white-evangelicals-and-support-for-romney/

Just because someone is a white evangelical from Oklahoma doesn't mean they're conservative - a significant fraction of them voted for Obama too.

On the other hand, it's much harder to find a black atheist from DC who voted for Romney. People act like Obama only won because blacks voted for him, but that gives him something like 3% of total registered voters. Not enough to sway any election, even a midterm.

Romney basically tied Obama among white men, Romney lost slightly among white women, and then of course lost badly among PoC.
 The sentiment isn't really about Obama, it's about not governing with religion. I'd wager more atheists are democrat than republican, but I'd doubt 38.74% of people in Alabama are atheist.  True, although many religious persons believe in separation of church and state. I doubt any state has 38% atheists.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vermont 
not 38%, but in 2008 34% of people in Vermont were atheists Let's not forget also that the state representative for the Birmingham, Alabama, area is an openly gay woman who has been elected for multiple terms. 50% of those were probably "My grandpappy would roll over in his grave if I voted for a Republican!" voters though.  You might be forgetting that half of the people in this state are black. People always seem to forget this about southern states. Yeah. I am a black Mississippian. We are the majority here. There are a lot of black people in Alabama. Alabamian here. Actually there's a lot of us atheists down here, we just tend to be a little quieter... but our convictions are strong. Open atheist here, but closet Alabamian. If you're an open Alabamian and an open atheist, you can help change generic stereotypes about our state. This is why I never hide the fact that I'm from Alabama despite the fact that almost no one around me is from anywhere in the southeast U.S. [deleted] Agreed. Atheists of Alabama unite! Roll Tide. There seems to be enough of us for our own subreddit. Minus the trolls that would flock,  AtheistsofAlabama or AlabamianAtheists would have the potential to be a nice sub-community with a knowledgeable/warm atmosphere between peers. That's me! this is definitely the better way to go.  Open Alabamians are waaaay cooler than closet ones.  I disagree, I much prefer the Alabamians in my closet. It's only a better way to go because of anonymous people on the internet randomly hating on us.  Yeah.  Every time I mention it things turns ugly.

I've gotten better reactions from Christians in Alabama that I am an atheist than I've gotten from strangers on the internet finding out that I am from Alabama. Churches are such a huge part of the community here (I'm in Bimingham).  There are a lot of people who are faking it to keep the social/business connections.   Also in Birmingham and there's so much truth to this. For me, it was being a waitress and having to pretend like I was a Christian when my customers would ask me, "so what church do you go to?" It was never, "do you go to church?" Same here. My dinosaur Jesus fish was ripped off of my car in a school parking lot. I tell people I was a victim of a hate crime.  If you actually reported it, you'd probably get laughed at. If it were an actual jesus fish though... holy shit.  youd still probably get laughed at Another one here, and that's very true. Born in Ala in 1959 and still get shit from my relatives because they wont see me in their heaven. Thank god for New Orleans, LA Are there a lot of atheists there? I moved for work and I live in Metairie, about 3 miles from the New Orleans city line.  Everyone seems extremely religious, even in the city.  Jesus is my Co-Pilot license plate frames everywhere and middle aged adults are still obsessed with which private catholic high school they went to. It is not as fundie as the rural areas but it is still the South. Catholics are not as freaky as the protestants and the high school thing is an elitist badge as opposed to a jesus thing. If you leave NOLA things get pretty traditional  I really want to move there and live near Bourbon Street whil I am in my twenties, I feel like it would complement my love of parties and drinking nicely   Wow! Southern convention here! We have a few in Mississippi, but almost all of us hide it.  Alabamian here, wondered where  this was. I also happen to drive a Miata.  Georgian here.

Nobody gives a fuck what i think. Atheist from Alabama checking in Another one here. We're out there Fellow Alabamian! I agree, there are many Atheists here in the "bible belt". We usually are not going buck wild either. They're the BEST. HOOSIERS Track day, bro! Headlights go up! I'm all for the sentiment but, I wonder if there are statistics on rear end accidents for people who have long text bumper stickers.  The worst is when they try to fit a whole fucking paragraph on a bumper sticker. You literally can't even read it unless you are walking past it in a parking lot or something.  Anyone else think Obama may be an atheist? He certainly doesn't seem to talk about his faith. Would be great if he was.  He worships regularly, is a church member, self proclaims he is a Christian, says the creeds while he is there.  Regardless of the % of belief he has in church doctrine, or he sees the bible as allegory or fan fiction, he is very clearly a practicing Christian, and therefore not an Atheist by definition...     Atheism is all about what you believe not what you do.  If he does not believe in any Gods then he is an atheist.  A good politician must hold a decent dog and pony show for it to seem authentic.  Just think of all the negative things people would say about his religion if he never did all those things and just SAID he was a christian. [Faith dispelled](http://www.deadmoon.org/images/misc/ExtremeBeliever.jpg) I'd love to change the "V" to a "B" and make him an EXTREME BELIEBER. ^^^ This.  This is the typical shit on our vehicles, plus "Bama, RTR, TIDE, Alabama," etc, some occasional Auburn stuff and of course the Jesus fish.
-from an Alabamian.  Don't throw in Bama and Auburn in this. Ain't nothin' wrong with a little Roll Tide.  Yes^. Separation of church and football. Also, roll tide.  Roll tide. TO THE MAX I love that this is on a Miata.  Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/GafW94x.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) This looks like it could be a shitty graphic Christian tee at some Christian retreat.

"people faith.... miata" I really want a miata to zip around in. 
 Well, it's on a Miata - so clearly this person had achieved enlightenment some time ago.  The "faith restored/lot" cliche always seemed really silly to me. How can any one person restore your faith in any one group?! This. Our legislation swears on the Bible to defend the Constitution, not the other way around. Rational Alabamians who think and don't just leave it all up to gawwwd... we're out here, but the poor oppressed Christians are a lot noisier.  Christian Alabamian, here. If only more people in this state would believe that.

Also, I love seeing my state's name on reddit and it not getting bashed! If you're a southerner yourself, you should have more faith that not all of us are what you think we are. Love the fact that it is on a Miata! If only we had others in federal and state governments who would apply that sentiment to themselves as their supposed to. The answer is always ~~on a~~ Miata He doesn't lead like it.    He's directly mentioned his god many times and talked about faith and church.    He's as partisan on this issue as any other president.    

I guess I have to say he's better than president shrubbery who once famously said god told him something. Yea, cause mentioning God and faith couldn't possibly have a damn thing to do with securing the religious vote. Not at all! Impressive balance I thought it was going to say as long as he's not in office Anyone else think Obama is very likely a closet atheist? The problem is that he does. He needs to move on.  I live in northwest Alabama, and people like this are few and far between, trust me.  It's scary to think that most of the people around me will have an effect on the next presidential election. TRACK DAY BRO This is probably not the best place to ask but... what is with claiming Pres. Obama is a Muslim? Like specifically, where does that come from? He only ever talks about Christianity/Christian traditions if the topic comes up. It's a Fox news thing. Literally the only reason for it is that his middle name is Hussein.  You must not live in the U.S. Christianity is the official, unofficial religion of the U.S, and saying that Obama is a Muslim underscores the idea among many that "he's not like us (meaning, white)." That's why you always hear about "taking back" America. Take it back from what? Oh...the dark guy... not a native -- must be a transplant
 I am pretty sure there are a lot more atheists or nonchristians in Alabama than people would actually have us believe.  The ignorant loud mouthed people would have us believe otherwise.  Heard of the saying "The majority isn't always right"? As an Alabamian, this is the shit that I like to see. Along side the "DONT STEAL : The government hates competition stickers." Fellow southerner here....maybe there is hope? if i ever need my faith restored, i just read a bumper sticker that i agree with. derrrrrrrrr!!!!!! But if I see one I disagree with must mock them and deem bumper stickers tacky and dumb, while demanding it be removed. Jesus would never stand for supporting a nations health and well being. Republicans are the ones who govern like the most amoral, dishonest, corrupt sacks of shit this planet had ever seen. For the rest of the country, we're going to need more than a bumper sticker to restore our faith in Alabama. Hey they got gay marriage before most of the other southern states, ya they were forced but they still have it and the rest of us don't. That's a little slice of faith as far as I'm concerned.   .Ah... about that... Last bit I heard was that our probate judges were not issuing licenses to same-sex couples pending final word from SCOTUS this summer. Because Alabama.... They will be forced, this issue is all but over in the US it's just a matter of paperwork and forcing people to comply.  Oh, *I* know that. The idiot in Montgomery just doesn't seem to know that. Roll Tide. Alabamian here. I am really alone around my friends and family being non-religious. I could explain how I feel but with anyone living in the bible belt its like telling them air is bad for them. Glad to see this kind of thinking. TIL people in Bama drive Miatas. It wasn't until I left Alabama that I realized how much it gets picked on. Fuck you, ignorant hater! such a low bar Jew with friends (and family) who are Christian, Jehovah Witness, Islam etc. According to most of their religions we're all going to hell (Jews don't believe in hell but stay with me), so I figure I will be so damn busy reconnecting with everybody once my body dies, I won't care where I am (and if there is no after-life I will never know). The only thing, I think, that will piss me off about dying, assuming I live a full life, is potentially not knowing what is next for humanity. Oh, it's relevant alright. Awwww thanks.  Prejudice undone by lack of prejudice. That is actually a really good sticker.

Upvote: Imminent!
Target: Set!
Fire! Isn't it ridiculous that he's been falsely proclaimed as a Muslim so vociferously that we don't even blink at disregarding the fact he has said he's a christian? I agree completely. 1. [Read this initially as this, thought you were setting an awfully low bar.](http://imgur.com/S7RtIew) 
2. I'd be more impressed if this were slapped on over a pair of truck nuts than over a Miata name placard. 
 Amen to that...and he's pretty damn good ^^ Hallelujah!  "Faith restored" I guess we are. The only sticker I have ever seen here is "Don't eat the yellow snow".

I mean, it is a great advice, but... That's fine. We don't want your faith anyways  It's because he/she drives a Miata right? :) My guess is he's neither.  It will be nice when a president can admit that. NA Miata! That sticker won't last.  "Shit Happens" is still the best bumper stick ever! Except he doesn't. http://imgur.com/miLsc9c As long as they act like atheist I'll be happy.  To each their own, meaning themselves which is to whom they should keep it to. Probably a transplant  if that was next to say a F-150 tag i'd have been more pleased Alabamian here- still no faith in my fellow Southerners. Can I move my state of residency to New Hampshire or Washington now? In Alabama you say? As a fellow Miata driver, I like this guy. In other words, that would also mean that it's ok to be religious as long as he governs like an atheist.  

 B4 your faith gets out of hand, yo do realize those are really small letters and this sticker has too many words for your average redneck to read, right? 

Five bucks says if ya stood behind this car in a parking lot and read it out load somebody would volunteer to drive over the Miata in their 4WD pick up. copy is way too long  Faith restored by a southerner who drives a miata? Okay.. [deleted] I'm jealous i wonder how long it will take for that trend to emerge in america. seems to be the trend amongst millennials at least.  It has been trending in the past 15 years, and will likely continue.  But the Christian right looks to be prepared to put up a fight for the ages, and it may get worse before it gets better when they fizzle out into isolated cults, like Mormons.  And mainstream liberal Christianity will slowly dwindle, maybe held onto by hippy-like cults. I like the idea of each little Christian sect being relegated to one state, like Mormons and Utah. What would it be, Baptists in Georgia, Lutherans in Wisconsin, Catholics in...??? Mormons really want Missouri. It's where their garden of eden is located. It's why they own so much property there. Eventually the mass exodus will take place and the new Jerusalem will be built there...that is if Jesus would come out of hiding and claim his throne. Until then utah is their mormon version of the Vatican state. Based on current Christian denomination distribution stats, Baptists would be somewhere centered around Arkansas, Minnesota for Lutherans and other mainline Protestants, and Massachusetts or New Jersey for Catholics.  That's assuming there aren't any mass exoduses, which is possible. 

http://religions.pewforum.org/maps ...Italy Too long  [deleted] Wrong. That stat was that atheists will be the *global* majority by 2040. The Britons? Who are the Britons?  i think this one is going over people's heads, it's a joke, see [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8bqQ-C1PSE) and if it isn't a joke, is now :) It was a joke, you're the only one who got the joke almost could be, the election is up soon here in the UK, WE DIDN'T VOTE FOR HIM! .. only, we did

*sigh*, politics :) How can you tell he's the Prime Minister? I got the joke, but I'm seeing this 12 hours too late, so I don't think it counts anymore.  :( It's never too late, for now whatever it was, it provided an excuse to re-watch that clip a few more times, /day-maker

&gt; Listen. Strange women lying in ponds, distributing swords, is no basis for a system of government. Sad is one that doesn't know Monty python 'Watery tart' Ahaha.

 - Am English, can confirm. The lady of the lake is a 'watery tart' Those guys with the Longbowmen/Elite longbowmen Janissaries are better. I thought Cataphracts were the coolest looking, so I played as the Byzantines a lot. 9 year old me was a superficial child, but thankfully they were also pretty good with upgrades. brb, making a MontyPythonBot OP will surely deliver  Love the username. Congregationalist, no doubt.  Yessir, pass the bacon and donuts Oooh Dennis there's some lovely filth here.  We all are. And I am your king! Well, I didn't vote for you. You don't vote for kings! We are! We are all Britons! Well in archaeological terms, there was a tribe who populated Britain known as the [Britons](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Britons_\(Celtic_people\)), but in the [wiktionary page](http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Briton) for the word Briton, the first definition of the word is "an inhabitant of Great Britain", and this is the meaning I was referring to in the title. *whoosh*

To explain: he was making a Monty Python reference. In all honesty, I think branthar got it.  He's being facetious in his own way by being thorough in his response.  If he's not poking jestfully, then he should probably go to the video store. We are all Britons, and I am your king. Also to add to this Country music isn't much of a "thing" here, either. You guys would love it!  Country music is basically music about America. *music about American God.

FTFY Only parts of America. You won't catch them singing about NYC or LA unless it's to put them down. I'm from England but I love country music. Something about it hits home with me.. Even though I'm not American, haha. There's really nothing wrong with country. Great drinking music.  Way to go Brits, smart people. We do OK now and again. You do alot better than us on alot of things, much better music, cooler taxi cabs and buses, cities and towns usually cleaner, you actually have universal healthcare (unlike us trapped in stone age), you speak better than we do...plus some others in all regards should pat yourself on back. http://i.imgur.com/aWBkT.png Please, please, you're making us blush... As an Ex-Indian my granny saw British rule and hated it but surprisingly she never passed on any of that sentiment to us so yeah, you guys are cool. 

(Puts on Top Gear with the national dish of the UK i. e. chicken tikka)  &gt;Top Gear

Too soon, mate.. Too soon..

:'( Tell me about it, I've been watching older episodes to get over the withdrawal symptoms.  Ha. Your image seems to be based entirely on television or one trip to London if you believe all that.  Shit, don't tell them about Sunderland.  He thinks we speak very well....don't tell him about Liverpool! &gt; cooler taxi cabs

You guys have / had Ford Crown Vics... I've ALWAYS WANTED A CROWN VIC.  Be careful. We don't want it to go to their heads. Last time that happened they were all, "The sun never sets on the British empire." And "Bloody colonists." It wasn't pretty.

:-) Funny how we got in a boat for the sake of religious freedom only to found a place much less free than the home we left.  Well, in their argument...some of them came over here to be MORE religious, not less...

...Like the Puritans... Which ones came to be less religious?? To my knowledge the only religious "pilgrims" that crossed the Atlantic were the hard core prudes, the ones that thought Europe was Sodom and Gomorra. Our culture is based on the nutters that wanted to flog themselves and live by the literal words of a book with an unproven source, known to be poorly translated, and not even getting the name of their prophet right... Sooner people realize the lunacy of this mass delusion the better... I don't think there was ever the idea of being "less religious", it was more that they'd emigrated to not be under the yoke OF religion, or rather be free to express whatever delusion they desired, instead of Anglican, Lutheran, Catholic, et.al. as prescribed by their government. I basically agree with you, with the exception of the word "some" as I can't think of any pilgrims that went to avoid the "yoke", but rather sought the freedom to impose their "holier heavier yoke" lol "Holier Heavier Yoke"...

Take your filthy upvote... Deism was a notable belief system at the time as well, and that's about as close to atheism one could have gotten in that era without becoming a pariah. Pennsylvania was comprised mostly of puritans. Maryland was founded by Catholics and the Carolinas and Virginia were started by merchants, Georgia was a buffer state between the British Americas and Spanish Florida and the British populated it with debtors and cons. I guess that the statement all pilgrims were religious is true but not all settlers were pilgrims and many people don't make the distinction. There were other motivations for emigrating to the New World. Like not starving in The Famine. The Pilgrims didn't found the United States government. People like Thomas Jefferson did.  Fair enough. But let's take a look at the founding fathers... These were multi-lingual, open minded men, that based their thoughts on the rogues of their time... True rebels... Jefferson was outspoken against a central banking system, Washington against intervening in conflicts beyond our borders, franklin in the unfettered expansion of science and medicine (ie cadaver diver). While these dynamic men founded this great nation I believe it's pretty apparent who inherited this place once they were gone and what style of thinking molded the repressionist thinking of today. Jefferson took his slave as a lover, Franklin was a famous libertine and his sexual escapades would make him an international pimp of the first order... All of the sudden I feel really dirty :(  The logic is that in countries where there is an institutional religion that people grow bored of its staleness overtime. Whereas in the U.S. The free market essentially created religions that were much more evolved and better at getting money, votes and people.

TL/DR US capitalism created a better religion "Better" Yes better. In the context of survival of the fittest. It's better fit to recreate itself I would say that a religion that sucks money out of its gullible followers so its leaders can buy mansions and designer cloths is definitely not better. Ditto, a religion that throws a wobbly the moment anybody questions its total entrenchment in a country is not better. The problem with discussing "better" is that it's relative and subjective.

If your goal is to operate a church, then clearly one that pulls in more money is better. It's more effective at being a church. More effective at brainwashing and self perpetuation.

Your goal is clearly to have a more secular society, so to you "better" means weaker churches, not stronger. My goal if anything is that religions should be attentive of the societies they live in. A church can be perfectly strong without trying to indoctrinate children or plaster its message on a countries currency. Sooooo, you're saying you'd like to live in a more secular society? ;-) I suppose so, but i guess i'm used to hearing that conflated with a less religious society. My thing is that i don't care who believes what, as long as it doesn't affect me or my children. Yes but only those religions that have successfully evolved to do so. Religions like say a death cult are unable to pass on their "genes" or perhaps more technically memes.

The U.S. created an open market where religions could complete and only the strongest survived this is in contrast to countries where they had an institutional religion where it was able to grow impotent and sterile. The Puritans wanted to get away from religious persecution, because they were rather extreme in their views. Not the same folks as the Founding Fathers (150+ years later), who espoused religious tolerance. 

 The pilgrims didnt leave for religious freedom that is revistonist shite. They got kicked out of England and then Holland for being extremists who couldn't live peacefully in their native lands.  Accept the relgious freedom that many of the early settlers where looking for was the freedom to practice a brand of Christianity that even other Christians found extreme.  No.  "You got in a boat" for the sake of LESS religious freedom.  Look up what "Puritan" means. i thought we dumped all our religious on the US to get them out of UK.  Not really.  Getting on a boat, and sailing half way across the planet, acted like a filter whereby only the MOST religiously insane left.  This means that the more virulent landed here. Henry the 8th might have been a catalyst in that   This is a myth, the current notion of religious freedom did not start until the Second World War. Source: Skeptics guide to American history  OK, real talk here. I'm an American. I teach Latin. What would it take for me to be able to move to Britain and live there for the foreseeable  future? Latin isn't that popular over here. Maybe some select public schools still teach it and then some 6th forms that offer a form of classics , so I wouldn't bank on getting a job over here teaching Latin. I dare say that market it saturated.

Obviously, do your own research but I'd be confident in saying you wouldn't walk into a Latin Teaching job. 

Also, I don't know what qualifications you need for teaching in the states, but a Post Graduate Certificate of Education (PGCE) is mandatory to teach over here. Drink tea and swear to serve the Queen. And have a passport when opens it screams, **GOD SAVE THE QUEEN!.**

Kidding. You need to apply for a work visa and work in the UK for up to three years if you wish to move here. I warn you though the chavs here are little shits and the weather likes to have a mind of its own. Tbf if you're teaching Latin your exposure to chavs will be minimal. This is relevant to me. I have an injury settlement coming soon and I've been thinking about taking this chance to move there permanently. money wise? not much if you dont mind dropping all the shit you have here and just renting a flat/buying a bed in the UK, all you really need is a working visa and a flight afaik Not if UKIP have anything to do with it. UKIP won't mind, he's American though, not proper foreign!  &gt; not proper foreign

So foreign is a Romanian in UKIP's terms? xD Yep, anyone with a different language, skin colour or religion.... or (a their latest obsession) who has AIDS, is proper foreign and not welcome

That is unless you're married to the leader of the party  Hopefully they won't.  &gt; all you really need is a working visa

Which is crazily difficult right now. Teachers are always needed, I imagine you'd get in simple enough, check gov.UK out I guess.  
  
Also don't get stuck on living in London, lots of nice places elsewhere too and usually alot cheaper. There is a big market for teaching Latin in public, private and Grammar schools, but not state schools, so you'll have to pick your choice of location for living carefully. With Latin as your main speciality you'd be looking for work in a Private School, plenty of those in the South West where I live (which is also considered to have the highest quality of life).  House Prices are pretty reasonable (at least compared to London with a 4 bed detached 1 &amp; 1/2 bath modern home costing around 230-270k.  Not sure what the salaries would be for a Latin teacher but Private Schools generally pay fairly well to tempt the best teachers away from state schools. UK: a technically Christian country with more atheists.
US: a country with no state religion with more Christians. I hate to think what those numbers are here in the U.S. The might be better then you think, and they are changing in the right direction faster and faster.  Over the last 30 years here in the UK religious congregations have been getting greyer and greyer - and pretty much literally dying out. An amazing number of old churches are now nightclubs, community centres, flats or just empty. 

There are exceptions and the odd inroad by evangelical groups but they often seem larger than they are because they tend to be quite noisy about it. From time to time they get a rich backer and then they can do damage - however the secular majority usually undoes this fairly rapidly. (We had a couple of millionaires try to start Creationist schools on the US model a few years back - law got changed to thwart that on the grounds that education has to be, well, educational) 

We've been pretty fortunate in that most of the last generation or two of religious types here have been for the most part moderate live and let live types. *Very* moderate by modern US standards if even a tenth of what I read on this sub is true! 

Of course we still have plenty of idiots of other types, just not ones who tell you god is on their side.  Living in a flat that used to be a church actually sounds pretty cool I've seen a couple and they are fucking pricey. Invariably, because they are listed buildings, floors etc are built in such a way that they can be taken out without harm to the older, outer building. The theory being that the dwelling can become are church again in the future. 

It leads to a really modern style inside but with odd trappings of the old church here and there. It's cool as fuck tbh.  There's one where I live in Vermont going for$500 USD a month. 1 bedroom and huge stain glass windows.  Do they use all the space to not have to take out the garbage all that often? [Going to a nightclub that used to be a church is pretty cool too.](http://static1.squarespace.com/static/5394c932e4b0dd3db8280a7c/t/5415bb58e4b014031cff5f84/1410710361695/) My university mac room is in the rafters of a monastery, it's pretty awesome! What in the feck is a Mac room? Macaroni room, where you make pasta. I'm going to guess the macintosh computer lab. Yup they have mac's with duel boot on. Most of the programs I have to use are on Windows thankfully... In canada its called a kraft dinner room. Wow where do you go to school? There's one near me and it looks amazing from the outside at night. [Here] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Mark%27s_Church,_Preston).  There's also a church turned nightclub near my parent's house which is pretty classy. [Here] (http://www.tripadvisor.co.uk/LocationPhotoDirectLink-g186233-d4295058-i78966840-The_Church_Bar_Restaurant-Chester_Cheshire_England.html). I hope I'm not giving too much information about my location out. Wow that looks awesome! I used to work in a place that made gambling machine software in a converted church. It was sacrilicious. I am an atheist but I don't want to see the day when Churches and Cathedrals stop getting maintained. There are some absolutely beauties in our country Yes, but maintained as historical curiosities and marvels would be better. Not as active places of worship of a sky father. Which is weird.  They get repurposed though. There's one near me that's been an amazing pub for a few years. Maintained really well. There's another church in my home village that is apparently getting flats put inside, but built as a separate building inside the church. Would be pretty amazing to live in one, but the expected price tag is crazy Oddly enough Catholicism has seem a bit of a resurgence with the addition of Polish immigrants, but I agree with your point overall.  We're definitely much less religious that the US and not too far behind Scandinavia or China. There was one in Napierville, QC that became a chicken shack.

Sadly they closed down.

Seems the people of Napierville need chicken as much as they need the word of God.

The ice cream shoppe church down the road in Pike River is still doing well. More like the left direction hue hue hue I imagined it would be comparable to this: http://i.imgur.com/nyWVSkj.png Atheists are such a large group when compared to others but we just don't have collective power to exact change at a national level. 
These statistics make it even more clear that the automatic inclusion of seats for Bishops in the House of Lords needs to change. Why is the small group of practicing Church of England followers being represented in this way when compared to the now large number of non-believers/not active church-goers?
It's not only a matter of principle that the existence of these seats is ridiculous; but it is now clear that their existence does not represent Britain.  If GB did away with anti-blasphemy, anti-freedom of speech laws, and ditched their state-sponsored religion, it would be a fantastic place to live.

It's such a shame that the US is built on secular ideals, but is full of religious extremists trying to interject their ideology into law. It's a fantastic place to live anyway. Realistically, anti-blashphemy legislation isn't worth the paper it's written on and would never be enforced, it's simply traditional. The state-sponsored religion is the same way and hasn't ever impacted me positively or negatively. It's the strangest thing, in the UK we grow up singing hymns in school and learning about Jesus. We were even given bibles by the local church. I think it's this that actually turns us away from religion because if something is in school you sure as hell don't want to do it outside of school at that age.

Edit: it really is a great place to live though, pretty much all young people are very liberal. Just don't ask 40+ yr olds what it was like "back in the day" As a 44 year old I'd have to say that it's not too different.
Back when I was at school in the 80's if someone was religious they were seen as very odd. The god squad were a bunch of fucking weirdos. Funnily enough, one of them is now a happily married gay man, another is a fashion photographer (who is now agnostic), and the last one I know is cavorting around the Carribean with as many women as hee can get his hands on. Atheism isn't seen as a group per-se by many Britons, it is more a lack of a religious ideology that many would say they have rather than defining themselves as Atheists.  Many are happy to be not grouped into a particular religion as they have no particular religious leanings but would resist being classed as out and out Atheists. Don't presume that rejecting an organised religion automatically places someone in the Atheist camp.  I for one don't like being labelled as my own views are still developing on the subject. That's very true. But the point still stands that your views and those of people who don't identify themselves as atheists but are not part of an organised religion, are not being represented by bishops in the House of Lords.  No that's true, only the views of the CofE are being represented by the ArchBish in the HoL.  However as a Christian country I accept that and that's just one seat in a House that is full of differing viewpoints, though many will be CofE as it's the dominant UK religion.  However religion doesn't seem to be quite as divisive in the UK as in the US, so I'm not particularly concerned by this, so long as the decisions by policy makers are inherently sensible and not based on voodoo then I can live with that, I think the default position of many Brits is to look upon those with strong religious views somewhat sceptically, there is no inherent trust just because they believe in one God over another, and very little trust in politicians generally, God botherers or not. I can't agree with you. I'm afraid you made an error, there are 26 Bishops who sit, unelected in the HoL. 
This survey clearly shows that your statement that Britain is a Christian country is not supported by the statistics, especially if you divide those who actively participate from those who do not. 
Also, if these Bishops are only harmless because of their being sensible, then why not replace them with those who represent secular, political interests. 

I am not suggesting this is a huge issue and that we must riot in the streets. My point is simply that these statistics make is clear that the existence of the seats does not represent the interests of the country, therefore they have no place in our political system.  Sorry I thought you meant just the Arch Bishop sat in the HoL, I wasn't aware that all the bishops were appointed to the House.

When I'm referring to the UK as a Christian country I am referring to the State, not the religious beliefs of it's peoples.  Yes it is an increasingly secular makeup and so I think you are right, that religious presence in the House should be more representative of the makeup of the country.  I don't feel it's a particular issue as it stands but it isn't a fair and balanced view of the countries belief (or non-belief) systems.  Aside from those HoL members that are not Christian are any other faiths represented by their senior hierarchy in the House? I think secularism is a topic that many atheists and even many believers can get behind. That would cover ridiculous anachronisms like those bishops in the House of Lords. Personally, I couldn't care less about peoples' invisible friends so that's not a topic I'd mobilise for, politically. But when the invisible friends tell me how to live my life, things are different. Meanwhile, in Indiana  As someone who lives in London this sounds about right.

No one really gives a shit what religion you are, and it's considered extremely rude to preach about it in public.

I'd be willing to bet that most of those that said that religion was not a negative force were non-Christian too. Its actually one of those things that has everybody, no matter what origins, standing together shaking their heads. Street preachers are the worst. So fucking proud of being British.  Doughnut tell this to the southern US! 

Aneurysm will ensue at the depravity of it all.  Atheist Brit and proud. Didn't meet anyone actively religious 'til uni... Blew my mind  I know right. A meet a ton of Muslim people when I went as well. Awesome guys, but weird me out because it was the first time I'd seen young people that religious. I went to a Jewish school in North London, so I knew a few religious people, but even in a school like that only about 20-30% were actually religious. At university was where I met my first actual religious Christian. As you said, it blew my mind because she was so resolute and unmoving in her beliefs. Most of the religious Jewish people I knew were more of the liberal, 'I don't care what you believe and you'll never know what I believe unless you ask' type (even if they were at orthodox synagogues), so the contrast was mind-blowing! "A moral framework provided by religious belief is also likely to influence behaviour, with atheists more likely to keep the money than those who associate with a religion. "

What an odd thing to say.  Let me fix that for you:

"A moral framework provided by religious belief is also likely to turn people into fucking liars, with atheists more likely to honestly state they'd keep the money than lying, hypocritical religious fucks" I wonder what those numbers are in Canada? There was a survey made for different countries at the end of 2014 and results for Canada are:

Religious 40%

Non-religious 41%

Convinced Atheist 12%

Do not know 7%

Source: http://www.wingia.com/en/services/end_of_year_survey_2014/regional_results/8/46/

The survey has a lot of questions about culture generally. That sounds like a terribly worded question. Religious/nonreligious and theist/atheist are two different questions. Can't complete survey because they keep apologising in case they answer incorrectly.  Damn Canadians get your head out of your ass Sorry. If its any consolation most of the religious are concentrated in Alberta and Quebec.... Which are generally the two redneck provinces (Quebec outside the big cities I'd like fucking Deliverance) "Sorreeh" ? How can chopping off heads....wars.....violent discrimination be called negative? you liberals are all a bunch of whiners! praise Jesus! (:P) Reminds me of a retarded Facebook post I say the other day...

Something like "who republicans want to kill" and it had a picture of Charles Manson and then "who liberals want to kill" with a picture of a toddler referring to abortion You guys are doing God's work... Ayyyy lmao I found this very interesting:

"Those who self-define as left wing are significantly less likely to associate with a religion than those who define their outlook as right wing (49% and 71% respectively). However, while 65% of leftwingers who associate with a religion actively practise it, the same is true for just 33% of rightwingers and 26% of centrists." Not as funny as "41% of those who define themselves as left wing have suffered from mental health issues, compared with just 17% of those who define their politics as centrist and 14% who define their politics as right wing." I mean I'd say I'm left wing, but it's still pretty funny. Leftie here as well. Could that partially be a more willing to admit it scenario? Those further to the right being more likely to see it as weakness to do so?

Interesting how different those numbers are though if that's the case, particularly for the centrists, actually, more than the right wingers. Well of course it could be willingness to admit it, it could be an acceptance of people with mental illness in left wing circles, it could be people with mental illnesses being drawn to left wing politics, it could be that being left wing makes you develop mental illnesses, I mean it really could be any number of things... It could be that people who define their politics as right wing are more likely to attribute "mental illness" to the "buffetings of Satan." Unlikely in this country mate... It is only since 1999 that the Catholic church has considered that mental illness might not always be caused by demons.
http://knowledgenuts.com/2014/01/31/how-priests-tell-between-demonic-possession-and-mental-illness/
"In 1999, the Vatican issued an official revision of the guidelines for both performing an exorcism and determining whether or not one needed to be performed at all. In the first revision since 1614, it was the guidelines for determining whether or not a person is possessed that underwent the most change.

Now, the Catholic Church is careful to discern between what they consider to be actual possession by a demonic entity and the manifestation of mental illness. No longer do they simply decide that a person who flinches at the sight of a crucifix is possessed.

Updated rules for declaring someone possessed by demons include consulting with medical and psychiatric professionals to rule out any physical cause for the persons distress as well as to explore possibilities of the manifestation of mental illness before a diagnosis of demonic possession is even considered." Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/Uy3stUg.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Thanks! Very interesting that US comes up more than UK... Well people may have used the word British as well. Plus does the word cloud differentiate between US and us? That may explain apparantly higher numbers. This highlights one of the biggest difficulties of having discussion on this subreddit - even though atheism is going to be similar wherever you encounter it, the frame of reference in which it exists is going to vary from place to place. As an atheist from a slightly more-religious-than-normal part of the UK I've come here before and argued that people should take a more tolerant view of religion and the religious in the same way that atheists are allowed to be atheist in a largely unopposed manner. This is usually met with a stiff degree of opposition, and it's because my situation doesnt apply elsewhere.

Its easy to forget that whilst in the uk we have a rare few nutcases who are massive zealots, this kind of person is much more common elsewhere. Atheism in the UK isn't a big deal, whereas there are some poor bastards coming to this sub to "announce" their atheism as if its massive, and lifechanging, and *illicit*, whereas its just been a painless transition that wasnt even a conscious decision for others. Some people seem to be living their lives under siege from religion.

The point of this post is a reminder - if you're from the UK and you see (for example) the yanks getting a bit fired up in the god-bashing, remember their situation is markedly different from ours. If you're from the States for example and some brit is trying to tell you to chill out with the antitheism, remember that the odds are that he doesn't understand your circumstances to their fullest extent, so go easy.

Race, gun crime, feminist arguments etc are all gonna be the same - you cant try to apply people's views without considering the environment those views exist in. This article highlights the different frame of reference, even in amongst western countries, and we should be mindful of that. It excites me that America is following suit. Non-religious people (whether outright atheistic or simply apatheistic) is the fastest growing "religious" demographic in the United States. Give us a generation for the older crowd to die off, and it'll likely be the largest. Younger people have noticed the hypocrisy and bullshit from the religious and their theocratic politicians, as well as the disharmony sowed by religions in the world (like ISIS and more), not to mention the fact that it contradicts basic science and - well, reality.  Considering they were a country actually involved in the crusades, it makes sense. The Crusades were to distract people's attention from political problems at home, kind of like what happens now. Everybody is an atheist, some just don't know it yet.  This genuinely makes me proud of my country. Not much else does.  Funny how the country is legally a theocracy. In name only.
 666 upvotes 
Because your all godless satanists !!!

Not really this is good news i only hope I'll live to see the same thing and more happen in the US  If you were a satanist, wouldn't that make you religious? Part of the joke. 
 Satanism in its most common form today is atheistic. They must be smarter than Americans Not smarter no but we're encouraged to read and question in Europe more than it appears some in the US are. whoop whoop! Go us! Another reason I love the UK. Add me to that count. How many of these Non-religious people are ex- Muslims is what I want to know? Loads I would say. I know quite a few ex Muslims, not so many practicing. If religion has taught us anything it's that it doesn't take the majority to agree for something to be true. i wish the U.S. was like that.... The percentage of non-religious would be higher if it wasn't for immigration. A lot of Muslims/Hindus/Sikhs now reside here. I'm not mad because immigration makes this country what it is, it's just the religion that's a bit barmy. Good news, shame the rest of the world doesn't feel this way If only the word of Monty Python were true on this day. "We all are. We're all Britons" Yet if you insult Islam for claiming to be the a religion of peace they'll call you islamaphobic.  C'mon America! We beat them once, let's do it again. How can we make this story about the U.S.?????? Religion is ~~a~~ **the** negative force in the world. no no no, don't give it that much credit. starvation and war and need for space and overpopulation and the ozone crumbling and greenhouse gasses are all really bad too.  &gt; the ozone crumbling

[The ozone layer isn't really crumbling anymore.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ozone_depletion#Prospects_of_ozone_depletion) Even over Antarctica, where the ozone hole was worst, it's expected to return to pre-CFC levels over the next few decades. 

We found out about this in time to avoid mayor problems. Let's hope we'll say the same thing about climate change one day. &gt; Let's hope we'll say the same thing about climate change one day.

Spoiler alert: we won't. huzzah! one down, several to go! Religion can take a pretty good chunk of the blame for overpopulation, and overpopulation is the source of most other problems in the world. War is often the direct result of religious beliefs as well. [deleted] https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Genesis+9:7

Most parents who have more than 2 children are very religious. My mother had way more children than she could support because of this bible verse. Christianity is the only religion ever, I'm pretty sure Christianity isn't the biggest religion ever either. GG There are BILLIONS of Christians on the planet! 2.18 billion of Christians out of 7.3 billion. Okay Einstein not even half. That didn't counter my point at all. I don't know enough about Hinduism to say that it's to blame for India's population problem, but I wouldn't be surprised if it were. 

The main issue with religion is that it perpetuates ignorance. People don't bother to learn facts if they think that religion has already provided them with the answers to everything. I blame overpopulation directly on that ignorance.  You're blaming people's ignorance in the fact that they don't seek truth outside religion. You act like religions desire ignorant people and facilitate that ignorance Religion actually contributes to most of these. Religion-driven opposition to condom use and vaccination in Africa is one of the forces behind overpopulation and resulting infant mortality, over a half of currently waged wars are motivated by religion (Islam in particular), and conservative worldview in developed countries is typically anti-environmentalist.

That's not to say there aren't non-religious aspects in all of those, or that there aren't other problems unrelated to religion, but I just find it funny religion is actually heavily involved in the problems you mentioned. That and nationalism, they are intertwined.  Religion and greed. [deleted] Can you name a more damaging ideology? [deleted] Real mature response there, buddy.

Religion has brought about the death of far more people than fascism ever did. You know you can't counter that fact, so you act like a little baby while stating why you're wrong all at the same time. Genius! 

Facts are facts, whining about them isn't going to change anything. If you're going to cite things as fact please list for how many wars are "caused " by religion to nonreligious reasons. Also saying religion brought the death of people is like saying actual money killed people, when in fact the lust and desire for wealth is what killed people. Religions don't kill people, radicalism to convert others and not being okay with nonbelievers kills people. It's usually the people who are 'chosen by god' (like the Nazis claimed to be) who feel righteous enough to go around the world killing millions. That was my point. Without religion, those people wouldn't have had a reason to go around the world killing people. But why did the kill people? Because they wanted to purify the world, Or like I said intolerance to others. They killed people simply because those people weren't the chosen ones.

Those who can make you believe absurdities, can make you commit atrocities. [deleted] Also why is it that that a good thing that is twisted to kill others makes all the good thing bad. That's like saying we're outlawing painkillers that help people because when people abuse them they die. ? Along with Neoliberalism, which has nothing to do with religion... Oh, but don't you see? This pregnancy is a BLESSING to this young lady and her entire family... The pregnancy is a blessing. After the birth, the mother is a whore and the child is a bastard.  Then after the birth we get to yell at the baby to get a job and stop being such a drain on society right? Yes, but only immediately following the birth. While it's still in the womb, we must all fight to the death to protect its life.  I fucking hate the people in this country :( When you think about it, it's hilariously depressing how primitive we as a species are Speak for yourself. You do realize that the whole abstinence only thing isn't common in a lot of countries right? That he will be. Untill he reaches military age of course. One more kid they can indoctrinate... If the poor kids weren't so terrified, I would love for them to just say "we didn't have sex.  God did it.  God is great!"

Repeat over and over again.  Don't recant.  INSIST it is divine in nature.

What, you don't believe them?
 As if that isn't how the new testament story started! "Joseph, I didn't cheat on you, God did it, God did it, God did it...", neatly picking up on the theme of "God did it" from the last book.  And as of that isn't how Jesus got the bright idea that he was the son of God.  Step 2: start a religion What do you call a couple who teaches their teenaged daughter to use abstinence as birth control?

Grandpa and Grandma.

edit: Hey, gold! Nice, thanks. [deleted] Bake and shake  Gonna never give you up, gonna never let you down roll rick sandstorm darude [Sandroll- Darude Astley] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQoA_wjmE9w) Oh my god. This is perfect I read that the right way at least 4 times before I got the joke... Shake n steak  Roll n rock Lock and load. 

I promise it's actually backwards.  Bobby Ricky  That's almost as bad as "M&amp;M's". M's&amp;M Vote up for both of you.  Balls and dick Morty and Rick Went to school in Texas (very similar laws)- my high school sex ed didn't (and wasn't allowed) to mention anything about safe sex. Neither "birth control" nor "condom" could be found in the vocabulary of the textbook. Abstinence only. No wonder the bible belt has the highest teen pregnancy rates in the US Texas also. Luckily, mine included protective measures. They taught everything and ended with, "...but the easiest way is just not to have sex. Then you don't have to worry about any of it." Which, to be fair, is true. Not likely to happen, but true. Cars are dangerous, don't drive . Going places can get you killed, don't go places. ~~Gaming~~Talking can get you into trouble, don't talk. Life can be dangerous, don't live. Sex can be dangerous, don't do it.

Edit: autocorrect &gt;_&gt; My life's motto: "Life would be so much easier if I was dead".  It says easiest way not best. A large number of people, such as this guy's daughter, would seem to find remaining abstinent far from easy. Nothing screams "SOMEBODY FUCK ME" louder than being a preacher's kid. The only boy who could ever teach me... Was the son of a  Preacher man.  

I think you went a little too far back in time for this crowd. Not all of us.  Stuck in my head on lunch break. Dammit Jim, I'm only 27! Maybe it was immaculate conception.  nah, pretty sure it was ejaculate conception I saw this comment coming. Immaculate conception refers to the belief that Mary was born without original sin, it does not refer to the virgin birth.

themoreyouknow.gif There's an angry crowd gathered ready to stone someone.  Jesus jumps up in front of them and says "Let he who is without sin throw the first stone."

Almost immediately a stone goes whizzing right by his head and Jesus looks over and says (in a whiny voice) "Mom!" &gt; Gaming can get you into trouble, don't talk.

I don't understand this one.  Wouldn't it be still, don't do it? No, it's not.

Sex drive is one of the most powerful urges that exist.

Engaging in safe sex is probably a lot easier than engaging in none. I dunno.   It was really easy for me not to have sex in high school.


sigh Horde or Alliance? zing. Had to be alliance, those of us who were horde where laying the pipe left and right! Roses are grey, violets are grey, i'm dead and color blind! We're allied with the Tauren? Fantastic! We'll be having steak twice a week. Me too bud, me too. https://i.imgur.com/CdyFQy6.png I like to occasionally remind people that they come from a very long line of people that like to fuck. Everyone you see also comes from a long line of fuckers. No wonder why that urge is so powerful. Very nicely put! I will borrow this tactic and use it shamelessly. Depends how ugly you are  We called it PSE, personal and sexual education, but my PSE teacher told us out right to have lots of sex with lots of people because its very fun. But if you contract an STI or get/get someone pregnant that then limits your ability to continue having fun so be safe Logical and relatable. Go coach! I went to a small Christian school in Texas... They told us about birth control and condoms, but also that birth control was sinful/slutty and that "AIDS/HIV particles" were so small they could fit through condoms, along with a number of other STDs..... Seriously.. What is sex Ed without birth control methods? 

EDIT: serious

EDIT 2: Ekk. At my school (UK), they basically accepted that we would have sex out of marriage (and probably under-aged). Abstinence would only be mentioned in passing as a possible method of birth control, but even that isn't 100% (Ross and Rachel) It generally involves a lot of scare tactics about stds, or it might focus more on the "purity" issue. This combination further pushes the sex is dirty/wrong idea and makes people feel ashamed for having human urges. It does not stop people from acting on those urges, just makes them feel guilty about it after. Pre-natal classes Same here. I went to a *suburban Houston* high school and the closest anyone got to talking about condoms or HBC was our health science teacher, who would as sarcastically as possible say that "the official policy of the state of Texas is that I teach you *abstinence only,* so I'm not allowed to teach you about effective methods of birth control." "I will, however say a list of terms you can google independently that have absolutely nothing to do with the state's curriculum but may be very interesting to know about the topic..." Seriously, how could a responsible teacher circumvent the state's requirements?  Assign everyone to write a research paper about abstinence, and then pretend to be shocked by the associated pregnancy and disease statistics the kids bring in? Kentucky. Same thing here.  
  
We even had a "health fair" once and the local AIDS organization was banned for promoting same Hetero and homosexual sex. This is how they want it. They want to increase their numbers.  It's part of their stupid quiver full plan. They can't out logic reality, so they plan to outbreed us.  Would appreciate if you'd help me understand how that is the case. Having grown up in a third world country and attending a British international school  which didn't even have sex ed, I find it incredibly difficult to understand your situation, since practically everyone knew what condoms were. Could the ignorance be due to the lack of exposure to the internet maybe? Have you ever heard bill O'Reilly attacking condoms and sex education as promoting a dangerous lifestyle? If your parents and mentors tell you it is immoral, ineffective, and punishable by eternity in hell you don't plan on doing it quite often. When you have unrealistic expectations about not having sex, you get surprised. When you get surprised, she gets pregnant. Do you have that Oh Reilly clip? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fgqnIiopolY One problem with these programs is they often flat-out lie about the failure rates of condoms. 

Kids have been told they don't work, and therefore they don't bother with them.

IMHO actively lying to children you are being employed to teach about medical issues should be considered criminal negligence. The problem is the information bubble the kids are kept in by their parents and teachers. The internet only works to broaden your horizons if you look for information that challenges what you already know (or don't know). If you've been taught to ignore or dismiss any alternate theories, the information could be staring you in the face and you probably won't accept it. Someone should advocate gun abstinence as the only way to avoid hurting yourself when handling a gun and see how well that goes over It's a miracle!  I suspect there was a second coming involved. Well, when one is young, one recovers quickly. Nah, he probably got her on the first try. I think it was a single coming 99.99% effective! Even their own religion tells them abstinence isn't effective. Sure, if they need to explain their tenet away as a "miracle", that's their failing. Females are strong as hell! [They alive, dammit!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYNbp0u8WjA) Don't joke. 2% of US births out of wedlock the woman claims she did not have sex. That's with a baby in the room, you understand.    An easter miracle.  http://i.imgur.com/hLOh0JJ.gif I really hate that his misinformed and probably scientifically illiterate daughter is now going to be a political prop. It drives me nuts that law-makers can't just look at facts and utilize empathy when deciding legislation instead of trying to legislate religious beliefs (which is the entire basis of abstinence-only education).

EDIT: Meant "can't" when I typed "can." Significant difference in the two. It's Bristol Palin v2! Now he just needs to rebrand her as an "advocate" and reap more political points. "See, I was right! This is what happens when you don't practice abstinence!"

Well...yeah. I guess. I'm going to do this thing where I try to understand and explain the other side's point of view, but please don't think I agree with them. Just trying to get inside their mentality.

On a number of issues, conservatives stand for "what's right" regardless of the facts. The facts are that in abstinence-only states you get more teen pregnancies. Still, conservatives think it's *wrong* to teach kids about safe sex and provide them with condoms, because in their minds it's just *wrong* for teens to fuck. They don't make it their priority to help people who make the *wrong* life choices. They're not in this to make life better for everyone. They're in this to tell you "what's right" and they don't mind damning you to hell if you deliberately disobey. They think that someone needs to stand against the tide of decay and debauchery and try to turn this hand basket around. They're not about making a more comfortable and functional handbasket.

Liberals (of which I am one) focus more on outcomes and "what works." If condoms and sex ed lead to fewer pregnancies, then that stuff *works.* we don't care if our states have ten times as much teen sex, as long as that sex doesn't have unwanted pregnancies as an outcome. Liberals will take a 5% improvement in mileage over a solution that "feels right in the gut" and we pay attention to numbers in making decisions. Sometimes this leads to really counterintuitive stuff like giving needles to drug addicts, which feels like you're enabling their habit. But often liberals show greater realism about "what people are gonna do anyway" where conservatives focus all their energy on "what people oughtta do."

So the debate we see over and over again is as follows: 

"Excuse me Senator but our studies show that, if enacted into law, this bill would bring a 15% benefit overall and a 40% benefit to populations most at risk."

vs.

"But it just ain't right for people to do that! My book says it ain't! No way I'm going to just let people do what they've been doing for millennia anyway, when they shouldn't oughtta be doing it!" I really think you'd enjoy reading about the [is-ought problem](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is%E2%80%93ought_problem) in philosophy. Non-mobile: [is-ought problem](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is%E2%80%93ought_problem)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) That was a good read indeed. Thanks. I think that genuinely trying to understand the "other guy's" opinion is one of the most important things that citizens can do when getting into policy, so that's a high-fiver right there. I also think I would generally agree with your assessment of the right vs. left situation (assuming you're referring to US politics; any other country's political labels continue to confuse the hell outta me haha). However, I think it's not exactly accurate to say that conservatives won't accept facts and liberals run entirely on them. Both ideologies started with how they would prefer society be run and then worked backwards from there, which I can't say I think is ideal.

I won't subscribe to any one ideology, but instead I try to follow the facts and logical ethical arguments. The facts *do* tend to lead me into liberal territory (evolution, supplemental sex-ed, health care, etc.), but there have been times where the facts have brought me to fairly conservative opinion (gun control is one that I haven't fully formed my opinion on, but I lean toward the "constitutional carry" extreme more than the "nearly impossible to acquire guns" side). 

Likewise, "what's right" ethical arguments have also brought me to either side of the aisle. After thinking hard about it, I can find no reason to be morally or even desire legal opposition to same-sex marriage, trans-recognition, and a lot of the stuff that "SJWs" get made fun of for championing on this site. I've also gone down that path to decide for myself whether or not religious institutions should be taxed. After painful internal debate and a significant struggle to put aside my distaste for them, I don't think religious organizations should be taxed, on the condition that they stay in their lane.

I guess what I'm saying is that *generally* I agree about the "fact-based" vs. "right &amp; wrong" difference between the left and the right, but I think that should be observed as an interesting correlation rather than a necessarily dividing causality. I'm fairly liberal and while I do agree with your description of liberals, I think it's interesting to point out that to me at least, it seems like the opposite is somewhat true when it comes to certain other issues. I would choose to side on something that I perceive as being morally "correct" over being profitable or practical, the not ideal quality of life animals in high-volume farms have that on the upside make for inexpensive and available meat for people being one, or how it's more convenient and cheaper for our society to rely on fossil fuels for energy than it is investing in solar panels.

It's backwards to me. Animals we farm having decent lives and reducing and reversing what harm we've done on the environment feel like big issues we must value over practicality and profit, while with smaller issues like sex education (or as another example in my state there is a needle-exchange program to reduce HIV transmission in drug users), I'm far less concerned about the ethics of it all and prefer being practical. I wonder if that means I'm cherry-picking?

Edited to clarify something. In your examples. your pre-defining what's practical as what's profitable.  Practical can also be defined as not destroying the planet or not breeding antibiotic-resistant super bugs.  
 That's true, sustainability could definitely be considered practical. However, and I'm only trying to be critical of my own beliefs here, I can't see how the desire to raise our standard of ethics within the animal farming industry could be considered practical to society at large. If I'm being honest with myself it seems more like a personal belief.
 Or providing a superior service to everyone instead of privatised for-profit  Oh they are using empathy, but their sense of empathy is trained and thus informed by their nurturing as little bible boys.

We try to fight illiteracy and ignorance, but the problem starts with what people do with data (discard most of it) and only the few selective bits of their liking become precious information to them.

Classic biases. They don't CARE about facts. They care about being just as stupid as the majority of their constituents, because THAT keeps you in power.  This is too common to be news.  Where do you think the clich of the preacher's daughter being the town slut came from?  [Relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dp4339EbVn8) More relevant
http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20141025133459/simpsons/images/e/e8/Jessica_Lovejoy_2.gif Can confirm, am a PK and a slut How you doing? ;-) Many Republicans (and theists) seem to go through an [ironic thought process](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ironic_process_theory), where *deliberate attempts to suppress certain thoughts make them more likely to surface.*

If someone tells you not to think of a 'white bear.' Now it's difficult to stop thinking about it. Same with the devoutly religious individuals who try to repress sexual urges, homosexual thoughts, and so forth. Don't think about sucking dicks... Don't think about sucking dicks....

**DAMMIT!** [relevant] ( https://youtu.be/JpWBhXogzKY)  To be fair, dick sucking is pretty addictive.
If god didn't want us to suck dicks, why did he make dicks and mouths fit so perfectly together?

http://i.imgur.com/6y8HFru.jpg Like your dick is conveniently at the level where your hand naturally rests.  If god didn't want us to masturbate he would have put our dick right between our shoulder blades. I'd find a way I like the way you think outside the box. Masturbation for dudes, by definition, has to be outside the box. But is intensely aided by thinking about being inside the box, actually. Check and *mate*. That whole god damn thing gave me cancer.  I couldn't even make it half way through What a lovely young lady.  And now I'm thinking about polar bears I guess her abstinence must have broke or something. I thought it was supposed to be 100% effective.  Not according to the Bible it's not. Abortion is totes 100% effective That poor kid.

She probably never got a good chance to learn responsible behaviour due to the ignorance of her parents and now she's got less options as a result. Rich, white, and in the south; she still has plenty of options.  How do I reeech these keeedz! *Candy is dandy but....* Candy is dandy, but his daughter is randy?   But what??? Don't leave me hanging!! Liquor is quicker. Cash, grass, or ass? ... sex won't rot your teeth. *F*inished *i*t *F*or *Y*ou. Hahaha, no abortion for you.  Eh, there's always ["God's blind spot"](http://americandad.wikia.com/wiki/Mexico). The only moral abortion [is **my** abortion](http://mypage.direct.ca/w/writer/anti-tales.html) UPDATE: People should have noticed that this story ran in July 2014. There have been some changes since then.

First, Bill Cassidy is now a U.S. Senator. Yeah. He's the guy that won Mary Landrieu's seat in Louisiana. He came in during the 2014 GOP wave. His U.S. SENATE (ugh) committee assignments are: Energy and Natural Resources, Appropriations, Veterans Affairs, Joint Economic Committee, and....wait for it...Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP). Of course.

Secondly, the baby was born! I couldn't find a date, but the baby was [described by a reporter](https://twitter.com/mewhit94/status/541411039846604800) as "new born" at Cassidy's election party on Dec. 6, 2014. No pictures.

There is one more interesting point concerning his new grandchild. His official Senate bio, on the senate.gov page he controls, begins: *Dr. Bill Cassidy is a Senator from Louisiana. He is a physician, a teacher, a community leader, a father and a husband*. No mention of being a grandfather. The bio also mentions his three kids again, with no mention of a grandkid. As someone who has maintained many websites, the omission in his bio is just as likely an oversight as it is intentional. You put so much shit up on websites sometimes when something changes you forget all the places it's necessary to update.  Very true. However, it should be noted that he assumed that Senate seat (hell, won it) *after* the baby was born. What I mean to say is, he had to submit that bio to a new site after he was a granddad.

But I will concede that he was a U.S. Rep. for years before he won the Senate seat. He most likely just provided the same bio from his House page. Still....why not update it when moving over to the Senate? No better statement about the success of abstinence only teachings... "But Daddy! I didn't have sex with anyone, it must be God that's blessed me!" Some actually try that defense. The number of pregnant teenagers that insist they didn't have sex is surprisingly high.  It worked 2015 years ago, why not now too?
 See, she didn't remain abstinent &amp; got pregnant, that proves abstinence works. /s I really cannot wait for all the old politicians to die.  
  
We need younger politicians, too many old people think themselves wise when they only ignorant, since their experience comes from a world different than the one we have today.  
  
Society changes fast, yet we elect those who are the least likely to adapt to the new changes and be on point with scientific facts. People have been saying that since Plato's time. The problem is that by the time you are old enough and have enough experience to be a strong politician you aren't young enough to be hip and on point. Because seriously... do you want people in their 20's leading your country? I really don't. 

Also there is a whole generation of wackadoo fundamentalists who are currently in high-school and college. It's an ongoing problem that won't just fade away as older generations die.  The problem is that we don't have scientists as law makers.  Science is the backbone of intelligence, the system or framework by which anything can be studied.

No conclusion in science is insignificant, even testing something without a solid answer is still more intelligent then never having tested to begin with. There are still whackadoodle scientists out there who would espouse the same tripe and back it up with the prestige of their graduate degrees. In this case, the parents are physicians and should be well acquainted with exactly how stupid it is to bet on teenaged abstinence as birth control.  Hey now, some of us in our 20's aren't as crazy as you might think. If we had some sort of school for leadership, like we do for medicine. I would trust my country to people in their late twenties.

It would beat the pants off the untrained politicians who decide the fate of things they don't know anything about because they won a popularity contest. Well, some of our "younger" ones (Ted Cruz, that Rand kid) aren't any better than their fathers. Some are worse. We need the old electorate to die off. I don't get how they can say abstinence before marriage is mentally healthy. Sure not having sex with a bunch of people will reduce the likely hood of getting an StD or pregnancy (if you actually don't have sex) but their claim that it's socially and mentally healthier I don't agree with. I havent had sex for a long time and it fucking sucks. It's making me go crazy. The guys who blow themselves up with dynamite in the Middle East also don't have any sex, half the reason they do it I think is so they can get their virgins in the sky. I don't want any virgins and I don't want to blow anything up, but having sex and having an intimate relationship with a SO seems like it'd be nice and healthy and the thing that you should want to do. Do we want to turn into Japan where the males and females don't even really mix anymore and their birthdate plummets? Eh I don't know. She should have been holding the Bible between her knees. The sex drive has undergone millions of years of natural selection and is not about to be tamed by reason, religion, or political slogans.  As a slowly fading Christian, I find this quite satisfying. I find the idea of a "slowly fading Christian" quite satisfying. are you at the "maybe some random assholes from the bronze age DIDN'T write the ultimate guide to perfect living" stage yet?  Maybe they should try to preach and teach tons of unprotected sex. Might work better to be honest. Having these creepy fucks talk about sex should create some mental hiccups and desire to avoid it. I feel very sorry for this young woman. Not only has her family failed to educate her on one of life's great pleasures, but her unwitting mistake is now going to be used to publicly humiliate her and her family. Rep. Cassidy deserves any criticism that he gets, but his daughter is going to deal with a lot of shit just for being born to the wrong jackass parents. father of the year award. If he had been an anti-gay crusader I'm sure there would be a story surfacing of him molesting kids in in Jr. High..

Republicans are the best at completely contradicting what they claim to stand for. &gt; Not long ago, Matt Lauer asked a female CEO if she could work and be a good mother.  At the time, many people wondered why men are not asked the same type of question.  

Silly people. Men can't be mothers. Clearly we're witnessing another immaculate conception. It's almost like an extremely anti ObamaCare congressman signing up for ObamaCare.

Oh wait... I thought I was on /r/nottheonion for a sec. [deleted] Slow clap. Outstanding.   New name, "Abstinence, if only."   Ted Cruz had the exact same thing happen awhile back to his unmarried teenage daughter. It never made it on the news here in Austin, of course, but I remember it being a big deal at the hospital I was volunteering at at the time off of mopac.  Every time I read or hear something like this it always reminds me of part of Adam Savages speech at the Reason Rally.

"You cannot teach kids about sex by telling them not to have it"

Sex is a part of our biology, a part that is emphasized when we go through puberty.  Telling hormone pumped teens not to have sex and then not giving them condoms or birth control is going to result in a lot of pregnancies.

The fine upstanding Catholic school I went to tried that, I think we had five pregnancies one year. Had he taught her about condoms and birth control, she might not be pregnant today.  This is why abstinence only teaching is fucking stupid at its core.  If i wasn't American i wouldn't be able to believe this isn't satire or made up.

Sadly i know better... Poor lady.  Like she really needed one more obstacle in her life.  If she keeps the kid, I hope that she's a better parent than hers were. Obviously it's an immaculate conception and return of Jesus Christ.
Better repent because Jesus is back and this time he's violent.  Immaculate conception refers to the belief that Mary was born without original sin, it does not refer to the virgin birth.

themoreyouknow.gif
 Abstinence Only Legislation? It seems that trying to pass a bill called AOL is a bit outdated.  Didn't Sarah Palin and her daughter both have shotgun weddings? I do feel sorry for this young woman, she is a victim of her parents belief system.  On the other hand her parents have money and influence and she doesn't have to  make any decisions based on a poor economic situation.  She will still have an education if she wants, she won't have to work herself to death to provide for her child.  Checkmate, Republicans! The holy spirit strikes again. 

Hallelujah.  See this proves the point,  The daughter was on the pill and used condoms, but the power of Jesus broke those barriers down. HAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA Should have done anal or swallowed.  I feel horrible [this was my first reaction.](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-IkVBikJlh1Y/T6QHyfIj0UI/AAAAAAAABGM/Tzl-EVRQ-ag/s1600/pointing-and-laughing.gif) I wonder if she'll have an abortion.... The Party of Personal Responsibility  I absolutely love it when assholes like this are hung out to dry by their own kids. Now her daddy will have a bastard grandchild to remind him for the rest of his life that teaching kids about contraceptives works a hell of a lot better than teaching them about Abstinence. 

You'd have thought that this idiot Cassidy would have taken a lesson from Sarah Palin, another Conservative moron who thought abstinence would work for horny teenagers. I absolutely love it when assholes like this are hung out to dry by their own kids. Now her daddy will have a bastard grandchild to remind him for the rest of his life that teaching kids about contraceptives works a hell of a lot better than teaching them about Abstinence. 

You'd have thought that this idiot Cassidy would have taken a lesson from Sarah Palin, another Conservative moron who thought abstinence would work for horny teenagers. Yes, I too love the irony.
On the other hand, teenagers are tough. My kids are several years past their teens and I'm still traumatized from the experience. Sometimes I wonder if this is what they want.  More babies.  It's definitely one of the things they want.  That and controlling women. She won't be an "unwed" teen for long. Can you say shot gun wedding?

 Plus their family is probably wealthy enough to get a Nanny to take care of the kid, based on this experience they probably don't see a problem with it at all. I mean this is the political party that thinks their sky god says a birth from rape is a blessing. I'm truly baffled that Republicans are bolster Abstinence Only and are against free birth control. I get that they cozy up to the christian nut jobs.

But you know what prevents abortions. Birth FUCKING Control. How hard is it? We were all horny fucking teenages once. Telling us to not have sex, didn't prevent us from having sex. Teaching sex ed and providing teenagers / young adults with birth control keeps them from ruining their lives.  God blessed them with a baby! Don't worry they won't learn anything and will continue to say Abstinence Only is the only viable solution... You only need to look at this guys photo to plainly see a ton of weird shit being suppressed within him. Dude, just let it all out and enjoy what's left of your life, seriously. Didn't read. Is it Willow this time? Abstinence advocates are not interested in reducing unplanned and teenage pregnancy rates. Rather, they are interested in adhering to an ideology. There is no evidence that any abstience program has ever made any meaningful impact. Public health policy should be informed by public health professionals, not religious scripture. Maybe that is their ultimate goal. People who insist on "abstinence only" sex education tend to fall into the ultra-conservative and highly religious group. These are people who feel that women are inferior to men and are more more likely to be sinners. (They blame Eve for tempting Adam.) They also feel women should stay at home and take care of babies. Having their teenaged daughters get pregnant confirms their prejudices and ensures that the daughters will have to stay at home and take care of babies. No danger that they might get ambitious and try to go to college, have a career or change the world.   This never applies to their own family's . It is only to apply to the non-chosen , the dregs of society.  At him: hahahhahaha...HAHAHAHAHAHA!!!

At her: I'm sorry your dad created this reality for you. Abstinence is for those who dont have sex.....  condoms on the other hand....

You can tell people to never drive, personally i prefer cars to have seat belts.

Abstinence is a bullshit way to interject church into schools. It has nothing to do with sex education. its about jesus education.

The thing is abstinence is the default education that nearly all parents teach.. they might expand to real sex ed.. but "DON't YOU GET NO ONE PREGNANT"... or "i better not catch you and sally in your room with the door closed" all this shit is default even for some of the lowest educated people. You really dont have to have any education or much of an iq to tell your kids to not fuck. The reason we need SEX ED.. is some PARENTS are IGNORANT of the very real and complex issues involving actual sex.. versus the ones involving the ABSENCE OF SEX. And some of them embarrassed to talk about condoms and the proper methods with their kids.

But "dont fuck"

thats not really an issue for most parents. So we dont need separate training.(and remember this is the same crowd who always chants that parents should raise kids and not them indoctrinating government schools, and then they go and put jesus in school.. wtf)

even worse, the parents abstinence 'class'.. it doesnt come with purity rings or pledges or any horse shit like that... it comes with the threats of losing internet, playstation, phone, the ability to go out and hang with your friends.

So which would be more effective? a stranger with zero power over you telling you to fight your urges and not fuck.. or else.. er well if we find out you have to give back that purity ring we gave ya..... versus if you fuck you lose the net and phone and playstation for a week.

nah "abstinence only" crusader = "i found a place where we can inject jesus into schools and get around some pesky lawsuits"

oh they might not directly preach, but you are going to know where all this is coming from. 'here is anne, you might know her from our church the evangelical church of the christ, and she wants to tell you her story on how she waited"

 Hahaha well, they shouldn't be surprised, Abstinence Only is a policy of willfully making your children ignorant about their own bodies.

I feel bad for the daughter, and the parents are clearly idiots.
 Plot twist.  He is the father!  "Toldja so." She was in 2014. Not so much now. Bwahaha...you reap what you sow asshole. I don't think it was her asshole. It was probably her bagina. Wow! The irony is too hard to ignore this time. Time to suck his own bitter pills. They couldn't stick to abstinence, so why would it be any different for their daughter. The sex problem runs in their family. So, it didn't work? Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/4bVnqAU.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) And the baby shall have the name of his father: Jess. You can try and push abstinence all you want, that won't stop teenagers from fucking. Fortunately, they believe in common sense about as much as they do in karma. Abstinence only education does not work. You could serve the irony on a plate with a side of spinach and kale.  I can't wait to hear all of the special pleading fallacies and exceptions to the rule arguments he's going to make. Yup. I'm definitely voting for Sanders. I really don't buy into the notion that Sanders is unelectable in the General Election. There were plenty of people in 2007-08 who thought electing a Black man would be impossible. It's just too early to be claiming results in an election that is more than a year away.  Quite so. There are two people who are "electable" in the general election: the man who wins the Republican primary, and the man/woman who wins the Democratic primary. Once you get that far you're electable. Will a middle of the road undecided moderate see Bernie's record and think, "nah, too progressive, I better vote for the theocrat on the other ticket"? I don't think so. &gt; a middle of the road undecided moderate

These people are the apparently the bread and butter of elections, the deciders... Yet, I have never met one of them. I've lived all over Ohio, *the* swing state (at least, according to what CNN believes), and they're really not all that common. You do hear a lot of people griping and saying that they wish a third, middle party existed though ever since the GOP shifted right in recent years. Or people who want a libertarian party. The problem with a more left leaning candidate isn't the candidate- it's convincing people to get their butts out of bed and vote [young people], and ensuring that they can actually get off work, get a ride to the polls, and not be prevented from voting once they get there [poor people]. The left doesn't have the same get out the vote machine as the right, and the right will do everything in their power to prevent the "wrong" people from voting, especially if Sanders wins the primary. I've lived all over Ohio and I know many of them. They don't jump up and volunteer their opinion in the arguments that go on because they don't really have a strong opinion. If you're an approachable person, however, they might get curious and ask a question from time to time. 

I also know several people that consider themselves serious Republicans, but who voted for Obama twice due to social issue concerns. 

I know a number of people that just voted against Romney. They couldn't begin to tell you what it means to be liberal, conservative, dem or repub.  You never having met a voter who hasn't already made up their mind without looking at the candidates is why in a few hundred, maybe a few thousand years democrazy is going to be looked on as a joke, a colossal mistake in the annals of history. Democracy is the worst form of government except for all the others. Meanwhile I'm just sitting here like "but we don't even have democracy." Seems to be more of a problem with the American system than with democracy as a whole. Swede here, it's not exactly smooth sailing with our system either. The main issue seems to be that people elect politicians, and I don't see this changing anytime soon. How so?  Care to expand on that? Probably has to do with the fact we have a two party system and no way to include more parties in our voting structure due to the "winner take all" system. At the very least it gets the talk of an independent going. The two party system sucks ass. The more parties you throw into the government the more complications arise. Which means the more legitimate leaders we have.  I just don't know. I think being a religious nut is a bit less taboo than identifying as a Socialist. I think more people would agree with socialist principles than they would think, but the term itself might scare people away. I am going to vote for him, but I just don't know how electable he will be as an old, heavy accented, Jewish socialist (as dumb as it is, personal and cosmetic stuff like the first three can matter, maybe not a ton though). A bit? It's *way* less taboo.  I saw a video one time, it may have even been from one of the late night shows like Jimmy Kimmel but I'm not sure it was a long time ago...Basically they were interviewing people on the streets and they would ask them their thoughts on socialist ideals without using the word socialism, they talked about social security, healthcare, public transportation, etc. and most everybody was in favor of these  things. And then they dropped the s-bomb...They asked people if they were in favor of socialist government programs and people *lost their freakin minds*, some even got hostile and the God, guns, and country nonsense started coming out. For any real progressive reform to happen in the United States, the key is going to be finding a new word for socialism. Because even some people on the right like the ideas behind it, but you use the word and they can't handle it.

**Edit**: Another video that I think *was* from Jimmy Kimmel is they asked people about whether they preferred The Affordable Care Act or Obamacare and every single one said the Affordable Care Act and slammed Obamacare. Again, it is all in the language.  &gt; the *man* who wins the Republican primary, and the *man/woman* who wins the Democratic primary

lol

 It's upsetting that Jon Stewart made fun of him in his last segment. Many young liberals look up to Jon and eat up his every word. He has the power to sway the opinions of many. I wish he would use his position to promote Sanders and ask his viewers to do the same. I hope that moving forward Jon continues to be the voice of reason and push that Clintons name recognition should be cast aside to make room for a man who might make an actual difference.  Stewart made fun of Hilary and Obama plenty too. Yeah it's like people forget Stewart is a comedian... He made fun of both Sanders and Clinton in the segment. And actually highlighted Clinton's scandal.  Yeah I'm a huge fan of the Daily Show but was pretty disappointed with that segment as well. Especially considering Jon Stewart is a self-described socialist and Senator Sanders actually had the balls to admit years ago that he's a democratic socialist in a country where "socialism" has been so stigmatized. The few times that Jon's mentioned Sanders on his show, he's made fun of his hair and not much more. I don't think he's ever been on the Daily Show. He always does great on Real Time with Bill Maher though.  He has been on the Daily Show. 

[Here is the extended interview](http://thedailyshow.cc.com/extended-interviews/b4d0f2/bernie-sanders-extended-interview) He hasn't received less than 60% of the vote in Vermont since 1996, and with damn good reason. 71% of the vote in 2012. Vermonters love him. Let's hope that gives him a leg up in the crucial New Hampshire primary.

He's also the longest serving Independent in Congress in American history.

 They have good reason to, the state is doing amazingly well in part thanks to him. Absolutely. Also happens to be one of the most blue, liberal states in the union. Minnesota is another great example. 

Kansas, North Carolina, Wisconsin are the GOP model. Wisconsin has historically been one of the bluest states and a leader in American progressivism. Then Walker happened and now I want to leave my home state.  I hear you. You're absolutely right. 

Walker Koch Ranger in Wisconsin vs. billionaire (who raised taxes on the rich) Mark Dayton in Minnesota shows the perfect dichotomy between how Democratic policies work and how Republican policies don't. 

&gt;Then Walker happened and now I want to leave my home state. 

I don't blame you one bit. Let's just hope he doesn't get elected President (Christ that's scary), otherwise the whole country might feel the way you do. Never ran a single smear campaign ad either.  Yep. I don't follow other states congressmen too closely, but when I heard he was from Vermont, I was like- oh that's one of the states that doing really well, going to check this guy out. 

He definitely has my vote after researching his record.  Man, so many people in this thread are saying that they won't vote for him, because there is no chance that he will win.

Well maybe if you all vote for him he might win!

Edit: It's kind of sad that my highest upvoted comment only has 265 points. He's already raised more money on the first day of his campaign that any of the Republican contenders. People want him, but this narrative that he's "unelectable" is a self-defeating prophecy.  Wouldn't that be a self-fulfilling prophecy? rather the opposite I think you're right....my bad. You know what I mean, though. :) America has had this veiw that any one who can make a diffrence wont get elected so we vote for the person that we think people like the most... its literally high school mentality. I say everyone step up and not only vote but also volunteer! Help spread the word!!! He has my vote. We haven't seen a candidate this good since Carter. He doesn't flip flop and cares about the people more than money. How can you not vote for the guy.  Apathy is really what's killing America. Trolls and operatives.  People earn a living derailing and directing discussion. I'm going to do everything I can to help him get elected. I will vote for him - but that is like posting a comment on reddit if that is ALL I do. I will also campaign for him, and donate some cash. If we all pour our hearts into this we have a real chance - and we'd be fools not to take it. This is how I feel. I can't donate so instead I signed up for volunteering.  I'll also be super annoying tell the primarys. I feel bad for my friends and family lol I've been posting about him and sharing things about him like crazy the past few days. A few people have 'liked' them, so that's good news I suppose good job! keep up the good work :D Where did you sign up for volunteering? I haven't had any luck finding out where to sign up and I'd really like to.  https://berniesanders.com/volunteer/ A lot of people won't vote for the guy because they are afraid he won't get elected anyway. I think that awareness that thousands of people are behind this guy 100% will make them more likely to vote for the candidate. Good luck!!  &gt; A lot of people won't vote for the guy because they are afraid he won't get elected anyway.

Well he certainly won't if they don't vote for him... but seriously, if he can win the nomination for one of the two major parties, he' automatically electable. The obscurity problem will have long been solved (and probably will have been, even if he doesn't win the nomination), and the fear that moderates will vote in droves for a Rand Paul, Ted Cruz, or similar are largely unfounded, it seems to me. [self-fulfilling prophecy](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-fulfilling_prophecy) Non-mobile: [self-fulfilling prophecy.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-fulfilling_prophecy)

^That's ^why ^I'm ^here, ^I ^don't ^judge ^you. ^PM ^/u/xl0 ^if ^I'm ^causing ^any ^trouble. [^WUT?](https://github.com/xl0/LittleHelperRobot/wiki/What's-this-all-about%3F) I'm not a citizen so I can't vote but I'm trying to raise awareness with people I know and upvoting every post about him  Yeah man. I'm excited. I just volunteered for my first campaign. Now that I know how easy it is and how I'm actually useful I'm going to be there all the damn time. WIth reddit's hardon for this guy in the past couple of days can some one give me reasons NOT to vote for him? &gt; WIth reddit's hardon for this guy in the past couple of days can some one give me reasons NOT to vote for him?

It's honest but kinda of bigoted:  He's 73-years-old as of right now.  He'd be 75 the day he took office if he could win.   Reagan was 137 when he took office, and he's basically a demigod. I will vote for him in the primaries.  I will vote for him in the general election, but that isn't very likely.

What Sanders will do (I hope) is give the Democrats some interesting debates.  I don't think he and Clinton will dig much at each other, but this will be an opportunity for some enlightened discussion.  Meanwhile the Republicans will tear each other to shreds arguing about who is the most radically Christian. Already defeated? Who would have thought he'd be replacing a youngish black man as president 9 years ago?

Forget his looks, age, race, gender, etc. Look at his beliefs, policies and charisma.  &gt; Who would have thought he'd be replacing a youngish black man as president 9 years ago?

Me, for one. The first time I saw Obama speak (the 2004 convention speech that really introduced him to the public), I thought, *There's a future President*. I read his books and I knew that between his intellectual and organizational skill and his charm he could beat anyone in an election, including the Clintons. I knew it wasn't a sure thing, of course, but even at first glance Obama seemed *capable* of winning it all. I wouldn't have bet a lot of money on him beating Clinton, but I always knew it was a serious possibility.

You really can't compare the meteoric rise of a once-in-a-generation political talent to Bernie Sanders, a dry wonk who is exceptionally good at picking wise policies but has no particular talent for selling himself or his ideas to the inattentive masses. I'll vote for and support him, but he has a low ceiling for national support: he's limited to people who care about policies and ideas. There aren't enough of those to win an election. Since when is it an American trait to sit by and let the difficult task go by? 

"We choose to go to the Moon! We choose to go to the Moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard; because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one we intend to win." 
 
-JFK

I heed that call, and welcome the duty. If you agree come join us at /r/SandersForPresident. Everybody is welcome There's a difference between being ambitious and being delusional. Kennedy made that speech after NASA had done considerable research on the feasibility of a Moon landing, and he knew it was an ambitious but feasible goal. Had he gone out and said "We choose to go to Mars," everyone would probably have been disappointed.

In this case, Sanders doesn't have even a remote chance of winning in a normal campaign. He's a relatively unknown candidate running in a primary against what FiveThirtyEight points out is ["the most dominant non-incumbent front-runner in modern primary history"](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/the-hillary-clinton-steamroller-rumbles-to-life/). Sanders has the socialist-label problem, very little name recognition, and little funding. Clinton has an absurd amount of support by comparison to everyone who has ever been in a modern primary, very high poll numbers, and a huge amount of funding. In fact, 538 notes that GWB is the only primary candidate to have received more Senate endorsement than HC has *now*, and he had those only at the *end* of the primary. Even Elizabeth Warren has at least partially endorsed her, repeatedly making supportive statements about her campaign.

In order to win, Sanders will have to run a campaign that's extremely innovative and unusual; he is simply not electable with a traditional campaign. This is to some extent how Obama won the 2008 primary, but even then, HC was not nearly as strong a candidate at the time, and Obama barely won against her. I'm optimistic that the campaign might do something interesting, as it's still very early, and the extensive Reddit campaigning is somewhat promising, but much of what's going on seems pretty mundane, and mundanity will not win here, regardless of effort. For one God damned minute will you just **believe**? Man, we can't be surrender monkeys about this, a big part of the process is the narrative, reject this whole "there's no way he can win but he'll push the field to the left" narrative, even if it's the likely outcome, and be vocal about him winning the whole thing. The Republicans have to give a nod to the tea party movement as well as the religious freaks or they have no chance.  They are stuck with the idiot vote, so they can't do anything to address changes in public opinion towards climate change, gays, income inequality, etc.  They have no chance at winning the presidency IMO. "They have no chance at winning the presidency."
Unfortunately, this is wishful thinking. A lot of young people won't vote in the elections either because they don't like the candidates, or they think the elections are helpless. Meanwhile, the people who always vote republican no matter what WILL vote. Obama would have never won if it is not for young voters. We just need to get galvanized. I think that enough people turn up to vote in presidential elections to get a reasonable representation of America's public opinion.  The Republican party has flushed itself down the shitter over the last few election cycles in an effort to court the mostly fringe wackos that hold on to their aging viewpoints.  They could have modernized and stayed relevant, but I believe that they have pretty much killed themselves by refusing to acknowledge changes in American society.  

In midterm elections, though, I agree about young people not voting.  That is what just happened and now we are stuck with a bunch of freaks in Congress that just want to watch the world burn.   We need to figure out how to get US young redditors out to vote. I think we need to spread the idea of a massive social media-based crowdfunding of the future President of the United States. Just the idea. If we explain to people that we, collectively, can raise enough money to give a guy who stands up for the average American sufficient coverage to run a successful campaign, just maybe they'll consider becoming politically active. 

We have nothing to lose and everything to gain by supporting Bernie Sanders.  I love that thought. Hillary is loved in Europe because she is woman, she is Hillary and mostly: not republican. Sanders would be really popular too if people knew him, but senate isn't covered much in the media - at least not in Denmark. However with a viral crowdfunding campaign all of Europe could join in, and considering how we're all communists compared to you guys there's a good chance we would get behind Sanders. I would love to be able to help, after all American politics have a strong influence on us as well. Foreign citizens are not permitted to donate under the campaign laws, unfortunately. You need to reach the Occupy crowd.  Its mostly disillusionment with the two parties fielding the same assholes. Bernie is the breath of fresh air they need  Bernie is running, don't worry. 

We will vote. Wouldn't it be awesome if election day was a national holiday?  Bernie Sanders actually wants to make it a national holiday Shift it to share Veteran's Day. If I had a super funded pac this is the issue I'd push. Fucking get rid of Columbus Day and make Voting Day a thing. Someone could pay them? How about a kickstarter where in a few super rich liberals incentivize votes by offering, lottery style, a cash incentive to individuals who apply with pictures of themselves at the polls. 
I mean it sounds ridiculous, but only if it doesn't work right?  Maybe we could threaten them with death for not voting. "Vote or Die". Oh wait... Hold on I'm getting a phone call... It's *when*? Ah fuck it. Unfortunately, you would run afoul of federal law (42 USCS  1973i(c)) and the laws in most states. I don't think it's the young redditors who aren't voting. Still a Bernie Sanders AMA done at a critical point during campaigning or even done multiple times throughout his campaign wouldn't hurt I would think. He's already done 2 AMAs and posted to /r/sandersforpresident personally when he announced his bid for the candidacy.  I'm not trying to imply he won't do it, exactly the opposite, Sanders knows that if he's to win, we're his target demographic. To get through the gauntlet of the Republican primaries, which means catering to the collection of rabid yokels and tricorne-wearing reactionary dimwits who seem to decide them, a Republican candidate has to make speeches which make them very difficult to repackage for the general election. The tea party movement and religious freaks are going to vote for whatever republican candidate is running. That's what I don't understand about the GOP, their core is never going to vote for anyone but them. Instead of trying to get new voters they just keep pandering to these same backwards groups. It's an amazing thing to watch from outside the US, people watch the election and everything leading up to it for entertainment.  Hopefully Sanders doesn't go full-Nader and run in the general election.

If so, we get a third Bush.

----

What about a Hillary-Sanders ticket? Sanders has already said he won't run in the general election if he loses the primary. There's literally no risk to voting for him in the primary, if that's what you're worried about.

I doubt Hillary would tap someone like Sanders as VP. It would mean two old white candidates, which would make them very weak in the general if they were against someone young (and Hispanic) like Marco Rubio. Hillary has had health issues recently, so she needs someone robust and charismatic to run with. Maybe Cory Booker or Chris Murphy.

Sanders is also radical enough to be considered a liability in the general election, and there's not even a guarantee that he would accept the nomination considering the basis of his platform and the fact that he could accomplish more in the Senate. We're talking about Bernie Sanders here. Being old and white are things he can't change about himself. As a Latino, I'd vote for him way before I vote for Rubio any day. Sanders has a proven record and (like other redditors are saying) is a man of principle. He walks the walk. He's got my vote.  Good points, but the deeper one is Bernie is something neither Clinton ever has been: Principled. She's gonna want someone who is willing to do ANYTHING, say ANYTHING to win, as she is.. Let's not forget that sanders has the record to mobilize non voters as much as Ron Paul did.  He's a man of his word and young people love him.  He's also old and white, which old white people can get into as well.
  
Source: old white republican family I'm from would never vote for a young, minority, or female candidate. He definitely has a shot. I guess I've been forced into voting for the lesser of two evils for so long I've gotten jaded.

President Obama is the first presidential candidate I was actually excited about voting for in my lifetime I tried to tell my parents last night that Sanders is more liberal than Hillary [they're super republican] and they just responded like "but he's a man..." [puts her hand over her face]. People can be stupid. This will be Bernie's other contribution to the election this cycle. If he gets young people engaged in the process, even if he's not a general candidate, maybe those energized people will keep pushing for something better and hold their noses and vote for the "lesser of two evils". Yeah it'll be a Donald Blythe kind of VP American politics: Where the voice of reason is considered radical. I can almost guarantee it won't be Rubio. There's only one thing Republicans hate more than blacks and that's Mexicans. Especially illegal ones. Rubio may be Cuban, but most Republicans can't make that distinction.

Rubio is not extreme enough, nor is he white enough, to get the Republican nomination. Hispanic groups almost always go for the Democrat lately, so even that won't change Rubio's chances, if he was counting on some Democratic crossovers.

Everybody will have the limelight during the primaries, once again, and they'll all flame out, once again, leaving the seasoned veteran, Jeb, to carry the flame. Just like what happened with Romney. The Republicans will like everybody else, yet settle on him, once all the others go out in a blaze of glory.  I would agree , except it's Marco Rubio - who has problems carrying his own state. And when you tap some of the vast intellectual resources he brings to bear....he's a bit like Sarah Palin.  Dude if there's a third bush I will have then entirely lost all faith in the system  If the election comes down to Bush v. Clinton, voter turn out will be the lowest in recorded history, mark my words. &gt; a third Bush

Or worse. Exactly. Compared to the other GOP candidates, Jeb actually looks pretty decent. He tried to force the Florida Government to appoint a guardian for the fetus of a mentally disabled woman who was raped, because he said as a Catholic he has to protect life and it was the right thing to do. Remember the Terri Schiavo situation? All Jeb Bush. He's fought to end access to abortion. He's fought for ending affirmative action. Does anyone else find it a funny coincidence that the one swing state in 2000 that had to recount and recount and recount votes for W, but had that recount ended was governed by... [dun dun dun] his brother? He signed the stand your ground law. And he loves evangelicals. [My Source: a special report from Cleveland Plain Dealer](http://www.cleveland.com/open/index.ssf/2015/03/conservative_enough_jeb_bushs.html#incart_special-report)  The man is terrifying. Please don't say he looks any good compared to *anybody*. He's just smart enough to paint himself as moderate so he can slip into the White House then show his true colors. I think the big problem is going to be too many voters jumping on the idea of having a female president.  I'm all for a female president, but having the first one be Hillary would be such a let down. I'm actually considering changing my party so I can vote for him in the primaries. Find your state in this list made by /u/nycola in /r/SandersForPresident 

[Here's the link](http://np.reddit.com/r/SandersForPresident/comments/347kp9/you_want_sanders_but_will_you_be_able_to_vote_for/)

Edit: Some states hold closed primaries, which means you have to register as a member of your preferred party to vote for a member of that party in the primaries. This is done to prevent people from voting for the candidate least likely to win the general election from the opposing party, allowing their TRULY desired candidate a better chance to win.  I thought you didn't have to be a registered Democrat to vote in their primaries? Depends on the state. I believe it changes state to state. I'm in PA and couldn't vote in the democratic primary because I was a registered liberal. Changed that quickly.  I think you should. We're at a tipping point in this country and we need all hands on deck. 

"Let us never forget that government is ourselves and not an alien power over us. The ultimate rulers of our democracy are not a President and senators and congressmen and government officials, but the voters of this country."

-Franklin D. Roosevelt

Bernie is going to show us how a candidate and a statesman runs a grassroots campaign, but it'll all be meaningless if no one shows up.  

If you'd like to learn more or have any questions come visit us at /r/SandersForPresident. Everybody is welcome.  Do it Bernie is the best. He genuinely gives a fuck about the middle class.  100% support for Mr. Sanders.  I am a left-leaning libertarian, but Sanders is the first person that I'm excited about in this election. I may not agree with him fully, but I really feel that he arrives at his opinions honestly and without financial influence. What's this?  An old white dude who doesn't care about religion? Many of us are going to be old white guys some day that don't care about religion.  Definetly voting for ol Bernie. I urge you all to do the same. Look at his voting record, the fact he isnt forming a super PAC(Hillary 16 has been formed for...2 years now?) The Rs will be bought by the Kochs.. This guys legit He even voted against the defense of marriage act in 1996, it will be a massive mistake if he doesn't win. I completely and one hundred percent agree. He even voted against the USA Patriot act...i mean come on guys The main problem with him in my area is his stance on gun control. Literally the only thing brought up any time I mention his name is he'd be trying to take away their guns. Fucking Wisconsin. If we can get him the Democratic nomination I will definitely vote for him.  He's the only candidate that gives a damn about the middle class but I don't think he will be able to wrest the nomination from Hillary because of the money she will be able to raise.  It's unfortunate because running Hillary for the Democrats gives the Republicans their best chance at winning the presidency. I made my first political donation tonight. And it was for Bernie 2016!

I also pledged (on Facebook, and now on reddit) that I will donate 1% of my salary if he gets the Democratic nomination.  he is the best candidate since .... ever, so yes, yes, yes!  He voted against the defense of marriage act in 1996, that tells me that he is willing to stand up for what is right despite popular opinion. I can't vote given my age, but I will certainly be urging Liberals and Democrats in my family to vote for him. It'll be my first Presidential Election that I can vote in, so I'll make sure to vote thinking of you and others would would like the chance to vote. Considering Jon Stewart of The Daily Show snubed President Sanders tonight in favor of Hillary avoiding a question about stolen money. It's going to be an uphill battle it seems. I'll definitely caucus for Bernie, and if he's the democratic nominee I'll vote for him no question. I'll probably help the campaign also. I love it. He is a jew, but he talks so little about religion, that he might as well be a secular jew. He really is amazing. BERNIE FOR PRESIDENT! he is a Secular Jew. He's gone on record saying he's not religious before. You shoudn't only vote for hum based on his Jewishness or relgiousty, his WHOLE RECORD speaks for himself. in case you were wondering, bernie gets no recognition within the jewish community,   
so it will come to bare far less than being jewish may have for Joe Lieberman in 2000.

IMHO very few will be voting for hillary mostly because she's a women - either.

while the majority of jews do vote democrat, they have so much vitriol for the way the   
current democrats have treated israel, that they won't have patience to hear bernie out. Try lookin on R/Judaism. At least the Jews on Reddit seem to be open to the idea of Sanders.  Hi r/atheism. Secular Jew here. Like you all, I am an atheist. Yet, even according to many Ultra-Orthodox rabbis, I am still validly Jewish. This is because Judaism is an ethnoreligious identity and not just a religion. In fact, ancient Hebrew doesn't even have a word for religion. The idea that Judaism is a religion comes from acculturated or assimilated Western Jews, but it is not based in the majority of the Opinion of the Jewish world.  Yes I absolutely will. It may seem like a long shot now, but wait till it's time to debate, he's going to pull an Obama on her! Does anyone else find it disappointing that American politicians have wasted so much time and effort even DISCUSSING religion? If you wind up with a third Bush boy in the White House you might as well just flush the whole fucking place down the toilet. My dream ticket would be Sanders-Warren.
 I hope you support the Republicans, because that is their dream ticket too. I would rather it be the other way around personally. I am certainly going to.  I'm going to research him.  There's much more to American politics these days than just religion.  I'd certainly vote for him over Hillary, but that's not saying much. it is in times like this when i wish i were american so i can vote for the right person
 Thank god if this guy gets voted in. ;)  Unfortunately, no.  We Americans would never vote a man who makes this much sense to office.

He points out the glaringly obvious and knows how to fix it.  Why would we ever put someone like that in charge? I'm going to change my vote registration from Independent to Democrat so I can vote for him in the primaries. Doesn't matter, media will be telling us endlessly that he is unelectable, no matter how many votes he gets.

Most likely (if he is allowed into any debates) he will only be asked questions designed to make him look foolish.  

This is what the parties/media do today to the candidates they didn't "choose" to be mainstream. I would vote for him, but I'm not sure how viable he really is to go the distance. He will be out spent, but not as badly as people think, as he has staunch support from union interests. If he can beat Hillary for the nomination, i think that'll show he can stand up to whoever the Repubs put up. Would love to see him and Elizabeth Warren on a ticket...but alas, that would never happen =( I fucking love Bernie. I wish he was the prime minister of Canada.  I might have to register as a dem even though I don't give a shit about them just to primary vote for this guy. Haven't decided yet. Yes, it's nice to see a candidate with the right mind about Religion, yes, it's nice to hear him say he wants to redistribute the wealth of America. He says a lot of nice things, and I like the things he has to say.

But I don't believe him, and I don't believe in him. He'll need a lot more than pretty words to get my vote, because for all I know, he's performing the same song and dance every politician before him has: Pander to one side, get in office, collect the prize money, then bend the American People over the barrel for anyone willing to pay for the pleasure.

So I don't know. I don't even know if I'm going to bother voting for the presidency in 2016, but even if I do, I don't expect a positive outcome (from my point of view at any rate).

Edit: Bernie Sanders! I am willing to let you buy my vote! The bidding starts at $50,000 US Currency He has followed the things he has said for decades. He means it. All youhave to do is your own research, and if you are still skeptical, you have to admit he is better than Hillary. George RR Martin writes about these characters in "A Song of Ice and Fire" who are always right but most people dismiss because they aren't likable. Throughout history we have those... and we barely remember them because they didn't know how to put together the whole package. But then again, perhaps to become electable you have to become the type of person who doesn't care about truth. I'd rather vote in a center-left person honestly. Yeah, 'cause that's worked out so well before... He is precisely what this country needs. I'd vote for him for sure. Honestly, the biggest problem with him is that between his accent and his bold stances on issues, he sounds condescending even if that's not his intent. Seriously, I love the guy, and it sounds shallow, but the American people won't vote for the weenie know-it-all  who calls out the teacher in an articulate, but irritating way. I love Bernie to death,  and I will donate to his campaign  because it forces the pitifully moderate dialogue of the Democratic party to left of center. Hillary needs to be challenged. She is not a leftist. Her husband allowed neoliberalisation, including NAFTA. TPP? Shit probably gets her wet. My state is one of the last to have its primaries.  I predict that by the time my state has it's primary, it will already be numerically impossible for Sanders to win the Democratic nomination.  

But it will be nice having an opportunity to vote for an atheist! Just remember that voting isn't the only way to support his campaign! And people who agree with him have got to be slightly more optimistic if they ever want things to change.  I really want to see how well he does in East Vermont, aka New Hampshire How have I never heard that swath of peasantry on the other side of the Connecticut called East Vermont before? Thanks for the new phrase ^_^ He isn't an atheist, he's Jewish, I think.  Isn't he a secular Jew? We don't have to accept that narrative. We're Americans, we have the ability to turn difficulties into trivialities, we just have to accept the responsibility. There are many things the labor movement had to fight and die for that we take for granted everyday. Bernie Sanders is the champion of that storied movement, it's up to us to take up the task. Let's do the hard things, because the easy things are for lesser peoples. 

If you'd like to contribute your time or your ideas come visit us at /r/SandersForPresident. Everybody is welcome.  Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/ZoHcPsw.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Will vote going Bernie Sanders election, people!

Think Republican want candidate win probably! The people in this sub: Maybe

The United States in general: No

Honestly, his voting record doesn't matter. His proposed policies don't matter. The only thing that matters is that he calls himself a socialist. And there is video of him saying that he is a socialist. He could never win a national election because of that. 

I think the only reason he is running is because he knows he can push Hilary to the left, get the country talking about the issues that he cares about to help shape the discussion. He saw the right do this in 2012, and he could do the same thing for 2016. Meh. I never thought the US would elect a black man named Barack *Hussein* Obama, either. The Obama campaign could dismiss attacks on his name as petty and racist.

Sanders can't dismiss videos of him saying that he's a socialist.  He's facing an uphill battle, but I think it's possible. A ton of idiots thought Obama was a socialist, and he still won. Even if he loses, this will hopefully serve as a stepping stone to redefine the meaning of "socialism" for some Americans so it isn't such a naughty word.

I don't think that's why he's running though. He has said numerous times that he isn't using this campaign to just get the issues out there, he said he would not run if he didn't think he could win. I urge everyone to support him with either donations or volunteer work of some kind.  I like Sanders but if he gets elected I'll eat my shoe. Americans hear the word "socialist" and suddenly he's worse than Hitler. Well then, I think it's time for everyone to make you eat some leather. Sanders is the only reason I would hope that the "BENGHAZIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!!!!!!!!!" crew manages to torpedo Hillary. 

I'd love to see him win, but he'll have a really hard time beating Clinton in the primary.  Benghazi will probably come up a lot in the actual election, but probably not much in the primaries.   The Iraq War, though. It's between him and Gary Johnson for me. If we could have a four-way debate, that would be excellent. Gary (L), Bernie (I), Hillary (D), Whoever because I'm not voting for them (R)

Edit: I'm aware Bernie is not running as an independent....yet. Bernie Sanders is running in the democrat primary, he isn't running under the independent banner. The primary system is rigged in the states. You run democrat or republican, or you don't run at all. It's called 'first past the post'. 

https://youtu.be/s7tWHJfhiyo It's not just first past the post. It's also the primary system and the two-party system. The two-party system specifically makes it very hard for a third party to gain any ground. Even though a third party can run, the election laws have allowed the Democrats and Republicans an easy in, and only them. It's called [Duverger's Law.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duverger%27s_law) What's really frustrating is that we've known about this for over 50 years now, and, while there are [alternatives to our voting system,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instant-runoff_voting) nobody ever talks about them. To be fair he effectively is a democrat. He caucuses with them in the Senate. He kind of is just one of the few progressive democrats by his positions and voting records. Not disagreeing, but its not accurate to put the (i) next to his name. They are like political opposites economically. I can't make sense of an informed voter supporting both candidates, outside of just claiming that they are outside Washington norms. He probably is more focused on social issues than economic, I guess? I like both as well, mostly for social issues. While I don't always agree with Sanders on economic issues, I feel that Sanders position is at least honest and not beholden to special interests. Same here

Gary Johnson or Sanders

the two party system is absurd They should...  Don't get me wrong, least of several evils here, but when your most recent vote worth mentioning is from 2013 you might have a problem.  Whoever the president is, or any government officials, should understand the importance, agree and uphold the separation of church and state.   Running against Hillary is going to be pretty hard. Hope he makes it though.  Probably. Absolutely. I am, but I fear there is almost no way Hillary doesn't get the nom. Sanders has my vote. He's basically a hero for the currently desperate middle class. If this guy is "the right guy", the key is to convince all of the women who are going to vote for Clinton because she's a woman to vote instead for Sanders. It sounds like I'm trolling but this actually is the key to his victory. It's not possible though. They'll vote for Clinton. Amazing record and a stand up guy all around. Gave $10 to him today, the first politician that I felt deserved and needed any and all donations he can get. I plan on voting and hoping on a win for him! I'm a Christian and is course for him. He's just right and accurate. I am. Gonna register and all that shit Yes Of course. Even if he doesn't win, others will have to change their toon. I never of heard about this candidate, asking as an immigrant, what is his stake on immigration? Ill be voting for sanders Yesssss I will vote for him. I've set up a monthly contribution to his campaign.

I don't see him defeating Clinton though. However, he will make the candidates acknowledge the real issues in American society, which aren't gay marriage and abortion. So why cant he win? I registered to vote just to vote against Ted Cruz, but now my reason is to vote for Sanders. If this guy really, truely is a game changer **and/if** he's elected, he'll be dead in months. 

*Put on tinfoil hat* If voting actually made a difference, they'd outlaw it.... It is hilarious the bills that even go through your parliament.  It is like something from 100 years ago. I would consider myself one usually. In my first election I was undecided leaning towards mcain. Then he chose his runing mate. Yes we can indeed. The problem is that Sanders isn't accepting donations from corporations or doing a SuperPac. Sounds amazing doesn't it? If only all politicians were the same. The issue is that Hillary and everyone else will and they will raise sooo much more money then him giving them much more exposure. 

Sanders beliefs and promises won't hurt him.  What will hurt him will be that nobody will know who he is and therefore won't vote for him. 
 What's funny, the internet and word of mouth can be a very important tool these days.  If he could create something that goes viral, more people would see him in the open without the massive bank roll...

Although, I agree with you... Money is what powers the election. Didn't work for Ron Paul, won't work for Rand, and it won't work for Bernie. Pretty much you have to sell your soul to corporations just to remotely stand a chance to win any election these days. Reddit seems to love him. But many people will vote for Hillary for the name recognition and also because they're excited for the first legit female candidate.  He's got my vote There is no other person I would rather vote for. S Amdt 1520 - Authorizes Moral and Religious Objections to Certain Health Care Items and Services (Voted yes)

There is no politician in Washington that is worthy my time. Seems like a great guy and I like the way he's voted on recent issues, but I can't exactly say I'm optimistic for him actually changing anything even if he does get elected (which is still a long shot at this point, but fingers crossed).

I don't think it's possible to make your way too high up in politics without being bought-out. Besides that he's going to run into a TON of road blocks from other corporations and politicians.  I'll tell you this, even if you think he won't win, it is much more satisfying to vote for someone you believe in than voting for someone you don't trust like ......(fill the blank) or even worst, not voting at all. 


However, we still have plenty of time before election day, let's start working on this, talk to your friends, talk to your family, talk to everybody you can talk. Even if they don't agree with him in many things they will see him as a clean politician and that is so uncommon that speaks volumes about the candidate. 
edit:grammar If votes were weighted by emotional conviction, mine would carry Sanders straight to the White House. I am 100% behind this dude. I'm not going to let fear of what ever republitard guide my vote. I'm voting for sanders no matter how bleak it looks. Yes. I'm voting for this guy. I'm even going to donate to his campaign. I have never donated to a politician before but Bernie is worth every cent.  If he gets the nomination I'm totally voting for him. The problem is that he isn't congress. That is so full of far leaning wackadoodles on both sides that whoever is president won't make much off a difference. They had my hope for change in 2008, now all they get is cynical optimism I probably will yes.  If he is on the card come election day then yes I will vote for him.  Still too early to say what the outcome of the races will look like. I will personally be voting for Gary Johnson but I like Sanders. It's too bad that the media has so badly twisted what a libertarian is that ppl believe Rand Paul in the Koch bros are libertarians which is so wrong. A true social libertarian like Johnson believes in fiscal responsibility and social tolerance which rings true with probably the majority of America. Fiscal responsibility doesn't mean cutting government programs necessarily, it means using the publics tax dollars more efficiently because the current method is to throw shit at the wall and hope it sticks. Yea the ideology is for a good cause but if approached these issues more like a business instead of like politicians and applying lean six sigma principles, we could provide the same programs/benefits/government benefits for a fraction of the cost. It's pretty shameful when Congess blew 27 million last year in their own private booze parties... If he gets the nomination, giving what I've learned so far, I'll vote for him. I was dead set on protest-voting for vermin supreme or some random rapper, but I might go with Sanders. He's trying to promote co-ops and tax the wealthy, which isn't my preferred method of reaching socialism, but its better than the other options by quite a lot.  If not for the shooters in Texas, I would never have seen this exhibit.  Good work, assholes. Good point. I live in Texas, and before this morning I didn't know anything was going on.  I hope it becomes a popular annual thing in celebration of Draw Mohammed Day. Free speech is good.
This "exhibit" was put together by a white supremacist hate group...
So let's take a second before we start praising  them. Free speech means it doesn't matter if I agree with it. Events like this should take place everywhere. If it takes a group like this to show us that, what does that say about us? This is just it.  I have no problem with there being a rule within Islam which states that Muslims shouldn't draw Mohammad.  But since I don't follow the religion I don't have to follow the rule.  What's next?  Will they say I can't eat bacon because it's against their religion?  Then we'd have serious problems.   "Since I'm on a diet, you can't eat that candy."
 I drank too much last night. You can't consume alcohol any more. I went to a beer and bacon festival recently.  These poor bastards can't have either.   I'd start killing people too How does it feel to be on that NSA list you just got placed on buddy. Pretty much the same as before since we're all already on the list anyway.  Your kiss is on my list.  -Hall and Oates Pfft it's not like they are going to Did you see the faces of women you weren't married to?  That's a paddling  Since I hate gay people, you guys can't get married. Don't go comparing the Intolerant Christian Taliban to Radical Muslims! They hate MURICA!  Well that one is actually legitimate as in many countries homophobia is preventing laws to be passed, allowing gay people to be married. Oh, homophobia,and religion, of course. Both you and the parent comment sound like my wife. Fine. As long as you don't touch my spaghetti, linguine and tagliatelle.  I wont, as long as you stop making up pasta names. Spaghetti is a real pasta.  And it [grows on trees](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tVo_wkxH9dU). [No no no, spaghetti is a type of squash.](http://www.homesteadanywhere.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/IMG_0865.jpg) Holy shit radical muslims are tumblerinas! I think if people thought of it like this then the whole world could come to terms with how stupid they sound when they try and punish others for their non-beliefs.  There's a difference between sounding stupid and running an annoying blog, and cutting off heads because the western world displeases you. 

Tumblrinas step up your game! Let me tell you about something called "Ramadan"... I'm fasting so you can't eat after sunrise/before sundown either!  It's there in Saudi Arabia.  You are not allowed to eat publicly during Ramadan. Looks like you have met my girlfriend. Since I'm a vegan you can't eat meat.  &gt; What's next? Will they say I can't eat bacon because it's against their religion?

If you made the mistake of getting convicted of a felony and sent to prison in California that is exactly what would happen. In California prisons, bacon is never served because of the Muslim inmates.

 Can you volunteer for the death sentence? That seems like a better option. The shit will hit the fan if a breatharian gets sent to that jail.

P.S. Google gives this definition for a breatharian: A Breatharian is a person who can, under the proper conditions, live with or without eating physical food.

So... everyone who isn't dead? &gt;A Breatharian is a person who **claims** he/she can, under the proper conditions, live with or without eating physical food.

FTFY. It's a bullshit pseudoscience scam. In california, not prison, fois gras is never served because of the liberal inmates. I would think it has to do with cost as well. Only vegetables for the inmates! I have always wondered this.  When I asked a Muslim coworker about this, his reply was "some acts are so blasphemous, that they they are above all laws of men and drawing the prophet is one of those acts."  I said; "but i'm not Muslim, your religious beliefs don't apply to me."  His reply was; "It doesn't matter." *Moderate* Muslim, using Western freedoms to limit your freedoms. and this is why Islam is evil...putting their god &amp; messenger above and before all else. What's next? Will they say that I can't marry someone of my gender just because it's against their religion? Then we'd have serious problems. Or say that because your boss' religion prohibits birth control that NOBODY can get coverage of birth control.

Thank goodness that would never happen either. Here's some Muslim made images of the Prophet for you

http://tarekfatah.com/images-of-prophet-muhammad-from-islamic-art-and-history-before-the-clan-of-ibn-saud-took-islam-hostage/ This needs to be up higher. Depicting the prophet is NOT forbidden under Islam. That idea is a very recent invention, mostly pushed by the extreme conservatives and salafists in Saudi Arabia.  And therein lies one of the biggest problems with religions: They think their rules are universal. Pretty much exactly how the rules are written down to begin with -- can't see how any of this surprises anyone. Thinking this through further, by letting them practice their religions, we're theoretically giving them a pass to do their stuff on others religiously (it *is* their religion!). Follow? This whole damn thing is a senseless mess, pure and simple... Thing is though, and this goes for many other religions, it doesn't really matter if you believe it yourself. These are laws laid down by God, and hold true whether you chose to follow them or not. To them, it's like if you tried to deny the laws of gravity. The world is under God's law, therefore they apply to everyone. Not trying to defend the opinion of these nuts, just explaining the viewpoint.  This reminds me of the time many years ago at work. Upon learning that I didn't go to church on Sunday, a girl from another division wondered aloud if that was legal.

That would have been around 2009. And she thought church attendance of some kind was compulsory. Mind blown. WOW. That's insane.  The very concept of secularism -indifference to religion with regards to law- is foreign to many people. That gap in understanding has been, is and will be the cause for many of the world's problems.   Except the whole point of forbidding drawing Muhammad is to prevent idol worship within Islam. The idea is that Muhammad is merely a prophet, not a god, and so shouldn't be venerated as a god with statues and symbols everywhere. Which is a perfectly reasonable concept -- but it should have zero effect on non-believers creating drawings of Muhammad. But in an ironic twist, being radically bothered about drawings of Muhammad is a thin line away from seeing him as sacred and worshipping him.  &gt;worship

&gt;noun worship \wr-shp also wor-\

&gt;: the act of showing respect and love for a god especially by praying with other people who believe in the same god : the act of worshipping God or a god

&gt;: **excessive admiration for someone**

spot on
 I argued some time ago that thinking drawings have the ability to hurt God or his Prophet is in fact a form of *shirk* (polytheism) which is one of the gravest sins of Islam.  Maybe they fear that they will start worshiping the drawings of Mohammed other people are making. It's much like the way they wrap their women up in ridiculous clothes to prevent their lust from taking over. Its as if they can't control themselves. And so they angrily attempt to control others to compensate. :o
that's... a really good point Wow, so Allah wants the spotlight all to himself? An attention seeking god, seems pretty ungodly. Considering the Christian God created humans for the express purpose of worshipping him, that's not so bad in comparison. To be fair, it's basically the same concept as the 2nd Commandment. So not something totally unique to Islam. No, that's the one about guns. And God said, "fully-automatic assault rifles shall be in your houses or on your person, I am the LORD" If they are gods laws then tell god to get at me about it.  That's the main reason why man shouldn't be allowed to reinforce these laws.  God should be the only judge where Blasphemy is concerned.  Man falls short in the eyes of God, and should not be given the power to judge what we believe to be crimes against god.  Only crimes against humanity. I would have submitted my Muhammad sculpture made out of bacon but I ate it. Is it okay to eat the prophet?  I mean, if a 9 year old managed, I don't see why not. http://i.imgur.com/0NaEiwh.gifv http://i.imgur.com/zwhBRbO.gif F Shots fired

At you

By religious nuts   Not REKT  REKT ^^^This ^^^is ^^^way ^^^over ^^^my ^^^head, ^^^please ^^^explain When a man loves a women, or a Muslim has a 9 year old ~~wife~~ love slave, they perform fellatio on each other. This is often referred to as eating out your partner. dude... The Dark Meat is powerful in my family. My father had it, I have it, my son has it. In time you'll learn to digest it as I have. Actually the prophet loved to be eaten. Especially by the under aged. Sad but true.   Someone needs to make this bacon Mohammed statue a reality. That is pure genius. If I understand it correctly, they can't draw Jesus or Moses either. The fact that muslim extremists aren't bombing people for drawing other prophets shines a light on how much of this is really about religion and how much it is about violent nationalists swallowing anti-West propaganda hook, line and sinker.  Well, the funny thing is that the whole "don't draw mohammed" thing is to try and prevent idolatry.

So people are killing other people, in the name of a prophet, to stop idolatry...

Frankly I think the whole "making a prophet a idol" ship has well and truly sailed by that point.  
 In the very southwest part of China where most residents are Muslim, they actually get into non-Muslim's houses and take away pork meet and liquor without host's permission because they believe Islam and they felt offended. Those people are are biggest shittest douchebag in the world if you ask me. That only happens to the homes of those who don't know Kung Fu. Not that I don't believe you, but do you have a source for this? It sound absolutely, utterly ridiculous! I can't imagine stealing food - food that a family paid for and depends on for nutrition - out of someone's home... because *they* didn't want anyone else to eat it.  Muslims should be forced to follow any rules either, USA is a secular country, and anybody can draw as many Muhammad's as he wants. My question has always been: How do they know [this](http://i.imgur.com/E4ME79N.jpg) is or isn't Muhammad? They cannot know what someone thinks when drawing. I think it'd be safe to assume that people in the draw Mohamed contest are drawing Mohamed  What is there's someone at the contest who is just sandbaggin it and drawing Jeff in a turban instead? Not even a turban, just draped a towel over his head. And pretty soon the Pythagorians will tell us we can't urinate in the direction of the sun, marry women with gold jewelry, or use irrational numbers.

Square root of two. Come at me bro! That is already a problem in Europe. Some schools in Denmark banned pork on the lunch menu for everyone and introduced only halal meat. It made news for a day then quietly went under the radar.

 Given where the event took place. Id like to have seen the reactions had a muslim organisation hosted a draw baby jesus event  In the Bible it says, "And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not the cud, it is unclean unto you: ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch their dead carcase." Deuteronomy 14:8


I think Muslims just take things to literal.. They basically follow what you would call the "Old Testament" when it comes to silly rules. 

I was born into Islam but don't blindly follow it, I love me some siracha brown sugar thick bacon strips ...ugh my mouth is watering again.  There is a breed of pigs in which their hooves are not divided.  I was visiting a cheese farm last year, and they raised this breed of pig for some religious group down the road. Sweet I should post this on TIL damn it I love reddit  If I remember my old testament correctly, the hoof is supposed to be split.  It's the lack of cud chewing that renders the poor swine unclean. &gt; I think Muslims just take things to literal.. They basically follow what you would call the "Old Testament" when it comes to silly rules.

That's EXACTLY it. The Old Testament is the link between Christianity, Judaism, and Islam-Each traces its routes back to that book, which in Christianity is the most severe, least relevant book in the modern age (mostly taught in a historical context or with the handful of still-applicable ideas) Judaism, as far as the Bible is concerned, never got past the OT, but instead branched off into what is now the Torah (New Testament deals with everything after Jesus, who hasn't been born yet according to Jews). Mohammad, according to the history of Islam read the OT, had a vision from God, went to the Jews and Christians and said "Hey, I'm just like you!", was told to fuck off, and came back with an army. I'm a Muslim, and I agree with you. Quite frankly I don't give a damn who draws what, though I'm a bit saddened by the deliberate targeted provocation, and most of us feel that way. I'm more ready to be angry with someone who wants to use violence in the name of my religion or any belief system than I am anyone who is simply ignorant.

edit: Also, I wish I could eat bacon, it smells so deliciously good. I'd never want to take that away from anyone! I fill the void with turkey bacon. #MuslimDesires I assure you that you can eat bacon.  If your god is trivial enough to send you to some hell for eating bacon, think of all the other trivial things that would piss this god off.  Not really someone you wanna hang out with for eternity. Take your logic and GTFO! :) /u/Loaih had better fucking not wear mixed fabrics. You know how much that pisses god off. This to me is the best argument. If god is going to get all bent out of shape because I forgot to wash my hands, or because I played with my wee wee when I got bored, or because I shit on a girl's chest in a consensual loving way, then I don't wanna be his bro.  &gt;  I'm a bit saddened by the deliberate targeted provocation, and most of us feel that way.

It's one of the natural human reactions to being oppressed by threats of violence. We challenge authorities. We especially challenge those who claim authority while not actually being authorities. I'm not quite sure what result you really expected here. Pure and complete submission by folks that aren't of the same faith? That seems a bit silly to me. What is wrong with Muslims they are so easily antagonized? Why are they so violent they can't ignore a silly contest? Why are they so volatile that they can't pity the poor infidels? You can't incite someone who doesn't want to be incited. The provocation is in the head of the people who did this. No one provoked anyone.  And that serious problem already has a name - "Rule of Sharia". /r/drawmuhammad As an ex muslim living in the most extremist country (Saudi Arabia) i think it's going to be a very looong time before they accept seeing the prophet in a cartoon,, they barely accept mocking a modern religious figure!! And that is exactly why it is important we keep mocking him.  I couldn't agree more,, and from a comedy point of view this guy have tons of material that begging u to mock!! People have the rights to believe in whatever they want, I have the right to say whatever I think of those beliefs. ~~Amen~~   Ehhh... Right on! Praise Cthulhu! ;-) PRAISE THE SUN rAmen. http://cdn2-www.craveonline.com/assets/uploads/2013/04/Bugs-Bunny.jpg &gt; Ain't I a stinker?  I didn't realize Muhammad was Wolverine. Scary!   Looks a bit like a wolverine Hitler hybrid Hates Jews - Check

Won't fucking die or go away - Check

We have a winner. So Wolverine hates Jews and Hitler is still alive? how did I miss this And he looks fucking bad ass. Maybe if Christianity's prophet wasn't such a pussy... Can we draw the 9 year old girl you raped then? Why is this getting down voted? The dude raped children, that's a fucking fact.  I don't usually consider religious books to be factual sources.  It's canon, not a fact Best way of looking at religion that I've ever heard. I would gild you if I had more than 86 cents in my bank account. 
 What, so you think swan-form Zeus ***didn't*** actually rape Leda?! **LIGHTNING BOLT!!** Whether he actually did or not is hardly relevant 1400,years later. I think the more significant fact is that a billion people believe that a man who did that is essentially the ultimate arbiter of worldly authority. Not really a religious book, just the victim Aisha reporting that Muhammad 'married' her when she was 6 and molested her when she was 9 (and still playing with dolls). I see no reason to dismiss this account, as there's nothing absurd in it. The hadiths are absolutely as religious and unverifiable as any religious texts.

Should be mentioned that Mary's age when she married Joseph is considered at the oldest 13, but given the fact that this is the same geographic area that Muhammad and Islam came from, with the same cultural norms that tended to include the sexualizing of extremely young girls, it's not unlikely that Mary was even younger than that. And the dude that got her pregnant was older than time itself... Creepy Sorry, what isn't really a religious book? The hadith. It's basically a collection of what individuals important to the religion said, authenticated by several 'scholars'. That's what most of the bible is... "Jesus and his Homies 2: Fresh Testament" The Quran is the word of Allah as interpreted by Muhammad, the hadiths are just things people have said that Muslim scholars agree with. No. The bible does not have many contemporary reports that verify its contents, and several that contradict. Not to mention that many of the stories were originally passed down for thousands of years through oral tradition. The Hadith was written directly in the 7th century and much of it verified by secondary contemporary reports. The historicity of the Hadith is hardly comparable to the bible. Sure, much of what Muhammad said was gibberish,  but it's not as if he was the only one who noticed and wrote down that he married a 9 year old named Aisha.  How is that not a religious book? If you're saying it's not a real religious book I would say are any of them? It's a matter of interpretation, but it has to do with the genre. So if you read any book in the New Testament, the intent is clearly to persuade you to believe in Jesus. But if you read the hadith, they're just basically recollections about Muhammad and his direct successors. It's not inherently religious. I mean, I can go to a church and report what they're saying - it might concern religion, but I wouldn't say that the end result will be religious. dammit now ive got Greydon square stuck in my head (btw if there are any atheists who don't know about greydon square,look em up) Either way, in the book, the character Muhammed raped someone. That's the fact. Several of the [images submitted to the contest](http://s1167.photobucket.com/user/AFDIMotoons/story) referenced Aisha. Some of those images are NSFW and many of them are tasteless - that's half the point of events like this, but fair warning anyway. Is he a Thundercat? Coming this Summer!  Hugh Jackman is Muhammad in Quran the Movie! Alright... I'll go warn the embassies.
 They call anyone who participates in this a bigot.  

That's funny because no one ever called me a bigot because I thought the [Life of Brian](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=slbMe-aTY1A) was the funniest movie of all time.  No one called me a bigot when I laughed like bastard at [Mel Brooks making fun of the Jewish prophet Moses.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PFnJuQ_uiqk#t=2m10s) No one called me bigot when I laughed at the countless sketches Dave Allen made about the [Catholic Church.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-u6XXOELs_s)  No one has ever called me a bigot when I have laughed at the countless political cartoons made of Jesus Christ, far too numerous to put in a list.  No one called me a bigot or threatened to kill me when I made a cartoon making fun of the [Vatican and the Pope.](http://patches67.deviantart.com/art/Pope-in-the-Vatican-1-187593760).  No one called me a bigot when I made a cartoon lampooning [Krishna and linking him to the mythical Juggernaut to the modern obsession with oversized SUV's.](http://patches67.deviantart.com/art/2010-Juggernaut-29141303)  

And I could go on and on about every single religion in the entire world.  Makes jokes about Buddhism, Jainism, Shintoism, and just go on and on and on and no one would give a shit.  

But you make fun of Islam and there's only one possible motivation people can see to do so.  **Bigotry.**  It's always bigotry.  It's never not bigotry.  It's about being an intolerant bastard and a bigot.    

These fucking mongheads just don't get it.  It's about not taking orders from extremists about how we're going to conduct our lives.  They don't determine the rules of the playing field.  If they say "You can't do that!", we say "Fuck you!" 

And you know why we particularly work so hard at drawing the line here?  Because if we don't it's going to have to be drawn somewhere else.  We live in an entire world that pisses these people off.  The Boston bombers never even mentioned the cartoons as a motivation to kill people.  It was simply not being Muslim.  And if you lived in these Islamic ruled shitholes of the world everybody knows being Muslim is no guarantee of safety whatsoever.  They butcher their own in the most brutal means imaginable.  These is absolutely no motivation or guarantee whatsoever that giving in provides any means of safety.    

So when you draw that line, you draw it as early as possible, stand your ground, and tell them to fuck right the hell off.  That's the point of doing this.   [Obligatory (NSFW)](http://i.imgur.com/x0FhXjE.png) I agree that saying you can't do something because I believe in [this religion] is wrong, but... saying no one threatened you because you did something offensive to them doesn't disqualify you as a bigot. 

And no, making fun of a religion doesn't make you a bigot (or intolerant) generally.   Well actually yeah the Monty Python team were called bigots and protested against when the film came out.

Intent and motivation play a huge part on what is bigotry and or bullying and what is not. This is all well and good but Pam Geller is a really vile human being.

http://thinkprogress.org/security/2011/08/01/284011/pam-geller-race-mixing-breivik-right/

 It's either you're a bigot or you're islamaphobic. Or my most favorite, anyone who insults islam is a racist. 

Religions do not deserve respect. He was a klingon? That explains a lot actually. http://fawstin.blogspot.com

This is the artist's webpage. He's an ex-Muslim who works hard condemning the evils of his former religion.

Give him a click instead of breitbart.

 Goodbye, fellow Redditors... I posted this on my Facebook page and I'll probably be dead by tomorrow morning. To anyone that states we should refrain from making offensive remarks or jokes against Islam or any other religion: No, we shouldn't and yes, we will continue to do so.

 
Why? Why go against what people believe? Why go out of our ways just to offend people of different beliefs than us (beliefs most of us in this subreddit doesn't even have)?
 

Why the joy in this religious circle jerk?
 

Because satire is a stupendous weapon against weak, pitiful ideas. Ideas that lack any solid evidence behind them.
 

Ideas that are not grounded on solid evidence, as all religious ideas are (have proof for your religious text? please show us), must rely on fear and intimidation to survive. They claim it's forbidden to mock or ridicule their ideas... It's offensive. They're ideas that were handed to them by their powerful god using their holy messenger as proxy, so it is above all mockery and ridicule. In countries where access to education is lacking, where children are force fed religious extremism since birth, to mock religion is such an unthinkable thing to do...


So why does mockery help? It helps because it sends a powerful message: there's nothing to fear.
 

There's no invisible creator in the sky smiting those that draw cartoons. There's no invisible creator in the sky counting your sins, watching every thing or do or *think* every single day. There's no invisible creator in the sky that determines what you should or shouldn't do.

There's only powerful men that claim to know god's word.


It's ok to have doubts. It's fine. You're not a bad person for thinking religion is man made. There's nothing wrong with you. You can live the life you want without fear. Just enjoy it.


Mockery and ridicule, to me, shatters the illusion that if you're not religious...if you have doubts, then you're a failure. Mockery spreads so much that shows people they're not alone. 


There are others that doubt too. I still wouldn't want to take part or be associated in any way with an event organised by a hate group like the AFDI...  That's my feeling on this.  Try mocking the religion of the organizer of this group and her tune will change in an instant.  Her intent is to mock Islam and convince people Christianity - or her brand of it - is the one TRUE religion.

She's as messed up as the people she's mocking. That is why my idea for this contest is to draw Muhammad buttfucking Jesus.

I bet most of the people there would have some righteous anger.  I am all for willful disobedience of stupid rules, but don't dish out insults if you can't take them... http://www.theonion.com/article/no-one-murdered-because-of-this-image-29553

That's the difference  Too

Many

Line

Breaks Writing on mobile.

Better tham wall of text, Imo.
 The dude in the picture looks more Sikh than muslim. He's has a beard, a turban and a SWORD. Just saying :)  Looks like a Thundercat I bet you can count the number of links from Breitbart's site up voted to the top of Atheism on one hand.  If it was an article from there it would have been down-voted. It's just an image link, so the stank of the site itself is less pungent.

I hate having to stand on the same side as fucking American Freedom Defense Initiative and their Islamophobic nonsense, but defense of free speech has a way of bringing opposing sides together. They're right for the wrong reasons. We still don't have to stand with them. We dislike Islam because it is irrational and oppressive, they dislike it because dirty A-rabs worship someone other than Jesus Agreed 100%.  I'm a center-left moderate, and normally I detest Fox, Rush, and groups like AFDI, but this issue has me agreeing with them and wanting to slap the shit out of the idiot liberals in the MSNBC and CNN comment sections.  
 I teach ESL and one of my Muslim students (I believe she is Iranian) was telling me that she used to see depictions of Muhammad "in her country" - we were talking about medieval depictions of Jesus and she was comparing the two in her mind. So representations of Muhammad exist. It's not this weird taboo thing it's being presented as. In Muslim countries/cultures, you will find depictions of Muhammad. Good for the pen, because the sword aparently got it's ass kicked, by a swat team, in the parking lot.  Actually, by an off duty cop working as a guard.  He used his service pistol.  The swat team didn't get to the shooting until after they were down and dead.  It's only important to know the difference because for years people have said a citizen, armed with a pistol would be no match for a terrorist with a rifle.

This shows a trained person with a handgun can take care of business. Iconoclasm was protection against megalomaniacs hijacking the faith, like how a democracy should protect against charismatic politicians from hijacking a nation.

Drawing someone isn't worshiping someone, and honestly, muslims, you don't have any right to stop us if we DID want to worship Mohammad. It's utterly stupid and barbaric, as trying to imposing your system on others often is. Free speech can be a bitch.

I hate how if you say something negative about Christianity you are applauded around here, but if you say something about Islam, you are phobic.  And you should know better because "they" will attack you.

Its not Islam that I hate.  Most of the ones I've met are pretty relaxed.

Its the media that is so afraid of being perceived as insensitive that I hate.  They show us the folks lined up for an ISIS haircut and don't bat an eyelash.  But show a cartoon of Mohammad and they all lose their shit. Sadly, many of the mainstream media chose to focus on the quote "offensive" nature of this instead of the fact that violence is NEVER an acceptable response to free speech, especially drawing, double especially cartoons!

Islam is terrible in a thousand ways, but one silver lining is that it serves to show people (in clearer terms) the problem that secular/rational/sane people have with religion. Just because some religions are not currently in a witchburning/jihad/ethnic cleansing/etc phase does not make them more rational, sane, healthy, etc. Are the same people drawing muhammad also defending flag burning?  I feel like almost everyone on both sides is ok with one, but not with the other, depending on which offends them individually.  Either we have the freedom of full open speech, or we don't.  You can't defend one while trying to stop the other. How does anyone even know what Muhamad even looks like? So, are they really drawing Muhamad? I like this mental exercise: I draw a stick figure. It this a blasphemy? Ok, now I label it 'muhammad '. Now it's blasphemous? Was it the label that did it? As I understand it, any form of art that depicts any person is blasphemy under Islamic law. Calling it Muhammad just makes it cross over from "you dun wrong" to "you gon die." Not blasphemy, but idolatry. Actually it hasn't always been blasphemy to paint/depict Muhamad, so there are paintings of him [see here](http://www.zombietime.com/mohammed_image_archive/), although many have been defaced- mohammad has white painted over him but I imagine you can probably get a pretty good idea. Why is a middle-eastern man wielding a Chinese crescent Jian? I like this contest better: http://www.reddit.com/r/TAAOfficial/comments/2s6d56/draw_muhammed_contest/

**Warning: Very NSFW** I totally realize this is completely off-topic, but I came to say Muhammad had a pretty sweet beard. The funny thing is that [they don't even agree about this point among themselves](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Depictions_of_Muhammad),  it is certainly not banned by the quran, in fact you do  find early depictions of muhammad in islamic art;  to add insult to injury,  the latest prohibition was to prevent idolatry of said images,  which you certainly cannot accuse the likes of Charlie Hebdo of inciting. Refuse to go to the website breitbart.com. It's full of conservative christians who are little or no better than the conservative muslims they criticize. I think that's Ra's al Ghul.

Seriously though, I'm OK with people having whatever daft belief they like, as long as they don't try to force it on anyone else. 

Would I draw a picture of Muhammed? No, because I don't have any interest in doing so, and I know it would offend people. But I believe any one else should have the right to draw those pictures if they choose to do so without fear of death. Those eyebrows are on *point* Don't forget the pseudo-hitler mustache.  I looked at like 4 or 5 times before I realized that subtle tidbit Yup, and definitely not a coincidence. Fawstin has also drawn this depiction of [Mohammad as Hitler](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-fE7JsGPVJ00/TZnlGHgRt8I/AAAAAAAAEsU/BargfgdHDnU/s1600/Mohammad+Unmasked.png).
 Good drawing.  Apropos.  Shame on anyone who things they can impose their values on others by force.  I am talking to you, Muslims, with your stupid drawing prohibition.  I am also talking to you, conservative christians, with your attempt to bully and marginalize homosexuals because they don't conform to your limited notions of propriety. TIL that SJWs on this site think that drawing pictures is combative and deserves violent retribution.  How  do we know this is Muhammad and not Mehmet? This is a great commentary on the philosophical role of the artist in society. Much like Socrates' gadfly, they are meant to stir the beast of a predominating authority and should be regarded as a great gift to society for doing so. But that role has continued to garner the ire of those who will not benefit from change and the violent contempt of those that follow them. I love how the turbin creases look like devil horns, very fitting/nice touch Didn't someone die in a shooting over this?  What a shame.  Some asshole was serious enough about this stupid fucking religion to take another person's life.  When will this shit end? You know the media is cowardly when you have to get the cartoon from Breitbart So many fucking liberals are selling their free speech up the rivers over this, Charlie Hebdo award - I'm left feeling like a right winger. Maybe we should thank the terrorists for separating the true liberals from the cowardly sheep. Meanwhile, a [New York Times reporter](http://www.wsj.com/articles/free-speech-aside-1430760333) ponders the question, Free speech aside, why would anyone do something as provocative as hosting a Muhammad drawing contest?

She's not playing with a full deck. Looks kinda like Hugh Jackman playing wolverine with a turban on his head. This looks a little like Wolverine  i agree that everyone shouldnt be banned from drawing muhammad because its a muslim rule but why would you want to?  We should start a "draw Muhammad day" every year! Maybe 4th may is "draw Muhammad day". ? No, may 4th is already taken.

May the Fourth be with you? You know? 

Its star wars day, dont try and ruin that with hate mongering. The 4th of May is also the Dutch day of remembrance, where we honour those who died in wars.  Yeah, Star Wars. They can't kill us all. If everyone posted this....
Islam is the mother of the mother of bad ideas. [My personal favorite.](http://i1167.photobucket.com/albums/q627/AFDIMotoons/movolution---The-Muslim-Issue%201_zpsfimhcrbq.jpg) This is much more subtle than I had been led to expect from the AFDI crowd. Very good cartoon. And, yeah, very fitting. Isn't it thought provoking that these two gunmen proved the very point of the exhibit. They felt entitled to enforce their own laws, their own way. Scratch two terrorists. They discovered the Constitution has some serious teeth. Would have been more apropos if it was a civilian and not a police officer that tagged them.  Doesn't really count in this case. Churchill warned us in 1899, Pat Condell warned us last week, Fuck Islam Upvoted for putting Condel and Churchill in the same breath.  This is brilliant. Draw the whackos out and kill them before they can kill us.  The best piece was the two chalk outlines out front.  Your comment is disturbing, and accurate. muhammad shmuhammad. Muhammolverine

Nice facial hair.  I did not know Dan Blizarian is a prophet.  He looks like a generic Flash Gordon type of villain.  The face looks like a cross between Wolverine and Hitler O_o this looks a little planet of the apes, from chim-pan-A to chim-pan-Z I like that the turban kinda looks like horns.  Way to play into Christian fears. Homophobia is a behavior, not a civil right Religion is a behavior as well. It's really about where you're born. I'm just glad I was born in a country where there is a little bit of reason and basic freedoms, and not some place in bumfuck Afghanistan where gays are executed for being the way they are and wives are traded for goats. Homosexual behaviour is accepted in Afghanistan if it is with a CHILD. And that, my friends, is how fucked up these people are.

http://www.examiner.com/article/afghan-pedophilia-a-way-of-life-say-u-s-soldiers-and-journalists This is what happens when you cover women up and treat them as sub-human; fucked up psychological perversions. Several middle eastern nations believe women are to beget offspring, and men and whom/whatever else are for fun. 

There is lot, and lots of homosexual behavior and molestation as age old tradition.  They cover them up because they have no fucking self control.  They have no self control because they've been conditioned that way. They're taught that women are property and their only use is sex and reproduction. They're taught that a woman is to blame if she's raped. Many of these countries allow polygamy which only reaffirms the idea that women are property, while denying millions of young men the opportunity to marry and start families. Their problems are manifold.  It's more of an abusive relationship type thing.  And they're extremely jealous. I should not have read the comments to that article. I like this one by Carl Mayo

"democrats will get around our own age of consent laws, by simply not enforcing the laws for muslims.there will be widespread molestation of american children, and no one will be punished. there may be arrests, but democrats in positions of power will see to it that there are no indictments." Carl Mayo? More like Carl Bologna. Or any article really. I find it interesting that the right wing crazy commenters always find their way to MSN. Maybe they don't know how to change their homepage? I used to see little boys try to walk passed Afghani army checkpoints, almost every time the shitbags would try to touch them. Drove me insane, every time I wanted to just unleash the 240 and turn them into hairy jelly fishes. Same with the Catholic church. I'm being dead serious about this.. A friend of mine that was in Afganistan told me about the pedophilia but he also told me that they rape men in punishment as well but they don't think it's gay because they're the ones giving it and not the ones taking it  A few years ago I had read an article about homosexuality in Saudi Arabia. There are men who have sex with other men but don't consider themselves to be homosexual. Having sex with a man is something they do; it's not who they are at their core. Therefore, they are not gay men just men who have sex with men. It seems as if this attitude is in play in the Afgan tribe referenced in the article.  Afghanistan is of crazy place. Bumfuck is no, unless goats. Or [young boys]( http://www.independent.co.uk/voices/comment/an-afghan-tragedy-the-pashtun-practice-of-having-sex-with-young-boys-8911529.html). I mean if it's a nice enough goat... People tend to think that beliefs are a choice when its largely dependent on how and where you were raised. Most religious people didn't 'choose' to be religious, they were just brought up to believe something and its become a large part of their identity. 

In this case, their belief was no more of a choice than our 'choice to believe' that squares have four corners. We didn't choose to understand that, we just do. And it would take a tremendous upheaval in order to change that notion; not just a willy-nilly choice. But the main point is still you can change your religion, or even abandon all religions, but you can't change the way you are born. Growing up, you are not allowed to make a lot of choices because your parents have to raise you but when you are independent, or even semi independent, you can start making a lot of choices previously unavailable to you. That's why we always keep hearing about teenagers on this forum talking about how conflicted they are because they no longer believe in what their parents believe in. 

Event then, even for the sake of argument that homosexuality is a choice, it is still a right. It is a sexual right to choose your partner, just as much as it is a right to choose to exercise free speech and religion and a host of other basic human rights not predicate on how you are born. So you're saying I can now believe that squares have 5 corners if I want? What, you mean like a pentagon? Heathen! That is only true until the person is able to think for themselves. There is also solid proof squares have 4 corners.. Religion? not so much.  
     
Source: Grew up seriously Catholic, went through confirmation &amp; everything. Got the hell out by the time I was 12.  I believe squares have infinite corners.  You and your 4 corner theory...think outside the square. Heathen! Religion is a behavior AND a civil right.  
So, they want to fix this too, right?  Probably, I'm certain they wouldn't want to be hypocritical. I don't disagree with you (entirely), but good luck convincing them they weren't born with their Religion. The'll believe it "in their heart" until the day they die.  How dare you force your beliefs on them. Haven't you heard of RELIGIOUS FREEDOM? I've never read the U.S. Constitution, but I'd imagine it says that all US citizens must conform to Christian values and beliefs. It bothers me that any organization with a tax exempt status can promote views like that under the guise of religion.  This is offensive to rainbow-skinned people.  Rainbowskians [unite](http://skincitybodypainting.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/SkinCityRainbow.jpg)! That is objectively the gayest thing I've seen today. Not a bad thing, just really gay. I guess you could say that the competition is pretty stiff. Gay.  Correct. Except purple people. fuck them Born atheist. Where's my pic? Points for revealing the truth.. everyone is born an atheist... Then indoctrination junction! &gt; Then indoctrination junction!

What's their function?
 making up shit and fucking up kid's brains! Woo-Woo! This gave me a hard nostalgia burst, thanks fellow 70-80s kids. [deleted] &gt;In the mornings, when I am usually wide awake,  
I love to take a walk through the Garden of Eden, down by the lake,  
Where I often see a donkey and a snake,  
And I wonder as I walk by  
Just what they'd say if they could speak,  
Although I know that's an absurd thought. Conjuction juction No one is born a Christian or Muslim or the like, but we certainly do have a tendency towards supernatural belief.  Paraphrasing Dawkins et al, you're born Christian or Muslim as much as you're born democrat or republican. Hehe, that's a much better pic. Seeing how gays *are* probably born that way, the pic would be better to exclude religious people.

"Christianity is a behavior. Not a civil right." Born bigoted. Where is their own pic? Bigotry is learned.  I don't know... the way chimps will turn on one of their own family if you dye his fur a different color suggests bigotry may have a strong instinctual/biological component.

Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that the ability to *not* be bigoted is a learned behavior. That's genuinely interesting, got a source for that? 

 Being afraid of the strange is an evolutionary precedent, considering everything that was unfamiliar or weird was probably out to eat is back in the day. The trick is prioritizing empathy for your fellow man, which is also an evolutionary precedent. This is an excellent point. Boats up Technically everybody is born an atheist. Religion is not civil right, it is behavior. But atheism is civil right. That's according their own logic.  Don't mean to be pedantic but actually - freedom of religion is in fact a civil right, just as freedom from religion is so desired That's a valid point, and worth discussing.

Do you not have the right to behave in any way you choose so long as it brings no harm to others?

Or should people who disagree with your harmless behavior have the right to behave in a way that brings you harm merely because they want to dictate how you should behave.  ?

It's not difficult to see who is in the wrong here. If children see gay people, they will probably become gay as well.  That's the danger.  See?  It's not harmless!  It's contagious! It's not limited to children.  I saw a gay person once.  I could feel my sexual orientation sliding rapidly down the Kinsey scale.  Fortunately I turned away before I stopped liking boobs. Stop exaggerating, that's not how it works.

Everyone likes boobs. Seriously though.  Every gay guy I've spoken about this with, they're at least intrigued by boobs.  It's just that they're not really into vaginas. gay male here checking in, boobs look wonderful, I just wanna jiggle them around then motorboard them Gay guy here, not big on boobs.

Edit: To clarify, I don't like boobs sexually. If I had to choose between boobs or vagina though, I'd pick boobs.

Dick &gt; all though. Gay here.

Can confirm, they look like black holes made up of flaps of skin.

Boobs are distracting, but I can appreciate the concept of motorboating them.

I'm an ass guy, men who have nice tushies are the best. Can confirm, am straight female, I adore boobs.  beware the creepy PMs &gt; If children see gay people, they will probably become gay as well.

I think religious children are safe.  They teach them to be bigoted hateful fucktards at an early age. 
    If children see gay people, they will probably become gay as well.

'I think religious children are safe. They teach them to be bigoted hateful fucktards at an early age.'




Being a bigoted hateful fucktard does not immunize you from 'gay'.

source; Ted Haggard smoking meth with his gay male escort in between butt pokes. Translation: We force our children to conform to heterosexuality by making them believe that no one is gay.  Seeing gay people risks making them comfortable with their own sexuality and we won't stand for that dammit!!

 The fact that some people sincerely believe this boggles my mind. Do they think it's a disease? Then why are they treating it like a choice?!

I could at least mildly respect someone for having an opinion on the nature of homosexuality if it was at least slightly concise and without obviously leaky leaps of logic. The church I grew up in still believes that homosexuality is caused by people being attacked/possessed by demons.

That's right, they're possessed. And being around it can make those demons attack you, especially if you're a child of God.

But there's no exorcism ritual like Catholics have, no, you just pray in Jesus's name and the demons flee, making the person straight again. 

It also helps cripples walk and blind people see. Except in the case my mentally handicapped cousin who has been in church most of her life with her parents and is still mentally retarded. And can't walk. That's just not God's will, apparently. &gt;That's just not God's will, apparently.

Right!  He's keeping her crippled and retarded in order to be a burden on her family because...  Well, because lessons need to be learned, or something?  About life and stuff?  Or maybe they just aren't devoted enough, yeah.

Pass that collection plate! for all the people i've come across that believe this, it's because they define homosexuality quite differently.  to them, a "homosexual" is one who engages in homosexual activities.  it's an "action," not an identity, and with that logic, homosexuality is a choice.  

you have to remember that for christians, any sort of sexual urge is "sinful," but they justify heterosexual urges as the will of god to procreate.  this is also why they are so dead set against birth control.  homosexual relationships don't have this justification, so they see them as entirely pleasurable experiences.  

so, according to Christians, sex is sinful unless you're going for babies.  because gay folk don't have this justification, gay sex is wrong and sinful.  to them, a gay identity doesn't make sense, because relationships of a sexual nature should only be occurring for procreation. nah, this is true for some sects of Christianity, but not all of them. The one I grew up in- absolutely they believe acting on any sexual urge outside of the marital bedroom is wrong, but to paint them all with that brush is inaccurate.  If we're going to use logic to show people the error of their ways (which is what worked for me; I was very homophobic until about a decade ago or so), then we need to use sound logic based on actual facts, including when we talk about them.

In my experiences most christians view homosexuality as wrong because of the connections they draw between homosexuality and sodomy, not realizing/recognizing that there is a lack of consent in sodomy. And then they use Adam and Eve to bring the concept beyond homosexual males to include homosexual females.  But there's a gay person right there on that sign. Children will see that. Have they no idea what they've done by putting this up? I picture most of these people walking around fighting to urge to suck a dick. Because why else would they so full heartedly assume that it leads to "temptation", that their kids might become gay because of it, and that it is a choice? I can understand that, but i think we can safely agree that a good lot of the lgbt community didnt decide one day to be gay. A decision is something that a religion can weigh upon. They have their rules just like any other organization. 

In high school i was catholic born an raised. When i began to realize i liked women i cried every night, i would pray to my god to stop these thoughts, to cure me. I would beg and plead. I would say to myself, no I dont choose this, I choose god, I chooe the right path I CHOOSE to be straight. 

Now...  now i choose to be me, I am happily engaged to a beautiful woman, and one day we will need to pay lots of money to make babies, but we will have kids and I am sure my family will learn to accept it. 

I didnt choose to be a lesbian, and if i could, i would have chosen anything else.... or so i thought. now... now i think i'll just be happy.  &gt; now i think i'll just be happy. 

As you should.  I don't think being a lesbian harms anyone else, even if they think it does. Not really, though i know people who have been hurt by the amount of pussy i can get :P 

but in all seriousness people can be offended by weird shit.  &gt;  in all seriousness people can be offended by weird shit. 

I have an answer for that, if I can find it...

[Aha!!!](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fHMoDt3nSHs)

The link is to the beginning, the relavent part is at 3:30

 It's probably also worth noting that, in the US, constitutionally protected civil rights apply to specific behaviors more often than to specific classes of people whose features are immutably set at birth. So claiming that behaviors shouldn't be protected by civil rights is a statement so absurd it practically lacks any real meaning. 

Broadly, constitutional rights either prohibit the government from taking a certain action (e.g. searching without probable cause) or prohibit the government from preventing an individual from taking an action (e.g. speaking). Rights that protect individuals from government discrimination based on their status at birth are a relatively small subset of the former. Of the 15 or so Amendments to the Constitution protecting individual rights, only three prohibit discrimination against classes of people. The Fifteenth prohibits denying the right to vote based on race, the Nineteenth prohibits denying that right based on sex, and the Fourteenth's Equal Protection Clause more generally prohibits government discrimination against classes of people. 

All the other rights enshrined in the Constitution prohibit specified government behaviors or protect individual behaviors rather than classes of people. Speech is a behavior, and the First Amendment protects that. It also protects free exercise of religion and freedom of the press. The Second protects owning guns. The Fifth, the right not to testify against yourself. etc. etc. All behaviors and not birth features.

Religion itself is probably the best example. Free exercise is a civil right. I wonder how the pastor of that church would feel if his religion was banned? He wasn't born Christian. He can choose to stop being Christian at any time. So by the standard of his sign's argument, his free exercise should not be a protected civil right.

But far more importantly, the Equal Protection Clause prevents government discrimination against classes of people, regardless of whether the characteristic features of that class are present at birth or are a result of the individual's choices. Admittedly, race is the most common suspect classification to receive the highest level of scrutiny under the EPC. But age, disability, gender, wealth, political affiliation, felony status, and almost any other classification can be the basis of an EP claim, even when the classification is based on a feature not present at birth. 

Alongside race and national origin (two features determined at birth), guess what classification receives the highest level of scrutiny under the EPC? Religion. So if the pastor of this church doesn't want classifications based on behavioral choices to receive the highest protection of the Constitution, then he has to give up one of his most powerful protections against governmental persecution.  The challenge is the belief that something is or is not a civil right. First, the poster completely misrepresents the notion of a civil right, and second they presume the only instances where you have civil rights are related to innate properties.
 Agreed. By their own argument, there should be no freedom of religion since that's a choice. Also, race is more of a social construct than an innate property. Where does the "mixed-race" person fit into their model? They don't want freedom of religion, though. They want everyone to have to be part of their own particular cult. Yes.  It is a strawman proposition.
 Many rights that we take for granted are rights to choose to exercise certain aspect of our lives. The freedom to speech, press and religions are some of the most obvious "right to choose" rights. Arguably, some of these rights can even caused harm to others, like free speech and free press. A speech could cause harm to others, like convincing others to follow you over another person's ideology, causing harm to that person. A free press can harm others, especially public figures who might get their sordid lives exposed. 

But we preserve these rights because the freedom they offered is much much more important than the occasionally harm they caused, and is predicated that the fact that these freedoms ultimately bring more good , more fairness, more justice to society. Even if homosexuality is a choice, legislating or forbidding it could be a violation of right to associate. Gays and straights should have the freedom to associate with other who shared their sexuality so they can have sex with them. Should be we start forbidding adultery and other extramartial or unusual sexual activities?  &gt; Even if homosexuality is a choice, legislating or forbidding it could be a violation of right to associate. Gays and straights should have the freedom to associate with other who shared their sexuality so they can have sex with them. Should be we start forbidding adultery and other extramartial or unusual sexual activities? 

Well said. What I don't understand is why this is a game changer. Assuming this is possible, if someone does choose to be gay, why would that justify not providing them equal rights? Yeah i never understood why gayness being innate, or a conscious choice even mattered in the first place. Who cares where i stick my dick as long as it's into another consenting adult. 

Hell, i'll fuck a super intelligent shade of blue if they're down for it. Who are you to tell us not to? hooloovoophilia
 It's like the "Obama is a Muslim" meme. He's not, but okay, what if he was? If this is the land of the free, the person who's president can be any religion they want. Its like the complaint isn't really thought out. And of course you could change the picture of the 'supposed' gay for a picture of a Christian and adjusting the text to match.. That's what I don't get, they're not born with their religion so that's not a right either?
 That's the power of the god of convenient redefinition! It's a side effect of also being the god of deferred responsibility. But you are born with god in your heart. Checkmate atheists! I have a great deal of trouble trying to understand what the problem is with homosexuality; and I'm a straight male. Do I get excited/aroused seeing 2 men kissing? No. (But in all fairness, I also don't get aroused/excited seeing to straight people kiss in public either) Does it have any affect on my life and my well-being if they do? Also, no. Why, then, do some people feel the need to prevent others from being happy? Is it simply because misery loves company? It certainly can't be because of that book that they all seem to love, but never seem to read. I mean, they wear cotton/poly blend chinos, eat lobster and shrimp, and log into office computers and check email on Sunday.

The only possible reason to discriminate against LGBT people is because they aren't a fully protected class of people yet and discrimination is the only thing that their religion is really good at. Every since it was founded, it was about insiders vs outsiders. And this is just the most recent fight. For the last 4-500 years it was slavery, and the biblical justification for it. Now it is hating on the gays. It's classic scapegoating. 

When you pick an enemy for a group to demonise then you can distract from any problems that your group might have among themselves and rally them against a common cause, promoting internal group cohesion.

It's not about the gays so much as that it is about control over their own flock. 

It's the same mechanism that politicians used in the 1950s to demonise communists and today with the "war on terror". 

It's a distraction and a means to band the group together, against a common enemy.  This has *layers* of offensiveness. It also seems to imply that race is a civil right. Oh what? You were *born* black? I guess we'll let you get away with that one. Not much you can do about it really.  Implying that if they *chose* to be black, they'd be in for a discriminatin'. You heard it here guys, your skin skin color or your ethnicity, totally a civil right, for some reason.
Also apparently your natural instinct to be attracted to certain folk over others, totally, not a civil right...right Christian Authoritarians? It's sad that they're so obsessed with finding a group to discriminate against...  They're not, this is just a knee-jerk reaction to realizing that the bible isn't always moral. Their response is "ya-huh, you're just choosing to be bad!"
 Theramin trees summed  up that knee jerk reaction pretty well
https://youtu.be/NfyoDgszas0
 Upvote for Theramin Trees!  That guy cemented my deprogramming.  His voice, so soothing. They bully to feel more powerful. Can't mess with those sinister left-handed people any more... Could you imagine the good they could do if they focused all that time and energy doing.... oh I don't know, helping the poor and misfortunate like what their messiah asked them to do? That sounds like work. It's easier to coast into Heaven by hating certain groups of people from afar. Just like God intended. There's a certain kind of mentality that finds it more important to have enemies than to seek solutions to anything.  If there were no gay people thanks to some kind of magical Christian wish-fulfillment, the people who are in love with hatred would just direct it to someone else.

If they were completely happy with the world they wouldn't be satisfied. [Christian]

Not born this way.

Not a civil right. Wouldn't freedom of religion make being Christian a civil right? It would.

It's almost as if you should have the right to be and do things you weren't born into, as long as it doesn't hurt anybody.

You know, strangely, I wasn't born able to speak, but I have a right to free speech, too. Agreed. Of course freedom of speech does not exclusively apply to oral speech but I know what you're saying. I agree that sexual orientation harms no one but unfortunately it is not yet recognized as a civil right like religion, press, etc. I think this is the point: your religion is a choice, and they are happy that we give that choice civil rights.

Arguing that another choice cannot not get civil rights is the height of hypocrisy.

(Note: I don't believe sexual preference *is* a choice, I'm just pointing out their argument is so bad that it's flawed even if you accept their incorrect premise.)   You are born gay. The problem is admitting that, means you are against people the way god created them. Then you have no cover for your hate. Amazing, to me, that this isn't the top-rated comment yet. Great point. 

I love it when people make this argument because it lends itself so nicely to a set of simple questions in reply. (One of which /u/mnig posted already.) "When did you decide to be heterosexual?" "And you could have chosen to be homosexual?" "Could you do it right now...just...decide to be attracted to someone of the same sex and act on it?" 

What I love most about this line of questioning is how, for me--born heterosexual and raised by mildly conservative Christian parents--it crystallized the whole issue. In the ignorance of youth, I was homophobic and loved that "Gawd made Adam and Eve not Adam and Steve" line. Now, I'd been drifting further from religion for years already, but the moment I heard some form of that question, "Did you choose to be attracted to women?" it was all over. 

Of course I didn't choose it. It never felt remotely optional. It is akin to asking, "Do you choose to feel hungry or thirsty?" So clearly not a choice.  Technically there's a possibility that it's developmental. It's a meaningless distinction, but I mention it nonetheless because the nature vs. nurture debate is a distraction from the fact that it's nobody's goddamn business when two consenting adults love each other. I wouldn't state that as fact. You can't test a baby and find out they are gay, can you? This has been a huge debate, nature vs. nurture. Who knows? Nobody. You can't pinpoint the cause, that is why it is such a hotly debated topic. 

Personally I don't care either way-do, be, whatever feels right. Doesn't matter how you got there. What a confused and troubling philosophy. Yes, you know, a 14 year old boy in the Midwest one day wakes up and decides he likes guys instead of girls, and the bullying at school is just to make it more interesting. Yes, as I've heard a number of gays say, "Who in their right mind would CHOOSE to be gay?" I want to smash those words into my families faces. Every single one of them is against gay people and always talk about how it's a disgusting choice. Little do they know that I've been bisexual since I was nine. I've spent my whole life not saying anything to them about it because it would cause so many more problems. They really think I chose at the age of nine to want to hide who I am?  Wait till you are completely and securely on your feet and have a stable job and then let them know who you are. Those who are important won't care and those who care, aren't important. Good luck. Why oh why is homosexuality a religious issue? Just rewrite the argument: Do you make a conscious decision about what gets you hard/wet? I sure don't. I might be a man that likes women, but I can't begrudge another dude that likes dudes. Boner points to what it wants. It's man's natural divining rod. If intelligent design exists, it's working just fine. And people wonder why church attendance is in decline.  For an activity that is supposed to teach love, I see a lot of hate.  
Happy to be atheist! Someone should tell them Christianity is a choice... AND a destructive lifestyle.  So according to that logic you're born a christian? So we don't have the power of free will? So what was Eve a lesbian? The church I was raised in believes that a parent's faith creates an elect child; that the child is born into the family of God through their faith. They also believe in predestination, which means that God chooses who will be saved and we cannot 'choose' God with our free will. They believe that free will is limited to being free to say yes or no when God "knocks at our hearts".  The contradiction between having to say yes and already being saved through the faith of a parent is conveniently ignored at all times.   I grew up Church of Christ and you are right on the mark. God already knows what you are going to choose, but he still gives you the choice. Sounds a lot like tempting someone, and then punishing them for something that already knew was going to happen. But hey, if you make the right choice, you'll get a shiny gold house in heaven some day!!!  (but, stop, don't seek gold, that's worshipping money!!) Christians aren't born that way... does this mean I can discriminate against them? Michael Jackson was born a black male but died an Asian woman. Being an arsehole is a behaviour too. so is being non-homosexual a behavior? ask them, when did they choose to be hetero?
 So flawed, I know gay guys who were bullied for being gay long before they knew they were gay. Good thing religion is dying  There is more evidence for homosexuality in nature than there is evidence for a logical distinction between races. Want some irony? Read on:

This display wrongly implies that "civil rights" are nothing more than race equality.

In reality, civil rights covers much more. Gender, nationality, privacy, speech... **RELIGION**!!!!!

So in the process of oversimplifying civil rights, they have essentially excluded freedom of religion, which is definitely not something you are "born with."
 People aren't born Christian either, it's just a behavior.

I guess that's also not a civil right. By this logic, religion is a behavior and not a right.  "Religion is just a behavior, not a civil right" 

See, I can do it too!  It's almost as if religion doesnt use logic or reason in its arguements.. S'funny how they do everything they can to get you on their side. No appeals to reason, just 'punchy' propaganda.

- Everyone else has a white blackground, while the LGBT pic has black.

- Everyone else is smiling at the camera, while the LGBT pic has a shifty, suspicious look to him.

- They equate race and sexuality. Not to mention that this GOES AGAINST ALL OF SCIENCE (shocker).

Did you ever choose to be straight? No? 

Do you know of any straight people that had a choice to be gay? No?

Then why is it ONLY gay people that have a choice to be gay? Then, why do they ALL then go on to "choose" to be gay? If they ALL "choose" to be gay, then it's not much of a choice, is it? Especially when they're identifying as part of an extremely discriminated group.

Ugghhhhhhh. Since SCOTUS is taking up the gay marriage case, does this mean that this church is taking a stand on political issues, and can be forced to pay taxes?

A fella can dream... So by that logic: people aren't born believing in god, so its a behavior, and shouldn't have any rights associated with their choice in religion What a fucking load of horse shit. They're saying a lot just by choosing that photo of the rainbow guy. They might have intended for him to look shady or untrustworthy by having a photo of him looking off and not making eye contact, but it really just makes him look like a panicked mouse in a church full of blood hungry cats. And this is why churches are slowly dying. 

I wish I could show them a glimpse of how irreverent they will be in a few decades.  Best Freudian slip of the day. 

*irreverent  I'm gonna leave it lol :)  Believing in God/Allah/Flying Spaghetti Monster/Cthulhu/Thor/Zeus is a behavior, not a civil right. Latino isn't a race! TIL homosexuality is a race.  Why oh why do discriminatory fucktards have to STILL be so plentiful even in 2015?

Every single one of us has the unique opportunity to be on the RIGHT SIDE of history for once.

When people look back at all this bullshit they'll laugh at how bigoted and cunty homophobes were. Why would you want to voluntarily lump yourself in with that group? When someone tells you "homosexuality is a behavior" aren't they pretty plainly saying they could choose to be gay, but just chose not to?


 God forbid you apply logic! Even if it were a choice, religion certainly is and we don't allow religious discrimination. No-one is born a Christian, Jew, Muslim, Mormon, Hindu or anything other religion. We're all born atheists. Religion is surely a choice.  Any one of those other four people could be gay.  impossible.  their faces aren't painted the colors of the gay pride flag. Today's Christians disgust me. The Old Testament was written by Hebrews and Shepherds that said homosexuality is a sin. The New Testament preaches that Christians show show everyone unconditional love (regardless if they are homosexual or un-Christian) and follow the footsteps of Jesus Christ. You can't just choose to be gay all of a sudden and God made everyone in his image. Grow up you "Christians" Ah, ignorance. Born Stupid.  Isn't it a civil right to behave how you want to?  I was not aware that being gay automatically made you look like you just did a DBZ-Style-Fusion with a rainbow. Huh, TIL, random local church. So you could make this exact same poster and replace gay with fetus. Not born, no civil rights The LGBT communtiy should just start calling themselves "Born Again Gays"  Then no matter what, they were born that way! FIFY! :)
[Irreligious Sign](http://i.imgur.com/Q8TyPWK.jpg)

 "When did you decide to behave heterosexually?" Protip: If you feel homosexual urges frequently but keep them under control or supressed, you're actually gay!

The average person doesn't struggle with their sexuality and then consciously decide to be straight every day.  That is weird, I am pretty sure they were all born human. But I guess that is too much of a stretch for them. Well obviously -- I mean who is born wearing face paint? I mean that *would* be pretty awesome, though I would have gone for more Braveheart style personally. All wieners, no buns, anything else is wrong.

 Christianity is a choice.
 Being a prick.  Also a behavior.  At this point, if Christians truly thought homosex is a choice that about 10% of the population deem worth making despite all the adversity that goes along with it, wouldn't a substantial number of them give it a try? Clearly, it stands to reason that gay sex feels wicked good, right? Why not see what all the fuss is about? Surely the numbers would be similar to the rate of people who choose to use narcotics to get high. 

But here's the rub: Christians don't truly think, they truly believe.

I think I just dropped something. Was it a mike? Religion is a choice. Here is where the bullshit is from. 

***LINK***

[Transform Michigan](http://transformmi.com/archives/2504) (in to a hate state)

&gt; Mark Gurley who is a state coordinator for the Oak initiative in Michigan came up with this idea to place billboards across the state...Would you be willing to donate towards this effort??? E-mail me at rw247365@gmail.com and you will be given instructions. That makes me so sad.  Here in MN just about every church I pass has a big rainbow flag flying outside. Okay so I am not against homosexuals having civil rights but I am confused about whether it's a choice or not. Growing up I only liked females and lost my virginity to a female but in college I experimented and also found that I like sex with guys. My current philosophy is that I will fall in love with someone regardless of their gender if we are compatible. However, I could just find a wife and live just fine if I am in love with her. So since I like sex with men that makes me a homosexual but at the same time I feel like it was a choice to be homosexual or not.

Edit: I am well aware it's called being bisexual but I am also homosexual and if I found a guy I loved and married him and never had sex with a female again I would just be a homosexual. Looks like I picked the wrong week to stop being pissed off. My brother has a gay step-son and is having a lot of trouble accepting it. He always liked to throw out the "it's a choice" thing frequently. One day I said, "OK, fine. It's a choice. When did you decide you were attracted to women and wanted to have sex with them?" He never answered the question... but I never heard the "choice" argument again.

I like to think I won the argument. Whoever came up with this one did not do well on the SATs.  For the record this wasn't actually found in a church but on some kooky right-wing website from Michigan.  They want to start a billboard campaign with this image.

&gt; This Billboard will be very thought-provoking and it is well done as we need to get our message across. We wanted to give you a look at the Billboard. Transformation Michigan will be receiving tax-deductible donations to make this happen.

Warning:  [Crazy right-wing religious fanatical website](http://transformmi.com/archives/2504) You know, even if it *were* a choice (which it's definitely not), that's *still* not a reason to deny people civil rights. I mean, the "born this way" line has its merits, if a religious person admits that people are born gay, it means they have to admit that their god made people that way. But then again, it shouldn't really matter whether or not its a choice. If I said, oh, I dunno... dying your hair blue is a choice, and it's immoral, that's not a compelling argument for banning people from dying their hair blue, or not giving blue-haired people equal civil rights. Wow, what a bunch of cocksuckers.

What about all of the slavery, that was ENDORSED by churches like this?  Were the slaves born that way, or was it shitty behaviour by the god-fearing folks that owned the slaves? Religion... Spreading hate since, ever.  Man, they're really spreading that message of love and peace, right? Christians sure are accepting and tolerant. /s What are they saying?  That rights are only afforded to people with certain genetics? My inner norwegian slightly wants to burn this place down So if homosexuals are somehow born heterosexuals, but chose to be homosexuals; does that mean they think an heterosexual can choose to be homosexual ? That's not how this works. That's not how any of this works. This sign is saying we're all gay, we're just not acting on it. Remind those people that they're gay too.  It's just like Jesus said, "If somebody makes you feel uncomfortable, it's totally cool to rationalize a loophole so that they have fewer rights than you." I remember when I chose to be straight.  Thankfully, sexual orientation *is* protected up here in Canada. Has been for decades. And, eventually, it'll happen all across the US, too.

Canada just seems to always be a decade or more ahead in terms of LGBT rights. From decriminalization (1969 in Canada, 2003 in the US), to protection against discrimination (1985 in Canada, some states have since 1998), to allowing open military service (1992 in Canada, 2011 in the US), to marriage (started in 2003; 2005 nationwide in Canada, ongoing in the US)... That man certainly has a bad case of stripes. Luckily, as I learned from the book of the same name, he can cure that condition by being true to himself rather than trying to fit in with the majority or worrying that his preferences will be considered "weird". TIL, people aren't born covered in grease paint. So all gay people are lying when they say they were born that way?  Or the church is lying!   Hmmmmm.  Whom to believe... I said the same thing but I was downvoted. So are we all born with our sexuality or are we not? I don't give a fuck about votes.  But once a person realizes that they like men or women (or both) doesn't that seem like it's not a choice?   

And who would choose to be persecuted and shunned and all those other things if it was just a choice?    Does your [penis get hard / vagina get wet / pulse quicken / lips engorge / etc] when you look at a naked photo of someone of the same sex? That's not "behavior".

Yes, I know, not every homo or hetero sexual person has these responses to the relevant situation, so this isn't an all-encompassing test. I only mean it as a counter-example. How many people in /r/atheism regularly visit churches?   Pleas tell me they didn't have that filth posted outside? Well, there's some truth to this. Gay sex is certainly a behaviour. I just happen to think there's nothing wrong with that behaviour, and it's none of anyone else's business. I'd be *mildly* interested to know how they view the transgender population. By that reason being heterosexual is also a behaviour.  Why not choose to be gay for say a week and see if you like it or not before condemning people. I think they may have homosexuality confused with face painting. Not sure why it matters if it is a choice or not. 

* religion is a behaviour
* owning and/or shooting a gun is also a behaviour


I don't know that we will ever know for sure whether being gay is a choice or if people are born that way, but does it really matter? Isn't that entire debate merely a distraction from what really matters? Two consenting adults should be free to do whatever they want to each other. If they want to get married, so be it. Let them have the benefits (and the problems) that married people have. People aren't born religious either! They're indoctrinated into the church.  That guy on the right end looks shady as hell. Was he born that way? Maybe he was born with it, maybe it was Maybelline. How else would he look so fabulous?? Gaybelline. Okay but can we have a serious discussion about this rather than dismissing it? I'm gay and I of course believe I didn't have a say in the matter but I've never really been able to convince my more religious family members that it's not a choice. From their point of view I'm "confused" and as much as I'd like them to just believe me when I say I was born this way how can anyone really prove that to anyone? I feel like the arguments I've heard like, "well did you choose to be straight/choose not to be gay?" aren't really effective. Keep in mind I'm talking about people who are 99% rational but just haven't been able to let go of their religious upbringing.  I've heard homosexuals state that they weren't born that way in the sense that it is genetically coded. Assuming that homosexuals aren't born homosexuals, making it a choice/not a choice argument doesn't help matters. Does the woman who is attracted to men who abuse her "choose" to be attracted to them? I'd say attraction is not a choice. All the choosing, belief systems, feelings are established before attraction occurs. So, people don't choose to be attracted to the same sex. The attraction just happens. That doesn't mean there aren't sources for that attraction that does not include genetics. There is more to innate characteristics than genetics. There is also epigenetics, which means the role of genetics and environment on development. 

In the case of homosexuality, it is a little of both. There is a genetic component, homosexuality can run in families, but the more important aspect seems to be epigenetic. 

The influence of hormones on the brain in the prenatal stages of development are such that many factors, including stress and how many male children the mother has had before, have an influence on how the brain forms. 

By the time the person is born these influences have played their role and the neurological structure is set.  http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2008/06/13/0801566105.abstract

The neurological structures which govern attraction and what pheromones you respond to are set before birth. You didn't choose your sexuality in the same way that you did not choose to be right- or left-handed.  Fuckheads like these people make me happy atheists are around. A vast majority of the people who believe in the same faith as I are batshit fucking crazy, and you guys keep the options open for free thinkers. I bet these morons believe the earth is only a few thousand years old too. You could always join us. I've always believed in science, and rationalizing events that happen in the world. I'm not a bible thumper that believes everything in the bible is true fact because, in the end, it was written by many men across many years.

I believe in a diety, but I believe that diety did not much more than set in motion a universe where it doesn't have to be alone. That's cool man.  Ofcourse he's not born that way.. I mean have you ever seen a rainbow colored person? Yes.  But to be fair, I'd done a hella lot of lsd at the time so take from that what you will.  Even if it were a choice (which i dont believe it is), since it a choice that causes no harm to any other human being, it is not a ground for discrimination He also blames it on the removal of Christian displays from government owned property and on the acceptance of homosexuality. Mike Huckabee will never be the nominee, he's actually a benefit to the democrats because he's so offensive to women and young people. This time his chances are even worse because a young, vibrant Ted Cruz is going for the evangelical vote, and will get most of it. Unfortunately he's one of the people that gets the base to start foaming at the mouth, but that segment of the population has already lost their minds anyway. Every time Mike speaks he damages the Republican's chances of winning the general, so I'd suggest sitting back and enjoying the spectacle.

For folks that follow in Christ's footsteps, they sure know how to build blood-curdlingly vicious attack ads. The current GOP contenders might carry a cross around their neck but they have a shiv up their sleeve.  Huckabee will be successful in his true goal: selling more books. Seriously: the majority of candidates for the Republican nomination actually *do not want to win the nomination.*  They use the process for the free publicity to promote themselves within the crazy-assed right-wing media market. Well, not exactly free. Running for president is expensive stuff, unless of course they let corporations fund their campaign. Then not so much. Of course that's what they do. My point exactly. Ahh the old invisible sarcasm trick, touch. ;D It's all about the $$$.  Nothing but dollars is what he's after.  Your post is spot on. The "Herman Cain" solution! Herman Cain actually used the  campaign contributions he received while pretending to run for president to purchase tens of thousands of copies of his own book. I assume Huckabee is running the same kind of con.  Did he really? If so that's fucking genius. He could have gave every person that came to is rallys a "free" book and it would still be all profit. Also gets you on the best seller lists. omg, I searched for this story but could only find the [I got all this stuff twirling around in my head](http://www.jsonline.com/multimedia/video/?bcpid=13960334001&amp;bctid=1275195602001). I've never seen a politician so embarrassed, so pinned down by a question. This is text book what not to say in a interview. He has no idea what to answer and use all possible tricks to get a valid answer from the journalist himself. He speaks each word separately and check the face of the journalist to see if he said a stupid thing, then reseats himself, go check his bottle of water, ask to be more specific. What a PR disaster. 
  
About the book story, isn't it plain and simple illegal? I cannot find anything about this on his wikipedia page. 