I am honestly quite surprised by this. Not in a particularly bad or good way, but its exceedingly rare to see a large, joint initiative between two companies alter in such a fundamental way due to customer feedback.

Regardless of the many discussions surrounding this event, this seems like the harder, and likely best course of action due to many factors and reasons. Yeah. And I get what Valve is trying to do, they want to improve community around games, and they thought, how about paid mods to insentivice modders?

And they are kinda right, modders are one of the best things about PC gaming, and there should be a way to compensate them. We need to create a system where people want to create mods, but also to foster a community around it. Well said. I think if this idea were to ever succeed, it would need to be a joint effort between Valve, game devs, the modding community and gamers. All discussions would need to be very public and frequent in order to address the hundreds of unique hurdles that would need to be overcome. 

Get all parties talking, start throwing in ideas, harvest the best ones, refine them, present them to the public, repeat. After a certain number of time and public acceptance, a plan will form.

If Valve and Bethesda truly want to empower mods and their communities while making money, give modders and gamers a seat at the discussion table, before any major action takes place. And of course start with a fresh game, not one that released at the end of 2011.

It just made it seem like a shameful cash grab.

EDIT: I guess i failed to make it clear that I am refering to it being a game that has an existing and established FREE modding community. Instead of starting with a next installment or with a different game all together like the M$ Flight Sim that recently hit steam and whose users are used to paid content. Well, I don't disagree with their choice of game. They needed to start somewhere, so they picked a company with games that are pretty extensively modded. Skyrim is the most recent Bethesda game that lends itself to modding in a big way - you don't see Dishonored or The Evil Within getting much mod treatment.  Also, those are just Bethesda published, which opens up a whole different can of worms; it's likely much easier for Bethesda to deal with their own dev team, which means Skyrim.

I see what they were going for. If it was going to work, it needed to be a company they knew was supportive of modding (and I'd argue Bethesda does this better than anyone), who was on board with the idea, and also had the legal right to do something like that without getting into quibbles with id, Tango or MachineGames. I think another reason why they chose an old game like Skyrim was probably because there was no real chance of future updates breaking the game mod. also so that there are actually mods worth paying for. a brand new game is not going to have the huge library of mods that Skyrim has that could be considered worth paying for. But with all the great mods we've had for free, what's the incentive for paying for them? Unless they're Falksaar big/good, there is literally no reason to pay for content that hasn't even gone through Q&amp;A and is certified to work. It wasn't that it was the wrong game, it was that it was the wrong time. The modding community was already deeply established with the general spirit being that assets are more or less communal with work being shared and built-on by different people. Monetizing the modding community in this way directly contradicted the spirit that a significant (possibly majority) amount of modders were in when they joined. 

The complexity of the mods and the work involved in Skyrim is also a completely different beast than the ones Valve has successfully handled (CS:GO, TF2, DotA2) which amounted to cosmetic changes that can work as a standalone mod. Contrast it to the dependencies between mods that developed in the Skyrim community, it's clear that the same model would never have worked.

If this system was going to work, it would have to be in place at the very beginning of the game's product life, not years after the fact. Because it's too late to untangle the legal quagmire of copyright and ownership of mods now without completely scrapping the work of most mods. Thing is they should have been public about their intentions. Let people know that this is on the horizon, why they think it is good and open a dialogue with their community. Most arguments I've heard didn't have an issue with the idea of allowing modders to make cash but had issue with the way the system was set up. Well, even with the admission that they did it wrong, a lot of people are still mad, and pretty pessimistic about how they're going to move forward. There's a large group of gamers/modders who wanted this program dead in the water, and when Valve says "even though we believe there's a useful feature somewhere here," many of them are just waiting to see the new version of this that they'll hate.

And another group is going to look at "our main goals were to allow mod makers the opportunity to work on their mods full time if they wanted to" and think, so that's why you were taking a 75% cut of their full time work, huh? 

There's absolutely nothing wrong with wanting to make money, and Valve and Bethesda are companies I want to make a lot of money, because I want more Elder Scrolls, and to a lesser extent, more Fallout. But there's going to be backlash when a level of mistrust builds up in the consumer base and the corporations, and even adding in the disclaimer, "we are doing this to also try and make more money" isn't going to help, no matter how transparent they are. &gt;And another group is going to look at "our main goals were to allow mod makers the opportunity to work on their mods full time if they wanted to" and think, so that's why you were taking a 75% cut of their full time work, huh?

The cut was because Bethesda was giving people complete license to do virtually anything they wanted to this game, its copyrighted content, its trademarks. 

To put this in context, had this system existed for Fallout 3, Obsidian could have used this license, and made New Vegas, and sold it on steam. Maybe not 100%, given I'm sure they had access to the source code to make some changes, but they could have done it.

Which, brings me to the kicker. 25% of the gross *would be far, far more than Obsidian actually received for making NV*.

 &gt;modders are one of the best things about PC gaming, and there should be a way to compensate them

But think about this. They *are* one of the best things about PC gaming despite not being compensated, right? Well, what if it's not actually "despite" but in a large part due to that? 

Consider the motivations of modders in a non-monetised modding culture. What drives them? Kudos from their peers and people who use their mods, working with others, and probably to a large extent just the feeling of having worked on something and creating a product.

I think it's fairly obvious that it is these motivations that give way to the fact that modding is so great. The question then, is would monetisation change the motivations of people who mod (now, or people who later get into modding)?  Too many people think money is the Holy Grail in compensation.

[They're wrong.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc)  Getting paid generally encourages people to achieve "good enough" results.  Letting people pursue what they love in their spare time is what makes great things possible. What about the last 15 years or so when people just modded for a hobby? I personally don't think every one needs to be paid for every little thing they do. Hell I like to paint in my spare time but its not like I expect people to pay me and if I uploaded my painting for all the internet to see I would expect people to give me money, I'd simply be sharing something I did in my off time. And if you wanted to be paid for your painting you'd have to be so good at it that you could get a gallery to be willing to sell your work.

(Essentially equivalent to any of the really good mods that got picked up by studios and turned into full games previously.) You're missing the point. Valve and some gamers want mods to be more than a hobby or something people do in their free time. They want some modders to be able to work harder and provide support for mods and improve the overall quality of the mods. They want mods to be at the level that expansion packs and DLC are at. 


There are a lot of great mods that are complete overhauls or adds tons of content, but I guess they hoped that they could encourage more people to make mods like these or even have these gigantic mods expanded.


Edit: It could be kind of interesting because you may start seeing people use the underlying game as an engine of sorts and just building on top of this engine to make what is essentially a full game. Sort of an evolution of mods into a genre of games themselves. So, one thing that kind of bothers me is that more likely, rather than getting community created expansion packs and DLC, we are going to end up with an app marketplace. Lots of "trial" mods, misleading descriptions, astroturfing reviews to increase sales, and everything that comes with that. The end result might actually be higher quality mods (for some), but it will come out of a worse quality community (again, as seen in any app marketplace).

But if there is a way to get modders paid while preserving the community, I am all for that. I don't even care if the mods are of higher quality or not (I'm happy with the quality they are at now). I get the main motive of supporting modders financially so they can do their hobby for a living, in fact it feels a little bit selfish for me to think that we should not pay them.

What I'm trying to say is money isn't everything in this case and money as an incentive won't work. The unintended consequences is the splitting of a community which has always been non-profit and a potential flooding of the market with cheap and low quality mods (imagine the mod workshop turning into something like the android app store).

So what incentive could work for modders ? Well that is the million dollar question right now. Donations don't work well because people never use them (it's like buying winrar). I think more brainstorming should be done on this subject by all parties involved and not a unilateral move by steam/bethesda on the community workshop. Valve should really have considered this, esp when dealing with a community that is so interconnected     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predictably_Irrational#Being_Paid_vs._A_Friendly_Favor

"people are happy to do things occasionally when they are not paid for them. In fact there are some situations in which work output is negatively affected by payment of small amounts of money. Tests showed that work done as a favor sometimes produced much better results than work paid for."
 [deleted] You don't even need it to be work for it to be obvious.Just take an everyday example, like if you're helping a friend move or study or something. There's a massive difference between 'hey, can you help me out with this please?' and 'can you help me out with this? I'll pay you two bucks'.The first asking for a favour and ill happily do it whilst the second one is, quite frankly, demeaning and saying my time is worth two bucks to him &gt; money as an incentive won't work. 

For people doing what they *love*, money isn't an incentive, it's an enabling force. So they can eat and pay rent.

&gt; Donations don't work well because people never use them

**Never** is too strong; Doom was distributed initially as shareware, and was *so* popular that Id made lots of money on "donations." 

But that's the key: You have to be spectacularly successful in order to make that much money off of donations. The numbers just can't be there for mods for a game: Even a substantial fraction of most games' user bases wouldn't be enough downloads to make it into the millions of units necessary for donations to pay off.

I think the community was being selfish and short-sighted in their knee-jerk reaction against paid mods. There's a sense of entitlement that forms around a product once you've received it for free, and people will go nuts if they later have to pay for it, even if the product *is* worth real value to them.

*But* there may be a better way: A lot of cartoonists are making a lot of money on [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/) these days. Could famous modders give early access and/or extra free mods to supporters? Or even offer to produce *more* mods if they end up hitting a high enough income threshold? 

Patreon side-steps the entitlement issue, psychologically, and so might work better. Never know, though. You might not know of or remember this but a while back Blizzard tried to make a change to their game forums that would make your real name show on your posts.

The result was basically identical to what happened here.  Never seen a company back pedal so fast. I was around and that is actually a great comparison. Blizzard also had good intentions but did not seem to understand why their actions would have been mostly a negative thing. 

Look no further than Facebook for proof that people are more than happy to act like assholes while their name is exposed. However, people who want to do something far more nefarious than shit talking could have utilized the exposed real names. I don't think it would have stopped much of the bad behavior, but trolls and people with a grudge could have had a field day with the real names id system. Just need the name and one or two very minor details to piece together where someone lives, where they work etc. It was a very interesting and complicated issue. To me what tipped it was all of the girl gamers who said they would have no choice but to quit if their anonymity was sacrificed.  /u/Senojpd Excellent comparison indeed. Former EU Blizzard Community Manager here. This proposal cost me my job. Very sad times. Glad they turned back on the choice, just not in time for me to have hung about. Sad sad sad :( &gt; but its exceedingly rare to see a large, joint initiative between two companies alter in such a fundamental way due to customer feedback.

it's nice when it happens tho, kinda puts pay to anyone spouting ~~"stop complaining online"~~ "vote with your wallet" What this proves is that anything is possible if we shitpost enough I think we've shit posted Comcast into a hole with the FCC. [deleted] I think the big difference is that many mod creators were complaining too.

They were expecting consumers to complain and willing to tough that out, but when creators (i.e. the people this nominally is supposed to benefit) started complaining it made them rethink if this was really something they wanted. Shitposting about the customer service has never had any impact... Maybe the shitposts weren't shit enough.  [deleted] &gt; "vote with your wallet"

I don't think I've ever heard this phrase given as an *alternative* to feedback, only in addition. Like, if you're going to complain about something, you shouldn't financially support it either, because if you pay for it while complaining then your actions are louder than your words.

And meanwhile, there were plenty of "boycott Steam Workshop" groups and petitions out there over this. While I don't think the gaming community is very good at following through with a boycott, I'm sure those groups were created/joined in earnest, and they were part of the feedback/backlash. oh sure, its just that some people were saying "You dont __have__ to buy paid mods" "no one is forcing anyone to buy crap mods" as though "vote with your wallet" / "market forces" would somehow grantee quality within the new pay for mod store, thus falling for the "perfectly informed consumer" fallacy.  &gt; the "perfectly informed consumer" fallacy

Who said perfectly-informed? I don't think that it's too much to ask for people to do some research about the things they're buying, or at least, if they didn't do that, don't bitch about feeling ripped-off. That's not to say that you shouldn't give feedback about your purchase, as you should always be able to do that. But the customer *should* feel some responsibility for their own purchases. Look at what happened with Skyrim's reviews in a few days. You know that the next time Bethesda came out with a game someone would bring out the brigade and the player reviewers for that thing would be abysmal (regardless of actual quality) - that's going to hurt your pocket mighty hard. While its debatable what affect Steam User reviews have, you do raise a good point. Public backlash for a soon to be released game is a much more worrying prospect than negative user reviews of a four year old game. I honestly didn't expect this in a million years. A slowdown, maybe, but never a full reversal.

Then again, this is probably the most intense backlash I've seen for something game-related... pretty much ever. To me, it sort of tied with the Mass Effect ending thing, only while there it was evenly split between two sides cursing each other, in this one we had 90% of the people cursing the companies. [deleted] What I don't understand is if Bethseda reversed the decision, why are people still protesting in Baltimore? I knew it would fall, but I was worried blame would be placed on the modding community or worse, "consumers who don't want to pay for mods."

&gt;We've done this because it's clear we didn't understand exactly what we were doing. 

Thank you for your humility in this. 

Edit: But one thing, is it right for Valve to be the ones apologizing? I wish I knew who was most responsible here, among Valve, Bethsoft and Zenimax.

Edit2: [HEY THANKS FOR THE GOLD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l83vT2svg3g) It's clear they didn't think through all of the issues with slapping prices on unreliable game additions.

I would praise a donate button, but a paywall for a product that has no guarantee of working is ridiculous. I don't think it's possible to impose % cuts from a donation, so while that would help modders Valve would make no $$ providing a marketplace so that idea is going nowhere, as they have proven these past few days that they are a corporation, who seeks profit.  The guys over at Humble Bundle seemed to have figured it out.  Because hardly anyone moves the sliders  Humble Bundle makes a lot of money. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humble_Bundle#/media/File:Humble_Bundle_Total_Raised.svg

It's because they use the carrot and not the stick tactics against the customer. 

Honestly, I'd like valve to implement a similar system. Give the customer the ability to pay for mods. Allow them to set the slider all the way down. Take 5%, and give 10% to the game developer, similar to the marketplace tax. Give the rest to the modder, maybe give the option to donate to a charity but don't force the modder to do this. Happy faces all around.  They're a business that got us to think of them as a charity. Kinda like Valve, in a way. Yeah, if Valve was like, a charity to Valve.  You'd be surprised how powerful "defaults" can be. Yeah no kidding. If I had the option, I would give like 75% to the mod creator, 20% to the developer, and 5% to steam. They could even include a charity option like humble. That's pretty much exactly what I would choose too. 

The 5% covers Valves costs, the 20% is enough for the devs to not be able to complain and the 75% means if a mod deserves it, the mod dev can go full time. Seeking profit due to enhancing the means for others to earn profit is not bad. The implementation of this was poorly executed, but not misguided.  I think they should look to the Humble Bundle model. Pay whatever price you want and then they have a predetermined split that they'll show the donater, though in this case they probably wouldn't let us change it and give less to say valve or Bethesda.

So have a donate button that is transparent that it is giving a percentage to valve and the game dev, so you could say donate $5 and then before you continue with the payment it would say valve: $.50, Bethesda: $1, modder: $3.50 that way everyone knows what goes where. They could do a donation slider that doesn't allow them below a certain amount (ie, 5% valve 5% publisher minimum or something) and I think most people would have been fine with it.

But PC gamers *really* hate being told they have to do something. I'm ok with having the donation button having a fixed split with part going to the dev if there's going to be a donate button. I just don't want to *have* to donate. How is it not possible. Get donation, take x% and send it to Bethesda, give y% to the mod creator. They get free labor, can't that be good enough? People often buy games because of their mod scene.  Hell, some popular games started as mods.  Wow. You usually don't hear that sort of candor from a large company. I'm really happy that they chose the high road, basically saying they fucked up and got rid of the problem. As opposed to childish 4chan actions of faxing Valve pages of black... lol Ahhh, the pre-internet DDOS. Don't joke about that, did you know black-faxing is the main cause of drought and famine in North Korea? 63.8% of NK's GDP are spent on Fax toners. It's a real tragedy. Some of those were hilarious though.  One was a dark steam logo set on black with subtext that said "White page mod: $9.99" that's pretty funny actually Eh, it's been a pretty standard (if uncreative) response that's been carried out against other groups and businesses by 4chan for a long time now. For instance, it was done to Scientology back in 2008. I don't think it accomplishes much, however. it's childish and absolutely accomplishes nothing, but it's still very funny Hey man, have you seen how much ink cartridges cost? I'll bet the scientologists were significantly inconvenienced. It encourages the spread of fax-to-email solutions that don't have the problems of expensive ink and paper jams.  That actually sounds like a positive benefit, less wasteful. We're basically killing trees if we *don't* spam black images to companies /s Honestly, the fewer actual physical fax machines in the world, the better. Their only use is for legal documentation which HAS to be faxed because of archaic legal ideas about communication security.  Which is funny because tapping into a fax line is as easy as tapping into a phone or DSL line Or places like Japan where it is still standard to fax stuff (for businesses).  He said archaic legal ideas about communication security.  Did they really do this?  Do you have a link? https://web.archive.org/web/20150428001705/https://gitgud.net/modstorm/paidmods/tree/master I'm glad they pulled this before it escalated even further If the community hadn't outcried, maybe they would've thought "Hmm, well, drm'd mods kinda makes sense right...?" Well, and please excuse my blunt wording here, *no shit*. On its face, from Valve's perspective, paid mods are a simple extension of paid cosmetics in their Dota and TF2 workshops. The reality is different, of course, but how do people know they've made a mistake without community input? By asking for input first before implementing it? If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses. - H Ford Flat out admitting they were wrong and refunding everyone effected is incredibly refreshing to see considering all the lying and scummy business practices from corporations plaguing gaming for the last few years.

edit: not trying to push our luck, but since they seem to be making an effort to make things right, maybe it's time they address the situation with Steam customer service and some sort of refund policy? Man following this whole debacle had been such a roller coaster ride. According to the reddit hive mind, Valve went from a beloved company to literally Hitler and back in the span of a few days.  I don't know, I tend to scream hardest at the things I love.   Welcome to the internet :P Remember Microsofts always online reversal and their "humility," but everyone still hated them. Just so you guys know that whole thing lasted about a month and a half before they reversed it. yeah but that lasted months before they got it,this was only a few days. 2? business days? 2 or 3 I guess. Announced on Thursday, reversed on Monday. Valve are a games company, they only work at the weekends when the servers are on fire or "crunch time" is happening - and Valve avoids crunch like the plague, as they have no obligation to any publisher but themselves now. To be fair, changing the direction and structure of a gaming console at such short notice is much harder than reversing the update that Valve put out. It would obviously take longer. Because that lasted a lot longer than a few days.  It should be noted that reversing a fundamental part of a console, is a much larger decision than something like this. I imagine it took them so long, since they had to do a bunch of backroom planning and reshaping the future of the console. Or maybe MS's PR team was just really incompetent, who knows.  Well MS wasn't really seen as a saint before that either.  They pioneered the idea that people should pay extra for online functionality.  They charge incredible prices for their software that many people need for their day-to-day lives (Office, etc, which most people over 40 still don't know has free alternatives).  And they made a gaming console that was defective by design and caused millions of people huge headaches getting multiple units replaced, costing himself $1b+ after denying the problem for over a year.

Valve (with the exception of their poor CS) has a much higher reputation with the community.  One big misstep is going to be a lot easier to forgive for the average gamer. Should probably clarify that CS means customer service and not the game. Got confused first :) &gt; (Office, etc, which most people over 40 still don't know has free alternatives).

The free alternatives all suck, anyway. 

Of course Office is lucrative. What's the problem with selling it? They had competitors, they died off.  [deleted] It's Valve's fault for implementing it so quickly and sloppily.

It's Bethesda/Zenimax's fault for the payment rules to creators. Thanks for your humility!  I don't think anyone would be against a 'donate' button on the Skyrim Workshop though.   "against a donate button"

there have been multiple creators of the top downloaded mods on nexus come out and said they have earned $30 or less from the donate buttons on their page that have been up for over a year.

people who are modding dont care about them, they just want their free content and fuck everybody else. But the fact that it's there (and tied into our Steam wallets) may help. If anything, another donate button certainly wouldn't hurt. The thing is if they make it donate by steam wallet, you give an "exit" to Steam Wallet cash.

The whole point of steam wallet is to keep that cash within the Valve's pocket.

If you make it donation by Steam Wallet then Valve would have to take a cut or if the mod creator is fine with Steam Wallet...(lol).

Otherwise that money doesn't stay within Steam. 
 Yes, this is true. I personally think that it would be alright for Valve / Bethesda to take a cut of a donation. Valve is hosting the mod files on their servers and Bethesda created the game. It wouldn't be too different from developers taking a cut from their Steam Trading Card sales.

Of course, some people think the modder should get 100% of the donation, but I like to think that my idea would at least put a bit of revenue in the modder's pocket. I think it should have a slider like humble bundle do to choose between dev and modder. Some games I'd gladly contribute to both (Cities skylines for example) Agreed, although I think that a slider in this case should be made so that involved parties get a guaranteed minimum amount. So if the donation was between the modder, dev, and Valve, and you wanted to give the modder a large amount, then they get up to 80% while Valve and the dev get at least 10% each. Absolutely. Besides Valve would never allow 100% of Steam Wallet money being transfered "outside". And they deserve some of the money for the service. &gt; Otherwise that money doesn't stay within Steam. 

yes the same thing with the 24 hour refund for the mods, it was not a refund it was credit to your steam wallet.  Money always exits the steam wallet; it is not like Valve just buys the rights to games and keeps all the money from sales, they get a portion (I think 30%), and the publisher gets the rest, it would be the same method on steam mods, whether buying or donating

Yeah sure, Valve gets to keep money spent on the valve wallet while the money sits unspent, but valve doesn't *want* people to just put money in once and never use it, they want people to constantly be buying things, and thus constantly putting more money in and getting steam more money via that 30% share There's nothing wrong with Valve or Bethesda taking a cut of the revenue generated off their distribution platform and IP. I mean, have you been on the nexus? I didn't even know it was possible to donate because I never noticed the button among all the other clutter. Seriously I can't even find the relevant content and information for mods half the time, much less additional shit.  Well, everybody likes free stuff.

However, I think part of the issue may be that the sheer number of mods and mod-makers is too daunting for many players, even ones who have cash to spare. It's one thing if you use a single big, content-heavy mod in the manner of an expansion set and want to donate to the particular creator of that mod. But if you have 100 mods installed simultaneously, who do you donate to? You can give one creator $5 or whatever, but then that feels unfair to the other 99. I think a lot of people would rather just not stress over the decision in the first place. For me at least, this isn't really the whole truth. It's more a convenience thing. A lot of times, those donate buttons would lead to Paypal or some other service which I did not use, or have any desire to sign up for. 

Steam, however, I'm already very familiar with. I know it's reliable/safe and has at least some of my payment details already. A donation there might be a quick few clicks and done.  Also, if someone has a little leftover money in their Steam wallet, they might be more inclined to use it for this as it wouldn't involve a full-fledged transfer of actual money.  

Sure it's still chump change, but maybe instead of "Donating" it should be called "Tipping". I can't find the screencap, but according to Durante of the Dark Souls framerate mod, his mod saw donations of 0.17%. Zero point one seven percent. A world-famous modder talented enough to be invited by the developers to inspect the sequel to the game he modded, and he can't crack half a percent.

Donations being the solution here is incredibly naive. On the other hand [this guy](http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2015-03-16-laid-off-simcity-dev-launches-patreon-for-creation-of-cities-skylines-buildings) ~~is making~~ (edit: could make) a full time living making cities mods via Patreon.

Different modders have different experiences. Actual statistics on how many can support themselves (compared to how many app marketplace developers can support themselves) would be better than hand picked examples. Even if it was an app marketplace like they were trying to turn it into only a small percentage of developers are going to be able to make full time money for it. Donations are the fucking worst. 

Gotta beg for scraps that never come because your work is good enough that people want to use it but 'worthless' enough that they don't want to pay. If you give people the option to pay or not to pay, 99.9% are going to choose not to pay. It's too bad, since we'd have a whole lot more quality mods if people did give the modders more incentive.

Being a modder myself, I was a little enticed by the possibility of paid mods, though I'm hesitant to admit that on Reddit. I'm sure there's plenty of other modders who feel the same way, it's often difficult work where people keep asking for more and more while giving nothing in return. However, the way paid mods were done for Skyrim on Steam would have been a shitfest. Agreed, I have sympathy for modders in this whole debacle as they could either win community acceptance but lose the only legal opportunity for profit they'll most likely ever have or agree with Valve but feel the pitchforks under the rib. Lose-lose. I've been an avid modder since Wolf3D and Doom. I do it entirely because I enjoy it. Its a hobby of mine and nothing else.

If someone wants to use my mod and enjoys it thats all the reward I need. I feel a profound sense of pride if someone uses and enjoys my wok. I don't need to get paid for it. Simply seeing someone enjoy it is all the reward I need.

I mod mostly for my own purposes. I don't expect monetary compensation. I wouldn't know what to do with monetary compensation if I got it. Its purely a hobby for me and nothing more.

People have been modding games for at least two decades now, and they've been doing it as a labor of love. This passion has produced some outstanding works. People can produce great quality stuff without being paid for it. Being paid for it corrupts the purity of this sort of creativity.

Demanding money for it also causes a massive legal headache and it blurs the line between DLC an who is working for the company or who isn't. There's also the issue of who owns the mod, who can use what content created by others, and there would be a flurry of DMCA claims issued. Money makes the whole thing toxic. I don't think making money off of something you enjoy doing necessarily corrupts any purity, though getting greedy certainly can. And that's what being an artist is *alllllll* about. Watching my parents get sucked into near-poverty is why I switched to engineering from 3d object design out of highschool. So our economic system doesn't reward artistic creativity very much. I'm pursuing a creative career because I can't see myself doing anything else and still being happy, not because I think I'll get paid as much as an engineer.

If you personally get more value out of what you can do with what you earn all power to you, but not every creative field represents a poor life choice. Since this began I've been a fan of a Humble Bundle style pay what you want system with a suggested donation, but without the "pay above average" bonus content as I don't think it'd work with mods.  Humble Bundles didn't always have the pay-above-average options, the first few were still successful without it.

Still, I wouldn't at all be opposed to that system being introduced. &gt;We thought this would result in better mods for everyone, both free &amp; paid. We wanted more great mods becoming great products, like Dota, Counter-strike, DayZ, and Killing Floor, and we wanted that to happen organically for any mod maker who wanted to take a shot at it.

I just don't understand if this was the goal, why the hell was the Skyrim debut bundle essentially a bunch of micro-transactions, with things like re-skinned weapons and armor? 

If that's what was being targeted why not feature something like Falskaar?

Either way, glad this is being overturned. I don't think the idea is inherently bad, but the initial implementation was awful in my opinion. &gt;I don't think the idea is inherently bad, but the initial implementation was awful in my opinion.

I think the basic idea of modders potentially getting paid is good, but the handling in this specific case ranging from revenue split to quality control did just not seem to be on the level it had to be. Maybe they should've done a greenlight style system where mods get voted on; then they go to bethesda for QA and get released as community DLC on some fixed schedule. A monthly mod pack or something. It would gurantee compatability and the average user can just buy a pack vs sourcing each individual mod. Give the packs themes like "Bodies and Faces" or "Sounds and Music" etc. Bethesda doing QA on mods would be amazingly cool. That would justify taking the 45% cut because at least they're doing work for it.

Edit: As it stands you can just go for mods with the GEMS label and you should be fine vis a vis compatibility. You would have to fall under the assumption that money is what drove the creation of these mods. There is also the very good possibility that the bigger mod authors such as Wyrmstooth and Faalskar would be OK with selling their mods, and I don't think they would be. To that point I think we would see the opposite myself, instead of fantastic DLC style mods we would see the paid mods try to nickle and dime every customer. One mod author put god damn ads in his mod...

It would turn into the Play store. You have to sift through so much garbage to find something good. &gt; It would turn into the Play store. You have to sift through so much garbage to find something good.

This was my problem with it all. Right now, people make mods because they just want to create something for a game that they love. I was massively into the Quake modding scene at one point, and made mods purely because I enjoyed it. Putting money in there somewhere just tempts the kind of companies who flood the Play store with crap, and suddenly the workshop would be filled with enough desperate cash grabbers to completely drown out those who are making mods for the enjoyment.

The end result would be modders being unable to compete with the small teams put together purely to milk the market. Those modders would eventually just give up, and almost completely hand the ball over to those companies.

The biggest issue is, the Play store wouldn't be littered with crap if there weren't enough idiots spending money on it in the first place. Those companies would actually be successful. I have to do that now because people don't tag stuff properly.  My guess was that little things were easier and more stable. If they put something that big in a bundle and then it had issues...well it could have gone even worse than it did. Does this mean the whole mess about paid mods is done with? Or just for this game? Just for this game.

&gt; Skyrim was probably not the right place to start iterating. We think this made us miss the mark pretty badly, even though we believe there's a useful feature somewhere here Yeah, I seriously doubt Valve will just abandon this idea. I understand where the idea was going.  This was just a horrible implementation and extremely disruptive.   Also that profit sharing model was atrocious.  Hopefully, they can come back with a plan that will give options to modding instead of turning it into an app-store battle royale. Do you honestly think it's a bad idea to add payment support for mods to Steam though? I would be happy to pay for quality mod content if it truly was a step above the typical mod work and was reasonably priced, with a fair portion going towards the modder.

The problem here wasn't the idea it was the execution.  Agreed. The problem was just as they put it, they plopped a paywall into a huge established modding community. They would have faced the same issue for something like Kerbal Space Program or other games with established modding scenes.

The idea of getting modders to be able to make modding a full-time thing and providing a carrot for developers to actually fucking support mods is great. The way Valve chose to do it is what sucked ass. When I first about paid mods for the new UT I was all for it. Paying 99 cents for a new map isn't a big deal for me. There are places where it can be useful and places it isn't. Yeah, I'm also excited about the possibility of paying for user made content in the new UT. I hated the idea of paid mods in Skyrim though.

I think the difference is just starting in at the ground floor and building an ecosystem that fully supports it, instead of tacking it onto an old community with no moderation. I don't think paid mods would be all that bad in Skyrim, the problem is that it shouldn't be handled by Valve, and it shouldn't be presented as "paid mods."

Bethesda needs to be the one to contact DLC-sized mod creators, and implement something like "community DLC". It goes into a new section of the workshop (or under the DLC section on the Skyrim Store page), Valve gets their standard 30% cut of sales, then the mod creator and Bethesda negotiate their split of the remaining 70%.

Otherwise, you end up with exactly what people have been saying: the Google Play store. A bunch of cheap, stolen garbage among the rare gem mod. And no one will buy the rare gem mod because it has a $5+ price tag among a bunch of $0.99 microtransaction garbage. This would be a great solution And of course, this should come with some amount of QA and support from Bethesda. I'd expect them to help the modder translate mods into other languages, test the mod, update mod compatibility *before* game updates are released, follow guidelines to help it fit in with existing assets/lore/gameplay.  I agree. They need to introduce paid mods into a new game like perhaps Fallout 4. Above all though, they need to treat the mod developers better. Giving them a 25% cut and no protection from people stealing and then selling originally free mods was not the right course of action for such a sudden change.  &gt; Do you honestly think it's a bad idea to add payment support for mods to Steam though? I would be happy to pay for quality mod content if it truly was a step above the typical mod work and was reasonably priced, with a fair portion going towards the modder.

I can't say the idea is wrong, but they can't just say "You know that content you got before for free? Well now you pay for it!".

The main thing I hated about it (Besides the above logic) was that unofficial mods have NO guarantee of working at all. Or that they'll work, or that the developer will fix bugs if they come up. Valve, Bethesda, or whoever absolutely NEED to do QC and extreme control on what goes up for sale, and the expectations for support and functionality, and most importantly, *functionality with other mods*.

I don't expect them to be like "every mod you pay for will work with all the other mods ever!" because that's insane, but it's not unreasonable for me to expect every mod I BUY to work. I would maybe be okay paying a **reasonable** price for a mod if it was certain to work easily and effortlessly. Basically buy, click, install, it works and I'm done.

I spend more time fucking around getting mods to work than actually playing. To me that would be an added value worth paying a bit for. They sort of already have this though, in Dota 2. 
Anyone can make a skin set/cosmetic item for any hero or the courier. If it gets enough votes it shows up in the Steam workshop and some of the money goes to the creator. I have never seen anyone react to that like people has reacted to this. I guess it's a bit of a different case though As you've said, the submissions get vetted by the community before they go up for sale. Also, a skin isn't going to break a game - a Skyrim mod might. The issue is having or not having a skin has no impact on the actual game itself, Skyrim mods can literally almost change anything. I sure don't care if I can't make my brown bear look like a panda bear but I would care if I couldn't get a pet at all (eg visuals vs content). I don't think it made sense in Skyrim. Maybe it will with Dota 2 or CS:S.

I wouldn't mind throwing down 10c for an unapproved hat or HUD. But I would be completely against them charging for dota gamemodes once that modding is released. dota2 custom games probably need to be free to build a playerbase. but a donate button would be cool.  That's my thinking too. I want to be able to play with my friends, but not force them to have to buy something too.

Maybe you can pay for unapproved hats for custom game modes, or maybe they only show up for friends? To be fair, paid mods for custom games in Dota2 using Source 2 and Hammer may be a thing. But it's a vastly different market and implementation than Skyrim modding. It is done for now in this form. Like he said they see some potential there and probably will try to implement something with some new game, most likely with their own engine Source 2, like say Dota 2, once it is ported to Source 2. I'm also skeptical on this announcement. While this was a victory for the Skyrim mod community, quotes like

&gt;stepping into an established, years old modding community in Skyrim was probably not the right place to **start iterating**

make me worry that they'll bring paid mods back, but starting off with a newly released game at some point. Paid mods could work if handled correctly.  I wouldn't mind seeing modders be able to go full time.   But not like this....This was badly planned, badly implemented, and completely tone deaf to the modding community. Agreed, this was a complete fuckup by Valve and Bethesda, and it's good to see that they acknowledge it. How do you think paid mods should be implemented, if at all? At bare minimum, there would need to be a full QA and acceptance process to make sure mods are using only authorized content and offer value according to their price point. I think it would be great if the free mods was also a competing grounds to prove who had the chaps to move up to paid status, instead of just opening the flood gates as they did.
There should also be strict guidelines for keeping a mod up to date.  

Easier said than done I know,  but there's going to be money passing hands, they can't half-ass it, and they can't demand 75% without offering some more services than just hosting. It doesn't really work very well though unless your mod is more or less full blown DLC. One of my issues with it is my copy of Skyrim is modded to hell and back - and I'm not going to purchase the dozens and dozens of mods I've tried/have running. One or two, of sufficient quality, sure, but not as many as I have on Skyrim now. Honestly I think it needs a game that has a very robust modding tool built specifically for this. If it runs in that tool you're good to go, any updates to the game will be done with the tool in mind, making sure they don't break existing mods (or maybe patched via the tool).

Or maybe you have a tiered system, under a dollar is at your own risk, up to $10 is guaranteed patch specific, past that it's tested for each patch. Cut is based off the tier you're in, etc etc.

There's options, it's all about choosing the right one.  You heard it here first. Fallout IV to have paid mods from the get go.  The basic idea is a solid one, because frankly, it's constantly becoming easier for those with the skills to make the greatest and best mods to just go into indie game development as far as returns on investment. The execution was badly flawed, though. Not just for the middling quality of the mods put on display, but also because "pay before you play" is just not the direction the industry is headed as a whole, and that goes doubly so for people who don't really have a reputation to sell people on or to risk when they push a bad product (modders). [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;We understand our own game's communities pretty well, but stepping into an established, years old modding community in Skyrim was probably not the right place to start iterating.

Looks like you'll be doing it soon. Makes me wonder if something like Fallout 4 will have paid mods from the start. I don't think they'll be as callous the second time around. They *will* attempt, I'm sure, but I can imagine it as being a different implementation. They won't do the same thing, just with a new game. That is near-sighted, even  for someone like Bethesda. 

I am not going to worry or fret until anything concrete occurs. Valve won't let their goodwill slip away so easily; they know that it is possible, and aren't so cynical to waste it on cheap gladrags.  I'll speak for myself but I'm sure many agree, we have no problem with the idea of supporting mod developers, some people already donate to modders through paypal donations and patreon. 

But mods for sale in an environment like Steam is the complete wrong way of doing it. You've already shown us through Greenlight, Early Access and by allowing Shovelware Publishers in without a hint of a refund policy being in place that you are completely unable or unwilling to provide consumer protection. 

Which leaves the system up for abuse and becoming a cesspool of "buyer beware". Which is exactly what happened with 90% of the mods that went up for money when your system was put in place and also happened to some of the free ones (Popup ads being shoehorned in existing working mods to annoy people into buying the "new" version even though the new version barely had any changes.)

If I get a mod for free and it breaks my game, I can uninstall it and move on, If I paid money for that bad mod, I got suckered and I won't be happy. If it's a good mod I can choose to give the dev money for a job well done.

You want to give modders the ability to work on mods full time? 

Great, figure out a way in which they can;

A) Prove themselves to be conscientious modders who actually care about putting out quality content. 

B) Find a way to facilitate contact between the good modders and the company that makes the game so they can either potentially find temporary/full time employment or work out a deal to create a sponsored piece of DLC along with the devs as a career building exercise. 

And lastly as other people have stated, facilitate the ability for modders to receive donations for their work. In a proper manner, not "Give what you want (minimum $3 because the modder said so) Personally I'm even fine with you and the original Dev taking a small percentage of the donation **emphasis** on small. &gt;We've done this because it's clear we didn't understand exactly what we were doing.

&gt;To help you understand why we thought this was a good idea, our main goals were to allow mod makers the opportunity to work on their mods full time if they wanted to, and to encourage developers to provide better support to their mod communities.

This isn't Kickstarter or greenlight, modders don't get paid until they finish their mods and release it. A mod isn't a hat, a good mod will take upwards of 1000 hours in the making. Some mods are as big as an entire DLC, but those mods are done by very few people, over very long times. 

Because of this, it basically encourages modder to release short term, low time investment mods (SEE: HATS, WEAPONS), and nothing else. Nobody is gonna drop their work to make Skyrim mods full time, because the amount of time it requires vs the amount of money it would require is impossible to meet. Faalskar took 2000 hours from a single guy, with the free help of many, many people. Eliminate that free help ('cause now you're charging, people gotta get paid), we can be looking at 2500 hours. Let's take a wage of 10$ an hour, so to make up for that, you'd need to make 25k. So that means you must sell for 1,000,00$ of your mod to make up for the time you invested@ 10$ each, that's 10k sales, and we're talking about one the most efficiently made and high quality mod, done by an actual programmer. That's nearly impossible. While your point is right, I will point out that your math is off by a factor of 10x.

2500 hrs x $10/hr is not $250k, it's $25k. That reduces your conclusion numbers from $1M to $100k and from 100k sales (at $10 each) to 10k sales. Oh shit yeah, you're right. Thank you for taking a step back from this approach and re evaluating how you want this system to workout. I'm not against paid mods but first I think you guys at Valve have to do a *much* better job of policing things.

Show us that you can better work out the problems in Early Access and Greenlight and then lets talk. It takes a big man (or company) to admit faults, and I do appreciate you guys taking a step back.

Thank you from a nolifer /w ~1500 hours played in Skyrim. Erik Johnson, I figure?  Thank you for doing the right thing. Honestly, it would have been a decent idea if it weren't for the problems that happen that are hard to regulate, such as updates breaking the mod, people stealing other mods, mods that rely on other mods, etc. A pay what you want type thing where everyone must set the minimum to 0, or just a donation button would have been much better.  WAIT WHAT.

Is this actually happening? Is this guy actually from Valve?

THE PAID MODS SECTION IN THE WORKSHOP IS GONE.

I can't fucking believe that complaining and pointing out flaws as a community worked... I had lost all hope in the system being removed.

THANK YOU. That's what happens when Skyrim goes from like 98% to 86% rating and literally all the reviews on the first 4 pages are negative. It was going to cost them dearly in the future.  We were on track to seeing the user score dip to 70%, and probably eventually down to a Mixed score.  Holy shit that would have been insane.  That would without a doubt have lost them tons of sales.

I changed my review back to positive.   ya, now that i see that they have gotten rid of this, ill have to change my review back to positive when i get home. On a side note - am I the only one who just won't buy a game with mixed or below reviews? I don't even bother trying them. Am I being too exclusive with which games I'll buy? Have I missed some interesting ones that just didn't sit well with a lot of people? If only government worked like this. I wonder how many times governments have actually apologized for something and reversed it. The conservative government in the UK did this once or twice...They were accused of flip flopping...

The problem is that people vote for people who claim to have a clear course of action for the next term. Doing u turns makes it look like you actually aren't sure what you are doing which risks people thinking you are incompetent. Please give us a donate button. Please. I'd love to support modders through donations, just not through a paywall.

EDIT: To all the people saying that there are already other methods of donation,  I have more money to spare on my Steam account due to Steam Market than I do on my other accounts which I use for living expenses. I'd be more able to donate if Valve added direct donation buttons into Steam that drew from my Steam wallet. I'm sure more people would donate with this convenience as well.  Then do.

Most modders already have a donate button, this isn't something that concerns Valve in any way. I have more money to spare on my Steam account due to Steam Market than I do on my other accounts which I use for living expenses. I'd be more able to donate if Valve added direct donation buttons into Steam that drew from my Steam wallet. So you want Valve to add a system that takes money away from them and gives it to other people? 

Good luck with that. So let them take a small percentage based cut like with the paywall and with market items such as trading cards. Right now when you buy or sell a trading card you give a percentage to valve and it's very clear what part of the money goes where. If that same system was integrated into a donate button then valve could get a little cut. If you want to do it through Steam, using money from your account, I hope you're comfortable with Valve taking a cut of any donation you make. 

It would be terrible business for them to let that money out of their walled economy without taking a cut.

 im sure you would

they all have donate buttons on their page already

but when these big mod creators say they earn $30 or less over an entire year from donates... yeah people will give an entire $0 99.99% of the time Have you visited the nexus? First of all only a minority of modders have donation buttons. Secondly up untill all this I didn't at all actually know you could donate to individual modders on the nexus, I mean have I never even noticed the 'donate' buttons in the mix of all the other clutter. Why not just link to Patreon? There are two key points to take away from this.

---

There is fear that an *easy* method of monetizing mods will result in a major shift in the way modding works as a community. It's not an illegitimate fear- beyond paypal or google wallet gated transactions (which are clunky and weak for this purpose), there are no *well recognized* platforms (the largest probably being [desura](http://www.desura.com/mods), a fringe player) that provide a maker to user sales medium, especially with the level of redundancy and trust that Steam offers.

Hundreds to thousands of work hours go into popular mods for A-list games, often producing content that trumps the original studio material in return for negligible recognition and compensation. Presenting an alternative doesn't threaten mod makers - in fact, it's a supportive and excellent thing to do - but it does threaten their *users*, who are a much, much larger voice (if one that deserves less input), and where a huge majority of complaints regarding changes in freely available premium content and bug fixes will come from.

---

It's *not* unreasonable to offer a platform for mod makers to monetize their work. In fact, it's a step up from platforms like [nexus](http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/users/premium/?) and [withsix](https://withsix.com/gopremium) on the simple basis that the mod maker *gets anything at all*. These two major examples already monetize their positions as cornerstone mod distributors to support themselves - after all, bandwidth isn't free - but the people that provide their actual *draw*, the mod makers, are left out in the cold.

It **is** unreasonable to take **three quarters** of the value of the **mod maker's** work. It's [public knowledge](http://www.bethblog.com/2015/04/27/why-were-trying-paid-skyrim-mods-on-steam/) that the split was 30/45/25 - The 30 being valve's standard cut, and the 25 being the mod maker. Nobody can reasonably dispute the 30; Steam costs money to run, and Valve is providing a sales platform to the mod maker that should result in profit for the company.

The 45 to the game publisher **is** hilarious - in a bad way, in case that was ambiguous. Zenimax/Bethesda may have set their own terms, and the entire community *is* a squirrely mess of derivative works in one sense or another, but anyone at either company that was of the understanding that the studio was *entitled* to **half** of someone elses work, **after** their own sales and DLC revenue, and out of the hides of a community that has been one of the single largest draws to the series in public media for more than a decade ... well. Perhaps allowing publishers to set their own cut of someone elses finances is a little *generous*. What is this rare beast that appears before me?  An actual sincere apology on the internet?


Do my eyes deceive me?


I can think of quite a few companies that would hold the line or double down in the face of contention within the community they serve, so at the very least this is certainly commendable. mods are either works of love, frustration fixes(shitty ui's) or portfolio items to get a real job.

in the former the appropriate thanks from the users should be either 'thanks for the awesome mod' or a donate button that starts at 1penny(not mod dev set minimum amount). basically, the patreon or tip jar model.

frustration fixes should never reward the developers of the game, you'd be literally rewarding them for being bad at making games. hell, the entire reason bethesda games have such large followings on pc is that the mod makers fix all the stupid things bethesda does.

portfolio items, if it's good enough to be a portfolio item and be worth paying for, maybe the game maker should consider hiring the mod maker instead of leeching off of his work.

add in all the code and asset sharing causing confusion in who the real owner is and... valve should just stay out of the mod scene. failing to do so is going to result in a shit ton of dmca paperwork.

tldr, reward the mods by thanking them, patreon/tip jar, or hiring them. C'mon people don't let your bias and love of Valve distort your view this much. It's great valve was trying to do something for modders that's fine but the whole 25% thing? Jesus are we really that naive. If they really were looking after the best interest of the community and modders then they would of never went forward with this. 

They want us to believe that 25% was going to supposedly "allow mod makers the opportunity to work on their mods full time if they wanted to, and to encourage developers to provide better support to their mod communities". What?! This is a joke and they know it. They were hoping they could throw enough crumbs at modders in the hopes it would keep em happy so Valve could make more money. That's all this is case closed. 

They wanted to be a slightly better alternative to just giving away mods for free and figured they'd capitalize on that. I mean really they could of offered 10% considering anything more than 0 is better right? I guess though they figured we'd see through that too easily so they went with 25% and assumed they would capitalize off our greed. Funny we turned it on them and smacked em in the face with it. Valve realizes this and decides we better save face because if we don't back down people will actively start seeking alternatives. It probably wouldn't happen over night but Valve knew this could be the start of the end if people sulked long enough and seeing some modders come out and say "my mods will always be free" decided they couldn't split the community enough to take advantage. 

So that's about it. Valve knew it was too much backlash and not enough modders jumped on board with many actively refusing. I'm assuming next time they'll be a little less greedy and come back with another offer, it will happen and they've already pre empted it with this comment. They will take over mods and we now know it's their goal. I think it still may be time to strip a little power away from them cause this was just a show of how brazen they're willing to be and where their true loyalties are. Paid mods in itself isn't a bad idea.

The problem is that Valve has a very poor reputation now for curated content, with both Greenlight and Early Access being home to some of the worst games since E.T. It's rife with outright scams, games that will never be finished that use stolen Unity assets.

And people are terrified of you extending this poor experience onto mods. Even your bundled mod package featured mods that were outright broken! Show you can clean up your storefront first, and maybe then people will be more receptive to you handing more control to content creators. This may sound paranoid but they said  that implementing this in a years old modding community was a bad idea.  Im predicting paid mods for fallout 4 or the next elder scrolls.  Whichever comes first. The speed at which Valve turned around is impressive - though considering the backlash, perhaps not surprising. Perhaps they will manage to repair some of the bridges they have burned. I wouldn't necessarily say "turned around." They simply removed the system for the time being. They seem to be completely fine implementing the system into other new games. Nothing wrong with that. Why not? Nearly every single complaint before this post was saying how awful the entire system was. They will probably still get a lot of money instead of the modders, mods will not be able to use other mods, there will be massive problems where modders do not update their mods, mods will be constantly reuploaded (and Steam has nowhere near enough in place to prevent either of those two last issues), and the modding community will still be split into a bunch of small groups. Not alone MP servers will have an enormous amount of issues because right now, if you cannot join a game due to compatibility issues. So you'll go download the mod and bam, you're in the game. You'd have to pay for that now, even if you wanted to just do one simple game with a few people. Also, many mods are to help fix the broken games that come out (love Bethesda games, but let's face it, TES and Fallout games have had a massive amount of bugs). So they'll be getting a cut for doing *even less* work and testing. The whole system is a bad idea. K. I don't mind paying for quality.

If the modders want to charge for their content... I don't mind that. 

They will get a system in place to prevent theft of free mods...

Ultimately I feel this is the modders choice. I don't want to lose my free mods... But I feel most of this is just due to gamers not wanting to change the status quo.

The only real negative in the list you sent me is:

1. People stealing others content for profit.
2. Modding support being made more difficult by the developers intentionally. &gt;They will get a system in place to prevent theft of free mods...

Will they though? Steam has an awful reputation with dealing with customers in the past. I think if they want to make money off this, they'll need to make some bigger efforts in customer support first. And yes, they're doing this for money. There's zero reason for a company to implement the system they did other than for a profit. I'm not saying it's wrong, but I hate the fact that Valve and Bethesda have suggested it wasn't for profits. Yes mods can help both Valve and Bethesda sell games (DOTA2, CS, etc.) but not enough to where supporting modders will garner a profit. So they'll definitely be taking some sort of cut from donations and the such. And I have no issue with that because the Workshop has been *extremely* beneficial for me. It's easy to use and user friendly (at the moment...).

The negatives that you agree with are also giant issues. It will help sell DLC, give them more money from mod profits/donations, and it will be an enormous pain to sort through stolen mods. Already there was posts for mods that were paid mods, and that was only a few days. It's not good for gamers, and not good for Steam either. And it's definitely not good for the modding community. All Steam/Valve had to do was implement a donation button and do a massive "Support our modders!" campaign where donations can be done through Steam wallet funds. Even if they took a small percentage, they probably would've profited. Now, they've had to do a **massive** amount of work refunding people and getting the entire system off the Workshop. A simple donation button and campaign would've given more money to the modders, made everyone happy, and would've probably give Valve and Bethesda more money in the end (at the very least they'd be out a lot less money). It's a horrible idea with good intentions. All they need to do is set up a donation button where Bethesda and Valve take 30-45% of the donations. **Keeping paying optional allows mods to build off other mods.** I cannot stress how important that is in modding. Holy shit, this just happened. Well done Valve for recognizing a broken system and doing away with it. Hopefully we'll be seeing more of this from other companies. [deleted] What you're describing is DLC. They're just trying to outsource the work to cheap community labor.  [deleted] Honestly with a lot of work an idea like this may work in another title. However I expect the game would have to be built from the ground up to support a business model like this. 

I believe this is how UT4 plans on making money.

I'm very pleased that they decided to just cut their losses and drop the idea for now though. The new UT is the perfect showcase for this model. The base game will be free!  I'll most likely try my hand at making soundpacks once UT4 storefront hits. I've got experience in UDK and it might be a good way of making some money and applying my degree to something useful for once. I'm very excited to see how everything is implemented. I hope Valve doesn't abandon this idea. I feel that gamers have just lost the opportunity to see some truly great mods being worked on by people who can support themselves doing it by overreacting to the possibility of having to pay money.
The Dota 2 / TF:2 / CS:GO workshops already show that modders who can work full time produce higher quality content at a faster pace. Don't be optimistic. They still intend to go through with it with different games, they still censored dissent in their forums with people still being banned, and we all got to see certain big-name modders' true colors. &gt; certain big-name modders' true colors.

I don't think any of the big name modders did anything worthy of scorn or derision. The biggest ones, SkyUI, were keeping the old free versions available (and let's be real, SkyUI 4.3 is very, very polished and more than good enough for most things) and SkyUI is about injecting flash interfaces and new functions into a game -- that's not as easy as popping open the Creation Kit and changing an armor value.

EDIT: Forgot about Midas Magic. That one's terrible. Srsly. I would have paid a small amount for SkyUI.  And Falskaar.  But not for a reskinned weapon. "They" being Bethesda, not Valve. Newell's "AMA" confirmed Bethesda did the censoring. Valve intends to go through with different games. It was Bethesda who did the censoring, though. Wait, do devs have the right to pick which reviews go up? I find that incredibly biased. I'm sure he said all sorts of things, trying to put Valve in a favourable light. Thank you for owning up to this. I was afraid the vocal members would not sway you in making a difference, but it seems that all the problems that have arose have sealed the deal for now.

Hopefully modders can get some type of monetization someday, minus donations, without all the issues that have and would have plagued the storefront. 

Good job Glad this nightmare is over. Now I just have to wait for my Steam Community ban for speaking out against this to pass... :/ Mine got lifted yesterday during gabe's AMA.  Well, hopefully something similar will happen with everyone that got banned during that shitstorm.  No doubt only the complaining redditors will get out. It sucks Waitwaitwait, Gabe did an AMA?  Yes. I think it was in /r/gaming. I'll look for a link for you. 

[Here]( https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33uplp/mods_and_steam/) is the thread.  Thanks mate, much appreciated  Gabe did am AMA? Why wasn't I informed?  I highly doubt you got banned for "speaking out", steam community mods are very fair. They were handing out bans like brownies at a Pink Floyd concert. Then again, people were behaving like monkeys fighting over brownies at a Pink Floyd concert. Ah yes, clearly they are very fair, that's the reason why the pages of most of the paid mods got wiped of any criticism 4-5 times until Valve realized they couldn't keep up with the flow. I don't think linking to modpiracy counts as criticism. The wipes happened before modpiracy was created, get your facts straight.  I never disagreed with the concept, only the revenue split.

However, I can respect you guys for admitting your shortcomings. Backpeddling here is a good step and proves that you are fallible and can recognise that yourselves.

Keep on truckin. &gt; We wanted more great mods becoming great products, like Dota, Counter-strike, DayZ, and Killing Floor

Of course, its a good point but in Skyrim there aren't that many games that could become a standalone game, 90% of Skyrim mods are addons for lack of a better word, armors, swords, spells and all that, charging for that was what made everyone insane, including myself This is why I love valve, not because they do everything right the first time, but because they recognize issues and they fix them. I really appreciate this humble and plain spoken apology. Thanks valve! There's a way to do this right, just get the best of mods and modders and create a Community Pack DLC with a buttloadshit of refined content and sell it for 5,00$, repeat 5 times + steam sales and sucess. I'm so happy, I disliked the vitriol that led to this, but for right now the right decision is to delay this feature as it obviously wasn't thought through fully.

The eventual goal is admirable, but the side-effects of things like 3rd party content mods, collaborative mod-making, and other things effected badly by this made it something they need to approach with much more care or risk destroying those modding communities from the inside out.

Actually impressed that they stepped back on this so quickly, and proud that the online community spoke out so well on this.  It seems over the last year or two the gaming community has become much more willing to stand up for it's rights as consumers unlike in the past where it allowed itself to be walked on pretty regularly, and I couldn't be more proud. I think the best thing is that it has shown the gaming community can "peacefully" protest. We protested on Reddit and a whole bunch of online forums, sent emails to Valve employees and reduced the user rating of Skyrim on Steam from 98% to 84%. No vulgarities, no death threats, and no violence involved. Pretty good I'd say! I just realized that a modder who wants nothing to do with paid mods etc, and who perhaps hosts his mods on Nexusmods, can still be taken advantage of by scumbags who upload and sell his mod on Steam. 

Once this has happened a few times, modders will be disillusioned by other people making money off of their hobby and hard work. And if it is possible for them to force the paid mod off of Steam it would still require them to spend time hunting it down. No modder wants to do that i think. Something fun just became an annoyance to them. 

About 10-12 years ago i made a pretty well received armor mod for KOTOR. If i found out some random jack-ass was selling my mod i'd be pissed and quit modding. 

'Supporting modders', fuck you Valve.  Even worse is if a modder uses things from your own mod to create another mod and then charges for it. In that case can I kindly tell that person to fuck off and stop charging for my work or are we just screwed? Where is the line drawn? [This has happened already](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33o886/within_hours_of_launch_the_first_forprofit_skyrim), and Valve's stance seems to be to just let the modders figure it out amongst themselves. In this case, the one selling his mod seemed kind enough to cooperate, but no way to tell what would happen if someone with worse intentions uses someone elses work. &gt;and Valve's stance seems to be to just let the modders figure it out amongst themselves.

If I was a modder and someone was selling my work on Steam and this would be Valve's response my immidiate response would be to send a DMCA notice. If they don't want to play nice, I wouldn't either. 
 
 DMCAs have the advantage (in this case, fuck them 9/10 times) that Valve is not allowed to "judge the merits of your claims" or they could lose a safe-harbour status. Meaning that if they don't take down whatever it is you flag, they could be held liable in the future for any copyright infraction in the workshop. Looking at the various Star Wars/Disney mods on the workshop already, this would be pretty shitty for Valve...
 So what's to stop anyone from sending DMCA letters for every mod, even if they don't own rights? I'm genuinely curious how they could defend against that since as you said they are not allowed to judge the legitimacy of the claim.  Nothing. It is up to the individual mod-makers to issue a dispute against the claim then. Knowingly making a false claim is (I believe, IANAL)  perjury, however it is very difficult to actual bring that to court as there is a difference between a malicious claim and just an incompetent claim. (this comes into play with mass automated claims some corporations issue to "protect their IP" , even though only ~5% might be actual infringement, or automated DMCAs on Google).

The DMCA sucks, imho. Wow, I think there should be no distinction between incompetence and malicious intent in this case. Because they issue those auto claims knowing *full well* some of them are false.  We can still play that game. Someone needs to write a automatic DMCA script much like the corporations use, one that has a 95% false positive rate. That 95% figure comes from youtube takedown notices which in no way are a legal dmca. This is the same problem YouTube has when people who own rights send out bots to auto-DCMA anything they think is infringing (even if it's fair use). It's on the content producer to then fight the takedown, but it's already off of YouTube and Google's already penalized them for it. Send Valve a DMCA as the original author of the work. They will lose their safe harbor protection if they don't take it down immediately...

See, this cuts 2 ways Then the scumbag selling your shit files a counter-notice and Valve has to put it back up until you take the offender to court. Which you're probably not in a position to do. DMCA works in most cases because there is the threat of a lawsuit behind it. There isn't here. Most people are too afraid of a legal notice to not comply, hell there are instances of where people actually have the law on their side but they still don't want to risk scary court. On a tangent, thats such a bad thing for society, means only people with money can feel confident pressing for their legal entitlements. Because they can afford court.

Ergh legal system is terrible.  I doubt they'd do that. If they stole assets, are they going to risk court, or just move on to selling someone else's work? If they're in Taiwan, why do they give a shit about your legal threats in the first place? Exactly, but that's a time consuming process that the everyman doesn't want to deal with.  A DMCA is one sheet and I believe you can find the template on the internet. Filing the DMCA isn't the hard part it's the lawsuits that come with it that suck. *DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act)  [deleted] [deleted] So what if you legit make a mod and someone does a DMCA on your own work? Does it get taken down without question? Sounds like the YouTube fiasco A lot of people put the blame on Youtube, but that's basically how the DMCA works. When it's served, the material is taken down. The person who originally posted it then has to serve counter-notice, saying that they think they have a legal right to post it and are willing to go to court, at which point it will be reinstated. (at least, that's my understanding)

The difference, of course, is that Youtube doesn't reinstate it when counter-notice is served, but instead 14 days afterward, which screws video makers. Yeah, that's what I am afraid of. I don't want people to pay for what I have made and I certainly don't want people to trick others using my work. You would think that since they are taking 75% the very least Valve would do in return would be to moderate the shop and ensure no one's work is being stolen.

This is essentially the argument used to close down Pirate Bay and other torrent sites in that they facilitated people distributing the work of others. Valve is not only facilitating distribution it is also facilitating the thieves/pirates making profit directly and taking a 75% cut of the theft. Hah, Valve moderating something?

If the Steam store in general is anything to go by, they're just interested in passively making money. It would be nice if they show even a little bit of curation to filter out the most egregiously bad stuff. Why spend company resources on something that can be outsourced to the users? Yay crowdsourcing!  Thing is we don't really have any rights over the content, it belongs to Paradox or whoever the publisher for the game you mod is. Also on the Paradox forum Johan gave an interesting point of view on this 75% thing.

https://forum.paradoxplaza.com/forum/index.php?threads/paid-mods-on-steam.852670/page-3#post-19220067 That really depends on the content in the mod. If I supplied my own voicework or my own models into the mod what then? Does the developer of the game suddenly own my work? You don't have rights to assets you didn't create. But if you modified the game in any way, you must have created something, an you have the rights to it unless you gave them away. They might not be worth much, or they might be worth a ton, that depends on what was created.  If you spend the time making a texture of a model and you implement it in the game, that texture/model is yours. It doesn't matter that it is being used as a mod in a 3rd party game, you still own those things.  Let's hope that Chesko does the same here. His Arissa mod uses textures from these modders and they aren't too happy about it

[alt3rn1ty](http://forums.nexusmods.com/index.php?/topic/1679688-arissa-the-wandering-rogue/page-335#entry24586489) and
[zzjay](http://forums.nexusmods.com/index.php?/topic/1679688-arissa-the-wandering-rogue/page-335#entry24586489) How would you even find out that someone stole your content? Take Skyrim for example. There are tens of thousands of mods out there and each one could use stolen content from your mod. You can't go and check them all. Especially not when they are behind a paywall.  
As long as they are all free, it's not a big deal. It's a dick move to steal content, but at least nobody makes money with stolen freeware.  In Mount &amp; Blade: Warband, the game survives on the modding community.  One of the most popular mods is called Diplomacy, so important that it is almost standard to implement into other mods.  It would not be fair for another modder to make his own mod, implement Diplomacy into it, and cause the Diplomacy mod maker to gain no profit.

Right now, M&amp;B: Warband has not workshop support, but they are currently making Bannerlord, their next game.  TaleWorlds understands how much the modding community has provided them with sales (I personally bought the game for Napoleanic Wars, not the base game), and plan to implement even more mod support in the next game.  This would most undoubtedly include Steam Workshop support.  I was once excited about the news, but now with the new implications, I don't even know if I will purchase the new game if they include Steam Workshop.  It can also kill the modding community considering how much cross-modding has existed insofar. Sometimes you can easily spot it through the screenshots, other times you just need to look in the code. In games such as Europa Universalis, which I mod, it is easily evident in many cases. However in most cases then it will actually be users of your mod that tells you about it.

I don't have a problem with people using my mod in their own mod as long as they give credit and don't claim my work as their own. As long as their mod is free. I don't think they have a right to charge for my work. Same, I have modded for Elder Scrolls since Morrowind and I love getting credit.  
But in these games, you can't just look in the code that easily. You would have to buy and download the mod to look at the files or load it in the editor to find your content. And if the guy has a little modding experience, he can hide it in there and make it difficult for you to find it.  
You pretty much have to rely on users, but then it is already too late. It is way too easy for scammers to abuse this system. Even with Europa Universalis I might need to look into the actual code to prove it. So yeah, I absolutely agree, this system is way too easy to abuse. Modders are already pulling their mods from Nexus because of that issue - they are afraid that their resources will be used in paid-for mods. This is really not good for the modding community.

http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/news/12454/?

&gt;The introduction of paid for mods changes that. Some mod authors have already taken their mods down because they're afraid their assets or even their entire mods will be stolen and added to the new Steam Workshop without their permission. Many more have said they are now unsure if they'll ever release another modder's resource again. This is just depressing. :&lt; It is much more depressing when you think about future releases like FO4 and TESVI. It's hard to even speculate on how many mods we won't see because people are going to be afraid that their work is going to be stolen from day 1.

Before this situation, most of the modding community was based on cooperation, but with system like this it's going to become more and more competitive and closed. I think it's very bad. 

And places like Nexus are now a direct competition to Valve's/Bethesda's revenue from mods. I was actually planning on modding for those games when they arrived. Now I won't. So Valve is essentially killing Nexus. Wow fuck
You valve. And the Nexus is so much better than their fucking shitty workshop with its crappy interface and slow response. Urgh. I cant believe just how short sighted Valve is when they implemented this.  Didnt anyone think of the huge scamming potential and how legitimate modders can get screwed over?

I mean this is right after they put up a small $5 hurdle just to have official accounts in order to stifle all the 0 account spammers looking to scam people.     "I changed it, see how that edge is different, so it's my mod now, that will be 2.99 please(which I'll see .50 off but who cares, money in the bank if I can trick 1,000 kids into downloading someone's, er i mean, my mod I'll have enough to pay for rent this month)" Could also be a mod collection which are pretty common. "I worked to download these 12 mods, so now it's mine because I curated them, please pay me 12.99, thank you." You know it'll happen. steam has DMCA notifications and royality share if your mod uses another modders work and the other modder wants a cut from your sells

but I don't know how this will be implemented if a mod exists outside of steam. So I'm supposed to DMCA every moron who misuse my work? Urgh. More importantly, what are there consequences for bogus DMCAs? If the answer is "none" you could theoretically bring down the whole deal. Yeah... This is going to be a mess. Its almost like the didn't even think about it. They just kind of had this idea, ran with it, but didn't think of any potential negatives or account for human greed. Currently, it looks like a horribly short-sighted decision that is going to ruin all the good will Valve has.  They accounted for their own greed. Pretty sure Valve gets a cut from any mod purchase.

Edit: grammar. &gt; what are there consequences for bogus DMCAs?

In theory, you could sue someone for a bogus DMCA takedown notice.

In practice, none. Only if the one that did the claim insists on it after the defendant rejects it. The initial claim has no consequences If someone was trying to exploit this by sending out a ton of initial fake DMCA notices, that would be illegal. Its just likely nobody would bother suing.

The only one likely to do anything is Valve who could ban the DMCA troll. &gt;The only one likely to do anything is Valve who could ban the DMCA troll.

They can't legally ignore the notices without losing their safe harbour status. [deleted] Ironically, this is probably what many artists / studios think when people download / pirate movies and music and games and shit... Sure, but my shit is free and I want it to remain so. Shit for everyone who wants it, I don't want some shady person selling my shit with a bit of paint on the street corner. I love the contrast here.

Big publisher : we want everyone to pay for everything we own!

Independent modder: I want no one to pay for anything I own!  It's not because I am being charitable. This is my hobby, but if I get paid for it then it is my job and I need to deliver not just a good, but an excellent product. I don't want that kind of pressure on my hobby. As for people taking my work and profiting off it? I don't like that because I feel like they're stealing from me.

My stance is based 100% on selfishness. I totally understand that. If I as a consumer pay for something, I expect it to work. That means extra work for the modder to make sure the mod works with every other mod out there. And that's an impossible task. Oh, yeah. If it is to work with every other mod out there then it is without question impossible, and I mean that in the literal sense. Sometimes mods just conflict to such a degree that you cannot combine them. This is why allowig a donate button would have been fine. Then again I guess valve looks like a jackass if they take 75% of donations. Because most people see it as a hobby, and all this does is make it harder to enjoy that hobby when you're constantly protecting your own work. Big publishers and artists have lawyers that do this for them, not independent mod creators. I don't want to run around constantly taking down mods using my content, I have no desire to spend my free time doing so, so I'll just stop making mods for games that allow you to profit from them. Imagine if Minecraft allowed this, the modding scene would die instantly for the game. With how well current steam support is, i think we can all guess. Ya, I've built my fair share of mods since the days of Oblivion and this happens even among the free modders.  But, because they are free, it's often as simple as emailing the person and asking them to give you credit where credit is due, and of the half a dozen times I have seen this, 100% of the time the modders were totally ok with this and usually were just younger kids that really appreciated your work and wanted to use your assets and were just too young to have been educated on how to properly respect.  However, if it comes down to "paid" mods, not only would I pretty much refuse to let others use the assets for their own personal gain, you know it's just going to be a lot of cheap stealers that flood the market to try to not get noticed long enough to withdraw their funds.  It pisses me off and I can 100% say how discouraging it'd be to someone like me if I start having to deal with dealing with this. Most of the mods for pay right now use SKSE. The best part is, Valve isn't going to be doing any verification on these submissions. We're the ones that are going to have to tell them that the mod is stolen....

This is going to take fucking weeks to do because steam support sucks hardcore, during that time, the thief is going to rack up the dosh.

So on top of only get 25% of the profit, we also have to police the fucking workshop as well. Are they though? Look at the reaction. Are people really gonna be throwing money at mods hand over fist? I know I'm not gonna be buying anything. And the general consensus in pretty much every PC forum I've been to is "fuck every bit of this". There are already people defending it on the steam workshop, and people bought the fishing mod before it was taken down.

Even one or two sales before being banned is still a profit. Just look at those people trying to scam hats off people on steam. They can fail 100 times but so long as they succeed once they've made money. &gt; Even one or two sales before being banned is still a profit

not its not. Valve only pays out if they owe you &gt;100$, even then it takes like a month. So if they get banned valve can pretty easily nuke their account and not pay them shit Fair point, I didn't think about that.

So basically, Valve gets the money from the scammers. Nice. This is hilariously sad, over night Valve has painted such a ugly picture of themselves. I mean I know they had unresolved issues for a long time ( customer service) but this just threw them off the cliff. As a original supporter of valve &amp; steam their motives were looking very questionable for a long time now. Valve stops developing games, they basically just hire new fresh meat every time they need a new game. Gabe starts looking further into new ideas for hardware advancement. Steam opens the flood gates on the store so Valve can get more money to fund their ideas. CSGO see's huge profit in the workshop front. Gabe pushes that success into non-steam games by allowing modders to earn money.

Gabe is a business man and an extremely talented programmer. If he has to choose between gamers and funding his ideas, he's going to side with the money. It's expensive work trying to be ahead of the technology curve. When paid Day 1 DLC became a thing, people said the same. "No one will buy this!" People bought it. When cash-shops became a thing, people said the same. "No one will buy this!" People bought it.

With paid mods potentially becoming a thing, people say the same. "No one will buy this!" They will buy it. They've already started.

I posted this elsewhere, but essentially, we shouldn't conflate reddit PC gamers with all PC gamers. We watch, we notice, and we report/discuss things we think are unfair. And then we scream. But not all gamers are like that. Many don't know and many just don't care. This stuff has already sort of happened well before this move by Valve. For example, the Skyrim modder behind the awesome [Tribunal Robes set](http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/20077/?) left the scene when he found someone stole his mod and was selling it in Second Life. With this new "support" for modders through Steam, stuff like this is bound to become so much worse.  &gt; the paid mod off of Steam it would still require them to spend time hunting it down

It would also require the assistance of *holds breath* Steam Support. Well, US copyright law is pretty clear that Valve can't delay. They are [legally obligated to remove offending content  withing 24 hours ("expeditiously") if they receive a DMCA takedown notice](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_Copyright_Infringement_Liability_Limitation_Act#Meaning_of_.22expeditious.22). Valve risks losing their Safe Harbor protection if they don't comply immediately. I've already seen it happen with other things like CG art. People rip it off and put it on unauthorized goods, and the artist gets pissed off and stops posting stuff publicly. This kind of touches on something I've been thinking of. It's relatively easy to spot mods that are wholesale stolen/re-hosted, but what about mods that use other people's assets, like textures, models and sounds/music? It seems like for some of those people, they might never know someone is profiting of their work. Someone could be making donations off of that same mod today. This isn't a problem exclusive to Steam's new system. &gt; 'Supporting modders'

*Whilst holding out hand waiting for 75% cut.* I think there are some mods worth paying for, like the black Mesa mod, or the one that got that guy a job at Bungie ~~Bethesda~~. But those mods are amazing complete games in themselves. 

I think if they want to pay people for mods they should curate it and make it for only mods like that, mods that add lots of content and are proven to be original to that person. 

It just feels like this is valve getting into the micro transaction game, and that really sucks. 

Edit, I was wrong.  [He got a job, but at Bungie, not at Bethesda.](http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2013-11-26-skyrim-falskaar-mod-maker-lands-a-games-job) &gt; I just realized that a modder who wants nothing to do with paid mods etc

Aren't DOTA skins and TF2 hats modder content that get sold too? not until Valve picks them and add them to the game AND Valve has in the past let through moderated CSGO skins containing stolen content. This is going to be a nightmare. If valve/developer/modder want to sell stuff they will need to offer better support for this but overall it's just another option for modders; they can just give it away for free as always. This is the world that free software of all sorts lives in. We've gotten over it in the programming world, even though every 5 years or so, some major event reminds everyone that people sell our volunteer contributions with little or no value-added, and there's a sudden flareup in the community because the newest members were never forced to think about it.

But, what about the flip side? What if I do want to charge money? If I want to charge, shouldn't the market decide whether non-free mods are worth it? Look at Android games. There are still some great games made by hobbyists for free, and I say more power to them, but there are some excellent games made for-pay or with transaction revenue models too. There's also a sea of shit.

It's as if it were an actual economy...
 &gt;  And if it is possible for them to force the paid mod off of Steam it would still require them to spend time hunting it down. 

But Trouble, surely the community will be able to police it hahahaaha.

Oh man I can even finish that sentence all the way.

god this whole thing just feels poorly thought out.

Like whoever at Valve thought this up put way way too much faith in humanity. I was perplexed by the outrage against this feature until I saw this comment. Now I understand why people are mad.

At first I figured, hey, more people getting paid to do what they love is a good thing, right? But this kind of manipulative shit is the problem. While true, why doesn't that same modder just upload it to Steam as well as Nexus?  They can still have their mod on Steam and not charge for it, or they can just ask for donations.  Wouldn't that be a Win-Win situation? With this move, modders will definitely feel "persuaded" to upload their mods to Steam as well in order to reduce the risk of their mod being stolen. Win-win? Not so much, there are modders who would prefer not to use the Steam Workshop. 

Even then, someone could take a mod that adds a gameplay feature, rename it and publish it under a different name as a paid mod. It will still require the modder and the community to be aware of it and put up a red flag. 

Up to now, all a modder would be missing out on were download numbers and some ratings/upvotes/karma/etc. Now there is the added risk of people making money by ripping off and copy-pasting their mods. It is a lot more serious than simple bragging rights now. Some mods just can't be done through the workshop. There's a filesize limit, and they can't make a configuration menu upon installation that can account for weather the user has certain DLCs or other mods for compatibility. It also can't be used for mods that do anything outside of data files or install tools. [Filesize limit is to be removed, if it's not already.](http://www.destructoid.com/no-more-file-size-limit-for-skyrim-mods-on-steam-workshop-288495.phtml)

The menu thing's a bummer, and a crappy thing to work around, but perhaps they can bundle all of their versions together under a single package and offer that?  Then you just install the one that's right for you?  I don't know the full limitations of the new system, I think most people don't right now, so we'll have to see how that plays out, but it's a solid point.  I DO know that Steam won't sell you a mod that needs DLC you don't have. Well then there is no problem of someone uploading it and selling it there then.  Letting people add donation buttons is the ONLY way it will work. Components will not work. Nothing will work but all free, plus donation buttons.  And by donations we mean donations, not giving modders a measly 25% cut. No sane person would even consider selling their products on a platform if they didn't even get &gt;50% of a cut. There's one aspect to the distribution of compensation I haven't really seen other people bring up.  An unspecified part of the remaining 75% goes to the actual game developer.  It's worth keeping in mind that this mechanism could actually incentivize the development of more decent modding tools (if it becomes popular/profitable).  There are certainly some potential issues, but at least this one aspect could have a positive effect. The rumor is that it's 50% for Bethesda.

That's a good point you bring up. A very good point, that could even work to convince devs that usually are against modding. Bethesda also approved the paid mods for Skyrim. In fact every game with workshop mods will require developer approval before allowing paid mods to go active. *So let the developers know how you feel!* So no one at all makes items for TF2 or Dota 2 where the cut to creators is already 25%? The cut for Dota 2 items bundled in treasure chests is even lower, at 7%. Those aren't donations. That's from the purchase of items, when you donate you intend for it to go to the person you donate to, buying an item in TF2, you probably don't care who the author is. And paying for a mod isn't a "donation", either. I was responding specifically to this part:

&gt; No sane person would even consider selling their products on a platform if they didn't even get &gt;50% of a cut.

I was pointing out some pretty obvious evidence that contradicts this. You forgot about the Dota 2/TF2 item creators. They get the same cut as modders get, and they seem to be producing a lot of items for those games still. So musicians and authors don't receive way less than 25% for their products? And that is fucked up. The record business could black ball people who didn't play their game, valve is in the same position. Emulating the record business doesn't make valve look good at all. Does this make it better?  There is already a pay what you want option if content creators choose to use it. The most egregious part of all this aside from the measely 25% cut, is the price point of these mods, Skyrim is on sale for $5 while the mod pack they put out costs like $25. You know what cost about that? Shivering Isles for Oblivion, it was like adding an entire game's worth of content to an already huge game. Why the hell would I want to pay a full expansions price for a couple of weapon models and something that makes my character feel cold or some shit. Its not like all the money is going straight to the modder, if that were the case I would be more sympathetic to the price point. As it stands a modder needs to sell $400 worth of mods before he sees any money. As it stands you can only cash out once you have earned $100 for yourself, even for some decent mildly popular mods they might never reach that selling at any reasonable price point. Which essentially gives Valve some money without having to pay the modder because they couldn't reach the sales they needed to cash out. 

I feel really bad for all modders under this current system where Valve has fucked them and made them into another source of income for the company.  This change will only make modders who work for free more popular by reducing their competition. Most people won't pay for mods at all. How does this screw the modders who continue doing what they've been doing? Because now people can steal their mods and upload them for sale on Steam. If I were a modder and someone was stealing and profiting off of my work, that'd piss me off. So now they either have to track down these people and DMCA them which is a big hassle, or sit by and allow their creative work to get stolen. Yep. Steam workshop is now going to go the way of the appstore. Tens of thousands of shitty copy and pasted mods for sale with a handful of hidden gems mixed in. This change is going to reduce the overall quality of the workshop. Assuming a proper voting &amp; review system I don't see a problem with this.

Just look at the app store and sort by popular. Almost all the popular ones are the originals, and if they're not then it's because they were improved upon.

I don't see why people have a problem with the app store. The fact that people can charge means many more niche apps are actually created. I have one that helps me track eclipses, for example. The rating system means when I search for something I can easily sort out the crap. I'm going to quote /u/UPRC from another thread since I think his quote nailed the problems with this.

&gt; The boycott group on Steam says it best that the biggest issues with this are:

&gt;Valve taking money from modders (75%!)

&gt;No system in place to stop stolen mods

&gt;No system in place to limit low-effort mods

&gt;Overpriced "micro"transactions.

&gt;No guarantee that the mod will be patched if an update happens.

&gt;Modders lose rights to their mod after uploading.
&gt;
24 hour return policy which does nothing to ensure that a mod is compatible. Errors may only become evident days after "purchase."
&gt;
Not even a minimum guarantee of Quality Assurance. At least developer-produced DLC is expected to have gone through QA.
&gt;
A lot of people are calling us all out for bitching about this, but they think we're all upset just because we're being charged to buy mods. No, that's just of the iceberg. Sad how the most liked gaming company has slowly been shitting on their own rep. I personally don't think of Valve as the best and most gamer friendly company anymore, which is disappointing to me  They were never very "gamer friendly". They just had a few incredible titles to surf on that hid their shitty customer service and very cold/corporate approach to monetization of their services.  &gt; They were never very "gamer friendly".

Didn't they kind of spearhead the quick and easy digital distribution of games? Other factors such as a workshop and greenlighting games have also been well received.

These might be well-calculated business decisions, but they were very good for us as gamers.  Greenlight did not work out AT ALL. There's been a ton of controversy over it and things like early access too. Didn't Valve say they were gonna get rid of Greenlight, also?

Edit: Yep, Gabe Newell said he wants to get rid of Greenlight as soon as possible because it's too controversial and troublesome (i.e. not worth the losses and customer service from them). Greenlight is being removed because it is a barrier to selling on Steam. They are going to replace Greenlight with the ability to sell on steam without any approval process. Your game will not be listed on the main steam store, but you could easily show up on for instance, PC Gamer's store if you were GotY or MotY. Eventually with enough popularity you might be listed in Valve's store which is the Steam Store you think of when you're browsing. Steam, for all it's convenience, is DRM plain and simple. You don't own those games. If Valve decides to shut Steam down one day, all your games go with it.  If Valve bans your account for any reason, all your games go with it.  This is way all digital distribution software operates and it is why systems like GOG are much preferred since they give you DRM free installs along with Steam codes.

For all its convenience and innovation and integration, Steam is purely for Valve's benefit, not the gamers just like Valve is driven far more by profits than customer satisfaction. Oh, it's definitely not ideal for consumers. However, the fact that we use it so readily (my Steam library is huge) means that we as consumers think it gives us major advantages over standard game distribution. 

It's the same with any company. Consumer friendliness is only a way for them to increase profits, but that doesn't mean it isn't good for us as well.  I realized this a while ago and you put it so well. It has become exceedingly clear that Valve really doesn't care about gamers as they claim. If you listen to Gabe talk, it's always about "creating value" i.e. maximizing profit. I have no issue with maximizing profit, but when they pretend like they're doing it for the "content creators" and take huge chunks of revenue from what the community is providing, then it starts to get annoying. The fact that they never mention the revenue split shows this quite well. That title has belonged to CD Projekt Red for QUITE a while now. I think there are quite a few other devs/publishers that share that title too. Paradox and Tripwire come to mind as well. I really don't like the Witcher games for a variety of reasons, but I can say with pretty much certainty that it's not because of CDPR's business strategy. That team is far more in-tune with the wants of customers than any other team of devs in the industry at the moment. Even devs I love, like Volition, BioWare, Creative Assembly and Yager don't come close. CDPR are also the guys behind gog.com - their attitude towards the pc community is amazing and they are the best thing to happen to pc gaming since their inception Stop buying stuff on Steam and stop the childish Valve-Newell worship. They're just another company and the only language they speak is money. Stop giving it to them. [deleted] [Modder Chesko provides a look behind the curtains elsewhere on Reddit.](https://www.reddit.com/r/skyrimmods/comments/33qcaj/the_experiment_has_failed_my_exit_from_the/)

&gt; Imagine you wake up one morning, and sitting in your inbox is an email directly from Valve, with a Bethesda staff member cc'd. And they want YOU, yes, you, to participate in a new and exciting program. 

&gt; We were given about a month and a half to prepare our content. As anyone here knows, large DLC-sized mods don't happen in a month and a half. During this time, we were required to not speak to anyone about this program.

&gt; Things internally stayed rather positive and exciting until some of us discovered that "25% Revenue Share" meant 25% to the modder, not to Valve / Bethesda. This sparked a long internal discussion. My key argument to Bethesda (putting my own head on the chopping block at the time) was that this model incentivizes small, cheap to produce items (time-wise) than it does the large, full-scale mods that this system has the opportunity of championing. There's nothing wrong with someone asking to be paid for their work, assuming there is no fraud, IP theft, etc involved. 

**However**, Valve's desire to sell these mods and not police their copyright is a massive problem. It can lead to a situation where modders who choose to have their mods remain free are compromised and could have their property stolen with Valve's consent.  That is **NOT** right by any means.  I am also a modder. Here is another problem no one has mentioned...

Previously I could spend months creating something, slap it online and be done with it.

With paid for mods, we now have to CONSTANTLY check, every single day, if anyone took that mod and is reselling it. Every. Single. Day.

Every walking day of life, at any moment I can now stop and wonder.... "hmm.. I wonder if at this very moment someone just took one of my mods and is making bank off of it..." Then I'll have to search and search just to feel ok.

It makes it feel like modding is not worth the risk. How is this supporting modders? You just added a HUGE burden on modders who choose to remain free.

This is 'support monetary modders at the expense of both the community and any modders who choose to remain free.'. It's complete bullsh*t. This decision by Valve is already an absolute clusterfuck. Greenlight showed us that Valve doesn't give a rat's ass about quality control so why will this be any different? Why are they allowing people to steal others' work and profit off of it? Why do they expect us to police this shit?

Modding is by far the best aspect of PC gaming to me and I feel like this is going to have a really negative impact. I've always held Valve in high regard but the past few years I've begun to worry where things are headed. Has there been ANY reply from Valve yet? [deleted] Valve before today: Didn't make money off mods.

Valve after today: Makes money off mods.

Does Valve think this is a good idea? You tell me. It's really not that simple. 

Making mods available to monetization for modders creates a whole lot of problems that valve did not face until today. Legal problems, support issues, technical difficulties [copyright issues between modders](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33o886/within_hours_of_launch_the_first_forprofit_skyrim/) and probably many other things that I'm not even thinking about right now. 

All of that is going to be associated with working hours and that means **cost**. Not to mention that a big part of the revenue is going to go to the publisher. 

Is this going to make valve money? Absolutely, but probably not as much as you might think. In any case it's not "easy money" by any stretch of the imagination. 

This is an experiment and while I'm sure valve is going to crunch the numbers after all is said and done to see if it's worth it for them, I really don't think money was the motivation here. They must have had many discussions with modders and publishers to see if there is even interest in this. Who knows, maybe this is even something the publisher demanded? In any case, I'm sure it's more complicated than just "mo money".  I would be surprised if this is the move that causes Valve to improve their customer service. how do you improve something that is nonexistant? Make it exist? Wouldn't that be creation, rather than improvement? "I really don't think money was the motivation here."

Sure, that's why they are charging 75%. 30%. Bethesda gets the remaining 45%.

Which is interesting, since at this stage Bethesda is the one party that *doesn't* have to do or commit anything more to this venture.

Edit: proper numbers. Oops. &gt; Making mods available to monetization for modders creates a whole lot of problems that valve did not face until today. Legal problems, support issues, technical difficulties copyright issues between modders and probably many other things that I'm not even thinking about right now. 

Aren't all those problems for the developers, and not for Valve? When they had legal and support issues with return laws in Europe they just added a "I waive all my rights" checkbox to the checkout page with no repercussion in sight yet.  
  
They'll just do the same here and nobody will be big enough to contest it. I think valve is getting close to implosion, they keep adding stuff that requires supervision and support yet they don't do either Well I'm thankful that I at least was able to grow up during a time where DLC wasn't around, and mods were abundant and free. I feel sorry for the kids growing up these days, where you can rarely buy a complete game anymore without shelling out an additional 15-30$ (usually more).  Correct me if I'm wrong. You can still put mods on workshop for free? You can, but even if you do, there are still problems. Read the linked post. I just read the post, and I didn't see any direct consequence of putting a mod up for free, or at least any large issue that exists with having it free now vs. how it used to be. 

Unless you're counting possible theft as an issue.  I thought that at first too: "What's the big controversy since people who want to put stuff up for free can still do so?" I read various Reddit posts, watched TotalBiscuit's video on the subject, and so on. It seems that there's more than just "people can steal it" (which is, to be fair, a real concern).

I think the largest issue is more of a philosophical one: It's another area/hobby that's being monetized by The Man (modders only get 25% of the pay cut), and is causing all kinds of issues (market flooded with money-grabbing junky mods, stealing others' work, potential copyright issues that didn't exist before because now modders are making money, collaborative mods or mods that require other mods being sold, where the dependencies/original mods that were extended or modified won't be seeing any of the revenue) where there weren't these issues before. And you've got some really great points there in that this is a *new* frontier. It is raising some interesting questions, but these are questions that were answered (in one form or another) when it comes to other mediums.

I will admit the following is playing Devil's Advocate, but here is why I don't think that making mods monetizable is a *bad* thing:

Steam already knows that it has a well established repository for mods for various games. I don't believe that what steam (Valve really) was try and capitalize on this repository for their own sake, but rather is providing content creators an incentive to build great mods. 

Capitalism being capitalism, we vote with our wallets. While I am hearing a lot of individuals say "don't buy mods", why not say "buy the good ones". If given enough time, the good buys will separate themselves from that bad ones. At the end of the day, a monetary incentive is still an incentive, and you better be ready to produce a quality product or else no one will buy.

And, I know this will sound like a "be grateful" statement, but 25% of something is better than 0% of something. Correct me if I'm wrong, but it would be currently illegal for any modder to sell their Skyrim mods. I'm sure that Bethesda explicitly does not allow for the sale of derivative works based on their tools. While the content creator received 25%, the lion's share will go to the original creator of the game, as it is their Intellectual Property and their modding tools that are being used and resold. 

At the end of the day, this is a good idea, but still requires some refinement. There needs be better checks and balances for ownership and copyright, that much is plainly obvious. Such things exist on the mobile platforms, and are dealt with accordingly. 

However, what valve has done was to provide a centralized, **legal** way for content creators to sell their good. Prior to this, the only time you saw this was in Valve sanctioned games (TF2, CS:GO), where you had to hope Valve chose your product to feature in their game. Now, you can self-publish your mods, and hope that the price you ask for correlates to the quality of the work you release. 

And at the end of the day, you are still under no obligation as a consumer to BUY the mods. You can pass on them if you would like. All these examples that have been shown ($2 Fishing mod, $100 HD horse genitals) are examples of people attempting to monetize for the sake of monetization, independent of quality. We, as consumers, are under no obligation to buy these mods. That is the proper way to "vote with our wallets".  If gamers know how to vote with their wallet, we won't have triple A games that are still broken 3 months after releases.  

Second, once you add the money factor into it, you create competition. I'd rather someone more talented than me spend his free time making some good, enjoyable mods than devising how to compete with others.  People complain about curated marketplaces being too inflexible.  People complain about open marketplaces being flooded with insufferable money-grabbing cruft. At the end of the day, it's worthless to argue with people about this subject because their desires are incompatible.

In short, your comment is probably the best one in this thread. That would be what he is counting, yes. What a fucking trainwreck. I'm not buying the "for the modders!" shit, not with a measly 25% cut only being paid after $100 is reached. It's a blatant money-grab by Valve which I hope will come around and bite them in the ass like a rabid opossum.

My personal Valve boycott was just expanded to include the Steam Controller, which is a goddamn shame because I was kind of looking forward to it. The modder gets paid when they, personally, reach $100. That means the mod needs to make $400 before they paid. This is what happens when a business has a monopoly, Valve can do whatever they want. Realistically what alternative is there for customers and content creators? 
 &gt; Realistically what alternative is there for customers and content creators?

Sites like Nexus mods. Many modders that have monetized versions of their mods on the workshop have pulled their free, Nexus versions. Plus, any work put up on those sites could be taken and put up on the Steam Workshop for profit by pretty much anybody. Then, if the original creators don't want someone unrelated to them from profiting off of their work, how are they going to go about getting it taken down? Is Valve even going to care?

There are so many, many terrible implications about this policy, I barely want to think about it... Valve also started removing mods that have a pricetag on it but have a link to the free nexus version. You have any evidence of this? I would like to see some proof. That is pretty damning if so. They haven't been removing mods, just links to donation sites on the mod page I'd like to see evidence for the first claim, as well. Are people with quality mods really pulling their nexus versions en masse? I don't care about crappy little swords and such, I mean the real stuff. You mean like Wet &amp; Cold, where the author promised to release version 2.0, when in reality it was already finished and is now hidden behind a pay wall? 

Now every schmuck who alters their ENB files can put it behind a pay wall.  To your last line: nope. Enbs can't be uploaded to steam workshop. Nor can any software, like tesedit or skse. Modding games like we did before steam workshop?  There have been mods for games for a lot longer than Steam or even Steam's workshop.

There are hundreds of games with mods that Steam doesn't support


ergo: there are and have been many alternatives to Steam.

But dammit if Steam isn't integrated as fuck Can modders not upload their mods for free anymore? They can still upload for free &gt; Realistically what alternative is there for customers and content creators? 

Literally the entire modding world. Valve and Bethesda have to compete with FREE mods. They could have just called it "third party DLC" and make separate tab for them, never mix with free mods. Problem solved. &gt; First, Valve, you have now made "modder" a dirty word here on the steam forums almost overnight. Thanks a bunch. You have now divided PC consumers and modders, when we used to be a pretty tight bunch.

For someone like me, who does not really know anything more about the topic than "mods will cost money on Steam and users are pretty upset right now" this sentence makes me wonder how and why did Steam make "modder" a bad word? Because this decision created a division between players and modders turning itself into "Us vs. Them" scenario. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Step 1. Remote forced payments for mods.

Step 2: Add a 'Donate' button.

Step 3: Add a disclaimer that X% goes to the modder, X% goes to the game developer, and X% goes to Valve.

Step 4: ???

Step 5: Profit! (Literally)

Problem solved, everybody wins. What about a donation option? [deleted] [deleted] This whole thing just reeks of months and months of meetings and focus groups and the corporate garbage the AAA games industry has turned into. That's the most troubling aspect, a deal like this cut between Valve and Bethesda has to have had so much litigation going on between the two companies that it's almost assuredly an inexorable move by now.

I honestly think it doesn't matter how much the community complains and protests this move, because it's indicative of how little the community matters anymore and how out of touch the big companies are. They make all these deals behind closed doors with each other and then set it loose on the public. And the worst part is that there must have been so much positive reinforcement and circlejerking between both sides in this business between them that by the time they were ready to push it out the door they were convinced they were pulling this revolutionary move to bring the games industry forward.

It's bullshit. Wait, I'm gonna ask a genuine question, 

How many people do you think will be willing to pay for mods? People who extensively mod their game are already 1/3 of everyone that bought the game. Those people probably would know not to pay for mods and just go to Nexus.  I don't see anything here that wouldn't be just as valid a complaint for valve selling games as opposed to mods. [deleted] He noted that we shouldn't spend a cent on mods. I totally agree., But how about doing one better: stop buying our games on steam.

Sure, some games are steam exclusive, go ahead, buy those. But if you don't have to, then go elsewhere. Make them feel it, so they understand our displeasure in the only real way that they are capable of, in their bottom line. This is the only real way to get them to hear our displeasure, and I really seriously doubt that anyone can get a sizeable enough portion of us to uninstall steam completely and only source our gamers through other means.   GOG.com &gt;Sure, some games are steam exclusive, go ahead, buy those.

No you shouldn't. This "we want to boycott but it's harrrrrdddd" crap has to stop. You can either send a message by stopping all purchases or you can send none at all. Stop spending money on Steam. Kill their market share and other companies might realize it's a bad idea to follow suit. If you don't, expect every other digital distro site to use the same model soon. Is there currently any way to see sales data, or at least a rough estimate? Does the "current subscribers" section show how many people have made a purchase? If so, is there a way to aggregate that? I'm curious to see what's happening with the numbers. There's a class action lawsuit somewhere in there. Valve have to bear consequences of things they sell. When some popular paid mod will stop working (or a bunch of those), people should sue for the lack of support. When you sell shitty product (like a bad game) it's one thing. But when you sell completely non-working product, that's a liability. It was a shitty thing to introduce on a completely shitty terms and conditions. I sincirely hope this whole thing backfires horribly. There could be new agreements to using Steam and or when you go to purchase a mod that say you waive all rights that would allow you to sue.  Now, that stuff isn't always iron clad, and they could still be taken to court. &gt;There's a class action lawsuit somewhere in there. 

That would never happen. You realize a major game studio gets less than 25% from the price of a retail game. Modders getting 25% isn't actually that bad.  good luck.

Valve's TOS says you have to sue them in Redwood  But Valve's TOS isn't necessarily agreed to by modders whose work is stolen and rehosted there.  I could sue them in DC over a copyright violation, they're making my work available to others, hosting the content, and making 75% of the profit off of it. None of that is within the TOS's terms of my relationship with Valve, especially if that mod wasn't on the workshop until it was stolen and put up there for a profit. It doesn't matter what the TOS says. That's up to a judge to decide. half the point of that shit is to make people think they cant sue.  Exactly. People think everything is a life binding contract when in reality a lot of it can and will just be ignored if challenged. Same reason employers use things like Non-Compete Clauses and such. Just because you type it out and have someone sign it, doesn't make it law (unless the person signing it is the president...) well.. non-compete's can be pretty real.  I live in CA. They are very much *not* real here. Too bad it's not like that in every state. As a former legal intern, contracts are 80% bullshit meant to scare you. Much "legalese" on contracts is so complex as to be legally unenforceable. Yeah because judges really understand the internet. Also if you sell something in my state I can sue you in my state. End of story That doesn't stop the EU.  Valve is nothing but a store and has next to no liability at all in the USA, that goes to whoever made the mod. Name checks out. If you actually look into the law, a store has next to no liability to any product actually working, they accept returns as a courtesy.

The liability belongs to whoever built the product. There are lots of reasons why the Steam storefront could be seen differently from a traditional store in this context, not the least of which being its 75% cut and rules regarding them keeping the entire proceeds until you would make a certain amount and whether those things among others create any sort of implied warranty on Valve's part. 

This conversation is likely for naught anyway when considered in the light of what mods traditionally are, one doesn't really have a guarantee that they will work forever. Hell, we don't even have a guarantee that the games we buy will be in a working condition forever if they depend on servers. Its going to take a lot of money at stake for some mod creator or group of buyers of mods to have a chance of their lawsuit being money positive, so we will likely never see any of this tested in court. &gt; its 75% cut 

Stores usually make a profit on stuff they sell.  And on a lot of items they make a lot more than 75%.

&gt;keeping the entire proceeds until you would make a certain amount

A mod creator could challenge this in court and I bet they would win.  But that is between the mod creator and Valve.

&gt;implied warranty on Valve's part.

As a storefront I doubt it, but then it would take a court ruling to know for sure and it would be completely up to judge and jury.  But I would bet a small fortune that they would decide Valve is a store and the warranties are with whoever created the mod.

&gt;one doesn't really have a guarantee that they will work forever.

Very few products have a lifetime guarantee, right off hand all I can think of is certain brands of tools and auto parts.  Very few physical products have a warranty beyond a year (which is required by law) and to my knowledge there is no legal requirement for software to work at all (well, within reason, they cannot ship something they know will always fail, because that is fraud).

&gt;Hell, we don't even have a guarantee that the games we buy will be in a working condition forever if they depend on servers.

Personally whenever I buy something that is dependent on something else I consider it to be a risk and weigh that and the price before buying it.

&gt;so we will likely never see any of this tested in court.

Which is why Valve is perfect safe, technically current law is on their side, and it would take a lawsuit in court requiring a lot of money to change anything. It's not a bad idea, the execution is bad. I think there should be two ways to submit a mod - free with donations/pay-what-you-want and "full price". This will create a competitive market for big full priced mods and at the same time will help small mods get some money from donations. That's basically what this system is. But right now mod can either be completely free with no way to monetize it or completely not free with a fixed minimum price.  If anyone's confused about the cut Valve and Bethesda are taking from mod sales, can I try to break down why it makes sense?

A lot of people are saying Valve is taking 75% of sales. That's not true.

Valve is taking 30%

Bethesda is taking 45%

Modders get 25%.

Breaking that down:

Valve has 30% of sales to support their storefront, the business end of that concerning maintenance, design, customer care, curation, etc. Up until this point, they've been hosting and distributing terabytes of free community content at a cost to them. It takes thousands upon thousands of dollars a month just to power servers needed for this, and even more for colocation and distribution costs. If things end up being paid for, Valve needs this cut for them to be hosting all the stuff they do host. And they're not exactly going to be profiting from the free content they distribute either. This is a pretty normal publiusher/hosting fee.

Bethesda gets 45% because literally none of the new products being sold would be possible without their intellectual property. If there's a profit being made from this, they are entitled to their cut for supplying what the entirety of what makes these mods possible.

Modders get 25%. And you don't see that until you make $100. I don't see why people think this is unreasonable. If you want to waste Valve's time and resources and make a shitty $.05 mod that wont' break that barrier, Valve won't have to have wasted their resources for nothing and you should've done a free mod anyways.

If you have a professionally done mod that you'll maintain and care for like any digital gaming product that's paid for should be, and charge $5-10 for it... you'll break $100 in your margin before the day is over. That's a really low threshold to be set for anyone who actually has the means to provide something worthwhile.

I don't trust Valve to handle the legal/accountability aspects of people stealing work but I also can't see many of these stolen assets becoming high profile and well-selling mods. We'll see how it plays out.

I get the feeling this will be ignored but if anyone cares about this and is mad/skeptical it should be for the right reasons. No one needs to panic and talk about pirating the whole world like a reactionary child. 25% to the modder is a great cut considering the cost of distribution, licensing from Bethesda, and the fact that it leaves the modder with no financial risk at trying out their product. Distribution is not always so fair to small-time hobbyists who make quality work but don't have the means to sell it on their own. [deleted] &gt; It's true that without the base game the mod would never exist, but the original developers did not create the game in order to sell that mod.

That's not how licensing works though, even if it'd be preferable another way for this instance. They created the game with modding capabilities and modders who sell their work have to pay royalties to the original software they're basing their work on. This kind of issue applies to all software. There are tons of instances of lawsuits where even open source software that utilizes some licensed code in it can be in breach. Bethesda doesn't void their cut of a sale being made because they didn't intend a mod to be made- it's not like they were charging for free mods or mod tools anyways and they don't make anything off of free mods.

So yeah I can see why you personally feel the distribution is a bit off but it seems like Valve is taking a pretty common cut (from some random articles I looked up online) and mod developers are getting a pretty standard developer cut. Since there's no outside marketing or really too many other costs involved I can see why you'd feel that 45% is high for Bethesda, but I think given how important their IP is to each modder's product (should they choose to sell it) I don't think it's unwarranted. 

It's also important to consider that this platform for publishing doesn't require any financial investment or resources from the modder up front to be listed on the store. Anyone can try their luck at selling their mod and if it's good enough, selling $100 worth shouldn't be an issue if there's a huge player base and you have a good product at a reasonable price. It definitely won't always be perfect. &gt;I personally think 25% is too low. 

A game studios cut from a retail game is less than 25% of the retail price. [deleted] Indies might get a bigger slice without a publisher. Platform holder and retail slices tend to be very stable. [deleted] &gt;Steam takes a 30% cut and there are likely no licensing fees nor any distribution costs, so indie developers can definitely get a much bigger slice of the cake.

The flip side is there isn't likely going to be a massive ad campaign to support it. Most indies flop as well.

&gt;However, keep in mind that many publishers actually pay the developers while they're creating the game, so even if the percentage is the same, the money they actually make is much higher.

Many publishers will provide the fund up front; sort of like a 'advance' on future sales. For a publisher owned studio it's just the project budget. For a non-publisher owned one; they get that an a small slice of of the profits if they're lucky. Other times they got remunerated by the publisher up front in some form and that is all they get.

The total of that is often less than 25%.  That doesn't mean there aren't employees behind that. Sure, there definitely aren't enough of them and it isn't effective, but it's there.

The colocation costs for servers and distribution alone would warrant 30% and they do that quite well so it might as well be 0% for the employees that fulfill those roles. Economy of scale. They are making so much from selling games, hosting a few terabytes of mods costs them pennies compared to their profits. Taking the 30% cut is just profiteering greed. The modders aren't the ones who are making big on this, the corporations are.

I repeat valve's resources aren't being wasted, they are raking in billions for being content providers. Valve isn't the entity that needs protections, it's the modders. [deleted] [deleted] Do they have any policy about mods based on copyrighted characters? Won't Marvel get pissed if someone makes a mod turning the Dragonborn into Iron Man shouting racial epithets and sells it for 5 bucks? Yes, you need to get permission/licensing rights like with any other product using another company's IP. If Nexus mods added a Paypal donate button, where a larger percent (say 80%) of the donation goes towards the modder and say 20% to Nexus, that would be a huge slap in the face for Valve.

I know a few modders would would love to take money for their work. But they don't want to force people to pay money to access their work. 

I know that there is this pay what you want thing on Steam too, but a 25% cut is utterly atrocious. 

This is really a chance for Nexus mods to step up to the plate, gain a massive amount of traffic to their site if they allow voluntary donations to creators. If they don't change their course, this is the road to decline.

They had a pretty good run and what started out as a catastrophe became a monopoly. Noone asked for Steam, it was slow, took a lot of bandwidth, wasn't working half the time and was needed for HL2.

You know how gamers felt that time? Everyone cursed it. Google for  "steam anal gif", it was pretty popular that time. Some time passes, not much was going on with Steam and Internet got better.

Suddenly the first big titles popped up, Bioshock was the first title I purchased online in Steam. Holy shit, the future arrived. No more discs, no more crappy DRM that made you ROM drive spin like crazy till it dies. A DRM that worked without too much hassles. In the process of getting older I wasn't fighting this DRM fight anymore. I've seen DRMs like 'starforce'. They were horrible, full of bugs and slow. At that time you were searching for cracks to get rid of the DRM even if you had the original. Companies went overboard and instead of buying their retail shit with their DRM people moved to the next best thing, Steam.

And from there it only got bigger. Now it's at a point where I hardly buy any games anymore. It's 98% shit, either finished or more often unfinished. With the money they made they have to invest into Quality Control.

They need to do something with the money, using the money to give back to the people for a better experience, if they just make new ways to make more money on people's backs will abandon them quicker then they think. Noone likes a leech. There's better and fairer ways of supporting a modder. Patreon is an example which some modders are using in Cities: Skylines. Other forms of donation would be great too. Maybe even direct purchase without this horrifying middleman that Valve and Bethesda turned themselves into.

I'd even be slightly okay with the paid-for mods in the workshop if there was some curating going on, done by Bethesda and Valve, assuring that the mods in question are: 
1) Compatible with all other (curated) mods  
2) Guaranteed to be supported in all future versions of the mod or of the game itself (I know Skyrim likely won't get further patches, but they probably want to expand this model)  
3) Don't require other mods. (If a mod requires another, have them be bundled together)  

This free-for-all horror show they're doing only checks if a mod isn't infringing copyright (and they don't check very hard). I could end up paying for a mod that's incompatible with any other mod, that's so unstable it will crash my game randomly every 3 hours, or that doesn't work because I don't have another specific mod. I could get a mod that works great but stops working a month down the road because of some update. I could get a pair of mods that work well on their own but haven't been tested together before, only to find them incompatible. Many of these problems aren't necessarily noticeable in 24h (glitches can manifest subtly or just take long to manifest).

I have decided to stop buying games from Steam singlehandedly due to this decision. I've supported this platform, company, and community wholeheartedly, even translating their games as part of the Steam Translation Server out of sheer love for their work, but it's changing into something that doesn't deserve any of this support.

If you want to support modders, donate to the ones who have a donation system to set up, and suggest to the ones that do not that they set up such a system. The workshop is no way to support them, as the modders only get 25% of the revenue. As someone who has zero interest in the modding scene, I'm going to respectfully play super devils-advocate here.  I'd like someone to explain to me what the big deal is.

&gt; First, Valve, you have now made "modder" a dirty word here on the steam forums almost overnight. Thanks a bunch. You have now divided PC consumers and modders, when we used to be a pretty tight bunch.

I can see this happening, but this seems more like a consequence of people posting angry articles online about it instead of Valve's decision directly.  I also think "dividing PC consumers and mdders" is a bit much.

&gt; Second, I now see mods going up that are little tiny swords and whatnot going up for sale. Bundles already that cost more than the game itself. In other words, I am concerned about a complete influx of mods that are completely useless and tiny and unsupported and updated, just because of money-grabbers who want a piece of the pie. 

This sounds a lot like Greenlight.  Not a problem with the service itself, but there does need to be some sort of moderation system in place to make it easier for consumers to weed out the crap.

&gt; Third, this leads to microtransaction hell. Hell for consumers, and a deluge of stuff to compete against for us modders. This isn't healthy competition. It is gonna be cutthroat. Thanks again for taking the fun out of it. 

I don't understand what "microtransaction hell" means.  Like a lot of microtransactions?  There are only as many as the number of mods you buy.  And how is "cutthroat competition" bad?  The worst it's going to do is lower prices of mods.  The worst case scenario is that mod prices are going to be free, which is the way things already were.

&gt; Fourth, there will be inevitable stealing of other's people's content and then selling it as their own. Some may claim that because they modified another mod's content, they now have created their own mod and are free to sell. I disagree. They are making money at the expense of others. 

From an economics standpoint this makes no sense.  If someone is selling the same mod for a price, any sane consumer would prefer getting the free one anyway.  I've also seen mods use the "if you paid for this you have been scammed" line to further prevent this.

&gt; Fifth, you have a "return policy," if it is even worth of the name, that is full of holes. First, 24hrs isn't much time to test if a mod will glitch out or not. Ever heard of a standard 14 or 30 day return policy?

Ok, this is a good point.  I completely agree that there needs to be a longer return policy, especially for mods that are likely of dubious quality.  There should something like this for all games, especially Greenlight ones.

&gt; Lastly, you, Valve, are likely hurting good, legal sites like Nexus Mods as some greedy people take their mods, or the "premium versions" off the site in favor of posting to the Steam Workshop. These sites rely on advertising revenue to run, and you will very likely hurt this revenue. Why do that? You used to have a reputiation of siding with the underdog. It is not like you are in competition with people like Nexus. It is not like they are EA, taking a corner of the market. And it isn't even like you really need the money Valve. This just feels to me like a cash cow. A move EA would be proud of, sadly.

Again, any sane consumer would prefer getting the free version.  If anything, free mod distribution sites are going to benefit if their competitors start charging for mods.  And the last bit is obvious pandering to the pro-Valve anti-EA circlejerk.

Valve is simply offering an option to content creators to charge money for their works.  Consumers would probably only be willing to spend money for Black Mesa or other elaborate mods, and not for simple things like changing a color of a sword.  If player feels a mod is being sold for too much money, that's a problem with the modder, not Valve's optional service. Most of your post assumes people are aware of the source of the free mod. That's a really poor assumption.  Also if someone is smart enough to get a mod from a free source and throw it on steam, they're probably smart enough to remove any "if you paid for this you've been scammed" lines as well. A code editor and ctrl+f is all you need. The free mods are available in the same places they were last week, including in the steam workshop. Which are places many, if not most, people don't know about. I play a lot of games, and I'd never heard of Nexus until all this happened yesterday. The number of people using Steam is astronomically higher than the number of people using Nexus, I'd bet. If some asshole takes a mod from Nexus and sells it as his own on Steam, that's not ok under any circumstance.

Is the solution, then, that all modders must use Steam Workshop to host the free version so that people will know about it instead of paying the thieves? This just feeds into Valve having a monopoly on all things PC gaming. Also not good. I think we can put some trust into the community reporting stolen mods. Justice is something most people want. Which would mean that someone coming from Nexus goes to the Steam Workshop so that he could actually know this mod was stolen. But people from Nexus will likley stay there, and our workshop friends thus never know that this mod is stolen.

This means that mod creators themselves have to look out for stolen mods. They probably won't like that. It just takes one person that's both on steam and nexus, and notices stolen content. They report the mod, and contact the creator on nexus. The creator can file a DMCA complaint and link to their nexus page, and that problem is dealt with.

That's a big assumption to think the communities are that separate. People that want mods will probably look at more than one resource, since there will be mods that are at one place, but not the other. True, but you won't look out for all the mods. 

Especially not for those you already have.

But as it seems from threads like these most people use the workshop, only a "minority" of your *average* consumer goes as far as Nexus. So the workshop could be flooded with stolen mods.

And are there really "important" mods on steam you can't find on Nexus? Wouldn't know, I'm not the modding kind of guy when it comes to Skyrim. But as it seems you can find basically everything on Nexus, so what reason would someone have to go Steam?

Also, what you've described works for big mods with lots of users. Small mods will likley go unnoticed when put up on Steam. Of course they wouldn't sell to much but just imagine how many swords and armor someone could take from Nexus, upload on Steam, sell each for ~1% say 20 times and then take the money.

It's not that it wouldn't sort itself out after time but the modders will now maybe constantly live in fear that someone took their stuff to make money. And if the don't want to take it they stop. I don't see why these free mods can't be published for free in the same marketplace. They could be, but given that Valve is refusing to do any filtering at all it still has all the issues with publishing for free elsewhere. 

Edit: and it increases the work load of the modder, simply to further policing their work.  In addition, he's assuming that the target market for paid mods is even aware that mods exist in the first place.  For the unaware, mods are just going to look like any other piece of DLC; Workshop content at best.

Problem is, mods are NOT DLC, in particular because there's barely any QA for them, and especially not for interactions between different mods.  Previously, you'd only have intermediate and advanced users dabbling in mods, fully aware that shit could hit the fan at any moment.  Now, you're suddenly throwing this amalgamation of spaghetti code up onto the market?

The Workshop gets away with this because there are strict guidelines on Workshop content, allowing people to freely pay and download them without worry that things will explode.  Mods, especially large ones, are extremely prone to fatally breaking *something* and that just isn't going to fly, especially once blind customers start stacking spaghetti. Considering the free version would have to be released before the paid version in this case, I think it's a pretty good assumption (barring extensive advertising efforts).  I mean, when you find a regular game you want to buy, your first instinct is to research how to legally get it at the lowest cost, right?  I hope so anyway. You can't come up with a trivial way to obfuscate the source of material you copied? Just changing the name will make googling rough. Combining mod packs, or selling a subset of a mod should make searching by features rough. Steam is the only current marketplace of significance for many gamers. There is no second stop. The steps I suggested are likely o be completely unneeded to get the average user looking for a mod to buy it from steam.  Not the guy you replied to but I really think if someone is going to mod their game they are slightly more aware about whats going in gaming than your average user. Hell kids are modding minecraft for free now why wouldn't someone look for a free version first? 
 I mean, I'm a weird gamer in that I have 0 problem with paid DLC (to me it's usually content similar to an expansion in total, broken down into smaller portions so you don't have to pay it up front. Pay to win is the only thing that bothers me). 

You touched on the big problem though, QA. I don't trust steam to have enough QA and options to assure me the mod I'm getting isn't broken to hell, or worthless. That alone stops me from paying for a mod. I don't mind say, Bioware DLC, because from experience I know it's going to be well done, it's going to work, and it's going to add enough that I feel I'm getting my money's worth. I'm never going to feel that from these mods, hell even the ones I like and use can be buggy enough I wouldn't pay for them. 

If a guy modded something for a game that worked as well and added as much as a $10 DLC from the developer, I'd Pay $10 maybe even $15 no problem. But from my experience I'm never going to trust the marketplace enough to be willing to spend the money for user made mods.  If [Enderal](http://sureai.net/games/enderal/) is released as a for-pay mod (still planned to be free according to the website), and as long as it is a reasonable price I would buy it.

I played [Nehrim](http://www.moddb.com/mods/nehrim-at-fates-edge) and thought it was really high quality. I enjoyed it more than some retail games I played the same year, such as Drakensang: The Dark Eye. I definitely found it more valuable and worthwhile than any of the Oblivion DLC. Agreed on all points.  Valve should expect that selling mods is going to have even more garbage than Greenlight.  They need to put more effort into quality control.  But this has always been a problem, and isn't new to offering to pay for mods. Yeah in a way this could be good. If they actually put the effort in to make it run cleanly and exceed expectations this is a good chance for them to build up their reputation. 

Will just have to see. It could also be a shit show. I'm waiting until I see what way it's going.  If there's anything the gaming community fears, it's change. It will scream that the sky is falling prior to implementation and then promptly shut up once the change is made because half the time it's a wash and half the time it's an improvement. 

I will site my favorite example - people fucking hated steam when it came out and viewed it as intrusive drm.  haha I still think Steam is needlessly intrusive.  I like just being able to play my games without having to start this huge laggy consumer of processing power that has to take a minute to somehow fail to connect to the internet even when I want to play offline. &gt;people fucking hated steam when it came out and viewed it as intrusive drm.

No shit, and you saying this like the people who complained back then were wrong just shows that you obviously didn't use Steam when it was new. It was a fucking piece of crap, and it was (and still is) intrusive DRM (it just has more advantages to go with it now). It barely worked, it was slow, updates were shit, etcetera.

[There's a reason this gif exists](http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/uncyclopedia/images/2/26/Steam.gif). Oh god that gif. Completely forgot that existed. I can feel my blood pressure rising and my eye start twitching just watching that thing.  This is an extremely reasonable post that more people should read.  Was just about to type all of this myself. It's insane how much people are freaking out. How is Valve hurting midgets by allowing them the option to sell mods?!?? 

NONE of this bullshit ranting makes any sense. "Oh know, now I'll have to check and see if someone's making money off of my mods"

Why does that matter so much? You weren't making ANY money off of it before? Also, why would people choose the paid one over the free one?

Why are you bitching about how many there are going to be, or the prices for them? YOU ONLY HAVE TO BUY AS MUCH AS YOU WANT TO BUY

I think Steam knows this is going to be a tricky roll out, but shouldn't the modern community respect them for trying to establish a long term working marketplace?

Lastly, it's an OPTION. You don't have to take part.  [deleted] Have you never been to twitch? Consumers will pay for things they like to support the content creators. This is just a way for valve to get 75% of the profits. You say consumers will go to where it's free, but it's like the FM/AM of the 70/80/90s, right now valve has the monopoly, they can manipulate the market, down play the free mods and advertise the pay per download mods. Even if that per per download was stolen from a free source.

I don't see how this is good for original content creators.  &gt; Again, any sane consumer would prefer getting the free version

How would someone know the mod is free somewhere else? I'm glad there are people who aren't getting caught up in the hysterics of this. The whole idea of someone stealing a free mod to sell it is pretty ridiculous. If they're on the same market place the free one will be the one getting the most exposure. &gt; I don't understand what "microtransaction hell" means. Like a lot of microtransactions? There are only as many as the number of mods you buy. And how is "cutthroat competition" bad? The worst it's going to do is lower prices of mods. The worst case scenario is that mod prices are going to be free, which is the way things already were.

would you buy a game with hundreds of dollars in dlc? paid mods are just outsourced dlc.

worst case it will lead to an endless sea of shovelware and early access mods to make quick buck. just like greenlight.

&gt;Valve is simply offering an option to content creators to charge money for their works. Consumers would probably only be willing to spend money for Black Mesa or other elaborate mods, and not for simple things like changing a color of a sword. If player feels a mod is being sold for too much money, that's a problem with the modder, not Valve's optional service.

modding has a very delicate dynamic and profits of the collaboration. putting a pricetag on it throws whole cans of worms into the mix. mind you, no one has an issue modders making money, and there are plenty of ways already to do so. there's also a difference between some cs:go skins for a f2p game and a paid game.
 Yeah, some moderation is definitely needed for Workshop and Greenlight.  But it's not like this problem didn't exist when mods were only free.  Also, introducing profits wouldn't be a problem for teams of modders that are actually collaborating.  If someone wants to charge for their mod, they should understand the consequences that it won't likely be used in other mods (similar to not making software open-source).

&gt; would you buy a game with hundreds of dollars in dlc? paid mods are just outsourced dlc.

Okay I'm digressing here, but I hear this stupid kind of reasoning a lot around here and it pisses me off.  If the game is good right out of the package, who gives a shit about how much DLC there is?  I'm not some child that just discovered his parents' credit card.  I can just choose not to buy DLC if I don't think it's a good value.  Of course I have problems when companies chop up games and sell an unfinished product when DLC is not purchased.  But DLC itself is not a bad thing. &gt;But it's not like this problem didn't exist when mods were only free.

it was no issue *because* mods were free

&gt; Also, introducing profits wouldn't be a problem for teams of modders that are actually collaborating. If someone wants to charge for their mod, they should understand the consequences that it won't likely be used in other mods (similar to not making software open-source).

some modders are quite the drama-queens. with money it won't get better.

getting money for you work also means responsibility, and not just valve's bs wishy-washy terms with the added perk being able to delete negative posts.

&gt; If the game is good right out of the package, who gives a shit about how much DLC there is?

if. ;)

&gt;But DLC itself is not a bad thing.

never said it is, but it's a touchy subject. remember horse armor? ;) I don't care about mods either. But, I don't think your devil's advocate role works too well...

&gt;any sane consumer would prefer getting the free version.

This is assuming that the consumer *knows* there is a free one, and that the free one is the legitimate one. Also that the consumer can tell a difference between the original content creator and the person ripping them off. This shouldn't be left to the consumer.

Have you ever tried to find a specific app waaay after it gets super popular? Put your 'average consumer' on the google app store and tell them to find the legitimate version of AdBlock... Good luck.

And what about the opposite problem? Doesn't your stance beg the question? Sure, there will be modders creating content for free and unscrupulous people stealing them and trying to sell them, but what about the person who wants to charge for their mod but someone rips it off and posts it for free?

In any light, the takeaway I get from this is that Valve did not think this through entirely. I don't see any inherent problem with people having the *ability* to charge for their mod releases, but with so few checks/balances, it is clear that *this* is a bad way of going about it. You can't just create a market that encourages theft of intellectual property.

Unfortunately, I think that this issue stems largely from our entire society's stance on intellectual property, and the fact that we do not have clear moral/ethical guidelines concerning intellectual property. The US, and to an extent the rest of the developed world, sits on a shaky fence when it comes to intellectual property and the implications it brings up. Also unfortunately, Valve seems to have taken the "take-the-money-and-run and don't give a shit" stance. I can't say I blame them, but damn... this is going to become a clusterfuck before it gets better. Valve is capable of better decisions. The point is that free mods will die because few people will actually list them as free when there is a potential profit to be made. Additionally, if there is a free version hosted somewhere else, what are the odds that the consumer will actually find it? Nobody is going to google search every single mod they're interested in to see if it's hosted elsewhere. Why would anybody make a free mod when they can sell it for $5 to $10 dollars? The free modding scene will dissapear and be replaced by user generated DLC.

Who told Valve that we wanted more DLC? Now it will become that any enhancement to a game will have to be purchased.

The Skyrim MOD community was so great because it was free. Now it just becomes a game with unlimited DLC.  steam was started by valve, a company that thrived on the mod community. i bought half life in 2001 so i could play counter-strike. i downloaded hundreds of custom maps for my server, messed around with skins and steam guis before the overhaul. they hunger, sven coop, brainbread, minerva, black mesa, the list goes on. all of this amazing content spawned from a single franchise and idea that your players will make you money for free. that ideology is dead now, and i don't know what the future of the mod community will be. i can only hope it solves itself and creates demand for more free content. Um counterstrike is a commercial mod. So are many of Valve's games. which started as a free mod spawned from gooseman's quake navy seals before going retail with 1.0 sometime in 2000. also remember amx, admin server mods, jailbreak, surf, csdm, etc etc all essentially mods of a mod. csbanana, counterspray, cstrike.net all huge communites for shitty little custom content. Are you implying that mods going commercial isn't a bad thing as I was saying, or saying that free mods are somehow prevented from existing just like they did before? Some symbolism for anyone that missed it:

[0:48](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=0m48s) = Eye close up is very reminiscent of the [opening scene of Blade Runner](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/b/b7/Blade_Runner_eye.png), a film all about transhumanism.

[1:19](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=1m19s) = Adam silhouetted by golden wings. ['Icarus'](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Icarus) and the perils of technology were [recurring themes in DE:HR](http://images.bit-tech.net/content_images/2011/08/deus-ex-icarus-effect-review/deus-ex-icarus-effect.jpg)

[1:27](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=1m27s) = The Invisible Hand of the Illuminati ([a statue of which appeared in the MJ12 base in the original](http://www.fewlines.com/images_final/gallery/deus_ex_3_hr_concept_art/deusupdate/deus_ex_illuminati_hand_ingame_01_rdumont_fewlines.jpg))

[1:57](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=1m57s) = Augmentations under the eyes are possibly a reference to the 'teardrop' tattoo worn by prisoners, which allegedly represent murder or "membership of "The Old Fraternity", referring to the Biblical Cain who slew his brother"

[2:19](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=2m19s) = Visual play on [The Creation of Adam](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Creation_of_Adam)

[3:17](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWOel8ZnnhE;t=3m17s) = Another Icarus-themed image, with wings of light That's awesome, all of these went over my head. New arm cannon, arm blades that can fire out and pin people to the wall like the Painkiller stakegun, some sort of Crysis-style armor mode, horizontal Icarus system for jump attacks, stun darts, slide attacks and gunfu. Jensen has gotten a lot of upgrades. I see the Illumanti will be more involved as well. &gt;horizontal Icarus system for jump attacks

Potentially much more. What I'm hoping is that this is not just an offensive ability but actually something inspired by Dishonored's Blink ability. 

It would allow for much vertical movement and creativity in movement, which would be extremely promising for the openness of the games level design. Turning it into a Blink Drive would be amazing. For the kill happy stealth player like myself I could see it working like a upgraded version of how it did in Dishonored; Blink &amp; Stab but with Jensen's group take down's it would be even more awesome. 

I reaaaaallly hope they make a better energy system if they do this. I practically had to run around shoveling granola bars into his mouth like he was a diabetic or something to continously use any augment powers. With the exception of a single bar of recharging energy for a single man takedown, it was granola bars or no-stabby.

 What's actually hilarious is that the Pentagon is [already designing prosthetic limbs that run on glucose.](http://www.wired.com/2012/06/prosthetics-spinal/)

&gt; Something that uses energy from its surroundings, instead of needing recharges or replacements. You just eat some food, and the energy is ready and waiting.

&gt;The energy hes referring to is glucose. Cerebrospinal fluid, found in the spinal canal and certain brain regions and used by the body to protect neural tissues, is actually a particularly rich source. Yeah I'm not getting my hopes up to much, it could be just a distant takedown ability. Still, it's interesting. Well, in DE:HR Director's Cut they give you two bars of free recharge instead of one. It makes it a lot more playable and I've actually found my inventory overfull with regen items at times. Here's hoping they don't forget that lesson with MD. I always wanted to play with him being the weapon, and not using actual firearms. Well, external firearms I should say. If I can get the aug chaingun from the first game for lethal encounters, and the stun weapon seen in the trailer in the other arm... oh yes.  I hope MD is being produced by the same team that worked on HR. If you listened to dev commentary from director's cut, you will understand, that guys were very passionate and even with budget restrictions and technical issues, they managed to create one of the best games of the decade. If that's the case, I am confident the game will be just brilliant, since SE looks more invested in this one.  
EDIT: [Yes, it is the same team](http://i.imgur.com/wMVfpPU.png). Even people that are not on this screenshot, like lead level designer.  Is the music for this being done by Michael McCann also? yes , Michael McCann will do the soundtrack for it again. His name is on a list of people involved in the game that is shown at the end of the trailer  I'm honestly not surprised.  From the music we've heard in the various leaks and released videos it's pretty spot on with the style and feel of DX:HR.  Like, perfectly fitting.

I'm glad he's back on the project.  Music is important to the theme of the game IMO Well, shit. The hype lives, now. As I've gotten older the soundtrack to a game means more and more to me. I still listen to the last games' soundtrack.  As long as they don't outsource the bossfights to the same team again, it's going to be awesome. I think they learned their lessons. The directors cut released fixed a lot of issues with those fights for non combat characters, and they specifically state in the commentary they realized it was a mistake to outsource it. Unfortunately, I understand the director's cut toned down a lot of the original orange aesthetics and even reintroduced some previously-fixed bugs over the original. If you look at the credits in the trailer, many of these names appear in the developer commentary for Human Revolution. http://puu.sh/h6epK.png

Jean, Mary and Steve talk a lot about the development process. I finished Human Revolution: Director's Cut yesterday so I noticed the names immediately. I've been replaying directors cut with commentary. My appreciation for the game itself and the work that has gone into it is much greater the second time around (it helps that I'm not as lost this time). I do wish the actual commentary system was a bit better done.

The parts that got the most love in HR were spectacular. The parts that were bad (and I consider DX:HR to have a lot of flaws) are clearly the result of lack of time or resources. I don't think they'll make the mistake of shortchanging the dev team this time, and the result should be great. it is, there's a video on gameinformer with the tech lead and creative director talk a bit and they're the same as HR Oh, thank you so much. Game informer is blocked in my country, so I can't access their coverage, at least not first-hand.  Soundtrack seems to be from McCann again, so those who were worrying about it before can put their fears to rest. 

I know CG trailers aren't necessarily representative of gameplay but that fight made me think Arkham rather than Deus Ex.  &gt;Soundtrack seems to be from McCann again

Yep, from the Credits screen: Music Composer - Michael McCann Ah, brilliant. Was just going off the general sound. Good to hear, HR definitely had one of my favourite soundtracks in gaming. Agreed, in constant rotation on me pod. I would guess that the flashy combat in the trailer was meant more to represent that Jensen is retaining a lot of the badass abilities he gained in Human Revolution.  Fair point. I hate it when a character is built up in one game and then mysteriously loses all his abilities in the sequel. inFamous 2 managed to do the keeping abilities thing well by adding the ice powers and whatever the hell you'd call the other ones. I really loved that ME3 didn't do a power reset as well like ME2 did. I imported my Shepard and he was fucking awesome. That was due to 1 and 2 being mechanically different games, whereas 2 and 3 were nearly identical in core gameplay.  And 2 has a legitimate reason for you to have to start over. *cough* Lazarus Project *cough*.  Yeah, exactly. I'm hoping this trailer means there is no abilitease. I want to have the toys from the first game right away and get progressively even cooler things as it goes on. And yeah, inFamous 2 did it very well. You never felt like a weakling. And I always called it the red-smoke-dust-ash-fire powers because the developers never give it a real term. I think the trailer was meant to how us that he still has the sword arms and stuff, plus all the new lightning stuff, which looked very cool. Can't wait to blow people away with that tesla cannon thing. Looks like an in-built version of the [PEPS gun](http://deusex.wikia.com/wiki/P.E.P.S.) from Human Revolution. I hope we get to keep at least the athletic abilities such as jumping and falling as a super-human, and get some better base shooting as well. It's ridiculous that Adam can't fall from a second story in HR without dying, but later ends up jumping nearly enough to cover that height. I equally expect some of the specialized abilities like a large radar to be unlocked from the get go... because with a sequel why not make a few more open areas where upgrading it even further would make sense?

Invisibility, Silent Running, Resistance to elements and flashbangs, Maxed out hacking and all that sort of stuff including the new ranged hacks and the super fortified skin... I wouldn't be crying if those start out locked again. Hlaf of them most people didn't even bother getting. I'm just hoping for real melee combat this time. HR was the first game in the series to not have melee weapons and I think that kind of watered down the gameplay, especially by forcing players to use an energy-intensive instant takedown button in its place. I mean in the other games, melee wasn't really unique, it was just a short ranged silent "gun," if that makes sense. I actually preferred the takedowns to DX1 melee. But I'd love to see a more versatile melee system like MGS's (from 3 onwards anyway) Taking human shields, throwing one enemy into others, etc. Melee weapons may not be unique, but in HR it certainly felt like control way being taken away from the player by using context-sensitive takedowns instead. It's sort of a spin on the reason people don't like QTE - it shows the player character doing cool actions but the player knows they're not actually doing it. At least, that's how it felt to me.

Maybe if they remove the energy cost from the base takedowns and only use it for the flashy ones shown in the new trailer, I might find a comfortable middle ground. In HR, using only takedowns wasn't that viable because of the prohibitive energy cost (and stopping to eat energy bars wasn't that fun). honestly, all they'd have to change is making them seamless in first person, and possibly triggered by the angle that you're doing the takedown from. I don't see them removing the cutscene takedown.

While I too would like a more controllable melee system, it's too many resources to make it good (not just some half arsed QTE).

I prefer it this way than a batman dark asylum melee combat. And to showcase the new augs he's getting in this game.  I counted stun-gun-hands, blade shooting, teleporting, armoured skin - this is just from first watch though.

*^^^hype* I think that was more invisibility than teleportation.  I was thinking of the bit where Adam gets from the balcony to the stage at 2:21. It's like an electric charge forward. It looks like maybe a modification on the "slow fall" mod. Instead of slowing you down, it zaps you to your destination. that's what i was thinking, evolution of the icarus system that propels you forward while encasing you in "energy" to dampen your fall. I interpreted it as cloaking and sneak attacking, although teleporting would be cool.  I don't foresee teleporting happening.  That's way beyond the scale of any of the technology advances in the Deus Ex universe. Yep, the music themes are heavily remixed versions of the HR soundtrack. It's good to be back. I love the HR soundtrack to death. It's a huge part of the reason I fell in love with that game. The old trailer also didn't show exactly how combat would work, because while all the moves you could see in it were actually automated takedowns.

Not to mention that, once again, adam spends a lot more time being aggressive in the trailer than the game pushed you as a player to be, and I expect that to be the case again. &gt; adam spends a lot more time being aggressive in the trailer than the game pushed you as a player to be, and I expect that to be the case again.

At least in this trailer they showed some new non-lethal take down tools.  That's a huge step forward. You can give me the same graphics from Human Revolution and I wouldn't even flinch before I bought this game I agree with you completely. But I feel like HR was the game that made me realize graphics aren't everything and it's more about art style. Every time I think of that game I just think of Gold/yellow. And it's beautiful.  Hell, I'd even take deus ex 1 graphics,I played that for the first time a couple of years ago and absolutely loved it. I loved the track Icarus from McCann, so excited what he's got instore in the OST next I always thought ["Barrett Boss Fight"](https://youtu.be/jrsjYQkjXY0?t=1m11s) was better, especially **that** segment Man when that theme kicked in... so wonderful.  Michael McCann certainly has a recognizable style, but I think Deus Ex was his best. The music and the art were my favorite things about HR. I still listen to the sound track. We asked for this.

I loved how Human Revolution did its own thing. Everyone was expecting a prequel about Majestic 12 and the Illuminati. Instead, Eidos introduced a completely new cast of characters, a new plot, and a new conflict. That last factor was really tricky to navigate and they could have seriously messed it up. Human Revolution didn't talk about AI but it did keep the spirit of Deus Ex by presenting themes that still revolved around the growing power of corporations and the moral ramifications behind transhumanism.

Now with Mankind Divided, we'll see figures like Bob Page and Morgan Everett taking center stage, but we couldn't have seen that happen if Eidos hadn't laid down the contextual framework with Human Revolution. I'm glad they didn't cave into fan expectations and started from square one. HR showed us how this whole mess got started. MD is going to show us how MJ-12 and the Illuminati was able to act so powerfully in the world from the resulting crisis and power vacuum.

Really, really looking forward to this. The industry needs more story-driven single-player FPS titles. Same, I can't wait to play this, even if none of the endings that were presented in Human Revolution were canon. To be honest, none of them were really a satisfactory conclusion and in a story that details what amounts to the beginning of an apartheid regime worldwide against humans with augs.

Jensen appears a lot more dedicated to a cause in this game, which is what I wanted to see after the impassive Jensen we got in Human Revolution. There's no way that your boss turning you into the $6 million dollar man would come without emotion, either regret or hatred. I'm hoping we see more of Jensen's personal struggle, since augmentation was literally forced on him, rather than something he opted into as most of mankind did at the promise of a better future. The way their doing it makes sense. To think that whatever choice Jenson makes couldn't be overridden by the media and other interest groups in that universe is silly.  Someone on a different website already mentioned that any kind of transmission (ie. ending) from Pangaea that Adam chose before self-destructing (and subsequently surviving with lifejacket augmentations), will be way overshadowed by the rampage caused by the infected update chip that Hugh Darrow releaed. So what's the deal with the endings here? Did the media just cover up whatever Jensen did (or did not) release? Basically.

It seems like the ending of HR is being referred to as the "Pancea Incident" and reporting on it may or may not reflect what Jensen actually experienced.

It's a pretty clever way to mask the fact that your choice at the end of HR doesn't really matter, because media moguls and corporations are going to release their own narrative on the news networks they own. I played HR a few years ago, and I can barely remember anything that happened in it, story wise. How do you people remember all these details? I actually feel the same way and always wonder how these redditors do it. The atmosphere definitely sticks with me though.  I've beaten Human Revolution like six times.

Once each for aggressive/pacifist on normal difficulty.  Once for a Hard Pacifist run.

Then the Director's Cut with the DLC came out, and I beat it on Hard first with an aggressive run, then with a pacifist run.

Then I got the mod that gives you the cheat menu and had a fun, drunken night running around with infinite energy so I was always invisible and could always see through walls launching people everywhere with the PEPS and using the laser cannon a lot. That makes two of us, brother.

"Morgan Everett"

*who now?* That looked amazing. HR is one of my favorite games, and I hope this can improve on it.

The, [box art](http://i.imgur.com/IeXfkzQ.jpg) of the game was also released.

And if someone wants more info, SE put out a [press release](http://press.na.square-enix.com/releases/433/jensen-returns-square-enix-and-eidosmontral-announce-deus-ex-mankind-d) that gives more info


&gt;Deus Ex: Mankind Divided takes place in 2029, two years after the events of Human Revolution and the infamous Aug Incident in Panchaea that resulted in the death of millions at the hands of those who had installed augmentations. This event has created a huge divide between those who have augmentations, and those who do not. Amongst this emotional turmoil are various factions looking to manipulate the public by twisting public opinion of augmentation to further their own agenda and hide the truth of what really happened.

&gt;Deus Ex: Mankind Divided also continues the story of Adam Jensen, a former biotech company security chief turned super-augmented, anti-terrorist agent playing by his own rules. Jensen has been empowered with all new augmentations, enabling him and the player a greater sense of self-control as they explore all new locations in-game. As social and political tensions reach a major turning point, Jensen and conspiracies surrounding the Illuminati continue toward an inevitable crossroads  and possibly, an epic showdown.

and in terms of tech 

&gt;Deus Ex: Mankind Divided will also mark a new era in Eidos-Montrals technology, utilizing the advanced visual and immersive capabilities of the Dawn Engine, specifically built for the recent generation of consoles and PC. Under the umbrella of the Gaming Evolved program, AMD and Eidos-Montral have been collaborating on Deus Ex: Mankind Divided, and the game will feature Microsofts DirectX 12 support as well as AMDs TressFX. These features will not only raise the bar in game performance but bring unrivalled visual fidelity to the Deus Ex franchise..

No release date yet, so I guess that means likely 2016 at the earliest 

 The increasing pace at which mechanical augmentations are shunned by society is actually a good lead up to the original game. 

The big deal about the nanoaugmentation in Deus Ex 1 is that they are not very visible. Gunther, one of the mechanically augmented soldiers, is extremely jealous of JC Denton's ability to have augmented powers without being turned into a social outcast.

Here's hoping we see more people like Bob Page and Illuminati folk from the original game in Mankind Divided. Human Revolution had its fair share of namedropping in e-mails: [Spoiler](#s "Joseph Manderley, Lucius Debeers, the DuClare family, Morgan Everett, Bob Page"). Also a few cameo appearances: [spoiler](#s "Bob Page, Tracer Tong, Gary Savage"). I love the lore of Deus Ex. Gunther also makes a lot of self-deprecating jokes, like he wants to install weapons into his arms instead of normal arms. He's a quite tragic guy Don't forget the skull gun request. He sounds like a guy who likes guns. A lot of guns. All he really wanted was Orange. One of the (few) great moments of invisible war was visiting the remnants if unatco hq and finding the return order for his skull gun  You know, a lot of people shit on that game but I thought it was pretty good at the time. In hindsight I can see it didn't live up to the hype of the original game at all but man, I was pretty into it at the time. I've always been really into the idea of that series. 

It seems like if the game didn't carry the Deus Ex name we might not so collectively shit on it these days.  Well you caught me. I didn't actually hate it either. It was just a more shallow experience. 
There was a lot about it that I loved, and it was at a time where I was just getting into building my own computers and iw was graphically taxing enough for it to be my benchmark.  One point that Deus Ex made repeatedly but was sadly ignored in HR was that nanoaugs were *the tits* and conventional augs couldn't come close. Jensen's augs are pretty much as good as JC's, unfortunately. That's not necessarily _unfortunate_, IMO. It's a bit of a retcon, yes, but the prequel setting is interesting, and limiting the extent of what mechanical augs could accomplish to what's established in the original game's canon would limit gameplay.

Also, Adam Jensen's capabilities are somewhat justified in that he is an _extreme_ outlier. He has unique genes. Almost nobody would survive the extent of the augmentation that Adam Jensen undergoes, and even if they did survive it, the augs wouldn't operate as effectively. And the augs themselves that Jensen receives are cutting edge/top of the line, at a time when the development of mechanical augmentation was near its peak. Adam's augmentations would've utilized premium materials that went beyond military-grade.

And I don't think it's ever stated in the original game that nano-augmentation is completely superior in every respect to the best possible mechanical augmentation -- just that overall, it's better.

And it could even be that nano-augmentation is over-hyped in the original game, because it's the "new shiny." With only two nano-augged field operatives, how can anybody really be _sure_ that nano-augs are better? You can also chalk it up to us never getting to see very much of Anna and Gunther in action.  You see them when they have orders to hang back and let you do the work and then you fight Anna in a hallway and Gunther in a cramped cathedral.  They don't have any reason to do anything but charge you guns blazing.  Both of them are pretty tough as far as DX enemies go, certainly well beyond any of the ordinary grunts. Oh, I saw a *lot* of Anna after she tripped the LAM I planted on the airplane during that one cutscene on the 747.
 If by "see" you mean "shoot with a rocket before they can trigger the fight cutscene" then yes. "Take your best shot, Flatlander Woman." In fairness, [Spoiler](#s "Jensen doesn't suffer from rejection, unlike any other person with mechanical augs. This allows him to be augmented to a far greater extent than the average aug user.") The box art looks like a Bond-title. Yesss! That's the vibe I was getting, I just couldn't place it. But hey, Jensen is definitely as cool as Bond, even if he didn't ask for this. It looks like a throwback to the deus ex dance video  My only fear, and I imagine this is shared by a lot of people, is the boss fights.  That's the one part DX:HR screwed up, and the trailor has a pretty good indication that the big guy will be important.  That entire sequence just screamed of the first boss from DX:HR

I really hope they improve on that part

But, given that this is like, the main opinion shared by everyone odds are they'll be focusing on making it better.

I'm super excited.

This one looks to have an awesome plot  thanks to the chaotic world that would result from the previous game.  I wonder if that was planned or not. Oh, they got *plenty* of negative feedback for those boss fights, so much that they changed them in the Director's Cut. If there were to only be one improvement in the MD, my money would be on boss fights.  Yeah, I just hope they go a few steps further with the new one.  The changers varied from Ok to really well done in the directors cut, but it was still a 'one way or the other' type of choice.  I'd like to see them open up even more options.

But like you said, they got a lot of feedback on this already, they're probably already on it So which ending is cannon? I can't remember each path since I played the game a few years ago.  Squenix said that no ending was cannon, as for them if I remember right it was:  

1) Make it look like it was only the augmentations' fault  
2) Make it look like it was only the anti-augmentation folk's fault  
3) Make all the info available  
4) blow up the station so that the people will have to decide.  

We see adam floating in water in the trailer so maybe the cannon ending includes some of the blow up ending. Well the Panchea place was pretty fucked up even without Jensen collapsing it, so it's probably something along the lines of "Panchea suffers catastrophic damage before Jensen can do anything in particular and the world is left to piece things together themselves". It's been explicitly announced that [Spoiler](#s "literally none of them are canon as of MD. No word yet on just how much of the last few minutes of HR is retconned by that, but it's not like any of the endings were super explicit anyway.") The leak the other day said none apparently  They are going with "none of the endings are canon" per the Game Informer article. I'm just relieved it will be on PC. I was afraid I wouldn't be able to play it without buying a PS4. I think a game that started on PC and is on every top 10 games ever made for PC list (original Deus Ex) would be on PC, methinks. One example: PvZ2 never came out on PC You never know anymore with exclusive-hungry console companies. It's a solid fear of mine.  I would agree with this 4-5 years ago but these days almost every game is getting a PC port. And Deus Ex has been a staple PC title forever. You're telling me.. I saw "PS4" and almost cried thinking I'd never get to play this... Holy shit, I can't wait. Jensen seems to have gone off the deep end after HR. Not that that's a bad thing. I'm also loving the angel motif they got going on with him in this pic: https://farm8.staticflickr.com/7715/17079617175_d2314fafaa_o.png Yeah, they do that Icarus thing a lot, but what do they actually mean? The story of Icarus is that he flew too close to the sun and his wings (made of wax) melted and he fell to his death. Because he was prideful, basically. He looked into the face of God (the Sun) in his story and it destroyed him. 

The symbolism (imo) here is that Jensen's power (the augments) will ultimately destroy him because he will reach a point where he cannot handle what he is facing with them. 

At least, that's what I think the symbolism will lead to. Considering this is before Deus Ex 1, the stuff he will be facing will be world changing, and will probably end up destroying him, like the Sun destroyed Icarus.

Specifically: [Deus Ex 1 Spoilers](/s "The Illuminati (aka, secret group who rules the world from the shadows) &amp; the Artificial Intelligence to be released. Imagine if your entire body were augments and you were hacked/lost control of them. Bam. You are screwed.")

Hover over the Deus Ex 1 Spoilers link and read the tool tip to read the spoiler. I haven't played the original DE yet, but thanks! the story in Deus Ex is amazing.  It is still one of the best games i've played that changes based on your actions.  It is totally worth playing through, even on easy just to experience the story. I think the Icarus metaphor is less about Jensen and more about Humanity's relationship with bettering ourselves.

We've found this incredible ability to make our physical selves better than our biology, like we're suddenly able to play God. 

And it turns out that we're nowhere near ready for that level of responsibility as a society. Cue apocalypse.  I always assumed that the Icarus motif was to symbolize Jensen getting too close and too involved in the conspiracies of his world. 

He's already been exposed to the underworld of faceless organizations and corrupt power. Now, those certain faceless organizations have their eyes on him because he dug his nose too deep or flew to close to their plans. Choosing to involve himself again in the sequel is already pretty reckless and dangerous.

A more cautious man would hide far away. But not Jensen because he is the cyborg we all know and love. It could be both.  It should be noted though, that Icarus's wings are an invention made by him and his father, so it is often seen as a story of human ingenuity bringing them too close to the gods and their hubris being their downfall.  There seems to be a lot more offensive Augs. I hope we get more non-offensive ones as well. Like everyone on the leak post, I want a good varied stealth, non-lethal build! One of the problems I had with Deus Ex was that I wanted to play loud and flashy, like a cyborg killing machine, but the experience system would punish you for this approach. If you wanted to min/max your experience gain you had to pretty much do double stealth takedowns to make sure you got the best output. 

I'd like it if they created branching gameplay rewards. Like how Wolfenstein: The New Order rewards different playstyles by giving you upgrades to the strategies you are already favoring. And also dumb things like hacking every door even though you have the password because hacking gives way more experienced. Like if hacking is 100 points, finding a password should be 100 and then don't even give a hack option when you get to the right prompt. Ya, the first time I did HR was a 90% stealth playthrough. I'v been meaning to go through it with the loud approach but the exp nerf irritates me. 

I also agree with what /u/needconfirmation says, I feel I have to hack the fucking planet to make sure I get the exp and stuff. Yeah that was annoying. I do like playing stealth in general but early in the game it felt like every exp point counted so I reloaded like crazy when I was caught. Hopefully they give exp mostly by finishing objectives or side missions.

If you have the director's cut there's a new game plus mode that lets you carry over augmentations. And since you've played through once already, the commentary is interesting to listen to. There was that taser punch thing at [1:46](https://youtu.be/QWOel8ZnnhE?t=106) that looked non lethal. The arm cannon looks to me like a built in P.E.P.S. If you go look at the E3 Trailer for Human Revolution, that was also a very offensive-based trailer. I think we should be fine. They showed stealth and defensive armor, so I'd hope they'd actually do have variation. Plus, this has to sell the game...so action would help a lot. Yup. If you're playing stealth it seems like you'd really only need the invisibility, defensive armor, and hand stun augs. I think for stealth you need less powers since it's all about avoiding danger. Think of Dishonored. You didn't need many powers to actually do a stealth run, just blink and the detective vision thing. 

If you want to go guns blazing I think you need a lot more powers/augs in order to keep up with what the enemies can do.  I'm beyond excited for this game.

I have to admit, Deus Ex Human Revolution is my only experience in the series, but it was an amazing game in my opinion. The only downfall were the bosses, but hopefully those wont be outsourced once again.

The level design was great, and there were a number of surprises, such as [Spoiler](#s "When Malik is shot down, I thought she was automatically going to die no matter what, on my 2nd playthrough, I defended her long enough to live")

I really hope this lives up to the quality of Human Revolution  Hardest part of the game right there (likely followed up by the entirety of the Picus intrusion), especially on a stealth build. But totally worth it to work towards Pacifist. Most satisfying thing in the game is saving Malik on a Pacifist run.

"Any time, Fly Girl." &gt; likely followed up by the entirety of the Picus intrusion

It was possible to haul a couple of turrets around the Picus building.  The horde as you wait for the funicular wasn't that tough if you create a few hallways of pants-shitting death that funnel the enemies down one pathway for you. Nah, there's 2 crates in that room, you can place them right next to the funicular, hide behind them and they'll never see you, and then you can go down as soon as it arrives, no issues. There were also a couple of vending machines to completely block entry. This is what I did! Spent a couple of minutes making myself completely safe. Personally, I just blocked off the doors with vending machines and called it a day. Wow, for real? I did a pacifist run on the hardest difficulty, and the Picus building was a breeze for me.

Unless the Director's Cut messed with the difficulty or something? My pacifist run went out the fucking window once they shot down Faridah. She's not even that hard to save as pacifist. Take out the two heavies and the bot with an EMP and the rest of the guards will take ages to kill her. The bot exploding and killing the two heavies didn't count against the Pacifist achievement for me. Just make sure they are asleep before it blows. Hah, that's where I ended up throwing my first run (full pacifist) out the window and just opened fire. It was where stuff got real personal. I loved it.  And if she dies, you can find her body later being salvaged for augs when you are working your way through the chinese gangster's facility. ...holy fuck, that's horrifying. She's not like torn open being harvested on a table or anything, more like they are preparing to when you find it.  Her dead body shows up on one of the operating tables in a room full of harvested parts and other bodies.  Still horrifying though, and I must say I killed the gangsters in the next room with significantly more prejudice after finding that. &gt; I killed the gangsters in the next room with significantly more prejudice after finding that.

It has been a while since a game made me feel that way, but HR managed. I also reacted that way when [that private investigator, Radford, was interrogated/killed by those two soldiers](/spoiler). I fucked those guys up. You killed all of Tongs men, which is hilarious after you bust through the last door and it's Tong, standing there, followed by "Yeah, could you, y'know, not kill all my men? That'd be great, thanks".

I actually laughed pretty hard at that my first play through. &gt;"Oh by the way, Jensen, I know you have went through a lot of physical changes of late, but you didn't become a woman, stay out of the ladies restroom"  
  
--Pritchard  
  
A nice throwback to the original game, where you could even get into a firefight with UNATCO over harassing female restroom visitors. Harassing? Please, I wasn't harassing them. I was merely lost and confused about what the sign on the bathroom door meant, Manderly didn't need to know about that... Wait what you can do that ? [Spoiler](#s "I had absolutely NO IDEA Malik could survive") welp time to install the game again I guess :D Be prepared to deal with some randomness. Quicksave and get ready to Jensen like you've never Jensen'd before. Succeeding at this on the hardest difficulty and a pacifist build was insanely difficult. Probably took me 10+ attempts; one of which was scrubbed because I went around looting and saw one died. RELOAD *sigh* I had waaaay more than 10. Probably 30-40. At one point I had everyone knocked out, then some random thing exploded and killed some knocked out dudes. Audibly screamed FUCK I remember when doing my Pacifist run that sometimes guys would glitch out and show them as dead, but they were really knocked out. And vice versa. It was almost easier to just ghost past everyone, never touching and never stopping. Or uh... have two emp grenades and a few of those protein bars and run a circle. It's most definitely the EMP being the bare necessity to clear it with time to spare. The biggest issue of that part of the game is making sure the two big damage dealers die as soon as possible, as the enemies will ignore you as you walk up to them for a quick shotgun to the face or a stabpunchdance the bigger problem is that if you knock out the heavies and then emp the boxguard, the boxguard explodes and kills anyone in its blast radius (unconscious enemies too). thus you are no longer eligible for Pacifist That's not true. When I was doing a Pacifist, Foxiest, Legend run, I had the robot explode and still qualified for never killing anyone. Got all of the achievements [in one go](http://i.imgur.com/H6e9C.png). I could've sworn the boxguard explosions made uneligible for pacifist. I also read around the internet and some people were saying the same thing. Better safe than sorry, I guess. Although it was kinda hilarious to hatefully knock out a heavy and then carefully drag his body away so he doesn't die. Get her achievement, reload previous save, live with the satisfaction that Faridah lived in another reality. fuck no, I prided in myself that I managed to not kill anyone in a playthrough, not raise any alarms and also save Malik. Saving Malik while going for Pacifist is definitely possible, just a bit harder [Spoiler](#s "If you save her, she will help you in later mission as thanks") [Spoiler](#s "My first time she died rather quickly, so I reloaded and was adamant to maintain her alive as much as possible, and then suddenly she survives!")

Damn awesome. You have to basically speedrun it. If you take out the value targets as fast as possible (The heavy machine gunners, use a scoped weapon) you get a lot more time to take down the guys that are only carrying rifles or pistols. Then, when the big robot comes down, you can EMP grenade it to bypass that fight. If you don't immediately EMP it, you'll probably fail. I'm so glad they let you [spoiler](#s "save Malik"). When that sequence happened I immediately raced back to try, glad it was rewarded. For extra personal badass points, do it on a hardcore pacifist run! (it's possible) For those who might not know - this game takes place in 2029. Interestingly enough, JC Denton was born in the same year on March 17th. While, Paul Denton was born in 2018 - making him 11 years old by 2029.

I think it would be cool seeing JC Denton being born and a young child Paul in this Deus Ex. The actions at the end of [Spoiler](#s "Human Revolution") are a catalyst for the birth of JC Denton himself. [Spoiler](#s "Majestic 12") have a heavy hand in the life of the Denton brothers too as they are the ones that clone Paul and "create" JC Denton with the help of [Spoiler](#s "Bob Page and Megan Reed"). [Spoiler](#s "Seeing kid JC and Paul") would be insane. I hope they lead up right to Deus Ex 1.  That would be amazing since Eidos have stated that Adam's actions in this game affects the world around him. How cool would it be that his actions create a positive or negative outcome for [Spoiler](#s "Majestic 12") or [Spoiler](#s "JC and Paul")? Followed by a new remake of the original game. But no, surely I'm just dreaming. It looks pretty cool.

With as much of the trailer as there is talking about the "illuminati" of the Deus Ex universe, I hope the game will involve some amount of going after them. Ancient and completely untouchable conspiracies always seem ridiculous to me, especially in a setting like this one, so I'd love to be able to personally knock the Eye-Pyramid Gang down a few notches. You're *definitely* going to get what you're looking for. By the events of Deus Ex 1, the Illuminati is totally fragmented, with the few remaining members living in hiding, dead, or wasting away in secluded mansions. Things end pretty poorly for DX's Illuminati.  How many energy bars did he scoff before jumping into that group and destroying them?  The hype is real!

Nice touch letting Jensen wear a coat with an ACRNM tag as well (@0:54).
 
The pieces they make are pretty similar to Deus Ex in terms of aesthetics

http://www.acrnm.com/collections/_lightshell That immediately stood out to me too. Pretty appropriate product placement since ACRNM goes for that futuristic cyberpunk aesthetic with a price to match future hyper inflation. My god those prices. I never heard of this brand. Blame those time-travel shipping costs. I am beyond excited for this game. Human Revolution is one of my favorite games that I've ever played. The game oozed story, theme, and character. I ADORED the cyberpunk aesthetic, and the fact that the game was able to carry a message and make the player ask questions (What does it mean to be human?) without ham-fistedly shoving it down their throat.

I definitely asked for this. Painting augs as the underdogs seems like a really interesting way for this plot to go.  The stratification implied by the augmentations in HR was kind of a frightening look into a possible future, but somehow the world as portrayed in this game seems like a much more palatable possibility.  I'm assuming the scenes of him floating in the water took place just after the end of HR when he decides to blow up the ship with him in it. Is that the ending they are using as canon?

Also there are a couple of scenes with more Icarus type symbolism with wings around Adam at 1:19 and 3:17

Edit: Another thought it who is that kid with the robo tear drops on his face? Seems to be quite a prominent character to me it looks like some kid that was used as a suicide bomber, looks like he was part of that augmented cult and Jensen was following him It's a bit deeper than that. Looks like Jensen saved him from the police, only for him to later become a suicide bomber. Probably going to be a bit of an internal conflict for Jensen. It goes another step:  the tear drop kid wasn't a suicide bomber; he gets off the bus at around 0:15 - after likely leaving a parcel bomb of some sort -  and was present at the theater.  I think Jensen saved him from the police, only to find him bombing the bus later, and then followed him to find the group at the theater.  He was clean getting off the bus, but dirtied up later (like you would expect from someone who was close to the blast) when he was seemingly being rewarded by the big guy, which was probably for his role in the bombing.  I'd be surprised to see Jensen sparing the kid after ruthlessly killing everyone else on stage.

Looking forward to all of the internal conflict. that sounds great It could also just be that the kid was walking away from having planted a bomb. I don't think he'd be shielding his face with the hood if he were about to die. I really hope they did away with how experience points were awarded in Human Revolution. I didn't like feeling as if I was losing out for playing the game a certain way. For example, you would get more experience per "kill" if you knocked out an enemy vs. killing them. It ruined the gun play aspect for me since I felt like I HAD to stealth everywhere. I love stealthing too but being reminded that reloading the game might be better off than losing out on experience that I won't get because I got spotted and had to shoot someone is kind of an immersion breaker.

Edit: accidently a word They should provide a certain amount of experience/points/whatever for a given tasks's completion, regardless of how you do it (quiet or loud, nice or mean). Rewarding people more for doing something the "right" way (mechanically or morally) will pigeonhole many players who like to play optimally. I agree. They should also reward the mission as a whole. In HR they had the ghost or undetected mission experience bonuses, there should also be a "no survivors" or "no ~~witlessness~~ witnesses" end of mission bonus as well. I hope this is the case. I hated how you got penalised for shooting people instead of stealthing.  Adam Jenson has a lovely lovely voice. And Deus Ex has wonderful music. Hope they can deliver the great moral questions and varied gameplay we all love.

Pacifist build ftw &lt;3 The only thing I really wanted was Elias Toufexis to return.  I'm glad he's back, Jensen is such an interesting character. I just played Splinter Cell: Blacklist and was pleasantly surprised to hear his voice. Amazing trailer. I'm glad that it's a direct sequel, I think that most of us wanted just more of Deus Ex: HR. So Jensen learned Biotic Charge? Nice.  Deus Ex: Revengeance during those cinematic action scenes.

Looks awesome, let's hope the actual game lives up to this. So glad the Eidos Montreal team has really stuck to their guns here.  The announcement of the next game they were working on turning out to be a mobile game let a lot of people down.  

Given the success of HR, I think it was inevitable they would make another. I'm incredibly excited for this but I feel like the trailer was maybe a bit too action-y (although I'm not going to complain about a motherfucking SHOULDER ELECTRICITY CANON???). 
Also the soundtrack for that trailer is absolutely amazing. 
I have faith in them though as Deus Ex : HR is one of my favorite game ever, can't wait to see more  Watch the HR trailer again, that was also quite action-y. This moreso, but I guess it's just a hype thing. While some people do like to play pacifist,  most don't,  and it makes for a boring trailer.  I guess this makes the [Spoiler](#s "self-destruct") ending the most canon? Maybe that plus a mix of the others where either all the broadcasts were used or whatever one was chosen was somehow blocked? Though that leaked article seemed to say that none of the in-game endings would be used. Curious to see how the Twitch stream advertising is gonna pay off for them. Gotta give 'em props for being original. 

Got the name out there, but didn't hook me enough for me to look up the puzzle.  Good to see some Illuminati symbolism, I really hope they bring in more conspiracy stuff to start blending the narrative into the first Deus Ex. I long to see Bob Page, Walton Simons, UNATCO, the NSF, and MJ-12 make an appearance.

Edit: Removed a word
 The part where he says "I won't let this happen again". I am guessing Jensen choosed the 4th option in the last game. At 1:20 check out the sweet juxtaposition of the lights behind Jensen, forming angel's wings.

Jensen is working largely alone on this one I feel, there was no mention of Sarif in the trailer at all (perhaps he gets killed early on?)  I can't help but feel that that trailer committed the cardinal sin of showing us action that MD's gameplay won't actually allow, unless Eidos Montreal intend to turn Deus Ex's combat into something more akin to the Arkham games.  Go check out Human Revoution CGI trailer. Just about everything Jensen does there, can be done in the game. I would not be surprised if that would be the case here, too. [I wouldn't worry too much, Human Revolution did this with its announcement trailer too.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WAbrjtFbVQ4) Absolutely fantastic, hugely excited given that Human Revolution is my second favourite game. Glad Jensen's back as well, with some luck some of the other characters like Pritchard and Sarif will make a return as well.

Perhaps my only complaint is that the first line wasn't "I never asked for this". Looks this will be a good action game from this.  Had to laugh at the lines of "So much pain..." before he's cutting his way through people. It's hammy and not particularly well written but definitely intentional. Jensen is trying to stop a problem in a world that considers people like him part of that problem. That's the most disappointing part for me.

In the Human Revolution trailer the writing was brilliant. Every line was important and well written - and it introduced us beautifully to the world of Deus Ex and Adam Jensen.

This one seems fairly generic in its writing. I really hope the game's writing will be better because it's maybe what made Human Revolution stand out the most for me. Which trailer are you talking about? [This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kq5KWLqUewc) one? Because it's just as on the nose/cheesy, if not more so with the "THE YEAR IS 2027" graphics and the literal Jensen=Icarus footage, not just imagery. I disagree. Yeah, the metaphor is super direct but it works nicely and overall that HR trailer told a much better story about the awesome world of Deus Ex - with great establishing shots of beautiful set pieces and plot points that were much more interesting than what the new trailer shows. Plus I find it a bit absurd and ridiculous to listen to Jensen mourn about "so much pain", " so many have died" and "the darkness must end" while I'm watching him slaughter hundreds of people. He certainly doesn't look as compassionate as he sounds in this new trailer. Am I the only one disappointed about the game following Jensen again?

I didn't dislike him. But it'd be nice for a new face, and if the endings were canon Jensen should be buried under several hundred tons of rubble in the Antarctic. It's a good excuse for a new protagonist. Holy shit. I love Deus Ex's cinematic trailers. They're so fun and beautifully produced. Cin trailers get slammed so often in this sub as "pointless", "bullshit", "misleading", and I'm constantly arguing that pre-rendered trailers can have merit on their own. Trailers like this are why I feel that way. S-E is really top-notch in the quality of their CG cinematics. Their stuff is a good example of CG done right. Does anyone know if this was an in house studio production or if a different studio did this trailer? Fantastic production quality.  probably the same people that made the first one for HR, part of Square Enix, I believe the company that made it was called Goldtooth If its anything like the trailers for HR, then Squeenix would have made it - and I can well believe they did, they're fantastic at doing CGI trailers and cutscenes.

Dunno if theres any actual source confirming it though. I figured as much. At first I thought it could be Blur but they don't have anything on their site about it. Square certainly does make some pretty CGI stuff so I wouldn't be surprised.  Square Enix has their own studio that has been making these CGI videos since the PS1 era: http://www.giantbomb.com/square-visual-works/3010-10321/ Square Enix Tokyo did  the first trailer for Human Revolution. They might've done this one as well.

Not sure if you call that in-house because it's not Eidos' team, but a team owned by the Eidos' owner. Interesting. I didn't realize the owner of Eidos also had his own production studio for CGI stuff.  When I say owner of Eidos, i mean Square Enix, who owns Eidos. Ahhh okay that makes more sense I was thinking you meant the head of Eidos owned the production team for the CGI stuff.  I can't be bothered to check every name, but the studio, Eidos Montreal, is the same at least. Okay so if they did use one of the Human Revolution endings, it's probably the self-destruction ending.

At the end of this trailer we see Jensen floating in the ocean about to be rescued. This is probably shortly after blowing up the Panchaea. Could be something different :

&gt; The Deus Ex timeline
&gt; 2030: A major earthquake hits the West Coast, destroying most of San Francisco and dumping all of Los Angeles and most of Southern California south of Lompoc into the ocean. The earthquake forces the government to declare the west coast (or what is left of it) a disaster area. You could definitely be right. I did notice though that Jensen in the water has a pack on his left leg as he did in Human Revolution. In the trailer, Jensen doesn't have a pack on his left leg. It's hard to see in the trailer (best shot probably 2:30). This bit of the lore has always bothered me. Thats not how the San Andreas fault works. Its sliding, not seperating. They didn't use any of the endings. This looks awesome. Looks less focused on stealth and more on combat, but since it is just a trailer it could just be for cinematic effect. This is gonna be far down in the comments but I'm really hoping for new game+ feature like metal gear 4.

Replay the game and keep all your perks you unlocked after the prologue. That was my only complaint with HR. They actually made this into a feature in the Director's Cut release of HR. The bald guy reminds me of [Letho from Witcher 2](http://fc05.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2014/109/8/c/letho_turntable_render_by_scratcherpen-d7enzc8.jpg). [deleted] I played the first game and I was curious about everyone thoughts on the Icarus/technology motif and if you thought it was used well enough. Hopefully we get to keep all previous augments from revolution.       
I would completely hate to have to unlock upgrades I already spent time getting in revolution.       
Hopefully typhoon is in there from the get go.     
     
I hope stealth and assault are balanced too, I hated how stealth rewards more exp Think Malik will be back?  I'm hearing that they won't have saves carry over from Human Revolution, but she's not necessarily dead.  Man that was a fun fight.  But so damn hard! I'd be surprised if she does. Maybe if there's a dialog choice, and you can select "She survived / She's dead," then they could branch from that and have her make a cameo for the first option. But they can't make the game depend on either option. That's true.  Quick interview at the beginning to establish your version of canon.  Like Mass Effect 2.  

But, I think you're right.  I don't think they'll actually do it.  [This](http://starwars.ea.com/starwars/battlefront?buy_platform=ps4&amp;utm_campaign=swbf-social-us-ic-yt-yt-celebration-full-anno-vid-site-ramp&amp;utm_source=youtube&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;sourceid=swbf-social-us-ic-yt-yt-celebration-full-anno-vid-site-ramp&amp;cid=37628&amp;ts=1429292048272#five-reasons-to-play) was the article that was linked at the end, confirmed 3rd person Might want to say its both first and third:

&gt;Seamlessly swap between 1st person  and 3rd person perspectives. That's good. Battlefront 2 was like that iirc. Both of them allowed switching, and you could remap the toggle even on PS2. You had to swap between 3rd and 1st person from the setting so it wasn't exactly seamless.. On pc it could be changed with a key press. IIRC it was end or delete. V by default if memory serves, I could very well have rebound it though. Great to hear that feature's coming back. It seems like nobody can remember a thing in this comment chain. iirc. That happened in earlier comment chains too, iirc. Looks like they have also confirmed offline, split-screen co-op. Should make quite a few people happy.

&gt;Fight for the Empire or Republic offline, solo or with a friend, in carefully crafted missions.  I'd be happy if they just put Galactic Conquest back in. There's no campaign apparently :( Like literally no campaign or no story driven campaign? No story driven campaign, apparently it's comparable to something like Spartan Ops or Spec Ops from Call of Duty So galactic conquest is still a possibility.  Let us hope, man.

Only difference is that they commented to a journalist saying "we are focusing on ground combat" or something like that, when asked about battles in space. I could see a space battles expansion pack with a few new ships (A-wings, etc) being a plausible possibility. It's probably going to be like air superiority if they do it They just haven't called it a campaign. Single player means a lot of things. Thank god. If DICE can make this battlefield-esque game, with all its graphical prowess and complicated systems split screen, no one else has any excuse not to include it. Sick of having two controllers for nothing but silly indie games. Don't you know, you aren't supposed to ever play games with another person in the same room. I seriously have only used my other controller for FIFA and Madden. I usually keep my second at my pc for games that are better with a controller.  Does this imply offline multiplayer battles with bots? It implies that there will be single player gameplay. &gt; carefully crafted missions.

Please don't be on rails.. It's been confirmed that there is no campaign, so maybe these are essentially just multiplayer maps with bots that you can play splitscreen with friends. If it's even just another galactic conquest then I'll be happy. return of the LAN parties I wouldn't go that far, it says "friend" not friends. Nah, that's not happening anymore. For one, it makes it easy to pirate it (using say, Hamachi + fake auth servers) and for two, they just list 'friend', singular. I don't think we'll get LAN games from EA anymore, ever.  Maps on Hoth, Endor, Tatooine and the new planet Sullust. Maybe they're just holding back the other maps before release, as that seems pretty sparse. &gt;  new planet Sullust

It was in Star Wars: Rogue Squadron, among other stuff. Yeah I was about to say, previously unexplored my ass! I explored the shit out of Sullust in Rogue Squadron. Died there a bunch of times, too.  Fuck everything about that mission, so many god damn missile turrets. Twit twit twit TWIT TWIT 

FUCK I KNOW there a re a shit tons of missiles!! And getting lost in the canyons &gt;.&lt;

Edit: nvm, wrong mission. 

Edit 2: Damn, other then the draw distance, that game has aged well. You gotta stay low, scrape the ground and cut them down 1 by 1. Which one was it? I remember the name, and also from Empire at War where it was one of the important planets, but I can't remember jack shit about it. It was dark, rocky and volcanic. You were in a Y-wing and had to bomb some imperial landing platforms. Oh THAT fucking mission. Yeah I remember, place was a goddamn labyrinth. The mission that taught me that the radar wasn't just there for show.  Sounds like environments rather than entire maps. So probably different locations on each planet. Battle of Jakku as well, and of course the inevitable paid for DLC map packs. Fuck yeah!

I gotta wonder if we'll get 64-player (or more?) servers for multiplayer. The article also specifically said 40 players, so I think that might be the cap I wonder if that's for consoles or pc as well BF4 gets 64 players on consoles so it's probably something to do with the map design 40 for that gamemode. Could be the cap but it might not.  No space battles, clones, droids, or prequel trilogy era anything?

What the actual fuck. They've cut out half the bloody content that was in the last game. Might see it in DLC or something. DID YOU NOT SEE THE DEPLOYABLE GUNGAN SHIELD? Holy shit.

I need to see some gameplay footage.

I mean, EA has never lied to people regarding graphics, but still. the frostbite engine has some amazing graphics, that def wasn't gameplay but it looks great.

Like BF4 looks that good if you take the time to admire the flowers, the animations (which are still great) ruin the effect. Since this was basically a cutscene all the animations weren't here to take you out of it. More info

- November 17th release date / 20th for EU

- PS4 / Xbox One / Origin

- It will be connected with Episode 7

- FREE dlc "Battle of Jaku" December 8th release date (I'm pretty sure they said this DLC will explain the downed star destroyer shown in the actual movie teaser released yesterday)

- Pre-order gets "Battle of Jaku" DLC one week early

- Playstation looks to have marketing rights, perhaps a special edition shown at the panel

- ~~in-engine~~ actual gameplay footage is running on ps4

- No space battles

- You can switch between 1st and 3rd person on the go

- Power-ups allow you to play as hero classes as well as pilot vehicles

- Between 8 - 40 players

- Split-screen co-op

- No prequel / clone wars content

- No campaign

- No Battlelog

- Offline bots

- Dolby Atmos for audio / Frostbite 3 for engine

- 4 planets have been confirmed (Endor's forest moon, Hoth, Tatooine and the new planet Sullust)

- 8+ maps so far have been confirmed by devs

- Rumored actual gameplay ~~being shown behind closed doors~~, different sources are saying everyone at the event can see the actual gameplay video

- Playable characters include Darth Vader and Boba Fett

- Players can traverse the game on foot or speeder bikes, or even an AT-AT

- You can even fly TIE Fighters, X-Wings, or the Millennium Falcon

-  you can Aim Down Sights for weapons in 1st person

- "Partner up with a friend in online multiplayer, share unlocks and have each other's backs on the battlefront."

- "Fight for the Empire or Republic offline, solo or with a friend, in carefully crafted missions."

- [Youtuber who got early access](http://youtu.be/CYOAUrSpAOQ) said:

- 60fps on PS4 and xbox one **confirmed**

- 3 primary weapons with 1 secondary 

- no "spotting" like in Battlefield series

- firing gives away position on mini map

- "blasters" don't have ammo but do overheat &gt;No space battles

Bah, I loved the space battles of Battlefront II No campaign either? I mean, BF2's campaign was a bolted on excuse to move from map to map with some text screens in between and play what was basicaly capture with slight tweaks. We're not missing much there. If you mean Battlefront 2's campaign that followed the 501st I must disagree with you. Thought it was one of the best parts of that game and it was cool to see Star Wars from a perspective that wasn't a Jedi. Yeah that was actually really fun and I liked playing that.  It was a neat little story, but it didn't amount to much more than they said. You'd get some special "kill this person" or "collect these things" but it was just bot matches. This is true. People seemed to rip on Titanfall's 'campaign', so I'm a bit surprised to see people upset over the loss of Battlefront's campaign. Granted, Battlefront's was singleplayer, but it still played the same as the multiplayer matches. That's because Titanfall's "campaign" threw you into random parts of it, depending on when you happened to jump in.  It was bad for different reasons. I enjoyed it too, but then that's just because I enjoyed the bot matches and conquest. My point is that it's not game defining like a bunch of people in these comments are implying. I won't enjoy the game less because of its absence.  It was clear that Battlefront 2's campaign was forced on, but god damn they did really good with the story of the 501st. Their perspective made everything about that campaign interesting. the article said something about carefully crafted single player missions. Could mean anything though. Probably means no galatic conquest  I loved galactic conquest! That was literally all I played as a kid. Shame they might not have it... we'll see I'm willing to bet that it will be in a future DLC From their website it seems like the fighter battles will be in the atmosphere, kinda like dog-fighting in battlefield. So there is still battles just not in space. &gt; Split-screen co-op

YAAAAAAAAAAAAAY!

&gt; No campaign

BOOOOOOOOOOOO!


 NO SPACE BATTLES?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!

WHAT THE FUCK?! Expansion fodder, or something guarantee sequel sales. This is EA we're talking about. I'm really hoping they are saving that for a reboot of the X-Wing or TIE Fighter franchise.  BUT WHAT ABOUT GALACTIC CONQUEST????? Is that Galactic Conquest  mode coming back?

Edit: Said Instant Action, meant Galactic Conquest;  though I still wonder about Instant Action. Most people are forgetting that DICE had maybe a little over 2 years to build this game. Although this game is on a existing but updated engine unlike the battlefield games, DICE had to build most of the assets and mechanics from scratch. This takes time.

Battlefield games had most of everything ready from models to sound effects, they needed updates and several new assets had to be rebuilt but DICE had zero assets in relation to StarWars or even game mechanics. I'm pretty sure their combat designers spent a whole lot of time just to get the combat with laser weapons working well since battlefield doesn't really have an equivalent to it.

So I'm okay with them building a smaller but solid and stable experience. Hopefully they learnt from the train wreck that battlefield 4 was at launch and that this game is much more reliable. 

Space combat and single player can easily be things that come in as DLC or a new battlefront games over the next two to three years. 

Keep in mind they have to redeem themselves for battlefield 4 and live up to the expectations of Battlefront. I respect their decision to keep the project scope smaller and more manageable. It's in engine graphics, like those awesome Bad Company 2 trailers.  He just confirmed 100% of it are in-game assets. That's what I said. The BC2 trailers were created using in game assets, in engine.  Note that this is GAME ENGINE instead of GAMEPLAY trailer.  
This is what the ENGINE is capable of pushing on an 'industrial basis' aka a very powerful machine rendering this.  
You probalby won't see gameplay like this unless DICE leaves the graphics settings open and a rig in the future could run it. The graphics weren't out of the question. What made it look really good was all the custom animation. In game, every action has a relatively generic animation, and no "look cool" camera work.  Yeah, that's what I find the most frustrating about "trailers" like this. The animations are beautiful, but I know the in-game ones won't be anywhere near this, which is unfortunate. I don't blame them for that, but it's a twist of the knife when they show you what's possible and then give you whatever ships, which can't possibly compare.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] At least we got to see some class gadgets like the portable shield and the jetpack. And I assume that the Y-Wing bombing run can be called in like a mortar strike. Shame there was no gameplay, but at least we get an idea of what to expect.  Dice doesn't really do "call in X", they've made their money off giant sandbox games with jets and choppers. Not having flyable Y-Wings would be a step back. I hope they have flyable Y-Wings, I haven't really been up to date with the Battlefield series, but the last I played properly was Bad Company 2 and that had a mortar strike device you could use. But yeah, I hope there's a teamwork aspect where people in X-Wings need to defend the Y-Wings from TIE Fighters and such while they go about bombing runs. One can hope! According to [PCGamer](http://www.pcgamer.com/star-wars-battlefront-preview-it-looks-beautiful-but-will-it-be-fun/) it will be something you call in, but part of a gamemode. PCGamer have said that they're a call in thing and not controlled by players If you read the press impressions articles of the gameplay videos, they've confirmed that the Y-Wings are a scripted event to happen in the Walker Game Mode (Like 2142's titan battle) when you take a specific point. 

There are still player-controlled fighters and stuff in the air, but the AT-AT bombers are AI. 

edit: might as well post all the highlights from PC gamer's [impressions](http://www.pcgamer.com/star-wars-battlefront-focusing-on-planetary-battles-instead-of-space-combat/):

Highlights:

* No aim-down-sights in first-person, just a reticule in the center of the screen that feels more like classic Battlefront than DICEs Battlefield. Like Battlefront 2, this game will allow for switching between first-person and third-person at any time.
* A new mode called Walker Assault, which will support Battlefronts largest player count with 40 players. Other maps and modes will support smaller player counts, down to as few as eight players. Walker Assault mixes together all of Battlefronts main ingredients. Some players will shoot it out on the ground while others dogfight in X-Wings and TIE Fighters in the skies above. (Sounds like Titan Battles from Battlefield 2142). 
* Hero characters are most definitely back. DICE confirmed Vader and Boba Fett are both playable, but didnt specify how theyll be selectable.
* DICE didnt want to talk much about gameplay modes or features, though it did mention the Partner system, which works a bit like squads in Battlefield. Players can choose one Partner to always be able to see in-game, and always be able to spawn next to. But more importantly, youll be able to share item/weapon unlocks with your partner. 
* On launch there are three planets available, Tattooine, Endor, Hoth, and Sullust, though DICE is planning a free DLC pack called The Battle of Jakku, which is a climactic battle between the Rebels and the Empire shortly after Return of the Jedi. If youve seen the new Force Awakens trailer, that crashed Star Destroyer and other debris are from the battle.

What do you think? Ummmm what? BF2 commanders could call in artillery, UAV, or supplies. BF2142 they could call in the same plus an emp strike. BF4 brought back commander. DICE definitely does that shit. Could be like a mortar strike, but that'd be atypical of dice. I see it more as there are vehicles on this map and the Y-Wings were reminiscent of what a team working together could do. [RUMOR] Gameplay trailer is coming today too.

EDIT: [JackFrags's first impressions about the Gameplay Trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ege4tPDSNoQ). They just confirmed on stream that there is a 5 minute gameplay video shown at the panel at the convention but not on stream. Wonder when we will get that online. It's not at the panel it's on the showroom floor for everyone to see, no way they don't put it online. someone is bound to whip out their phone and film it. where did you read that?
 I'm in line for the Gameplay at Celebration. They're pushing on security hard. Someone just got removed for trying to film it. yeah from what ive read online, most of the big game press sites have seen 7-8 minutes of actual gameplay that takes place on endor and theyre walked-through something similar to what happens in the trailer so we might possibly get gameplay today too, the panel is still going on and its an hour long they might keep the gameplay until the end.
CONFIRMATION: ppl at celebration can see 5 minutes of actual gameplay , just heard it on the livestream, more than likely it will make its way online somehow  At the Celebration, nothing official. PSA: The gameplay footage in the video /u/warxion linked is Star Wars Battlefront 2, not the upcoming Battlefront game. I almost shit my pants with how awful that looked until I figured that out. If there's one thing DICE is known for, it's graphic fidelity. 

Can't believe I was blown away by Star Wars twice in the last 24 hours...

That clip with the X-Wing flying through the canyon firing at a TIE Fighter was my favorite part.

Now, to wait for some proper gameplay clips. I'm holding my excitement, I wanna see gameplay footage and I wanna see what shitty business practices people are gonna be outraged over in the coming months. ^ This is modern gaming. Sadly.

"Oh hey this game *looks* great!"

Too bad it's probably heavily touched up, the company will ruin it with microtransactions/predatory monetization, and the base gameplay will be exactly like *insert most popular title in the genre here*. Hardly, it's not like trailers that don't represent are new. But before they were so obviously not gameplay it wasn't a problem. See a realistic looking trailer, you know it's not real. &gt; That clip with the X-Wing flying through the canyon firing at a TIE Fighter was my favorite part.

That almost looked like actual gameplay too. I actually thought this was live action for about 30 seconds. Towards the end..  
&gt; Frostbite game engine footage representative of Playstation 4. Not actual gameplay.

I highly doubt it'll look anything like that in game... maybe on a high-end PC.

Very impressive nonetheless. 1:47 in Battlefront Trailer, 0:30 in new Film trailer 

http://imgur.com/xAk8wkW,asQuz5v#0 Good eyes, I couldnt see past Boba Fett in that shot.  But I am pretty sure that they said that the free DLC was going to tell the story of that Star Destroyer. great catch Supposedly the free DLC will explain how it crashed. I'd kill for a map set inside a downed Destroyer like that first pic. Or at least partially inside. The tilted aspect of the rooms and layout would make for something very interesting. "Fight for the Empire or Republic offline, solo or with a friend, in carefully crafted missions." - nice, so we can do lan parties again. 

edit: look's like it's just splitscreen/coop guys :( "... with a friend" sounds more like 2 player coop. yeah, just notice it :( probably like BF3/4 coop. Even better, bots are all but confirmed. I think that's more a nod to 2-player spliscreen in multiplayer and co-op. Doesn't really say anything about LAN per se. Seems most companies are wary of LAN since it can be exploited pretty easily (on PC).  Sorry for my ignorance, but how can it be exploited? Not exactly, I believe they have confirmed split screen for home consoles. Not sure if BF4/H has lan but if they do I would expect it in this. So while it wasn't gameplay footage I liked the overall atmosphere of what was shown. E3 is in less than two months and I'm sure we will get plenty of gameplay footage there. Its 90% likely going to have a similar feel to BF3/BF4.  Well 3rd person has been confirmed, I expect a more floaty feel than BF4.  As posted in other threads:

* Release date Nov 17, 2015
* No space battles
* You can switch between 1st and 3rd person on the go
* Power-ups allow you to play as hero classes as well as pilot vehicles
* Battles are between 8 - 40 players
* Split-screen co-op
* Single player but no campaign

Edit: if you upvote this comment, go upvote [the post](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/32xm5v/game_informer_an_impressive_first_look_at_star/cqflgd6) /u/jeperty made. He/she was first! &gt; Single player but no campaign

Please tell me this means bots. I miss playing against bots. I hope so. I'm hoping there are still bots even in the larger games since they definitely helped escalate the sense of scale in those games. Still waiting on confirmation that you can play as a wampa. &gt; No space battles

Well why the fuck not? Future dlc obviously Maybe they don't want to implement a second set of low/no-grav physics? There weren't any zero g sections in battlefield, were there? - No space battles
- No prequel trilogy
- 4 planets
- No campaign

Seems pretty barebones, especially compared to previous entries. I feel like they're banking on people desperately wanting another Battlefront enough to buy this for $70. I'd like to be proven wrong, but I just have a bad feeling about this.
 Have they confirmed it's only four planets, or is everyone assuming that because we've only seen four so far? Four planets, not four maps. Four different environments to build maps in. That's not too bad, battlefield only has one planet. [deleted] Seriously, fuck Tatooine. You know it's Star Wars when the tiny backwater nowhere of a planet is somehow known throughout the galaxy (there's a gang on fucking Nar Shaddaa named after Krayt Dragons) and is inexplicably linked to every major storyline ever (all three trilogies, SWTOR, KOTOR, Legacy, etc etc).  We see at least 3 planets in the first movie alone. Not sure if you're trying to make a joke or... I think he's joking at how most of the planets in Star Wars follow one of four basic templates; snow, desert, jungle, city. Yeah, really. Since when did "four planets" objectively mean "four maps"? Yeah but in Star Wars we have planet to mean terrain, we aren't gonna see that sick cloud city pre alpha from before dice was on it where you could go from space to land. We aren't gonna see jabbas palace and all sorts of iconic locations that made the prior games so good I'm sure there are more than four. [This](http://starwars.ea.com/starwars/battlefront/buy/ps4) page says at the description of the game 
&gt; Battle on planets like Hoth, Endor, Tatooine, and a previously unexplored planet, Sullust.

And at the bottom of the page it says

&gt; PRE-ORDER AND BE THE FIRST TO BATTLE ON THE PLANET OF JAKKU

This confirms Hoth, Endor, Tatooine, Sullust and Jakku. There ~~is~~ are still almost no details about the majority of the game so it's unfair to really make judgment about it yet. Battlefield has only featured one planet and no one has complained about that. :P  Battlefield doesn't even have proton torps, what a featureless series. I really hope space battles are added in. They were so awesome. :( What does no campaign mean? There is no story mode? Is it just an arena shooter with larger maps? Anyone else love how the heavier lasers on AT-STs and the AT-AT actually feel heavier? It's not just *pew pew*, but like **PEW PEW**. Well that's how it is in the movies, so you should probably expect that in the games. Was kind of hoping to see some capital vs capital ship combat, even if not in space to at least be within the atmosphere. It looks like they cut out a lot of the stuff from Battlefront 2 and the PSP game that they had where you could go from ground to space combat. There are no space battles in this game :( I might be mistaken, but the presence of aliens among the Rebel Forces could imply that you can customize your soldiers. Could be interesting! I doubt it, Battlefront 2 had classes that had alien races. Stupid goddamn bothans and their stupid goddamn rayguns. Oh god, I loved disintegrating teams with that thing. I said NO! No disintegrations! Battlefront renegade squadron (spin off)  had customization  The old Battlefront games simply had different races as different character classes. It might be customization, might just be the same as the old games. Really hope this game can live up to the hype. I am genuinely worried about this game being rushed given its proximity to Episode VII. They've been working on it since at least 2013 and are using the same engine as Battlefield 4, which means they're at least more experienced with it than they were when BF4 came out.  They have been working with the Frostbite engine since 2008, that's 7 years now. Basically improving the engine doesn't mean that you somehow have to relearn it between every game, because technically BF4 and BFH are on different engines despite both being FB3 This is true to an extent, but I suspect game engines are more complex than you're giving credit to.  It seems like they are keeping things realistic (40 player, no space battles) for their development time so it should be a solid release although it may not have a ton of content. If the leaks are correct, they want a huge dlc push for this game.  Might not have a lot at first but there are plans for a ton of shit. Sony revealing this? Odd, since EA and Microsoft are so buddy buddy with EA access and what not.  Money is money and I guess Sony paid more for the advertising rights.  A ps4 starwars bundle will sell a lot of consoles. [Seamlessly swap between 1st person  and 3rd person perspectives.](http://starwars.ea.com/starwars/battlefront?buy_platform=ps4&amp;utm_campaign=swbf-social-us-ic-yt-yt-celebration-full-anno-vid-site-ramp&amp;utm_source=youtube&amp;utm_medium=social&amp;sourceid=swbf-social-us-ic-yt-yt-celebration-full-anno-vid-site-ramp&amp;cid=37628&amp;ts=1429292338762#five-reasons-to-play)
fuck yesss Can't wait to get to drive an AT-AT. The trailer looks nice and the art is very faithful to the original, but I'm a bit worried that actual gameplay won't look as good. According to some articles you can't. They move along a pre-determined path and you control the guns. I'm afraid that this game will be dumbed-down as much as the next guy, but I'm not reaching for my pitchfork quite yet. This decision actually makes some sense when you compare the good to the bad.

What we're losing, ultimately, is the ability to walk slowly towards the Rebel base at a slightly different angle. An AT-AT is far too large and slow a target for maneuvering to provide a combat advantage, at least in the kinds of maps they tend to show up in (wide open valleys with a base at one end).

What we're gaining is the ability to make an AT-AT more of a map fixture than a vehicle (now that it can no longer be directed by an idiot, a griefer, or nobody at all). If done well, this will allow our four-legged friend to be more important and better balanced. Think the Payload gamemode in TF2, which was a replacement for the old VIP mode; yes, they removed player agency in favour of a literally on-rails objective, but that isn't always a bad decision.

Now, if the game comes out and AT-ATs are unimportant, poorly balanced, or just not fun, *then* it will be time to riot. So they're making the AT-ATs the AC-130s of Battlefront. I'm okay with that. Thank you for being a calm, rational, voice of reason for why this is a good thing.  I actually didn't mind that the AT-AT was OP because of the fact that there were multiple ones of them that could be commandeered by multiple players on the Empire's side for the duration of the game.  Since they were really hard to move around, and the Rebel thingies that took them down (forgive me but it's been a long time since I played) were a bitch to hit, there was a bit of a balance on one side vs. the other while maintaining a feel of importance/impending doom.

Part of the fun of Battlefront, in my opinion, was that you had these little moments of being a total badass before losing it, only to regain it again a few minutes later.  It wasn't like you could get a total badass gun and use it to make everyone else your bitch while racking up killstreaks that augmented your abilities.

Tl;dr: Battlefront's strength was in its moments of badass-ery that was accessible to all players. In the spirit of Battlefield 4's use of aerial gunships.  Anyone thinking there would be gameplay was extremely mistaken.  Exactly what I expected, a look at the engine through a scripted 'cutscene' of sorts.

Looks beautiful.  Hoth looked perfect, I am stoked. I was expecting this "cinematic" trailer then a bit of gameplay during the panel. God damn I hope they learned from their terrible release of Battlefield 4. I want this to work on day one rather than 6 months after I stopped caring. Hopefully, whatever technological advances they patched into BF4 to make it functional will be useful in achieving a smooth Battlefront launch.  Really don't like this call in bomber bullshit. I hate DICE making everything automated. The fun is in doing it yourself, not watching some AI do it for you. Where's the reward in that? As a lifelong fan of both Battlefield and Battlefront, I personally cannot wait for DICE to continue to demonstrate how comprehensively they can fuck a sure thing with glitz and glamour over gameplay. How does an AT-AT walk through a forest like that?  By knocking down trees. Apparently there's no campaign or space battles? *sigh* that's really disappointing. Especially the no campaign part (at least for me).  Yes yes, let the hype flow through you

Also for people that don't believe these can be in engine graphics, BF4 is honestly not that far off from this So we are all going to be responsible consumers and not pre-order a game published by EA right guys? Guys? Could be pretty cool but I have a sneaking suspicion they're going to make a good Battlefield game with star wars gear. I'm skeptical of Dice being able to capture the essence of what I loved with Battlefront, but who knows.  No space battles, only five planets, no Republic era, and no Campaign?

I am not impressed. I'm sure this game will be great but I'm not touching a pre-order as I am incredibly disappointed. I'll be waiting patiently for gameplay and reviews. &gt; no Republic era

Honestly, I think this disappoints me the most, both as a Battlefront fan (IMO the maps from the prequels, like Geonosis, were by far the best) and as a Star Wars fan (the Clone Wars is an awesome era, and it fits the "open warfare" theme a *lot* better than the OT). There will likely be multiple maps to each planet. The amount of pessimism in here is brutal.

How the fuck do you watch THAT and say stuff like " i lost the remaining hope I have for this game"

Christ people, cheer up a little.

EDIT: Since everyone is bitching at me. How impatient and entitled can you be? It's a reveal trailer for a game SEVEN MONTHS away from release. Just enjoy it for what it is, and when gameplay comes out closer to launch, feel free to criticize away. Because they talked about things in the game, and alot of things in the original two wont be in this one. Like Galactic Conquest and Space Battles. Dice doesn't have the greatest of track records. The pessimism is rooted in reality. The trailer is cool, but a bunch of news has come in from other sources at the same time that are implying this game will have way less content than its prequels. I wish it was gameplay. It obviously looks good but at the same time, I want to see real gameplay to get a real sense of what the scale of the game will be especially since its only 40 players this time.  What could have been [Alpha Footage](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=347&amp;v=2WeX41WfOsY) I can see it now on the forums :

11/17/2015 : "OMG DICE, best gaem evaaar. We &lt;3 you"

11/18/2015: "OMG DICE, worst fucking hit detection ever! You guys are literally Hitler" "Game engine footage" is a vastly different statement than "in-game footage".

This is all pre-rendered. Do NOT expect the game to look anywhere near this good or to have character animations anything like that.

I'm excited for the game, but boy do I hate misleading game trailers. Is this coming out for ps4 first, or the big 3 simultaneously? Since they released one release date, we can assume it is hitting all at the same time.  In fact, Xbox players will most likely be playing it first since it is a part of EA Access.

http://mp1st.com/2015/04/13/report-star-wars-battlefront-gets-an-early-ea-access-launch-on-xbox-one/#.VTFRZPnF_Ak Oddly enough it will be coming to Xbox first via EA Access, despite Sony locking down the advertising rights. Has anyone seen actual gameplay footage yet? In engine stuff is cool but all that is is a cinematic trailer. There's no publicly released gameplay afaik. Ok, that's cool, but when are we going to see actual gameplay. In engine means nothing. There's no game logic linked to it and thus they can readily display the highest possible fidelity that the engine has to offer. In practise, the game is going to look nothing like that. People are complaining about the lack of content in terms of planets and no spaceship battles and stuff, but the truth is there may be a lot of content we don't know about. There might be many different kinds of classes, weapons, gameplay modes, or even multiple maps on each planet. I was not mentally prepared for those graphics. That montage at the end almost looked like movie footage. pretty sure no one in here actually wants this game to succeed. only to fail so they can shit on it and ea. Outrage culture in /r/games. Nothing new here. Of course they don't. People love to hate EA and anything with hype around it. They're all nitpicking at just the tiniest things from a "reveal" trailer while I'm just sitting here still blown away by the fact that we're getting a new Star Wars game and movie within a month of each other.  It's just the people in here who are part of the anti-EA circlejerk that want that Just like hardline. welcome to /r/games. Is it out yet? If it's not then it's gonna be shit. Is it out and shit? We need ten articles and thousands of comments bashing the game/dev/publisher. Is it out and good? Not worth talking about on this sub. Phil Fish is that you?  So are they heavily leaning on multiplayer or they going to balance it out with a decent story driven single player/ co-op? I wouldn't mind a great online shooter, but the ability to play through the star wars universe with a friend(s) would be plenty awesome and great for those who aren't too fond on the multiplayer aspect.. There will be singleplayer and co-op against bots as far as I know but I doubt there will be anything like a real campaign, and even if they did make one DICE campaigns are pretty terrible, they only seem to be able to get multiplayer right. &gt;DICE campaigns are pretty terrible

Bad Company 2 would like a word with you. Yeah I pointed that out in another comment, but yes, Bad Company 1&amp;2 are pretty much the only worthwhile BF campaigns, and 1s story is not even that good, it's only the characters that make up for it imo. battlefront and battlefield have always been multiplayer focused games. What I meant though was a balance between the two, BF4 the story on hard and taking time is still only an afternoon game with little to no replay value. I'm just hoping for meaningful story and exploration.. Or the ability to create a list of planets to go fight on etc. I know what Dice is capable of but more recently they haven't been too on point. Normal old singleplayer bots would be awesome. I can load up Battlefront 2 or Battlefront 1 today, right now, at any time, and jump right in and spend 20 minutes or two hours fighting the battle of Hoth or bombing a star destroyer with a Y-Wing, or fighting on AT-ST on Endor or fighting bounty hunter in Mos Eisley or do whatever else I want with no connection issues or lag or bugs or dumb kids, just by loading up a map and playing against bots. I can do the same in BF1942  or BF:V or even BF2 with its dozen or so great singleplayer mods.

The BF games became crappy when they turned into only about competition, they became reward/medal/killstreak driven instead of just being driven by being a fun game for the sake of being fun.

Making Battlefield games have linear COD singleplayer campaigns that no one asks for which have one time replayability, and shallow, contrived gameplay, QTE based cutscenes, killed of the whole potential of what you could do with singleplayer bots and advancing AI. You have infinite replayability if you put in singleplayer bots. In 5 years when your laptop is powerful enough to play this game, it would be fun to just kill an hour or two train ride blasting away at stormtroopers without having to worry about having a valid internet connection and downloading a separate corporate client installer, which needs updates, and then loading a web browser to log in to a goddamn a social media app just to get the fucking game to start playing so I can jump in a littlebird and waste some toons. You ended this a little bit rant-y, but I am 100 % with you! 

Local bots also have the added benefit of not being pissed when you do poorly, when you are too good, or when you just quit the game mid-battle.

You could still play multiplayer online, but I want the option to just play a short local game when I feel like it. Hey thats cool. I sorry if I became a little bitchy myself but I have such amazing great young memories of great nights just playing for the fun, I guess I am a little passionate when it comes to A+ memories vs real money spent and disappointed on sub par cash in sequels. If anyone remembers Team Fortress Classic, I have the craziest specific memories of experimenting with my first few beers at the same time in high school and playing TFC with my old friends. Netcode for Half-Life 1 was fucking solid and the fact that anyone on a joint like Gamespy could host a server meant you could be half geek half blazer and still get your bros together with patchy computer knowledge and have a crazy match on Saturday night. With maybe if your lucky a six pack or couple green cigarettes to enhance times and memories.

I really have like honest engrained nostalgia back to when the devs were still thinking about including fun stuff in a game not just to try and make an extra buck but to capture legit fans. Team Fortress Fuckin Classic came out free with a patch. That was SOLID game-internet-Dev relationship with a capital D, in the day and time they could get away with that.

Good business strategy though they made about eleven million+ lifelong Valve customers lol. Now that you mention it, there was something quite fun about loading up a map without the intent to really fight it. You can just let the AI duke it out as you watch, or explore the map amongst the chaos. There is something appealing about taking a passive role once in a while without being pressured to perform. Hell yes! Also if you could even believe it some of these games allowed you to hit the pause button if you needed to step out for a pee/do up a j/pay the pizza man. I think my Pause|Break key is broke or is faulty when playing online. Sometimes people playing games need to do more in real life then just sit and stare and pay for DLC/PTW scams. 

If I can make a easy prediction: open world like GTA V/Elder Scrolls + Occulus or whatever VR ends up being good will be the natural next gen.

Hopefully Battlefront 2015 could be so clever as to smell the value in real replayability. You don't have to short scam suckers cashing out for online, you can long scam true Jedi who will support replayability and honesty. One Orange Box could be worth five years of yearly Battlefield clone abortions in terms of gaining long term trust/scam customer/fans. Yeah, fuck the hype. Definitely not pre-order this bitch until release. You know EA fucks you in the ass at the end right guys?  No first trailer has gameplay footage. That being said I still wanted to see some. 

Wallet is close by, but remains closed for now.  Lots of first trailers have gameplay footage. No idea why you're claiming otherwise.  Ok, *most* first trailers then.  As pointed out before, this is the second trailer for this game and still no gameplay footage.  Wasn't that one more of a "teaser" though?

I saw that as more of an official announcement that they were making the game, not so much as an actual game trailer.  I suppose so. The videogame industry is becoming more like the movie industry everyday, with teaser trailers, trailers, and eventually at some point, gameplay.  These were my thoughts exactly. These game trailers mirror the film's trailers pretty well as far as how they've been released.  That first one was more in line of 'Guys we're making this game and look we used actual models from the movies! Sw33t!' 

It's more a Dev Diary instead of a reveal trailer. Look at The Witcher 3, it had a Dev diary first, then a reveal trailer and after that some actual gameplay. I'm sure you'll see plenty more in two months at E3. 

In the words of Aaron Rodgers, relax. (And I hate Rodgers.)  Agreed on both points!   I hope people realize how much can change in gameplay from now till release. If they have something in that they remove later, but you bought the game because of that one thing.. they want to avoid people doing that.

That said, this is just showing off what the level of detail the game's going to have and what we can expect to do in-game. It's no different than those hype trailers Battlefield have that are using the same engine. anyone know what species [this](http://i.imgur.com/j69FrPY.png) is? ishi tib maybe? Trandoshan maybe? So I'm correct in assuming that his is going to be on PC as well, even with the playstation logo? [deleted] Oh wow. That's really unfortunate. I wish someone had stopped her before she did this. :(  Yeah, look at this conversation:


A: Good luck

**Rachelb: Thanks**

A: I'm gonna miss you.

**Rachelb: Sorry.**

A: :(

**Rachelb: :(**

A: today?

**Rachelb: Yeah.**

A: Damn.

**Rachelb: Sorry**

A: bye Rachel

**Rachelb: Bye**

A: Sorry it has to be this way but I understand

**Rachelb: Me too**

And then... A: Good riddance

**Rachelb: Pretty much.**


How many of these questions are related/asked by the same person, I don't know. But they all, excluding the final question, flow quite well in a conversation. If it was in fact suicide, why did the person asking these questions not tell anyone? Police, ambulance, family, friends? Hell, if they'd have dropped me a text I'd have gone and attempted to help! :(

Seems like such a wasted life when the means to convince her otherwise were potentially there just days ago. Sucks to say and I'll be *that* asshole, but people threaten suicide all the time. Been on the internet too long I guess, but when someone says it I don't even give it a second thought. Rarely does a person who says they'll kill themself actually kill themselves. Obviously sucks that it happened but the truth is that this is the internet. People just don't care until the "action" actually happens. 


Though there's a difference between not giving a damn beforehand (where I put myself) and outright saying nonsense like good riddance. Pretty messed up. But again, it's the internet. I'm sure most online gamers have heard worse for less Suicide is something that should always be taken seriously and *never* joked about, for this exact reason.  Might the person not kill themselves right then?  Perhaps, but why take the risk?  The fact that they're bringing it up at all should be a huge red flag.  You might think they're "just doing it to get attention", and you'd be right: **they want to be helped**.  Even if you think they're not serious about it and are just calling out to "create drama" it's likely they need help or treatment for *something*.  

Saying something like "Good riddance" is criminal.  Just because it's the Internet isn't an excuse.  If this is what happened to cause her death, I'm sorry she couldn't receive help in time.  

*Edit: Thank you very much for the gold.  It's my first.* I used to have a depression and did stuff like "calling out suicides" too, to get attention and make people show me that I actually mean something to people and make people convince me that I shouldn't do it, basically. I mean, it is literally asking for attention, yes, because you need attention.

I mean, looking back on it, it sounds really stupid and selfish and childish but I suppose it was the only thing I could have done back then.

And I don't want to imagine what would have happened if nobody was there to support me and answer my calls back then.

Like, I usually dont take things seriously on the internet, but suicide threats are the one thing I actually take really really serious, because what if it's real and you could have prevented it? How could you live with yourself after that? Yeah, the thing that people don't realize when they say it's a "cry for attention" is that a "cry for attention" isn't necessarily a bad thing. If someone's threatening suicide, they really *do* need attention. Yeah people seem to think anything that is a "cry for attention" is just some kind of weak shit that can be dismissed. Does no one stop and think "wow if people are that desperate for some love and attention they must feel really shitty". 

Of course some people have no intention at all, but lots of times genuine suicidal "threats" or ideation gets dismissed instantly.  Yes, but being depressed and having the police show up at your door might help get you treatment. Or if you're not depressed and just being a dick it might help you not making jokes like that again. There isn't a scenario where you shouldn't act. I agree, and thank you for mentioning that.   I worked briefly at a suicide hotline,  and it's true that it should always be taken seriously. We were trained to treat even *obvious* prank calls using standard protocol. Because you don't really **know** until you know. 


I will say, though,  that I tend to agree that many people who threaten suicide usually aren't looking to actually complete suicide. They're often reaching out for something or someone that they feel they are missing in their lives. Still, reinforcement and permission should never be given.  "Good riddance" is the last thing a suicidal person needs to hear. Fucking asshole.  Do suicide hotlines care if you're not on the brink of suicide? I've got absolutely no one I feel comfortable with talking to anymore. And while it's not like I'm going to go for it within the next day or week, it's just been a pain that's been growing and eating at me. And probably could just use the release without threat of punishment. Well, it was our job to be sympathetic towards anybody who calls regardless of whether they were in a suicidal/homicidal crisis, but there are more appropriate people to talk to if your depression hasn't reached that point. After all, if you don't feel like hurting or killing yourself/others, you could be calling at the same time as someone who is. 

The first thing a crisis intervention worker will ask is if you are in a crisis. If you are, further steps will be taken to guide you out of it or to otherwise have you psychologically assessed to see a different professional (or whatever other necessary measures). If you aren't in a crisis, then the crisis worker will likely refer you to someone in the area who is better suited to your current needs. However, it would be the client's responsibility to follow through with visiting them.

**Edit:** the short answer is yes, they care, but you would have better experiences with a therapist or some other kind of professional with which you could address your specific needs.

**Edit 2:** fixed typo from original post. Mobile devices suck sometimes.

**Edit 3:** Not that professionals are the only ones you can talk to. There are always people ready and willing to listen if you're able to take a chance and fight the good fight. Yeah im sure yo can talk to them. 

In the UK we have Samaritans, and universities have phone lines. There are often avenues specific to demographics/geographical region/ maybe work has a mental health help line?

On here there is /r/SuicideWatch , /r/depression and associated subs ,/r/offmychest 

Dont be afraid to reach out, you are not alone
 A guy I knew from 2006 on an internet forum commited suicide in 2009 or so. He always joked about and no one in our "circle" took it seriously until he finally did it. His last words to us were "goodbye, im killing myself" ours were just like  "ok"


It still haunts me Yes exactly...I'm in the military and unfortunately suicide is all too common among soldiers.

The fact is that when people talk about suicide it means that they want help, but are either afraid to directly ask or they see it as a sign of weakness.  If these people wanted to kill themselves, they would just do it.

When someone talks about suicide it means that they want someone to step in and help, many times it doesn't matter who comes to them, sometimes a complete stranger can have more impact because it can mean a lot that even someone that doesn't know you cares about you.

 That's not true at all really. I've wanted to kill myself. I've tried three different times. They all failed for various reasons and I have more than enough scars to show for it. You can want to die, but not have the gusto to do it yourself. It's extremely scary. It's something that you have to do in the flick of a switch or it gets harder and harder. It doesn't mean they don't want to die, because they probably do. They are just scared to do it themselves. But if someone else said "I'll pull the trigger" they'd line the gun up in a heartbeat. Last time I OD'd the experience was so awful that I haven't been able to seriously try to kill myself again. I'd never try to do it with drugs again and I'm even terrified of the thought of shooting myself and surviving. 

Some people might see that as a good thing, but really it's very difficult. Too me, "Good riddance" ties into the previous "Sorry it has to be this way but I understand" making me think A could be close to RachelB and knows much more about the underlying issues/reasons than we (i.e. that it's aimed not at RachelB, but at whatever she will now no longer know).

But it could also just be me being naive (I knew nothing of neither A nor RachelB until five minutes ago). Yeah I feel like person A was also suicidal and had the same thoughts about life and such as she did. Didn't get any malicious vibes from the conversation. I'm not so sure.  To me, the "good riddance" is just malice.  Anyone who thinks it's OK to say something like that to someone, especially someone threatening suicide, needs to be swiftly corrected and might need counseling themselves.  

The only cases where suicide is ever considered ethical and legal are cases where someone has a terminal illness, is in extreme pain, and doesn't have long to live, and then only after careful consideration and approval and oversight from multiple doctors and others. The person then is generally able to say goodbye to everyone, and this decision isn't made overnight. &gt; The only cases where suicide is ever considered ethical and legal are cases where someone has a terminal illness, is in extreme pain, and doesn't have long to live, and then only after careful consideration and approval and oversight from multiple doctors and others. The person then is generally able to say goodbye to everyone, and this decision isn't made overnight.

What you're referring to is assisted suicide/euthanasia, which I would imagine are a tiny fraction of suicides worldwide and are not a legal option in many countries.  Oh. I read the "good riddance" as a "good riddance to the world," probably because of how she agreed. Not good riddance to her. That's pretty mean if so.  Same. It doesn't make sense for it to be malice directed at her because from the context of the conversation (if it were indeed malice directed at her) it comes completely out of nowhere, when before that A seemed to be empathizing with Rachel. &gt;Suicide is something that should always be taken seriously and never joked about

I had an ex girlfriend call me in hysterics soon after I broke up with her, saying she was going to kill herself. I knew it was bullshit, because she was a mental like that. Didn't matter, I called the paramedics. She called me back, and was on the phone with me when 2 police, a firetruck and an ambulance all showed up at her house.

I doubt she's fucked around with that game any more in her life. When my friend in the US tried to kill himself, I rung my local police. They couldn't do much so they said to ring the FBI. I did and they told me to ring X police station. I rung them and the lady was helpful but told me the FBI gave the wrong number, she gave me the right one. I rung the right station and the policeman was rude and sounded irritated like he had better things to do. He eventually promised to send a squad car round to check. He lied about this as I found out later. My friend who calmed down eventually told me they rung to ask if he waa gonna kill himself, and he obviously said no and they didn't press the matter further.

Now when someone online threatens suicide, I pass them by. It might sound heartless but the chances of helping them are low, and the stress and worry levels are high. As much as I would like to help these people, there is simply too much shit in my own life to worry about. I have bills, tests and relationships to worry about, all of which can be immensely demanding. I've never been successful in helping a person like this, and its evident my attempts are futile.

It might sound like a heartless and defeatist attitude, but its not. At the end of the day, I can't dedicate what little free time I have to sort multiple peoples' lives out. I have my own life to worry about, and there's many services like Samartians and Childline to help people. I'll always extend a hand to these people, but if they don't accept it, I'm cutting my loses and moving on. I am guessing you are in the US, and not in a major city (although it could be a suburb of a city). Many places are not like that. I have been with the police several times when they took someone in to custody because the person was suicidal. The person always denied it, but the police listened to me that the person was suicidal.  Many police districts take this very seriously and will act to stop someone suicidal. You experience is not one everyone in the US should expect to happen. The police can help a lot. &gt;it's likely they need help or treatment for something. 

Yes, but often you just can't help them. There are people who keep going on with it forever and you put so much effort into trying to be there for them and listen to them - all to no avail because a few weeks later their mood or situation swings back into the "I'm about to do it" kind and eventually you'll find yourself drained of energy to help that person.

Not all of them are willing to get actual help either. It's very difficult, not just for the person threatening suicide.  &gt; Not all of them are willing to get actual help either. It's very difficult, not just for the person threatening suicide.

If you have even a little evidence that someone is threatening to kill themselves, then call the police.

That person will then be sent to a psychiatric crisis center until such a time that their attending psychiatrist believes they are no longer a threat to themselves (which often requires more than just declaring you aren't suicidal). 

Once their, there is the possibility of in-patient therapy along side what ever medication is prescribed. They will also be given a case manager who can find them outside help, and they will be likely be discharged into an out patient status.

&gt; you just can't help them. 

You don't need to help them. You responsibility is to try and make them safe, not try to treat the underlying issues. Call the police.

Often, severe suicidal impulses are an acute issue. Even a few days can make that overwhelming desire fade back into the background. While therapy and medication can then be used to deal with the underline causes before it flares back up.  Had a person I gamed with for a while who would say it every time he was losing in a game to try to either get us to stop enjoying the game or to give him something uplifting. He did this all the time. It was absolutely rediculous and after a while the group would just say, "okay." We took it seriously at first and told him to get help, but damn if he wasn't trying to get responses out of us and it was tiring. The group actually made an agreement to simply not talk to him anymore. &gt; they want to be helped

What if someone just wants to die? Is forcing him to live ethical?

 If somebody declares their intentions publicly, it's usually a cry for help. Otherwise, they'd minimize the risk of somebody stopping them by not telling anyone of their intentions.  It is not usually a cry for help. It CAN be a cry for help or it CAN be a very matter of fact "goodbye before I end my life". It depends on the type of person. I think it is a really grey area, as the last thing a person can control in their own life, when all else is taken from them, is whether they live or die. That said, there are probably lots of people who need the help you suggest. I'm not sure where I stand on this. Until you do what is suggested above and call the cops, then you take away even the ability to control your life. 

It's a great way to piss someone off who has nothing to lose.  Almost always. I'm all for freedom to die, but when a person is who seems relatively normal wants to die there's almost always something that can be done for them that would make them want to live. With terminally I'll patients it's a completely different barrel of fish. In virutally all cases, yes, it is most certainly ethical.  Feelings of suicide can be caused by many different reasons, such as chemical imbalances in the brain or a person's **perceived** situation.  Often, things aren't as bad as one thinks, and it's easy to focus on the negative.  In the case of a chemical imbalance, the person's strong convictions to die can be gone with treatment and therapy.  Having talked people out of suicide before and seen people recover there hasn't been one who wasn't later grateful someone had stopped and helped them.  

The only cases where suicide is ever considered ethical are cases where someone has a terminal illness, is in extreme pain, and doesn't have long to live, and then only after careful consideration and approval and oversight from multiple doctors and others. &gt; Rarely does a person who says they'll kill themself actually kill themselves. 

Uhm. I work with suicidal people on the daily, and your attitude is incredibly dangerous. People who say they want to kill themselves are about a million times more likely to make an attempt on their own life, and it's the most obvious warning sign that someone is dangerously suicidal or at the very least severely depressed and in need of help.

When someone talks about or reveals plans to commit suicide, it's nearly always a desperate cry for help and attention, and whether or not they're ACTUALLY planning to go through with the suicide itself, they most assuredly want help, or at the very least want someone to care, and "not giving a damn" is basically confirming their belief that no-one gives a toss if they live or die. Agreed. I'm sorry but reading this kind of mentality is infuriating. If someone is talking about it openly, and ESPECIALLY if someone has a plan or seems to, then they should be taken seriously and steps should be taken to intervene.  A kid who went to the same high school as me did two or three "I'm killing myself goodbye everyone" Facebook statuses over the span of a year or two. Some people commented and reached out to him to support him, he had friends(He was two years younger than me, I didn't know him, only saw the status because a friend showed me). But after repeat threats with no follow through people just thought he was looking for attention.

About two years later he actually did it.  &gt;Obviously sucks that it happened but the truth is that this is the internet

Yea, but I'm over this. That's a shitty ass excuse. The internet has to change, in that regard, and if it refuses to do so, it will be forced to by more government surveillance. Might as well try to change the culture from within instead of just laughing it off as "just internet things".

Those kinds of comments are often quite shocking, a lot of depressed people on the internet and a lot of desensitization, often mutal encouragement. I'm not gonna deny that. But this culture of ignorance/lulz surrounding suicide on the internet is quite stupid. Most suicides are announced and a lot of those announcements downplayed as just seeking attention (or, on the internet, "trolling"). In the end, it's plain appropriate to always assume such threats are real, even if it's annoying to have a lot of people say so without following through. It's the same thing with bomb threats and whatnot.  You think it's 4chan in general doing this? Its like 2 posters in that thread, probably newfags at /pol/, who think they're being hip and edgy and shit.

/r9k/ is the one stop shop for wallowing in your own self misery and people knowing your feels. None of the people there ever get any better, no real help is gonna come from the internet pitying you.

If people are going to cry for help, they need real people. I'm no expert, but aren't there signs that shrinks use to distinguish these things. Like when a normally depressed person suddenly seems more calm that that can actually be a sign of an impending suicide?  Some people are OK with other people commiting suicide. It's not a universally agreed fact that suicide is bad and allot of people believe that you should be free to make the choice about your own body. After all once your dead your dead and really after that I'm sure you won't care.  Problem with suicide is it's rarely ever done with a clear mind. Suicidal people are not always thinking straight. Sometimes, letting someone kill themselves is almost like letting someone else kill them. Right. Most suicides are driven by impulse than with true forethought. Obviously, we can't know everything about the people who have successfully committed suicide but based on the testimonials of those who failed, it's largely impulse than truly thought through. Some of the comments in this thread are infuriating. 

http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/10/health/blocking-the-paths-to-suicide.html?_r=0

http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/means-matter/means-matter/impulsivity/ "After I jumped I realized ever issue I had was solvable except for the one I just made."

I remember reading that a while back from a guy who jumped off the golden gate bridge and survived. That's kinda just because your body goes into survival mode as it watches you plummet to your death. Most people that contemplate suicide are still scared about death, but its just a better alternative than the seemingly endless suffering. And yes some may be happy they survived, others may be still endlessly depressed and hate themselves for not finishing the job. Reading all the stories from survivors who realized too late that they didn't want to do what they were doing and survived as a bit of luck have convinced me otherwise.

Check San Fransisco bridge jump survivor stories.

If your suicide is part of respite from a painful-terminal illness that you're not being cured of - that's one thing.

Letting people die of depression through suicide is like letting an asthmatic die because you didn't give them an inhaler. &gt; Letting people die of depression through suicide is like letting an asthmatic die because you didn't give them an inhaler.

Asthma is far more understood and something we're actually able to reliably control. Depression is a mystery that we have next to no actual knowledge about how to deal with. 

I can see why people would put it closer to "painful-terminal illness" than to asthma. It is very rare that someone will have depression that cannot be reliably controlled. **It is treatable**, and many people recover from very severe levels to go on to lead fulfilled lives with normal levels of mood and function. I'm at roughly 7 months of no symptoms now after a period of several years of very severe depression (to the point of barely eating or really functioning at all).

It can absolutely feel like there's no hope of things ever getting better, I can sympathise with people who feel that, but feelings don't make it a fact. Depression lies. From my experience it convinces you that you can know what will happen in the future, forces your thinking into black and white terms where black is the inevitable worst and white is an impossible dream meant for other people. I don't know everyone's experience, but I do know that depression lies.

Even for treatment-resistant depression, the majority of patients who seek care achieve remission in the long term: [source](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22955008). I needed to read this right now. I am in treatment and I sometimes wonder if it is actually doing anything. Your black and white analogy is perfect because that is exactly how I see things now even though I logically know it isn't true. Thank you. You made me feel less alone. I don't personally subscribe to that idea, but even if I did, "Good riddance" is something someone says exclusively in malice. It's possible the person who said "I'm going to miss you" was someone who felt suicide is a choice everyone should have, but the last comment was someone who at the very least lacks any empathy whatsoever. Even if they were convinced she wouldn't go through with it, that's still a comment made to let her know they hate her. 

Do you think that depression can be made worse by the words of others?  Do you think that depression can push someone to suicide who might otherwise change their mind? Personally even I'm not sure where I stand on those questions, but if you're either on the fence or said yes, that last comment is simply monstrous. Now is not the time to be talking about how suicide should be a right when this was handled so horribly. &gt; sorry it has to be this way but I understand

It sounds like A thought stopping her wouldn't do any good. Maybe they felt her situation was too hopeless. Looks like the first mentions were almost 3 weeks ago...I copied a few here:

&gt;**What do you masturbate to?**

&gt;The thought of jumping off a bridge

&gt;**rip ask.fm**

&gt;rip me

&gt;**what are you about to do**

&gt; :/

&gt;**i just want to say bye**

&gt;Bye

&gt;**Are you still dead set on that thing?**

&gt;good pun

&gt;**When should I call your local police?**

&gt;fuck you

&gt;**Who will notice me when you're gone, senpai? :/**

&gt;:(

&gt;**Why is it for the best, rachel? Your disabilities?**

&gt;That is part of it.

&gt;**I think you need treatment instead.**

&gt;Treatment for what?

&gt;**How kind have you been planning or thinking about suicide?**

&gt;Idk on and off for years I guess. First time j got serious about it was a bit less than a year ago.

There's tons more messages like that.

We'll definitely miss her :(
 She has disabilities?  Not all disabilities are easy to notice. Most disabilities are nearly impossible to notice on the internet. Oh, wow. I just copied the conversation immediately on my screen. To have seen it go on for considerably longer makes it so much worse, as prevention/intervention was available (had she sought it) for a  long time too. [deleted] I didn't know she was trans. Suicide is really common among us, it scares and saddens me. From the [NHS\(England\) website](http://www.nhs.uk/Livewell/Transhealth/Pages/Transmentalhealth.aspx) : 
&gt; Consequently, trans people are at greater risk of depression, self-harm and suicide. A 2007 survey of 872 trans people found that 34% of respondents had considered suicide. This is considerably higher than the general population. I can't remember the source but I think I saw a 2013 article saying that was close to around 40% now What are the main reasons for that ?
 It's very difficult to access treatment like hormone therapy, despite it being extremely cheap and easy to provide. Without treatment the conflict between gender identity and sex causes a lot of stress, anxiety, depression, etc. It's compounded by the fact that often trans people don't get access to hormones until after puberty which then makes us feel like our bodies are irreversibly fucked up. It's starting to be the case that children can get hormone blockers, but that's rare and many of us believe it's far too late and that puberty has destroyed our chances of looking normal/passing well. For trans suicides? Bullying, discrimination, harassment, the hate for one's body, being rejected by family/friends and more. Getting shit on by society.

You'll you'll notice gay suicide rates were a lot higher before society began accepting them.

Only thing we can do to reduce their suicide rates is to try and get people to stop being dicks to them.

Which is why in some ways what Bruce Jenner is doing right now is a pretty big deal. He's a high profile public figure going through a transition and is introducing a lot of Western society to concepts they're ignorant about.

The more high profile transitions that take place in the open the more society will begin to accept it. You are partially right, I am trans and attempted suicide which had nothing to do with acceptance since everyone I knew was fine with it.

It was simply that being trans sucks ass, imagine that feeling you get when you had a really shitty stressful week, and now imagine that ALL THE TIME. It grates, fast. Life is never easy for a transexual, the problem is that most of the trans who kill themselves forget there's ways to get help and cope with the huge change in their lives aswell as dealing with the group of people that will sadly reject them out of incomprehension Being mocked, insulted, denied help makes it hard. A lot of the suicides are teens, who are bullied at school/denied transition by their parents.

Also please use transgender rather than transexual. Ah man, my bad, I keep confusing the two and yeah... Just looked it up to realize they are not the same thing, so yeah... Transgender &gt;Also please use transgender rather than transexual.

What's the difference? From the 4chan thread:
&gt; Suicidal people don't go around and tell others they'll end their lives soon, attention whores do that. Mudlord would be a great example.

I don't know why anyone would think this. That's what a lot of people do when they're course to the edge  It's fucking 4chan. No one cares about your feelings there. Everyone's anonymous. If you take anything said there personally you're definitely going to get a couple of feelings hurt.  Seriously. People seem to forget that you aren't going to get tact, sympathy, or social niceties on 4chan.  It's just the reality of the website, don't know why people are so shocked. People get shocked because it reminds them that human beings have no reason to be kind or considerate or think of anyone but themselves if they don't have to.  The way people act online, and even between online communities, and how they act in real life, can often be at least somewhat different. Although some some communities you are completely right, on boards like 4chan's /b/ you don't have to be nice, that's not part of that community and that attracts people to them for some escape, release, or sometimes just because they want to be dicks.  Yeah, plus posting with a trip generally means you're asking for attention.  "Tripfags" are passionately hated for a reason. It doesn't shock me, but it upsets me that people that shitty exist.  What shock me its that they are encouraging her:

&gt;DO IT, if you're such a weak willed thin skinned dipshit then fucking do it.  Yeah, and that's definitely the attractiveness of 4chan, and something you can't usually get here, which is really useful. Unfiltered thoughts and lack of motivation to get positive attention / lack of punishment for negative opinions is a hell of a thing. 

However it's not for the faint of heart, and as much as I say this, even I take a breather from it from time to time. 

Wouldn't change it for anything though. I just wish there was better control of moderation in certain boards.  Went through too many of the questions on the ask.fm (and only made myself depressed in doing so.) ... Looks like so many people tried to talk her out of it but it didn't work. Also some references to something with another girl not working out. Ugh. This makes me really sad...  http://i.imgur.com/aJD1kES.png

Wow. Whoever said that, I hope it eats them up from the inside. It's 4chan sooooo probably not.

(Is it 4chan? Or a different chan? In fairness I've yet to see a chan that wasn't populated by terrible people. Dunno what it is about chans.) It's pretty simple, Chans aren't filtered so you have to learn to filter out the bad by yourself rather than letting others decide what posts you see. If you don't actually use 4chan, which it seems you dont, you're only going to hear about it when it makes the news. That's usually not because something good happened. Florida seems like the worst place in the world if you forget about the fact that there's million normal people there doing things that aren't making the news for every one that is.

The types of people who say things like this are everywhere, even on reddit, you're just not exposed to them as often. Hell, I got death threats and requests for suicide for being a Cowboys fan after they beat the Lions from a post I made in /r/nfl. Some guy, I think he was a bills fan, PM'd like every Pats fan he could find, including myself, before the Super Bowl saying he hoped there would be another Boston Bombing. That was nice. I was livestreaming some Minecraft and had that happen. It started getting out of hand actually with every other comment being something extremely unpleasant.

Not sure why really, we were just some friend having fun, but I eventually shut off the stream because the comments were getting so bad, and also because people were threatening to SWAT me. I only had like 6 people watching at one time too. Looks like fullchan /sp/.

&gt;In fairness I've yet to see a chan that wasn't populated by terrible people. Dunno what it is about chans.

Imagine reddit didn't even have the trivial barrier of entry of having to make up a fake name, and didn't allow its users to collectively filter content through voting. That's pretty much it - it's trivial to contribute, and all posts are equally visible. Nope, /vg/ in the emulator general.

https://archive.moe/vg/thread/99112708/#99630095 And some people prefer it that way. I'm not necessarily in agreement with most of what half and fullchan says, but I'd be damned if I didn't think the raw, unadulterated human interaction was beautiful. I've seen a few chans that aren't. A lot of the less popular ones get people who are actually interested in the topics rather than trying to be shitposting edgelords, like what happens on the popular ones. :/ That's awful.

Sadly, if they're the kind of person who thinks it's okay to say that sort of thing, they're probably also the kind of person who thinks nothing's their fault. I'm sure they'll find a way to justify it to themselves. Jesus christ some of the comments in that vg archive are absolutely disgusting. Why people have to be such assholes to literally torment someone to death is completely beyond me.  Anonymity and the complete lack of consequence. http://images.cryhavok.org/d/1967-1/Penny+Arcade+Internet+Fuckwad+Theory.jpg This always sums up the internet for me. Obviously they don't see it that way, but the consequence is what just happened. I think what he means is consequence that affects *them*. I'm sure she would have killed herself regardless of whether a few trolls said some mean things to her or not. You're making it seem like they're the reason that she's dead.  Sorry, I didn't realize it would be taken like that. It isn't what I meant. I'm pretty sure she didn't killed herself because of those messages, though... they surely didn't help at all, but I doubt they were the main reason. Strangers on the internet from around the world don't give a shit about you. Good morning.  &gt;Strangers on the internet from around the world don't give a shit about you.

There's a difference between not giving a shit about someone and actively being a dick to someone though.  It's that second thing that I take issue with.  I know I can't do anything about it but it's depressing as hell to see how shitty people can be when they can hide behind anonymity. This is really strange. 
People seem to really liked her, but it looks like she didn't really had anyone who cared enough about her. 

Really tragic... It never ceases to amaze me how people demand everyone kowtow to their life choices, no matter how ignorant or irresponsible they are, but when there's someone who is like Rachel - born a certain way they didn't choose they get the grief.

Or, assuming they *do* make the choice to fix whatever it is about them that isn't how it's supposed to be, they get grief. They make the responsible choice to be what they're supposed to be and people can't accept it.

I totally get why trans people kill themselves. You're a stranger in your own body and anything you do to fix it is met with roadblocks and derision. In the meantime, everyone else can make stupid, selfish choices *because they want to* and it's like some sort of god-given right of theirs. Yet of "god" made you incompatible with your body, you have no right for shit.

It's amazing to me that if a baby is born with a heart defect, no one thinks twice about surgery to fix it. But if someone is born with a physical gender defect we as a society don't even entertain the idea of fixing it. Holy crap :( 23 years old is way too young for anyone to die. My thoughts go to her family and friends and I thank her for all her contributions to dolphin. I'm 23 years old and I recently lost a friend younger than me (20 years old). It hits home that anybody can go just like that, we're not invincible but we live on in what we do in life.

Rachel clearly had a large impact on the Dolphin project and meant a lot to many people who took part in it... She'll live on in what she enjoyed doing, and I wish her family &amp; friends all the best in distressing times. My brother killed himself last week, and I'm very sensitive to this kind of stuff right now. This is the worst thing I have ever gone through, and all I can think about are this persons family and friends. This stuff is so terrible, and it looks like she made it very public, too. She should have been helped. Hey, i am so sorry for your loss. A close friend of mine (a groomsman at my upcoming wedding) committed suicide last week as well, and it's been an incredibly difficult time. If you need someone to talk to, pm me.  I'm sorry to hear about your friend. Losses at such a young age are such a tragedy.  Yeah life is the most precious thing. We must never forget that! I'm 24, last year someone my age who I had known since middle school passed away in his sleep from natural causes. It was unreal. Oh my god I'm sorry to hear that :( But what "natural causes" can kill a young person like that in his/her sleep? Sorry if the question seems rude or something but it looks unreal to me too :/ Illness, cancer, heart attack, intracranial aneurysm,... a lot of things can go wrong in your body, without being detected before.

Someone died on a "survivor" TV show in France two years ago. He had a heart defect that wasn't detected, you can't predicit every thing. Wow you're completely right! Thanks for your input. Could have been undiagnosed sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is rarely fatal, I feel like it was something more serious. Could have been underlying heart condition, arrhythmia, etc.  It often takes something rare to cause the death of a 24 year with no known life-threatening illnesses in their sleep. No one knows so far. The only preexisting condition he had was asthma. Similar thing happened to a good friend of mine last year, at 25. Completely unexpected, but natural causes. We were supposed to go have lunch later that week.  23 is very young. Dolphin is one fine emulator, honestly the best available so she had some great work behind her. It's always sad when someone who was well known in a community pases away, it must be tough for everyone over at Dolphin. RIP :/  I believe she was also one of the best devs for Dolphin as well, I think it was her who joined and then majorly ramped up development with several breakthroughs in a few months time. Why is it always suicide when someone in tech dies? I've come to expect it A lot of us are tired and broken and our main medium of interaction is the internet where anyone can say anything with no consequences.

I'm not saying it's a bad thing, but it's a thing. My depression has saved my life, kind of, in a weird way.  It's been just strong enough that I want to kill myself, but my depression has made me just tired enough that I don't have the energy to bother with actually going through with ending it all.  So I've just hunkered down, lived my life on autopilot, and ended up being able to carry on in the end.  I was miserable enough to kill myself, but not motivated enough to actually be able to do so, so I sort of floated aimlessly through the black cloud and came out at the other end with enough hope to be  able to carry on.

Apparently one of the problems that psychiatric practitioners face is that when they give anti-depressants to their patients, it gives them enough pick-up to let them actually carry out their suicide plans.  They would (possibly) have been better off if the practitioner had let them wallow in their misery and come out the other side naturally. This hits way too close to home. Damn.

I hope you get through this dagbrown, it's not a nice feeling. I already did get through it.  The dark days were absolutely terrible, but in a way, my apathy helped me come through it okay.  I didn't even want to get out of bed, and I was living my entire life completely on autopilot.  But it was always just too much trouble for me to actually end everything for myself, so I never bothered.

Which counts as a happy ending for me, I guess.

I'm still susceptible to depression, but at least now having gone through it several times, I know the general shape of the problem.  It's an illness, and it should be treated like any other illness.  It's like a mental cold (or possibly a mental influenza for people who get hit hard by it).  It's awful when it's happening to you, but if you realize what's happening to you soon enough, that gives you the mental ammo to be able to withstand it.

The trick is realizing what's happening to you, and that's *really* hard when you're in the middle of the storm. It's an illness which does its absolute damnedest to distract you from the fact that it's happening. I have clinical depression and was (am?) suicidal, I was set up with citalopram to see if it would help and no change happened, I was told by three psychiatrists that pretty much I'd have this for the rest of my life, it was a lot more complicated than I made it out to be but that was the general agreement between them.

A while ago I was in my room as usual thinking about where everything is going and how it came to be when I started thinking about the concept that everything is on a fixed path going through time and we're all just following our own little paths, maybe some paths meet and maybe some paths dont. The thing is that for that concept to be untrue the abstract concept of true randomness would need to be true (the concept that there is something that is 100% random, unpredictable, and not influenced or affectd by an external force).

It got me thinking a lot more; everything we do, think, speak, all of these things are a result of the journey of a large amount of electrical pluses flowing through our central nevous system going through weights and thresholds to reach its final destination, action.

All of these paths and nodes are built as a result of our genetic makeup, which means that there is virtually no possible way I could have turned out any different had the exact same thing happened under the exact same circumstances.

What if everything happened the same way, what if everything is simply a result of another action before it? To put it more simply if you could imagine rolling a die and rolling something like a four, then (theoretically) going back in time to the exact same point under the exact same circumstances, absolutely nothing different, would you roll a different number or would the outcome be the exact same as if you never even gone back in time?

My life is a lot easier to live with the belief that everything I do, will do, have done; everything that is happening to me, will happen to me, and has happened to me have and will all have been a result of circumstance and there is absolutely nothing I could have done to prevent it from happening. That's hogwash. Everything that has happened is set. As of yet they can't be changed. But now that you know all your actions and responses are just electrochemical thresholds and criteria of the universe coinciding at every point in your life, you get to have a say! It's like observing a subatomic particle. Now that you're aware of its presence, you've changed its trajectory, it's path and place in this strange and unknowable world.

What happened to you, what you have done, all that is done. Those were the circumstance of the universe and your electrochemical responses to said stimuli. But you now realize those are only set once the action is committed. They are only pathways once that are set into the history of the universe. You have a wonderful tool now, agency. Agency to effect different pathways. There is one pathway, though, which will definitely lead to the end of agency, and must not be taken. For then you become just another ephemeral footnote in the passage of time, merely to become circumstance for someone else. There is nothing you could have done to change the past, but you can still balk at the future. Don't let the universe happen to you. 

Sorry, I'm not trying to take away this coping mechanism for you, I just think we are all the product of our circumstance. And when we realize that, then we can take control. It's what I'm trying to do, anyway.  [deleted] Because most of the people you hear and care about dying are young and suicide kills allot of young people all over the world no matter what industry they work in. Tech has nothing to do with it.  Suicide is one of the main causes of death in the world. It's the biggest cause of death for men under 50 in the UK... Amazing how little is done about it considering the funding other "physical" health services get... It's the biggest cause of death because of bloomin' elf n safety changing things so that people don't die at work all the time, improvements in diet and habits and improvements in health care, particularly emergency health care. All the other major cause of death have gone down, suicide probably has as well. Unrelated (not from the UK and he was old) but a distant member of my family killed himself a few days ago. He had Alzheimer, had a moment of clear thoughts and killed himself because honestly, Alzheimer sucks.

Young people killing themselves is dad but I can understand it sometimes. reminds me of that story with the old lady who was diagnosed and kept the pills for suicide in her bathroom but by the time she stopped having "good days" she couldn't remember to take them. 

Sorry for your loss, I hope he didn't suffer.  She was a trans-sexual. I'm fairly confident saying that her suicide has little to do with the tech industry and more with her gender issues. Suicide rates among young trans are just ludicrous. Don't forget cars, cars killed most of the VR people off.  Why don't they just put suicide in the title instead of making us think it was something natural or an accidental death first?  Was suicide actually confirmed anywhere? All I've seen is rumors linking to her ask.fm page. 

Also it's really not appropriate for Dolphin to talk about how she died, what they released was extremely classy and the perfect way to honor her death. Reporting on suicide is a [delicate issue](http://www.sprc.org/sites/sprc.org/files/library/at_a_glance.pdf). Hey, this is a very nice resource; thanks. It hasn't been confirmed, only speculated from her previous posts.  http://tim.dreamwidth.org/1890351.html has some valuable things to say about the emotional and interpersonal hazards of the tech industry. Confirmation bias Jesus Christ, that's absolutely awful. Anyone dying that young is an utter tragedy, that it happened to such a good person even more so.

From everything I've seen and heard she was always extremely pleasant whenever dealing with the community, I'm sure she'll be sorely missed by many within it as well as outside it. I hear you man. Shit sucks. That's so terrible, 23 is far too young for anyone to go, especially someone with so much talent. RIP Rachel :( A damn shame. Really enjoyed playing Xenoblade last year, and was working flawlessly. A good dev has died today.

RIP ;-;7 Why is the fact that her death was a suicide so obfuscated? It's not in the article nor the post title, and I didn't even figure it out until I read a few comments here. [Reporting on suicide is a delicate topic](http://www.sprc.org/sites/sprc.org/files/library/at_a_glance.pdf) because reports on suicide actually increase the suicide rate among readers. News orgs have to be very careful with their phrasing. The Dolphin org is a volunteer noncommercial development group without professional writing experience- their statement is actually a very good example of how to handle a tragic situation like this. With stuff like suicide it tends to bring up some topics like if the person was depressed, the fact she was trans, etc. and that conversation tends to overshadow the discussion of her accomplishments and celebrating her life. I imagine the family and friends want people to discuss the good Rachel did rather than let the fact that she committed suicide overshadow everything else. That's just my take on it ofc. The article was written by the company she worked for, it's not appropriate for a company to release how she died. 

It's much better for family to release that information if they decide they want that. Dolphin is an open-source project worked on by volunteers on their free time, it's not a commercial product.

But yes, your point makes sense. Company, volunteer group whatever....it's not their place to release how she died Yeah I remember when Giant Bomb's Ryan Davis died nobody knew how he died until his Dad mentioned it a couple months later. They probably felt like it was personal and unnecessary to mention in their obituary there, and I can understand that. But also: You have to be careful with suicide because Suicide Fever is a very really phenomenon: when someone close to or admired by a person with depression/suicidal thoughts dies from suicide (or even when it gets really big media attention) it's often a trigger for them to kill themselves also. Well one big part of it might be her privacy. Whatever led to her suicide doesn't need to be plastered all over the internet (though I'm sure it already has been).

Another is just how suicides are treated.   
Publicizing suicides in the media too much often leads to more suicides, it's called the Werther effect. I think there's a difference between a news story and a eulogy. I'd probably label this PR from Dolphin as more the latter than the former. Perhaps they want to simply focus on the fact they lost a friend to many and an avid community member (and not the details of the death, gender politics, etc). 

 Some people look down upon suicide, I imagine it's supposed to be a showing of respect. Mental illness is no joke.  

Please, if you are thinking about suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. 1-800-273-8255.  Things get better.  
 I called about 2 or 3 months ago on a Sunday night and they put me on hold. I forget if that's irony but the ludicrousness of it somehow made me smile and I'm still here. Fantastic!! That's hilarious. 

Glad you are here too.  So it does work There is also a trans-specific suicide prevention hotline:

Canada: 1-877-330-6366
US: 1-877-565-8860

http://www.translifeline.org/ can you honestly say it gets better for everyone?

http://www.reddit.com/r/SWResources/comments/2dnji0/hotline_numbers/ here's hotline numbers for people not in the US. do call if you're feeling depressed, it can help to talk it out. 80-90% respond to treatment.  So, not everyone.  But most.
 The nastiest thing about depression is, that its symptoms make it so bloody hard to seek treatment in the first place. that many? thats actually nice to hear. im glad. Here's a few short articles you might want to read since you sound interested on the subject:

http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/10/health/blocking-the-paths-to-suicide.html?_r=0

http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/means-matter/means-matter/impulsivity/ 80% of those who have a major depressive episode will recur. 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_depressive_disorder#Prognosis

It's cruel that we tell everyone who's tired of life that they're irrational. I wish I had killed myself ten years ago.  For everyone, no. But for the vast majority, sometimes just hearing someone take you seriously changes everything.

I was suicidal for 14 years. I made my first attempt at 10- I did figure ice skating at the time, and attempted to cut myself. I'd never heard of suicide before at the time, or hurting oneself, so I thought it was just something I made up because I was so fucked up and broken.

Over the years I made more and more attempts. All through puberty, even after I'd finished growing and maturing physically, and one day I had finally come upon the best idea: Lets guarantee it.

I talked through the plan with my best friend. I was gonna first take a bunch of my Mom's pills(she was addicted to pain meds), then slit my wrists, then use my Dad's gun to blow my head off. I had everything I needed. As I got up to lay on my bed and begin, my best friend, an ex of mine, implored me to call the hotline.

I did. And for the first time in my life, someone didn't say "It isn't that bad", or "It's okay", or "You just have to wait, it'll get better."

Instead, John, the operator, listened to my story. And finally said, "Wow, that fucking sucks. I'd want to do the same thing if I were you, that's awful. But maybe it isn't such a good idea, and here's why." Then, he told me everything I'd heard before. But that didn't change it- what changed it, what changed *me*, was being told **Yes, it really was that bad.** No, I'm not crazy. No, I'm not weak or thin-skinned or just a whiny shit no one liked.

I just had a really shitty life. And that sucked.

Everything changed that night. For the first time in my life, I was *less* suicidal than the day before. And within about 2 years, I stopped having those thoughts altogether. It's been nearly 2 years now since I've had any suicidal thoughts whatsoever.

And it all got started because I called the hotline. I'm glad it's better for you man :) No reason not to hope.  Sometimes, being in that mental place, the tiniest glimmer of hope is enough. Yes it absolutely does. I was closeted and in the most basic ways dysfunctional last year. Over the past year, I've come out of the closet, started transitioning, made friends, had my grades improve from a D average to an A average, and just gotten to be happy.

It gets better, but we absolutely need voices and people who'll help us make it better. Rachel probably didn't have that, and that's why she's not with us anymore. Unfortunately, she did have a lot of friends who were very supportive of her, including myself, who have dissuaded her from suicide in the past, but were unable to this time.  In terms of her gender issues, she thankfully had a family who was very supportive of her, and friends and a significant other who were also by her side.  On the other hand, there were a lot of people (particularly on 4chan) who bullied her relentlessly.

An important detail that people need to know is that she was in a significant amount of physical pain due to various disabilities (fibromyalgia to name one) -- to the point where she was often on the floor and unable to even get up.  While much of her suicidal behavior was undoubtably related to depression which could have been treated over time, her physical pain had only been increasing over the past 7 years of her life.  At the very least, she is not having to endure that pain anymore.

That being said, my friends and I have been totally shaken up by this, and seeing her mother's reaction absolutely broke my heart.  She was a wonderful and extremely knowledgable and interesting person, and I am so sad to see her go. And this is the norm for people who accept and receive help, which is incredible and wonderful.

And so are you by the way! Congratulations! I'm going to be honest, her death just hit me really hard. I still remember her posts on /r/emulation. Her contributions to Dolphin were great. May she rest in peace. It's kind of horrific to only find out that one of the main devs for dolphin was a fellow trans woman after she'd died. It instantly makes me know that despite never hearing about her till now I know much of her story because it's the same as mine, but it ended differently. So much potential never to be realized fully. I think it's also a good thing that people knew her for her job instead of her ~~sexuality~~ gender identity! Yea, I'm not trans myself but my girlfriend is, she's introduced me to a world I never knew and helped me perceive things so differently.

Just the struggles she's faced, it's heartbreaking, but those days are behind her and us now.

But together me and her have been the happiest we've ever been in our live.  I've been keeping up with the Dolphin team's progress for about a year now, so I'm saddened to see one of their public faces go. I have much respect for Rachel and the rest of the Dolphin team, and hope they continue her work in her memory. Godspeed, Rachel. This is terrible. :( My heart goes out to everyone she knew. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Her memory and work will live on in the many hours of fun me and my family have had, and will continue to have. One of the best emulators I've ever used. Its sad to see someone so young go like that. [deleted] Dolphin is the finest emulator I've had the pleasure of using. She's made a big difference, especially at 23, and it's sad to see we lost her.

RIP. Holy fuck, she was the most talented there too. Last year she discovered a way to boost performance when nobody else could work it out. It was truly amazing. RIP Rachel. Your talent will be missed You're thinking of Fiora, and that is not to take anything away from Rachel. There are a lot of talented programmers on the Dolphin team, all of whom I find inspiring. Oh damn, you're right. Still, she was very talented. THe whole team is full of remarkable people and losing any of them is horrible. She was so young too which hurts even more. A whole life ahead of her, gone. Fiora has said in an interview that she decided to give it a try after seeing Rachel was on the team, she was nervous about being a female dev but figured if Rachel was doing well she should give it a try too. 

The changes Fiora made might not have happened if Rachel wasn't on board to begin with. God dammit another trans suicide. I'm infuriated, when is this shit going to fucking end? I hope this haunts those assholes who encouraged her the rest of their lives, but I know it won't.  1 (800) 273-8255

National Suicide Prevention Hotline.

Please do not hesitate to call.

And if you're (supposedly? I'm not sure) like Rachel and it's related to transgender issues

www.thetrevorproject.org

Never be afraid to get help. I honestly didn't know much about trans and stuff before I dated my current girlfriend, she's taught me so much and some of it is just heartbreaking, and the people saying they're attention whores and all other forms of crap, it's really heartwrenching when you get personally involved and hear some of the harassment she's faced.

But together we've been the happiest we've ever been in our life, and she's truely the most amazing woman I've ever known, so smart, understanding, kind, an amazing smile, fun to be around and a dark sense of humour just like me, she's my everything, and she's opened my eyes so much to some of the things transsexual men and women have to face.

 What very sad a tragic story. It hard to see all the posts of her crying for help on twitter and such. Its very heartbreaking to imagine that was the only place that would listen to her.

I am sure its something fellow shut-ins can relate to. We isolate ourselves and let online consume our time. But when we are in true need, the internet that we devote our life to wont help us. Even if its painful we still need to maintain real world relationships. Because when things goes to shit, its important to have someone who sincerely supports you. Isn't this one of the people that had a huge write up done about them basically paving the way for huge performance gains for Dolphin?

Regardless of what they did or didn't do, a very tragic loss. Absolutely. Freaking horrible. Yes. She was part of the huge performance optimization update.  A very young age to go. Must have been very troubled and people on the internet do not help. Give a man a mask, and they show their true face. Very sad. r.i.p

For anyone in the UK, here is the Samaritans hotline who can talk to you anonymously 

0845 790 9090
Samaritans

Hours: 24 hours, 7 days a week [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It seems such a shame, and so unnecessary. How bad you feel, even if you are in an all time low; it can only get better. Anything beats the nothing that is death. Suicide is hardly the best option. 

I feel for all friends, family and people appreciating her work.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] very sad... reading those conversations I hope whoever egged her on gets whats coming to them, RIP rachel [deleted] Wow. The dolphin team has been very close to the gaming community here and loved showing their updates to us, and in turn we loved seeing them. I'm sorry for the teams loss, you guys are amazing and have done amazing things, and will continue to do amazing things.  [deleted] [deleted] We have now reached a stage where people are going to start pirating mods, can't say I've ever heard of that before.  The sims 2 and onward had this issue.  There were a lot of mod sites with high quality content that would charge subscription fees and all that.  And as usual there was a website you could go to get all of that for free. Flight simulators have had paid mods for as long as the technology has been there to support it.  MSFSX has tons of third-party payware. Flight simulator is diffrent though. Many of the add on planes are developed by big developers who have official licences from the aircraft manufactures. These take hundreds if not thousands of hours to develop  Same with MS Train Simulator [deleted] I find this to be very dangerous. What happens if the devs create an update and suddenly half your mods stop working and 25% of the mods that are not working also no longer have a dev to fix them? It seems to me like there has to be a guarantee of support from the people who make the mods that does not appear to be there. Then the question becomes should valve have to refund people if their mods are no longer usable? What happens if someone dies who made a great mod and this happens? Will valve fix it? Will the skyrim devs fix it? Will it go opensource?


There is also the question of what will mods be worth? Most of the mods I have tried I would not pay for and even then some I am not sure if I would pay what the creator will want. I do like that there is a pay what you want kinda deal which makes sense.

I also have been playing stuff like minecraft mods that I would again largely would not pay for as they generally are not well tuned.

Another issue with copywrite content is what happens if someone submits a claim that is bullshit? Will they automatically just shutdown the page and sales without even checking? Are they guilty until proven innocent? What happens if trolls just start flooding various mods?

What happens if someone joins a mod project then steals the code and releases it themselves? 

Will people just come in and start ripping off every mod they can just to try and make money? I don't mean stealing code or even assets just copying other popular mods ideas and sell it cheaper.

edit:

I thought I would use this to point out that this very issue is why valve should have community managers to come out and talk about this shitstorm. We have valve just sitting there hrs later watching, maybe. And what about mods that depend on other mods? Or the Skyrim Script Extender? Do they have to ask for permission before selling their mods?

And wouldn't it be a problem to sell something that can and will cause a lot of CTDs? When you download them for free you are installing them at your own risk, but if you pay for them you expect a certain stability. Isoku actually replaced all the custom assets in his Wet and Cold mod with his own (arguably not as good) assets to get it on the Workshop. Literally a decline in quality due to monetization, lol. He did more than just that. The new version of Wet and Cold he's been hyping is only available via the paywall. He didn't update the nexus version. This is a very sad thing for games that rely on the modding community to continue (All Bethesda, and general, open world games that allow modding). I really hope this is an isolated thing or many game devs, like the Total War series devs, state that mod creators aren't allowed to charge for mods. I've noticed hes gone scarily quiet on the steam page for his mod, it seems to have become the main beacon of rage for this justifiably annoyed group of people, myself included He disabled the comments section after a few hours. Now people are using the discussion forum to complain. [deleted] Depends on the mod's license. Mods like SKSE could change their license to disallow this stuff, but that would only impact future versions.

Edit: I checked the license and it only has a disclaimer: http://skse.silverlock.org/

Here's what choosealicense has to say about not having a license: http://choosealicense.com/licenses/no-license/

So including SKSE (or any asset without a license) in your mod would be a no-no. However, Wet and Cold 2.0 doesn't INCLUDE SKSE. So it doesn't seem to be in violation of the license. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I agree, once people start paying for stuff they are going to feel very entitled to a working version all the time-not to mention help and support. I think a donate button would've made more sense-this is seriously going to fracture the modding community. &gt;I agree, once people start paying for stuff they are going to feel very entitled to a working version all the time-not to mention help and support.

They can, and should feel entitled. If people are forced into paying for something there are going to be a lot of expectations that come with it. Everyone keeps talking about how we're not entitled to anything and shouldn't feel like we are, but what else does our money give us apart from entitlement to a working game? Have early access games, early releases and Kickstarter campaigns made everyone think they're investors and not paid owners? Entitlement has gotten a bad connotation on Reddit. Paying for a product inherently means you're entitled to that product, in good working order (unless it was sold as defective). &gt; Entitlement has gotten a bad connotation on Reddit.

In GameFAQs too.

Or gaming forums in general.

It's became a word used to mean 'You can't complain about anything. Ever'. I remember when people got pissed about Horse armor mannnn. I remember when you could count on a decent amount of PC gamers to know how to install a source mod mannn.

I remember people saying this shit was a slippery slope, and we were just on the bunny slope then. This is dropping modding's ass on the top of mountain with one ski. You hit the nail on the head... it's called implied warranty and is a legally binding thing.  &gt;once people start paying for stuff they are going to feel very entitled to a working version 

Not "going to feel entitled" but **ARE** entitled to a working version. I support the idea of a donate button instead. Nexus Mods actually has this and are looking to expand upon it. At least with the donate button you know the author gets all your money (minus tax of course), not 25% that is locked out until they make $400 in sales. That's a good point. Modders aren't full time developers. If their mods start getting sold, there is going to be some sort of expectation that their content works for the long run. Especially with how finicky the "creation" engine is with the more complex mods that require things to be installed in a specific order. 

If modders need to keep track of everything they are making, then they are being literally paid in peanuts for full time work.  It's essentially paid DLC without the benefits of paid DLC. This change simply cannot be supported without mods going through professional QA audits by skilled programmers. With a game like Skyrim, scripts can break your mods way through a playthrough and you have to comb your game for the mod that is broken or crashes. That's annoying when the mod is free, when a mod is paid for you expect professional customer support. &gt;Q. What happens if a mod I bought breaks?  
A. Sometimes one mod may modify the same files as another mod, or a particular combination of mods may cause unexpected outcomes. If you find that mod has broken or is behaving unexpectedly, it is best to post politely on the Workshop item's page and let the mod author know the details of what you are seeing.

From the steam page, no mention of refunds or anything. It's pretty much "kindly ask the devs to fix it and leave us alone" My response is "fuck you. I paid for this so I'm legally entitled to a working product or a refund"

Consumer law in Australia is actually fairly strict in this regard. I believe Europe is similar, possibly even more strict. This would be reason enough for a refund in the EU too. The automatic updating is the worst feature of Steam workshop. At least if on Nexus a mod update is posted and turns out to be buggy you can continue using the old version. Not even "pay what you want", more like "pay what we want you to pay or more".

 https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/about/?appid=72850  
&gt; Revenue Share
25%  
This is the percentage of revenue an item creator receives from direct sales of their item.  

https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/workshoppaymentinfofaq/  
&gt; Q. Is there a minimum revenue I must earn before I can receive a payment?  
A. Yes. There are costs associated with issuing each individual payment as well as potential bank fees charged to you upon receiving money that make it prohibitive to pay out for small amounts of money. Therefore, we may hold your payment until a minimum of **$100** payout is earned.  

I am sure earning 25 cents for every dollar, where your mods have to make at least $400 to get paid, is a great motivator to make mods. [deleted] Its ridiculous, really. That minimum payout, I mean. 

If Valve is perfectly able to get $0.99 for a game in a sale, it should not be "prohibitive" to do payouts WELL below the $100 mark. So, the actual companies are taking 75% of the cut, and they expect the mod developers to then take all the support burden?

This is going to be a huge disaster. Back when I had Google ads on a website, they did this too.

edit:

Just checked and yep, I've got $70 that Google doesn't want to give me. My site (vkgfx.com) hosted sheet music that was legal, but I was accosted by a scummy music industry lawyer and took it down rather than face legal action. Sucks to suck I guess. :/ [deleted] Lol ripped? If you check the existing approved paid mods they already use assets from other free mods. Wet &amp; Cold uses SKSE functions, Art of the Catch requires FNIS, and Arissa uses a ApachiiHair mesh. So either they hope they get permission, or they strip out these assets and replace with their own stuff. In fact isoku already removed a ton of custom stuff from Wet &amp; Cold and replaced it with his own, not as good, models. So already we have a microschism where paid mods can't or are afraid to use free resources to make their stuff better, and are forced to recreate everything on their own instead of using existing resources. 

Worse, how is Valve ever gonna even be able to monitor this. If some modder uses a mesh or texture he grabbed from another mod, how would Valve even know? This is a system that requires content creators to monitor the workshop themselves in order to make sure their stuff, stuff they put out for free, aren't being stolen. Faced with that, why would anyone even bother. 

Honestly the more I think about this the less happy I become. I cannot see how this is ever gonna be a boon to the modding community.  &gt; I cannot see how this is ever gonna be a boon to the modding community. 

It absolutely won't. In a worst-case (but still realistic!) scenario, it'll just turn the Workshop into something resembling the Google Play Store, where shovelware and endless rip-offs drown out everything else and make picking through all of it to find the quality content simply not worth it. There are tons of shady developers out there who release a flood of shitty apps to the Play Store, because even if they only make a tiny amount of money from each of them, they put so little time and resources into the apps that they still come out on top. And now that's what could end up happening to the Workshop, making it completely useless for actual quality content creators. It will also result in modders nagging everybody for endorsements to get themselves higher in the search results. God, that may be the worst outcome of this entire mess. Imagine being all immersed in your skyrim game, and a text window pops up reminding you to endorse the mod so Johnny Wannabe can get a little higher on the search lists.

Just think how often the phrase "Please like, share, and comment, and subsribe!" is uttered on youtube channels and apply that to skyrim mods. I shudder to think of it.  You can report those mods and scammers will get their accounts blocked. [deleted] Why should I bother fixing Steam's mess? Bethesda set the cut to 75%, and both Bethesda and Valve split that. The modder is getting at best 25% and doesn't collect a dime unless they earn over $100. So, you'd need to get $400 in sales before you'd get anything. 

That alone should be sufficient reason to reconsider supporting everyone involved. 

It's one thing to allow people to sell mods for money I'm not a fan but I can understand it but it's another to give such a tiny margin and not make the funds accessible until a threshold.

 99% of the mods will never pass the $200 sales. Buying mods is simply giving money to Valve for content that used to be free until yesterday.  This is one of the parts that sickens me most. 25% is a pathetic cut already, the fact that they'll be sitting around on all this unclaimable credit is even more disgusting 25% was bad enough but the $100 threshold makes it even worse. Damn this is really greedy move by Valve where it seems like most modders won't even get an opportunity to profit. I really don't like this. It seems like a massive slippery slope. Paying for an actual product is one thing, but mods aren't guaranteed to continue working, or be fully compatible with other mods. This part of the FAQ is particularly concerning:

&gt; Q. What happens if a mod I bought breaks?

&gt; A. Sometimes one mod may modify the same files as another mod, or a particular combination of mods may cause unexpected outcomes. If you find that mod has broken or is behaving unexpectedly, it is best to post politely on the Workshop item's page and let the mod author know the details of what you are seeing.

So basically if a mod breaks, you as a consumer have no recourse or right to a refund. You have to 'politely ask' the creator to fix it and hope that he does. It's different from things like cosmetics in games like Dota 2, or DLC in other games, because all that stuff is created to work together. Once you buy it, you know you have it forever, and you know that it will work with all the other official content.

Additionally, you'd better not be able to retro-actively make your mod require payment. 

Imagine a scenario where someone who created a very popular mod in the past that a lot of people use went and made it cost 5 bucks, so when the game checks on startup for installed mods it would be disabled because you didn't pay. That would really suck. This is especially troubling for the Workshop because it doesn't give you anywhere near enough control to deal with conflicts yourself.

If you're using Mod Organizer you have power over load order for ESP/ESM files as well as a load order for the loose files, and because it uses virtual disk mounting each mod keeps its own folder and you never overwrite files. You also always know *exactly* which mod every single file belongs to. It's amazing.  And there's no hell so frozen as to make us switch from mod organizer now.  Seriously. I was a late adopter because I had 140 mods in NMM and didn't want to try switching mod management apps at that point.

But with NMM I had to load 5-10.different saves or more before one would finally work without a CTD and I just got sick of it.

It took 4 hours to move my mods over to Mod Organizer and a couple hours to really get the hang of how to use it best, but now every save loads 100% of the time and swapping mods in and out has never been so easy.

I don't care who you are. Ditch NMM and switch to MO. I wonder what would happen if the mod you paid for updated and breaks other mods that you paid for. Who would you even go after? What if the mod author blames the other mods for not being "done right" or he just outright refuses to fix the issue?

You are right that Steam is not set up to handle something like this. With how often mods don't work, and how someones load order can be insane, and with how little control you have when it comes to what overwrites what during load. There are just so many factors involved. I believe their new mantra is, "how can we put less checks and balances between scammers and consumers?" &gt; Additionally, you'd better not be able to retro-actively make your mod require payment.

Isoku is already attempting this, His Wet and Cold mod on nexus is version 1.49. His paid version on workshop is 2.0, and he asks that people uninstall previous versions and purchase his new paid version. &gt; he asks that people uninstall previous versions and purchase his new paid version.

Yeah, that's totally going to happen. and the fire has started. hope we can stop the forest from lighting up, doubt it though.  &gt; retroactively

[Already happened.](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=429374670) Wet and Cold for Skyrim is paywalled.  If anyone has it (and are dumb enough to use the workshop to manage their Skyrim mods) they can check for us. The W&amp;C on the steam workshop is a newer version than the old one.

He just abandoned the nexus one and released 2.0 on steam workshop. Which is especially amusing since he's been hyping the new version of Wet and Cold on the Nexus for months now. The best way to kill the modding community and the longevity of games like Skyrim is to lock the mods behind a pay wall.

This is exactly what they need...they already have the worst customer service in the industry, they should toss a shit load of complaints from customers who bought a mod that doesn't work or is incompatible with another one they bought into the mix so they can *really* make us wait to not get any worthwhile help.
 To be really frank if you wanted to go down to the deep end of modding skyrim and shit you wouldn't be using workshop. It's good for the occasional mod, but when we're talking about dozens of mods, you need something better than workshop to manage that shit. Yes, but authors like Isoku are no longer updating their mods on Nexus and only releasing their latest versions on steam behind a paywall. 

The Steam Workshop is absolutely shit for modding Skyrim, and this is what is already happening. I've been on Steam for over a decade, and I can't recommend it to anyone anymore.  They're not completely bad, but they could do so much more for their customers ("subscribers").  They're getting to be like Walmart (only with Comcast-level customer service).  I hate it when I see someone say they're not going to buy an excellent indie game direct from the developer (or on GOG, etc) because they only buy games on Steam.   And as if that's not bad enough, Valve is taking 75%. 75% of the total sale and giving the modders scraps. Definition of greed.

http://i.imgur.com/BJP4c33.png / https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/about/?appid=72850 the 75% include bethesda's cut. it's far more interesting to know that valve only pays you once you earned 100 dollars. and I don't even wanna assume where the up to 30% tax cut comes in. So essentially modders will get a maximum of $0.25 on the dollar, or $0.175 if they have to paid the maximum 30% tax rate (lower if their home country applies more tax). It would take a while to rack up the minimum $100 to get that money... Not to mention the cost to the modder of paying for the game in first place. I've created mods for a bunch of games, and I've been following the "scene" for a decade or so now.

I could never see myself "selling" one of my mods. When I create a mod its because I want to create something in my spare time. I can create a mod, release it, then fuck off and get addicted to a different game for a couple months.

Selling a mod means that I have an obligation to my customers, I can't just fuck off for months, people depend on me to support the product that they pay for. I already hate it when "real" developers stop supporting a game, I don't want to be a hypocrite and do that to other people.

For example, I released a mod years ago. I put a clause in the readme that says anyone can modify my mod so long as they credit me. I got burnt out of the game but I've kept an eye on it and someones "modded" my "mod" with a rebalance because they didn't like how I balanced it. Had they have paid for it, I would have had to listen to feedback and make that change myself...

So as much as I would enjoy getting paid for modding, I doubt I'll ever utilize it. If I could maybe make a living off mods I might consider it, but its a hobby to me, not a job.

EDIT: aaaaand one of the mods I regularly use has already abandoned the nexus version and released the newest version on Steam Workshop. Fuck that guy.

EDIT #2: The comments page for the mod on the nexus was just locked because of all the people giving him shit. Deserved.

EDIT #3: Chesko, the creater of my favorite mod ever, has annouced that he's making his mods timed exclusives with steam workshop. So excatly the same shit that EA, MSFT and all those asshole publishers do. &gt; Selling a mod means that I have an obligation to my customers, I can't just fuck off for months, people depend on me to support the product that they pay for. I already hate it when "real" developers stop supporting a game, I don't want to be a hypocrite and do that to other people.

thank you for being better than a large amount of indie developers out there What mod? "Wet and Cold" for Skyrim Yeah, fuck Isoku.  He jumped on the monetization bandwagon faster than a rat goes for cheese. Here's how I think this could be interesting:

Some mods use trademarked properties, but they usually fly under the radar. For example, pretty much all of those Lord of the Rings mods for Skyrim are still up because Warner Bros haven't been dicks about it.

Before reading this news, I was actually thinking about Tabletop Simulator. People have made full-blown unauthorized replicas of card and board games and put them in the workshop, often with scans of the games' artwork. While I think that's super cool for the consumer, I wonder if any tabletop game publishers have considered legal action (or even cease-desist letters), and if they have, who they would even target. Would it be the mod maker? The Tabletop Simulator devs? Valve, for hosting the files?

Allowing people to charge for these mods adds another layer of complexity to that, and -- I think -- provokes legal action even more since people will now profit directly from such content.

Now, I see a line in the Steam FAQ that says "You must have the necessary rights to post any content that you post to the Steam Workshop, whether it is for sale or not," but has Valve really enforced that so far? If this rule has existed before the start of this program, I haven't seen them enforcing it. Typically, most devs don't give a shit as long as you're not making money off of it. That's why a lot of video game mods have always avoided C&amp;C orders in the past, they weren't doing anything that would otherwise generate them money... Some companies don't play by this rule though, some are also wishy washy on what games they will and will not C&amp;C (Which is fully within their right).

However, like you said, once money is involved, it adds a new layer of complexity... And honestly? I'd just fucking litigate the shit out of that stuff. It's theft, Valve isn't nice when they catch you stealing. So, just hit them hard. Modders will be scared away from charging for their, *heavily inspired* works and, overall, it will probably increase the amount of quality gets put behind the paywall. Just a note, "pay what you want" is generally capped at a "low" end price point. So by "pay what you want" what they are actually saying is "pay at least the minimum but you can pay more if you want to".  Which may as well mean "don't bother" because I guaruntee Valve is going to get a percentage of the price, just like they do for trades and CSGO operations.  The modder only gets 25% of what the mod costs What? This is a joke, right? 25% is ridiculous. sadly not a joke 

http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/about/?appid=72850#Earning I'm not sure I like this. On one hand, people deserve to be paid for their work, but on the other, modding was usually done as proof of concept or a way to pad your portfolio, or simply to have fun. If given a chance, everyone is going to charge for their stuff.  I really don't like this. I think they should have just added an option to donate to a developer of a mod. Putting stuff like this behind a paywall just seems like Valve trying to get their hands in on a potential profitable market that has always been free.

Also the prices are absolutely ridiculous. There's a "debut pack" for Skyrim which is an assortment of 17 weapons, armor, new companions etc., and it is DISCOUNTED to $29. How insane for something that used to just be completely free.

And I hate how they're trying to spin it as "supporting modders". Give me a break. I have no doubt Valve will be taking their cut of every single transaction here, which is the real reason why this is happening.

EDIT: Wow, the Modders cut is 25% of the total sale. That's insane. Any attempt to call this "supporting modders" is blatantly misleading. I understand 25% is a solid cut for them, I'm mostly irritated at the idea that Valve is clearly just trying to profit off of the modding community and then borderline lie about it. 

EDIT2: I understand there is a pay what you want system in place, but it isn't how you see it on something like Humble Bundles where you literally just type in a number. As an example, look [here](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=429374670&amp;searchtext=wet+and+cold). **This is now an exclusive version of this mod, (Wet and Cold 2.0, it cannot be had on Skyrim nexus), and the PWYW price range is $0.99 to $99.99.** 

So yeah, cool. All previous versions of this mod will no longer be supported, the only way to access the new version is directly through Steam, and it costs money. I know $1 isn't a lot, and in a vacuum I'd be fine paying that, but there are people with literally hundreds of mods installed for Skyrim. Just totally insane to me. It's crowd sourcing microtransactions and the modders only get a 25% cut.

This just shits all over what modding is at it's core, and to me is nothing but pure greed on the part of Steam/Valve, and it doubly frustrates me that they're trying to frame it as supporting modders like we're all idiots. I wouldn't care at all if they just blanket made every mod on the store 'pay what you want' as low as $0.00 and gave the modder the lions share of the transaction cost, because then it just heavily promotes what are basically donations to modders, which I'd be mostly cool with, because I do think they deserve something. Instead this just takes everything I hate about microtransactions in F2P games and crowdsources their creation.   

The crazy thing is I don't even download mods on steam for my games outside of maybe 2-3 for Skyrim forever ago, so this literally has no effect on me. I've just always admired the modding community for what it is, and I don't like what this does to it. It completely warps a vibrant, passionate and creative community that existed solely for creative purposes and sticks a price tag on it. In my opinion, it really sucks. &gt; Putting stuff like this behind a paywall just seems like Valve trying to get their hands in on a potential profitable market that has always been free.

That's exactly what this is.

edit. [Modder's cut: 25%.](https://i.imgur.com/omSfCLX.jpg)

edit2. [As noted by /u/Evil4Zerggin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33m403/steam_introduced_paid_workshop_mods/cqmdpur), the 25% appears to be specific to Skyrim. Devs/Publishers set the Adjusted Gross Revenue that goes to the modders.  It looks like that figure is specific to Skyrim:

&gt; The percentage of revenue an item creator receives from direct sales of their item in **this** Workshop is 25%, as stipulated in the Supplemental Workshop Terms.

The Supplemental Workshop Terms say 

&gt; The percentage of Adjusted Gross Revenue that you are entitled to receive will be **determined by the developer/publisher of the Application associated with the Workshop** to which you have submitted your Contribution (Publisher), and will be described on the **applicable** Workshop page.

So 

* Bethesda had at least a hand in determining the figure, and
* It's possible we may see different figures for other games.

Edit: Though so far I've only seen 25% for other games as well. My guess is Bethesda gets 50% and Valve gets the other 25%. 25%? Holy shit Valve just went full EA.

PS: worth mention that you can't get money from Steam until you collect $100 on your Steam developer wallet.. So you need at least $400 in mod sales... that's insane. Keep in mind that Valve is almost certainly splitting with Bethesda too.  I haven't thought about that, but you are probably right and it would explain the low cut. It also means it's not likely to spread to all games, at least not very fast. Can we get a source on the developer wallet rule? I believe it but other people I've mentioned it to ask for a source

edit:

Nevermind

http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/workshoppaymentinfofaq/

&gt;Q. Is there a minimum revenue I must earn before I can receive a payment?

&gt;A. Yes. There are costs associated with issuing each individual payment as well as potential bank fees charged to you upon receiving money that make it prohibitive to pay out for small amounts of money. Therefore, we may hold your payment until a minimum of $100 payout is earned. Valve really has become a shitty company with very bad business practices, we just let the sales and the holy "Valve" name keep us from realizing they are not the same company they were 5-10 years ago. They basically have a monopoly on the PC market and considering a free market has always been the cornerstone of PC gaming, that is a very bad thing.   Nobody wants to admit it because it's valve, but they really are a shitty company.

Everything they do revolves around getting other people to do work for them so that they can profit whilst doing as little as possible, and they never make any improvements to their services unless they can figure out a way to get people to do it for them.

Games too hard to get on steam? "You do it, here's greenlight"

Greenlight is a failed system that let's garbage, and scams onto steam? "You do it, here's a tool to curate steam for us"

They are never going to improve their customer service until they can find a way to get players to do it in exchange for steam trading cards or something. [deleted] &gt; Also the prices are absolutely ridiculous.

I found it amuzing when I went to check a single (admitedly well modeled) sword.

One dolar. For a sword model.

Meanwhile, I go to nexus and get a complete game overhaul for a whole lot of nada. It's like CS:GO skins all over again. Except for singleplayer game that always had them free. Atleast the CS:GO skins have a form of collectibility and show off value. This? This is a single player game where only you are going to see it and you can't get it in a random drop. [deleted] This won't benefit modders or gamers at all. This new policy only exists for Valve to make a profit off of the backs of hard-working modders. Under their current monetization policy, Valve takes a 75% cut of all profits from Workshop items, leaving modders with 25 cents to the dollar, or even less depending on how many people its split with. 

Valve claims this will result in high-quality mods. Wrong, this will result in a flood of people, mostly kids and teenagers, getting into modding with the sole purpose of making money. As anyone can probably guess, mods made only for profit are going to be low-quality and non-innovative.  &gt; for Valve to make a profit off of the backs of hard-working modders

To an extent, that is kind of how Valve became the giant they are. Counter-Strike, DoTA 2, Day of Defeat, and Team Fortress all started as mods. Alien Swarm was also a mod, Portal started as a student project and Left 4 Dead was bought from another company.

Valve has two original games: Half-Life and Ricochet. &gt; As anyone can probably guess, mods made only for profit are going to be low-quality and non-innovative.

Not if they actually want to sell. What worries me also is if mod creators make their mods exclusive to Steam Workshop.  Firstly,  I don't really like using the Workshop.  And secondly, what if I buy a game on GOG or somewhere else but I can't get access to mods because all of them are exclusive to the Steam version. Actually a different worry here is that the workshop is pretty bad meaning people will pirate mods. Rather than seeing games staying specific to steam as a platform as a big problem to beware, I'd watch out for games with modding scenes which put DRM on their creator's mods.


Not to mention all forms of stolen assets sold as mods. Some game publishers will give zero, ***ZERO*** fucks about knowingly selling stolen propriety, and will ban you from their boards if you complain and put a photoshopped image of you sucking dicks on their fridge wth the caption "poor and whiny". [deleted] &gt;It is up to the developers or publisher of each game to decide if paid Workshop mods are appropriate for their game. You will only be able to sell mods for a game in the Steam Workshop if the developers have enabled that functionality.

This is key, I think.  Each game developer is going to have to decide independently if they want to allow mod creators to profit from their mods.  

Remember that almost all mods are using at least some of the original game content to do what they do, so the game developer will always have the ability to deny this feature on Steam.

Also remember that most people aren't going to just throw down money for random mods with no idea of their quality.  Steam offers a refund for non-functional/broken mods (24 hours!) but doesn't offer refunds for mods that just aren't good enough.

In the end, I expect to see some really good content be produced, but not a lot of it.  It's still going to be more profitable for skilled artists/developers to make their own stuff, rather than rely on others' works. I think it's funny that an Elder Scrolls game is the first to get approved.

If anyone would know that paying a couple of dollars for horse armor is stupid, it should be Bethesda, and yet the sample paid mods in this press release include a suit of armor for $2. &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; If anyone would know that paying a couple of dollars for horse armor is stupid, it should be Bethesda

And if there is anyone who knows how much money is to be made by selling horse armor, it's also Bethesda.  I somewhat disagree. I am a modder who has worked on several large modifications for the Total War series (such as The Great War mod, Divide et Impera, and Constantine: Rise of Christianity)  and though the discussion came up to possibly use adfly or other pay-for-click services, it was largely as a joke. We mod because we enjoy messing around with the game and creating something. It's a hobby, not a job (Though Mitch from TGW recently got hired by the Creative Assembly thanks to his stellar mod work!) Sure some people will see it as a way to make money and pump out minimal quality stuff to try to make a quick buck, but a lot of people who see modding as the end itself, rather than a means an end, will continue to make mods for their own enjoyment. I could never imagine Dresden, head of Divide et Impera, making the mod monetized even if CA let us, and hell he's bought three copies of Rome II just to be able to upload all the versions of DeI and Constantine: Rise of Christianity.  

Another thing that needs addressing is the steam workshop itself. I... kinda hate it. It's massively inefficient because it doesn't allow us to compress our mods, which leads to issues like that I described above in which Dresden had to buy multiple copies of the game in order to upload all of DeI. Even then, here were bugs that came with it, such as buggy textures due to poor transferrence. TW overhaul modders largely prefer TotalWarCenter over the Steam workshop simply because the workshop is kind of a pain in the ass. Here's hoping it never becomes the only way to get mods into TW.

In short, no we are not all going to charge for the stuff if given the chance. It's a hobby, something that most of us do for fun, rather than money. I would prefer a thank you any day, especially as a vocal minority of people already tend to be fairly entitled when it comes to mods. God it would be a nightmare, having to deal with people like those who buy early access and suddenly feel like they are part of the design team. I feel like charging for a mod would put a level of being beholden to those who paid for the mod, and that is something I, nad most other modders I know, would never willingly subject myself to. 

Edit: Thinking about it, I had a shitty little event pictures mod on the Rome 2 workshop with over 27,000 subs. What if I monetized it for a buck, or even 50 cents (even though it is completely not worth it, and I doubt anyone would actually pay that much for it) MUWAHAHAHAHA! 

But it also leads to an interesting question: sure that events mod is a small thing made pretty much solely by me with some help from people who let me use some of their artwork, but how the hell would one divvy up %s for larger mod teams such as Divide et Impera. Hell, we had easily over 10 people working together to make the 1.0 release a reality, how on earth could a large mod team expect to realistically divide up profits without tearing the team apart. Hell, how would I give parts of the profits to people like /u/Chewiemuse whose artwork make up a large part of my event pictures. It's a very tricky situation that I think many  mods would seek to avoid altogether. &gt; he's bought three copies of Rome II just to be able to upload all the versions of DeI and Constantine: Rise of Christianity.

&gt;Dresden had to buy multiple copies of the game in order to upload all of DeI

Can you explain this a bit further? That sounds absolutely ridiculous. Why would someone have to buy multiple copies of a game just to upload a mod? Steam has a limit to the amount of space you can use, both in terms of the individual filesize (hence why Divide et Impera comes in multiple parts for the steam version) and how much one person can upload to the workshop.  Mind you the former varies based on the game (I believe Skyrim has a size of 100 mb) but I do not know Exactly what Rome II's is. Additionally an account may only upload a certain amount to the workshop, again I do not know exactly what that amount is, but I can ask Dresden next time I see him and get back to you. (This is Dresden)

It is 400MB per pack and 1GB total for Total War games. If you have a few large projects you use that fairly quickly.

I did buy multiple copies of Rome 2 (thankfully on sale) because I felt committed to our players and to the mod. Probably a bit overboard now that I think back to it. All mods need to be free however, a donation button should be there if you enjoy the mod I predict that most modders will continue to release their stuff for free and simply put in "fake" items so you can donate to them. There should have just been the option to donate.  Nexus has a donation option already. Anyone serious about using Skyrim mods should be on Nexus anyway, it has pretty much all mods worth having. If that changes now that would be sad. 

Steam Workshop has some serious issues, for Skyrim modding but also in general. With Workshop you lose complete control of when your mods update. If a modder on Workshop posts an update that you don't like, or that turns out to be very buggy, you have no way to keep using the old version.

And for Skyrim specifically some script heavy mods come with specific updating instructions, because straight up updating those can cause problems on existing savegames. The instructions often involve going into the game **before** updating to prepare the mod update. With automatic updates you can't do that.

I get that it's very useful from a feedback/bug report standpoint to be sure that all users of your mod are using the same version, but an option to turn this off would be very good. I've been modding Bethesda games for over 10 years, I know what I'm doing. So let me. This is what the Nexus did a couple years ago.

They added the ability to donate, but made it abundantly clear that modders are not allowed to push donations or even mention them. All they can do is set up a Donation button for people to use.

This way if you *want* to donate you can, but modders are strictly forbidden from tactics like "premium versions" or pushing donations in the mod description. It says you can set the price to "pay what you want", I assume that includes the ability to pay nothing.

EDIT: I mean that the creator can probably set the option to pay nothing, not that every PWYW mod will inherently be as low as free. Nope, there's a minimum price of what the modder sets by the looks of it, then you choose if you want to pay them more upwards to 100 bucks. So the initial paid mods have obviously been prepared beforehand and are simply not available for free. But I can see modders setting 0,00 as the minimum price in the future so people can donate if they are so inclined. There are a ton of mods out there that I'd have no problem supporting with a few bucks.

EDIT: On second thought there is obviously the problem that these "donations" will be subject to a cut from Valve and the publisher. It's up to the mod author to decide if they want people to donate in this - arguably more convenient - way, but with others taking a cut, or if they want to rely on the old model of donating, which usually uses paypal.

**EDIT2: So apparently a modder would only get 25% of the money paid this way which absolutely is not an alternative to traditional donations.** Valve couldnt take a cut from a donation could they? Mods, depending on the game, are almost never 100% their work. They use resources or other mods (like SkyUI or SKSE for skyrim) in order to work. They are making money off of making mods that are not 100% their own and the mod authors who gave them permission to use their resources should be able to have a say in the matter. Fuck this shit so hard. Charging for small DLCs is bad enough. Charging for mods is an outrage. Modding is about a passion for gaming, helping to improve a game, tweak aspects you didn't like to make them better, and make it available for the community.


It's the height of greed and incredibly uninclusive to start charging for mods. If this becomes the standard then it's further evidence the games industry is going down the shitter if every Dick, Tom and Harry can make a mod and start charging for it, regardless of how well it works. At least paid official DLCs are subject to QA. &gt;  If given a chance, everyone is going to charge for their stuff. 

I don't think so. It's not like every mod is going to be popular and make big profits. I would rather have 5,000 people playing my mod for free than only seven people buying it. As a Minecraft modder, I would never consider selling my mods. It would just ruin community reputation and further incentivize mod piracy (which even with a free mod it ends up places where authors receive no credit). Donations and ad links (though the latter not applicable on Steam) have always been decent enough compensation.

What's worse it it looks like for some Skyrim mods, like Midas and Arissa, the free version is just factually worse. 20 less spells, and less content respectively. =/

If the non-Steam versions are also arguably the worse version, then they're just hiding content behind a paywall. nexus had a piece about it last month: [BLOG PIECE: Modding as a hobby versus modding as a career, and the position of the Nexus!](http://www.nexusmods.com/games/news/12444)

 These can no longer considered mods. They are contracted DLC. If the developers are getting money from the mod makers then it's basically contractual.  I can see issues with this already. [This mod](http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/27563/) was previously free on the nexus and is now [5 bucks](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=429374670&amp;searchtext=) through steam's paid service. 

Doesn't look like the author updated the mod on the nexus to the 2.0 version currently on the workshop, which would require current users of the mod to pay for future updates, and making it only available via the steam workshop will make it a bigger annoyance to deal with a mod manager like like Mod Organizer, unless you moved the workshop mods yourself after purchasing them, some interesting choices. 

Moreover, as some have mentioned, people are likely just ripping off nexus mods and posting them for profit on the workshop.  I can't imagine steam is doing much to verify the work for the mods coming.  Free dimes all around. This mod also relies heavily on the SKSE mod, and will not work without it.  Does any of the money go toward the SKSE team?  

EDIT
Apparently SKSE is cleared to be used for instances such as this one.  Yeah, I don't know how making profit off of software with 'free' external dependencies works for something like this legally, I doubt the SKSE team will ever have an interest in charging for their code. which is another issue, creators need to maintain their mods. previously you could put it out there and hope someone picks it up when you leave - gl with that when you sell it. 

deserve the person(s) fixing it a cut? how much? they can't just release their own updated version.
 Good point, and additionally a lot of these mods (including the one I posted) were created/use assets made by multiple people in the first place, so I imagine there will be a lot of future head butting over similar issues of 'mod ownership.' If I was the modder, I'd now be tempted to remove my mods from every other source and just "sell" it on steam

Thats a terrible, terrible precedent that steam have now set Just as bad, it looks like some modders have been ripping out 'third party' content such as assets developed by other modders in order to put their mods on the workshop for money.  So now we can pay for gimped versions of mods with a couple of bugfixes! Wooh! I m not going to buy mods for sure, i love mods but when you need to pay instead of having a donation option too support the dev for me is going to be a big no. I can see a increase in pirate mods now, shame. Not like they can stop pirating mods, since it's not copyrighted material right? So we could potentially have a site to host all the best paid mods? Doesn't matter. If it annoys enough of wrong people whole new pirate scene will emerge. Judging by this thread, it's already begun to emerge.  &gt; since it's not copyrighted material right?

Actually wrong... You're thinking about the work having a registered copyright. It's true that most mods do not have one of those. However that does not mean their work is not copyrighted. Any original work someone makes is automatically technically copyrighted to them. Having a registered copyright just makes it easier to defend your work in a copyright dispute since it's easy pre-documented proof that you are the rights holder of a certain work.

This does not mean I'm against pirating mods though. This whole situation is ridiculous. I'm just trying to clear up that common misconception. I think if steam introduced a tip jar that you could use the steam wallet with it would be better. This is overall going to be bad for the community.  Yep, that way Steam still takes a cut via the regular transaction fee, people feel like they're supporting the creator, and all is well with the world. This... You know people gripe about Microsoft/Google/Apples's 30% cut on products sold in their on-line stores. How in the world did Steam think it deserved 75% of the revenue from other people's works?

Well, here's your chance, Origin. Seize the opportunity while Valve New Cokes up Steam. Mod makers at Nexus have already started removing their mods from there and have uploaded them to Steam Workshop behind a paywall. Why would someone release a Skyrim mod for free, when the modder could make some money? This is the beginning of the end. This is just act 1 of 3.  Wait a week or so for community reaction to kick in before holding up a "The End Is Near" sign.   Putting all the high level problems aside, the mods themselves are OUTRAGEOUSLY EXPENSIVE. Dropping several bucks for a sword or a weather pack is insane. Just the consumer level part of this doesn't make any sense.  Looks like it's time to set prohibitively high price tags on my workshop items and then provide links to the Nexus where they can be obtained for free. I cannot support this idea. I am NEVER paying for mods, but I will paypal you five quid for doing this. I don't even want the mod. Honestly, I'd rather you take that fiver and buy a neat little game to enjoy from a good developer.  I hope I'm not alone when I say that I create mods for the sake of creation and challenge, not for money.  Comments of appreciation and support have always been payment enough for me.  Knowing that something you made has brought someone joy or painted a smile on their face is a reward in itself. You sir are the perfect example for why this community is so great. Making mods for the love of the games, without even wanting to get paid for it. I want to personally thank you, keep up the good work! Instead, they should have added an option to donate money to a modder.  Click a button and choose how much you give from your Steam Wallet.

As it is, I'm not sure what the consequence of this will be, but I suspect a big pile of crap just like the apple app store. donation would make much more sense, since the mod itself would still be free with all the perks. One of the main appeals of Skyrim is its modability and the ability to install hundreds of different mods, to change the game in whichever manner suits your taste. By charging for mods not only are they putting people off from experimenting with which mods they use, they are fragmenting the community. Who is going to want to pay $20-30+ on top of the price they already paid for the game in the first place? Personally, I think it sets a dangerous precedent by charging for something like this. I really really dislike this. I would much prefer a simple in steam way to donate to each mod maker similar to PayPal links modders have added to there websites in the past. Treating these small mods like DLC is toxic and kills what made modding a game like Skyrim so special. I have nothing against a easy way to support your favorite modders but mods are not DLC and should not be treated the same way.  Been a modder myself ever since I learned how to replace graphics in Forsaken, and make maps in Age of Empires 1... Fell in love with Unreal Tournament 2003/4, made a few maps for that. Made some pretty kick-ass maps for Killing Floor.

It has *always* been free. That has been the spirit in the communities I've been involved in! Respect other people's work and their wishes, give credit, but be generous with your knowledge and maybe even the assets you create. We were all there to have fun and to delve deeper into these games (and their engines) that we loved.

It was about the joy of creating, artistic exploration, technical invention, sharing, feedback... and now it's about $$$.

I can't tell you how painful it is to me to see an era like this come to an end.

And for Valve to deal that blow...!

What a sad day. &lt;:c

My only hope is that this crashes and burns because consumer rights can't be guaranteed with mods. *Something* has to go apocalyptically wrong here otherwise this can never be taken back. This is worse than I originally thought. There are new updated versions of mods that existed before behind a paywall on the workshop and ONLY the workshop.


Examples are Arissa, Midas magic, INEED, Wet and cold.


Now, in order to get the updated versions of these mods, you now have to get past a paywall. Not to mention that you won't have any control over your load order now. [deleted] [deleted] Meh.

I definitely will never pay for a mod. I use them and enjoy them, but they are rarely of the quality and length first party paid content is. Can't see this doing any good for games.  It's kind of weird, looking at the Skyrim mods that are available at the moment. Why would I pay for these mods when I can get so many similar mods for free? What makes this one sword mod so special? I think it's more about them trying to make this the standard for all future games, i.e fallout 4, tes 6 etc. Uuuuuuuuugh. Would much rather see a donate button than paid mods. The modding community *thrives* on being free.  Not to mention the sharing of resources across the community. This will basically kill the collaborative nature of modding communities. Its like taking a hippie communal farm, and introducing a company store. Bringing money into the mix ruins the whole idea. I'm just going to be straight with you. This sucks because I don't want to pay for mods. And honestly, I'm never going to do it. It comes from a place of pure selfishness.

I remember the first time I modded FO3 with the help of gopher's videos. It is going to suck if I can't experience something just because I can't(or won't) pay for it.

I mean, I guess creators deserve to get paid, but this is exactly where I feared DLC going. Higher res textures or improved performance for money. Gonna post this here as well:

Remember Source 2? How it's gonna be free and you only have to pay Valve if you release your product? Remember how it's going to offer out of the box creation of new content? Basically mods?

This is it. Skyrim is just a testing ground for the sales part of the product. It already has the largest amount of mods in history, it's the perfect testing ground to get a big amount of data really fast.

And yes, people are abusing it. Are you honestly thinking to yourself right now: "Wow, Valve must have not seen this coming because otherwise they wouldn't have done it, god they're stupid."?

I think they saw it coming and they're fully willing to deal with it.

When you're developing a product, you need to eventually test it in production. And this is that. They know there's gonna be problems and they're willing to make that sacrifice.

This is all going to lead up to new games and especially source 2 games having integrated paid content by various creators.

This is what Valve has been talking about for the last 2 years.

Please explain how exactly the skins from dota2 are not mods and how the Skryim hair modifications, eye color, clothes, weapons, etc... **are**? There is literally no difference.

But the whole 25/75 cut should be reversed. So Steam is now trying to monopolize mods now? They already pretty much monopolized the games market on PC, and now people are going to let them monopolize mods! I don't like them getting anymore power than they already have. [deleted] Wait... many of these are built off the backs of SKSE ... Wow, their team could make a mess of things if they wanted to. Many of these modders seem oblivious that they're charging for work they don't exactly have the right to charge for because not all of their dependencies are in line with it yet... (maybe, it's hard to say, does anyone know if Steam workshop makes some exceptions for SKSE dependent mods, or if they've also been brokered with already by steam? It's hard to imagine Bethesda and Valve making that big of an oversight, but I've seen bigger companies do dumber things before, so.. ? ?) SKSE should really break the mods in protest.  Couldn't they basically switch from an MIT license to a Creative Commons Noncommerical license and totally fuck everything up for any future version/downloads? If someone can get a hold of the SKSE team, can't they just make an official announcement that they don't want SKSE to be used by commercial mods? That would probably put a stop to most of the mods being monetized right now. Thing is, *desire* doesn't stop them. Legally, they'd have to change the licensing method. Update on all of this.

Fore of the FNIS animation modding resource which thousands of mods use has chimed in. Chesko did not ask permission and Fore does not support the monetization of his work or it being used to monetize others work.

Chesko responds and reveals that he has not gotten permission to use any resources due to NDA with Valve. More interestingly he's saying that Valve told him he didn't need to.

http://imgur.com/a/PEmVW

Going by this I'm assuming the SKSE team were not asked permission either. If SKSE, FNIS, and other hugely dependent modding resources publicly disallow monetization the workshop community will fall apart. The entire skyrim modding community may fall apart.

This is so unlike Valve I'm amazed this saw the light of day with the current state it's in. For a company that prides themselves on extensive market research this feels like it was slapped together in a month with zero forethought as to how it would all play out.

For something like Skyrim mods you cannot just slap a price tag on workshop downloads and call it day. The amount of compatibility issues and exterior resource requirements for most of the major mods means it will not translate simply into slapping a price tag on to it. You'd need to revamp the entire system, figure out a proper way to handle rights between authors, a way to filter mods that are compatible with one another and generally make the entire system idiot proof. 

As it is right now it's terrible in just about every conceivable way. This isn't to say that modders don't deserve the option to be compensated for their work. However the way entire community operates is not at all conducive to straight monetization with no consideration on how any of it is going to work. This is...sure something. It's great that the mod makers can get paid for doing quality work that they love creating, but mods have always been something that has been free, and I imagine this will end up with a new layer of "piracy" for paid mods, which seems to be something that can easily be copied and applied to a game with little consequence. Really unsure how I feel about this overall I think we've already got a real world example of a massive downside. [The Wet &amp; Cold mod was a fairly popular mod that now is a paid one.](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=429374670) And not just that, check out that bundle. I know quite a few of those mods were free as early as last week. 

Of course, many of these have been updated to newer and better versions with performance improvements along with the pricetags but it seems that this is a prime example of content that used to be free going premium. For things just *performance improvements* in some cases. I feel like this is tantamount to paying for a bugfix patch.

The price tag for it is ludicrous too. $35 for all those mods? That's more than most people spent on the DLC for Skyrim. Even at the lowest pricepoint for each, it's still a fairly weighty.

This seems like a huge misstep that everyone should have seen coming. If anything, Steam just invented the concept of mod piracy. Holy shit $5? I have an older copy if someone wants it. Welcome to mod piracy. But is sharing older copy piracy?

Does the mod come with a license? The whole point of mods are that they're free. If I wanted to pay for a mod I'd be paying for DLC from the actual game companies, not some shmuck who made a Mario soundpack. &gt; some shmuck who made a Mario soundpack

The copyright infringement issues are going to skyrocket.  So many things are ripped from other games and no one really bats an eye because mods are free.  Once people start trying to charge I think the harsh realities are going to kick in for a lot of modders....mainly in the way of cease and desists. 

**EDIT**
I really think the copyright infringement issues are going to be the death of this.
So many mods take things from other IPs and once people try to charge for it... its going to be a mess. With Valve taking 75% they'll have no choice but to be VERY vigilant about taking down mods that infringe. If they don't, they will be in a world of hurt.


Also... how does a modder stop other modders from stealing their work? If someone takes your mod and tweaks it ever so slightly... I wouldn't say that the *entire* point of mods is that they are free, I would instead say that extending the life of the game or making improvements to it is the point of them. I think /u/BenFreakinFranklin's point was that once you start charging for something, you have an obligation for serious QA, customer service and patches, *none* of which are even close to guaranteed in the current mod community. There are thousands of mods out there that are unsupported, whose original creators have abandoned them and are no longer paying any attention to their upkeep, let alone the sheer quantity of mods that are created shoddily by creation kit newbies who don't know how to properly animate characters, design levels or instances or write proper pathfinding scripts. And if they're going to charge for their product and yet provide low-quality fixes, QA or customer support, **that is not acceptable.** &gt;The whole point of mods are that they're free.

One reason mods are free, is because there's usually no way modders can put a price tag on their mods without getting in trouble with the developers. Same reason why you can't sell a fangame. Another reason is that some devs actively try to prevent modding, especially in multiplayer games, so modders have no choice but to do it through the backdoor. 

Modding has mostly been a DIY and hobby community with a focus on sharing. And while it may sound great that modders can be rewarded for their dedication, let me tell you that there'll be a lot of modders going strictly against this. However, there'll also be a lot who will happily take this opportunity, and if this would've been a thing before, they would've taken it. But I'm not going to say that those aren't "real" modders, because it's simply not true. 

I'm also worried about the effects on the part of the community that creates enhancements or mods **for** mods. Take Skyrim for example. There are many mods that are especially made to be used with certain mods, or at least with the effects of certain mods in mind. If one of those mods, or only the "key" mod goes paid, the whole modchain is useless.

**tl,dr:** Getting money for mods without having to fear a copyright infringement lawsuits or cease and desist letters, is a completely new step for the whole scene, but I'm worried about how it will affect or even split certain parts of the community. 

Edit: Darkone from Nexusmods has made a great post about this on [Nexusmods](http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/news/12444/?) I don't really like, Seems like another way Steam makes money but doesn't give consumers anything besides having to pay for something that used to be free.  And they're giving the modders SCRAPS for their work and effort.

25% of the revenue goes to the modder while Valve eats up a huge 75%. http://i.imgur.com/BJP4c33.png / https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/about/?appid=72850
 Steam is now officially another shitty company that's just trying to drain it's user base for profits. 

I've been sad to see them get complacent with enjoying the microtransactions from TF2/Dota/CSGO, and now they're moving into mod territory, something I've never even seen EA do. 

Rip.   Wow, I downloaded the Wet &amp; Cold mod for Skyrim only a couple weeks ago and now they want $5 for it?  No way it is worth that price.  I'm not sure about these paid mods. this is a very, very bad step... a lot of modders share their progress for others to incorporate it into their work as long as they get credited. 

even helping someone with a modding problem will be less, people will always see the financial background. mods were made by the community for the community, so everyone helped. 

this system is the sole reason for the vast amount of mods we can enjoy. 

once modders only have fear of how to preserve their copyright, the sharing of the community will decease and we will have less overall quality in mods.

there will be some major groups working on mods as a team and there were some shouts of fury about modding code stolen/used without credit, e.g. in arma 3 with altis or in skyrim, but those are very minor incidents. most modders like to share and see their work involved in others projects. this will be not be the case in the near future.

this workshop monies is slowing modding down. Isn't modding something people do by passion, for a game they love and want to improve themselves ? I mean, who mods for fame, for glory or for... money ? That sounds so wrong to me.

Of course modders don't want to do that for nothing but... Their purpose was never to earn money or they would have done something like "5$ to unlock the download of this mod". Donations are what keep these people up. I donated to a few modders already and I'm fine with it.

But paid workshop mods ? Come on. I hope people won't fall for it, wether they are content creators or users. 
We already have shitty DLC, don't put a price tag on mods. Don't act EA. &gt; who mods for fame, for glory or for... money

Actually, some people *do* mod as a way to get a job, and it's worked for people in the past.  Makers of amazing mods have been hired by the company that produced the original game, and I'm sure they've been integral parts of portfolios for many, many developers and artists. &gt;Isn't modding something people do by passion, for a game they love and want to improve themselves ? I mean, who mods for fame, for glory or for... money ?

Plenty of people.

The best example of that is the Microsoft Flight Sim series (FSX specifically) and the rise of payware addons/mods, with professional teams and companies formed to create paid mods to feed demand for certain aircrafts (from small civilian single seat prop planes to commercial airliners to military aircraft with the simiulation of weapon systems / radar systems, etc), the recreation of airports or other locations for both personal and professional use. The mod Wet and Cold for Skyrim (Which is shown to me under "Explore paid content" on the announcement page), is free on the Skyrim nexus.  

The recommendation thumbnail lists it as 3.35.  Going to the mod's page reveals a "pay what you want" option, with the highest being 66.99 and the lowest being 0.67

Was this mod available for free before on the workshop?  This is strange.

Maybe the whole thing is analogous to Spotify/iTunes vs pirating.  You can get whatever music you want for free but with a little bit of work involved, or you can pay a little bit and have a 1 click solution.  No mod managers, playing with game files, etc. Wet and cold was 100% free. I used it. All of the Skyrim mods were free as well. the modder released the 2.0 version on steam workshop, and left the nexus version at 1.4. &gt; No mod managers, playing with game files, etc.

You need the mod managers to handle a load order. When you get many mods going, you **WILL** have problems if you don't use some kind of utility to make sense of it before you chuck it at Skyrim and tell it to go.  C'mon, Valve. You're better than this. If you want to monetize the workshop without being greedy assholes about it, how about you:

* Give mod authors the option to monetize their work by putting ads on the mod's workshop page, or as a popup prior to subscribing/downloading.
* Pay mod authors a fair share of the proceeds, based upon whatever Youtube-esque metric of ratings/pageviews/subscriptions you care to devise.
* Seriously, a *fair* share. Let's be real here - how many months now has Skyrim comfortably sat on Steam's bestselling list? You think that's based on the strength of base campaign? Modders have already made mint for both Bethesda and Valve. You don't need another big piece, guys. Don't be dicks.

And for all you modders out there:

Your work is amazing. It's gotten exponentially amazing-er in my lifetime, and shows no signs of getting less so. It is long past time that y'all get some compensation for your work. But please - don't be dicks about it either. Already I see people charging for mods that include work that isn't theirs, releasing paid-only bugfixes for mods that were free, or the mysterious disappearance of your mods off free sites like the Nexus. If you need support to keep doing what you're doing, set up a Patreon account. If you have a mod you want to make that you need support making, run a Kickstarter.

**TL;DR:**
Everyone involved in this belated April Fools' joke of a Workshop update needs to go look up "ethics" in a dictionary. If you want a fair share of the value mods add to a game, you won't get it by shortchanging modders and gamers alike. you know what's worse? if this practice gets popular we won't get games anymore, we'll get barebones of games that companies expect modders to add content to it while they earn most of the profits... they already do it even with free mods! I've dabbled in the modding scene for a long, long time and I think this is a terrible idea.  

This is going to crash harder than Greenlight did.  This will outright kill the Steam workshop as a platform for mods. (As if people didn't already prefer Nexus.)  



A bit of a side note: but does anyone else think it's fucking hilarious that Valve is offering 24 hour refunds on mods but not their fucking game library? I can understand supporting modders, but putting the mods behind a paywall and then taking 75% of that cut is the wrong way of doing it. Not to mention the modding scene didn't really need or want this change in the first place. Taking a small portion of donations for facilitating them I can see and agree with, but this is nothing more than exploitation of both parties and is something you'd expect of EA rather than Valve. I'm not fuckin' paying for this. I won't pirate it, but I'm not gonna pay for any of these things either. I wonder what would happen if a paid mod stops getting supported and the game updates and breaks the mod. Do you have to deal with it? Or do you get refunded? Knowing Valve its probably the former one.

~~Also Mods can be removed from Steam Workshop any time (so far I know). So what would happen then with your paid mod which just got removed from Steam?~~

EDIT: Second question got answered by /u/Shardwing &gt;Q. Can I delete my Workshop item?

&gt;A. You can stop selling and delist your Workshop item, but it cannot be deleted. If there are customers have purchased your item, they will need continued access to the mod as well as your Workshop page so they can reference the items they have purchased.

From the FAQ As the page said, you can remove your mod from being sold but not from Steam.  &gt; I wonder what would happen if a paid mod stops getting supported and the game updates and breaks the mod.

Nothing:

***Q. What happens if a mod I bought breaks?***    
*A. Sometimes one mod may modify the same files as another mod, or a particular combination of mods may cause unexpected outcomes. If you find that mod has broken or is behaving unexpectedly, it is best to post politely on the Workshop item's page and let the mod author know the details of what you are seeing.* Great, what I am getting from this is that it'll end in something akin to Kickstarter failures. 

There won't be a guarantee for consumers that the mods will work. There never was one but it didn't matter since there was no initial investment from the consumer. One of the reasons modding became popular for Bethesda games in the first place is that Bethesda games are buggy, broken, half-assed ugly piles of fail.

But it didn't matter much, because we had tons of mods. [One of the most popular mods for Fallout 3 is a Fallout Unofficial Fix Pack.](http://www.nexusmods.com/fallout3/mods/searchresults/?) Bethesda has been able to get away with their ugly, buggy games because modders picked up the slack. It was a comfortable relationship.

Welcome to the future, where we now have to *buy* third party fixes for the game. and the Dev gets a cut for someone else fixing his game, hurray! This is steams response to Unreal 4 mod support. Not surprising. Honestly, most people probably won't even charge unless it's big mods. I mean, things like Aperture Tag were essentially a steam workshop mod. If Valve and Bethesda are now taking a cut of Skyrim mods, does that mean they're both responsible for not breaking mods with updates? Do I get official support as if they were their own projects?

I'm guessing the answer to both of these questions is no. Which is bullshit if they want to profit off of it. One thing that i think a lot of redditors are missing is how utterly monopolized this is by mod dependency!

I mean, what if I want a fancy top-hat crab mod, and it requires a custom content mod, a custom shaders mod, and a cpu balancing mod - and they're all designed and published by different modders.

So you're telling me that now, in order to have a fancy top hat crab mod - WHICH BY THE WAY I'M PAYING FIVE DOLLARS FOR! - I have to go off and BUY a custom content mod for $3, a custom shaders mod for $7, and a cpu balancing mod for $0.99??? What if one of them is outdated?! So now I've wasted $16 for a stupid crab with a top hat, and I can't even have it!

And here's the catch. The CPU balancing mod is outdated and broken. But that's not the top hat crab modder's problem. He's a dude reaping in cash off a model reskin in Philadelphia. The CPU balancing mod creator lives in Scotland. So now for people to make use of his mod he's have to contact mr. non-english speaker and spend 5 hours frustratedly translating to basically say "hey, people won't pay me money because your shit's broken. fix it." 

You really thing Mr. Scotland's gonna take that well? Of course not! He's going to want a cut of the profit in exchange for fixing his mod. Of course Mr. Philadelphia's going to say no, so now all of the community will suffer a lack of content and updates because they're having a fucking profit stalemate.

And of course this can go other ways too. Any of the three "Required mods" see that Mr. Philadelphia is doing well with his top hat crabs, so they're going to drive up the price for their mods because he's bringing them traffic. Better yet, they'll de-market them completely to drive up demand, and then set an insane price for supply.


And all of this brings in a new player - the black market. Mr. Top Hat Crab sees that profit is slowing due to the dependency mods fucking around with the market, so what does he do? He has his friend set up an alternate account to sell the Top Hat Crabs ALONG WITH all three dependency mods bundled together - completely stolen from their original creators ofc. And he tosses on a price tag for $10. Twice what his mod costs, but $6 less than the cost of all four mods. What a steal!


Long story short, the new system is insanely flawed and fucked up, and it's asking for all sorts of new trouble. &gt; The CPU balancing mod creator lives in Scotland. So now for people to make use of his mod he's have to contact mr. non-english speaker and spend 5 hours frustratedly translating to basically say "hey, people won't pay me money because your shit's broken. fix it."

Are you saying those people who live in Scotland don't speak English? So they speak Scottish? which is not at all like English? I don't get it. That was completely irrelevant to my point. Good to know your bias are more important than the discussion at hand. I really don't understand how anyone could support this. There are so many things wrong with this its ridiculous.

* Why not implement a donation system instead?
* Who is monitoring the quality?
* Who is going to make sure that ALL mods are compatible?
* Should be a 50/50 cut not 75/25, that is just greedy.
* This is leading to worse practices, just like micro-transactions and DLC have lead to this.
* What about people scamming?

It blows my mind that anyone could support this, even paying for mods in the slightest seems insane to me. Maybe under extreme circumstances where a mod is truly on the scale and quality of say *Shivering Isles* would I consider say paying $10. But as of right now I cannot think of a single mod that I would be willing to pay for. For example *Midas Magic* is now charging a ludicrous $6... FOR SOME SPELLS! Spells that I might add do not even look that well done. Sure it's a good mod, but it is NOT a good product. Same for some of the paid sword mods going up right now. There is a paid mod of a sword from DOTA up on the Workshop right now for $1, are you telling me, that, that one sword is worth 1\60th of *Skyrim*? Ya right maybe 1/10000th, so it should cost me $0.0001 give or take $0.0001. And according to the *Midas Magic* guy his mod is worth 1/10th of *Skyrim*.

Modding has always been for decades about the community and passion. And it has been well established since, that it is a FREE way to extend a games life and enjoyment. It was something that modders could do to improve their abilities, build their resume, change or add things they wanted into a game they loved, and most of all broaden and enrich the community and game during their free time IF THEY DECIDED. It is not something to be monetized. Again donations are fine. 

Monetizing mods is crazy, they use the logic that everyone deserves to be paid for their work, even if it is not a conventional job. Well I believe you are not supposed to be paid for favors or gifts. Modding to me and most others has always be viewed as a favor to the community and a gift. If you want to be paid for game developing, well then you create YOUR OWN game, or get a job as a game developer to be paid for your work. NOBODY forced you to mod a game you did not even make. You did it on your own free will, there are other avenues you could take to make money for your work, leave modding alone.
 Should we have to pay for mods? No.

Should developers of mods be able to profit off their hard work? Yes.

Give us donation versions of the mods so we can support them, but don't you dare put that shitty bikini mod behind a paywall! [deleted] 75% is fucking bullshit. Seriously. What the fuck Valve. It couldn't be 25% Valve, 75% Modder because apparently that's too fair and not greedy enough.

http://i.imgur.com/BJP4c33.png / https://steamcommunity.com/workshop/about/?appid=72850 Those guys made a mod, not the whole game.  This initiative may actually give the modders a market value rather than just a donate button.  And im sure if enough people were pressing the donate button, the modders involved wouldn't even work with valve. [deleted] This is an incredibly stupid idea. I don't mind if modders get paid for their work but this is the wrong way to go about it. It is littered with problems such as piracy and theft. People are already taking other people's work from the nexus and putting it on the workshop as their own as a "paid" mod. I agree. Stealing aside, what sort of quality control is there? Are there Bethesda developers looking at these mods and deciding which ones fit the lore, or is it just arbitrary vote circle jerking? 

Also, are these mods then taken down from the Nexus so they cannot be gotten for free? 

This sort of alienates the modding community in my opinion since people will certainly become hesitant about spending .25 for a sword or costume.   This is really not the dystopian future I thought was going to happen, but here we are.

I can't see this going any other way but horribly wrong. What a mess. This is the stupidest thing I've read today.  Add a donation mechanic to the workshop, that's fine.  Flat out charging for them?  Ridiculous.

Stupid move, Steam.  I hope you get rid of this soon. &gt; I hope you get rid of this soon.


When you remember Gabe himself took action when people complained about Hatred being removed from Steam, it's gonna be hilarious (but also very sad) if they don't remove this bullshit within a week at most. This is interesting, it could result in some fantastic mods and allow "donations" to people working on massive stuff (e.g. the GoT mod for CK2 should it extend there).

However I have one major reservation in that it now may become the "norm" for people to start charging for mods that would otherwise have been free, almost as micro-dlc.

I also find it interesting that they offer a 24 hour guaranteed refund policy on mods, but there is nothing like that in place for games yet. I know it is possible to get refunds from Steam in some cases, but it is like drawing water from a stone.

Either way it will be interesting to see how this evolves with respect to the wider modding commmunity and Steam's refund policy. It could also result in a GoT mod getting shutdown by the people who own the various rights to GoT now that money is exchanging hands. Oh they aren't charging for it to my knowledge, and it's not on steam workshop (probably due to size limitation). It was just an example of a recent large scale mod that I'd played that I would donate or pay for, rather than something tangibly realistic.

I see what you mean though, it could cause IP issues or arguments between devs and modders. Depends on how it's all being handled behind the scenes betweend Steam/Valve, devs and modders. Yeah, I'm just pointing out that where it could result in some fantastic mods, as you say, it could also result in some other fantastic mods never seeing the light of day for legal reasons that might not have been an issue before. i don't think you can sell stuff that's copyrighted/trademarked, like GoT mods. only original creations. Oh it was just a hypothetical example from a good mod I'd recently played, but you touch upon another issue. If there are any IP issues, and if any mod became massively successful would devs try to claim any money from the mod? Or do they take a slice anyway?

That's what I mean it is interesting and has the potential to help the mod scene by encouraging quality mods, but it's also a risky precedent. What about guns, then? If I model in a copyrighted design like the G36, and charge for it, could H&amp;K C&amp;D me? very good question, i haven't even thought about that myself, it goes even deeper! Don't game developers usually get around this by naming the guns something different? That's usually what you'll find in lower budget games. It's what happened in Fallout. Or they'll redesign the models to be 'just different enough' so you can tell what the gun is but it's not exact.

The point is, real weapon mods drive a lot of interest in Fallout games. Modders get 25% of the cut though, which is absurd.  That's it!? I thought it would be more. I imagined steam would take a cut, like they do for dota 2 and csgo I think, but I didn't realise it would be a majority. Maybe the devs get a cut too then? &gt; GoT mod for CK2 

That looks absolutely fantastic. CK2 has scared me away with the learning curve but if the mod is that good I might just have to learn. Honestly mate CK2 is totally worth it. It's taken me about 12 months to actually get into it, mainly due to time constraints to actually sit for a day or two and learn, but it just sort of clicked for me at the start of the year. 

I'm still a complete beginner to most CK2 fans but feel free to drop me a PM if you want a few pointers from someone around your sort of level. I've managed to work my way up from a Duke to King of Ireland, and currently looking at usurping Wales from the English.  &gt;However I have one major reservation in that it now may become the "norm" for people to start charging for mods that would otherwise have been free, almost as micro-dlc.

I think as long as the mods are priced appropriately it's ok. A cosmetic item for $0.10? Sure. For $2.00? Definitely not.

A 5-10 hours campaign for $5.00? Sure. For $20.00? Probably not. Unfortunately people are greedy, and the appropriately priced items will be few and far between.

See 2 hour games being released for $15. Why should a cosmetic sword be $0.10 when it's just a cosmetic sword, no mod in my honest opinion should have a price on it. Another point,  why does Bethesda get such a big cut from things like models and textures, created by someone else? It is standalone piece of work, simply transfered to a game engine asset pipeline. Such a mess...  Yeah I'd happily pay for good mods, whether cosmetic or content, if reasonably priced. 

I'm more concerned with community fixes or other things that have been traditionally done to improve the experience for everyone in the community, such as Skyrim's unofficial patches. If someone or a group of modders were to decide to charge for these it could be a dangerous precedent towards paid updates. I'm not sure where the mod revenue goes (all to modders, some to modders with a cut for steam and devs) but if the devs do take a slice, why would they issue large patches if members of the community will do a better job and for a fee, where they get a slice? I mean fair enough it is done on their spare time, and it's unlikely to happen, but it's a negative risk in my opinion.

I'm cautiously optimistic however, but I'm just thinking of potential scenarios.

EDIT: I also missed the bigger issue, and one that personally annoys me, that Steam have a refund policy for mods but not games. In places like the EU this actually breaches laws, and competitors now offer refunds. Again risky move. &gt; if the devs do take a slice, why would they issue large patches if members of the community will do a better job and for a fee, where they get a slice?

Yeah, that's definitely a possibility. Is it really any worse than the status quo today though? If a game doesn't have mod support and the dev doesn't bother fixing issues then the game could just remain broken forever.  &gt; This is interesting, it could result in some fantastic mods and allow "donations" to people working on massive stuff (e.g. the GoT mod for CK2 should it extend there).

If they want to get paid, maybe they should start a game company or go work for one. Don't get me wrong, I agree with the sentiment that mods *should* be free. I'm trying to post schools of thought from both sides of the argument, which is why I think it will be interesting to see how this unfolds over time.

However to take an example from your history, you seem to be a keen blacksmith as a hobby. If someone gave you the option to earn some cash on the side smithing something like knives or other outdoor tools, or to repair something, would you provide a service for free since it's a hobby? Or if you wanted to get paid would you have to set up your own blacksmithing business, as you say these guys should? 

I've heard that the gaming industry is a pain to get into; in fact a good friend of mine's son just finished a degree in computing and game design, and he is really struggling to get into the industry. This could be a way for people like him to get a bit of cash on the side whilst building up a portfolio of proven projects. Of course this is disregarding the vast amounts of issues with paid mods that myself and others have alluded to.

Modders do this as a hobby, and it is typically free (with encouraged donations on some sites). I think this could really backfire for Steam, as Greenlight has done, due to their hands off approach with quality assurance and content management. I think it's a potentially promising idea in principle, but forcing people to pay for mods is too far and will cause headaches with piracy/IP infringement/disagreements between paid for mods relying on free ones to work.

Personally I would be far more comfortable if they introduced a donate button, as there are some mods I would happily donate freely to support.

EDIT: In fact after mentioning potential issues with disagreements between paid and unpaid mods, [the first paid one has been pulled for this exact reason](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33o886/within_hours_of_launch_the_first_forprofit_skyrim/cqmtniw). Here's the problem, as I stated in the C:S sub.

The way I make a hook, or a knife, or a nail as a blacksmith is unique to me. It may look similar, but the process another person uses to create a similar item will be quite different. 

Looking at C:S one of the most popular mods allows you to build on 25 tiles instead of the stock 9. To change this within the framework of the game is going to be very similar, no matter who writes it. 

Now, because of how DCMA works, if a free version of the mod is available, and the code is necessarily pretty similar, the paid modder can issue a DCMA against the free one and get it banned. 

No blacksmith will issue a DCMA against me if I make something similar to what he or she made. Oh that is a big problem and I mentioned it in [some](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33m403/steam_introduced_paid_workshop_mods/cqm864f) of my [earlier posts](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/33m403/steam_introduced_paid_workshop_mods/cqm7z6k).

That's what I mean when I think it *could* be a good thing, and in principle is promising. You get to support good, large mods; modders have an incentive to be more ambitious and devote more time to mods; they can enhance a game's experience further (a la Skyrim); and so on. In principle it's all well and good.

In reality Steam have (probably) done this to carve more profit having seen success with their profits from the marketplace and game skins for TF2/DOTA2/CSGO. Also in reality there are going to be issues like conflicting pieces of assets in paid mods relying on free ones as I mentioned in my initial reply to you (with an edit as a recent example), and as you say with DMCAs. Also now that it is clear that Devs do take a slice of the "paid mod pie", what is to stop them from ceasing to provide large patches for free when the community can provide better ones for a potential fee? (See Skyrim Unofficial Patches being better than official ones). And this is without touching the reams of other issues with IP issues, conflicts of interest, piracy etc. It's a risky precedent that requires careful curation, support, and management to succeed; none of which Valve are any good at.

I'm going to follow with a close eye and remain hopeful that the vast majority of modders will either remain free, or provide top quality content in the event that they do charge. But there are a lot of risks, and I remain hesitant as to whether Valve are the company to pull this off in a decent manner. ~~Refunds for games is very easy now (in EU Steam). You just click one button in your latest wallet actions and it's done. Automatically, without support tickets. I guess mods refund will work just like that but worldwide.~~ 

Looks like I was misinformed [\[1\]](http://www.vg247.com/2015/03/18/steam-eu-refund-policy-explained/), [\[2\]](http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2015/03/sorry-europe-you-still-cant-get-refunds-on-your-steam-game-purchases/) Really? I'm EU based and remember hearing nothing about Steam complying with that EU ruling. Admittedly it's been a wfew years since I raised a refund request (incidentally for a literal broken game).

Whereabouts exactly is this done, just for future reference? I don't use wallet as everything is tied to my Credit Card, so no idea where wallet actions are! Okay so after hearing these news internally I've been all over the office with my excitement, I might as well pop in here too.

**We want to give our deepest, most heartfelt thanks to everyone who has supported this game so far.** Even though the team suspected we had a positive reception in store this is above and beyond our wildest dreams.

If you read this and have played, given feedback to, talked about, criticized, considered, modded or in any way interacted with Skylines I want to give you a big personal internet high-five *(and if you're comfortable with it, a hug too).*

As per usual when I dare wander outside /r/citiesskylines - if anyone has any questions I'll gladly answer! Hey, I love what you have done with the game and congratulations on the achievement. One of my favorite games in the past 3 years.

Though I have one question you may have already answered in /r/CitiesSkylines , but will you guys be adding any sort of random events (Riots, government asks if you want a military base, dump toxic waste, city petitions) or adding disasters (Fires, tornados, floods, earthquakes, monsters, ect.) to the game? All of which can change the outcome of your city. If you are not at liberty to say, then I understand. ;-)

EDIT: punctuation and details Adding flavor and life to the city, in some way or form, is definitely on our to-do list! That's one of the things that might, for example, make it into a bigger expansion style update in the future.

Also our brand manager is super hyped about the idea of a Kaiju simulator with Rift support. So that should give some indications of our dreams ;)

And thanks! [deleted] holy shit with hand controls where you can actually swipe down buildings and helicopters. Stop, my penis can only get so erect.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Also, I almost forgot to ask, are day and night cycles on your to-do list? And this maybe a small thing, but "custom soundtracks" in the options? Thanks again! Day/Night cycle is definitely something we're interested in. Can't say it's a high priority addition as it'd most likely be a - mostly - aesthetic change (making systems abide by the rules it would naturally set is not plausible from a design standpoint). So gameplay altering things would come first.

EDIT: Wrote this on my phone and realized it's really badly formulated. This might very well not make it into the game - it's simply something we've always thought would be cool to have.  So many people are asking for day/night cycles, but I dont exactly see how people expect them to be added. If the day/night cycle followed the in game clock I feel that would just be annoying having the light flashing by nonstop. If the day/night cycle was independent of the in game clock then that would just add another level of unrealism. I mean we already have sims taking a week to reach work, and then come home again.

Love the game btw. I just don't see the appeal of day/night cycles. Well, it'd be interesting to see your city all lit up at night. It wouldn't even have to follow the in game clock, and could be a feature that would be toggle-able.

I mean, just think of how many skylines are notorious for being beautiful at night- it'd be nice to see!   thats all i ever expected for day/night cycles - the whole agency simulation and time would need to be totally redone otherwise.

i used to play exvlusicely on night time in SC4 as i loooove the city all lit up! Yeah, I find it so sad to see such beautiful skyscrapers, and not being able to see them in a night setting. Even an old game like SC4 had great graphics for night time. Metropolis are the best lit up! [deleted] Agreed,  The only thing that would really make sense with a day/night cycle to me would be a slider that allowed you to change it so if you preferred night view over day for screenshotting.  Maybe a short night time period every month or something, but you want to work in the day and as you've said, it'd be too fast to do it otherwise. I'm with you on this; I've said it before but I'd much rather see seasonal change than a day/night cycle. Thanks again! &gt; (making systems abide by the rules it would naturally set is not plausible from a design standpoint).

Can you elaborate on this?  A day is roughly 10 seconds, 5 on max speed. We'd have to restructure the entire simulation for a day night cycle to make sense, pretty much :) [deleted] [deleted] I had an idea the other day to make traffic more realistic, since cars can obviously "collide" with no downside, coupled with the fact there aren't really many ambulances around or things for police to do other than "responding to crimes".

Something along the theme of "traffic accidents", but not so much a random event as it being somewhat under your control. Creating safe/realistic intersections would result in a very low "accident chance rate" for that intersection, and if an accident occurred it would block one lane and police/ambulances would have to respond.

I'd love to try mod something like that myself but I usually don't even have the time to play very much let alone mod when I'm so busy with work.

Keep up the incredible work, I wasn't into city builders before this but I'm so hooked. My traffic is already ungodly awful without adding traffic accidents into the equation ;-; Despite that I would love to see this Would prefer "soft" events rather than random scripted events.

Think democracy 3 states/issues and not standard simcity disasters. citizens demanding different policies and politicking would be awesome! Trying to please the different citizen groups could be a fun mini game. I can't wait for them to add more depth. Currently the game is, um, a little on the easy side and once you get past a certain point it is basically impossible to fail. &gt; citizens demanding different policies and politicking would be awesome! Trying to please the different citizen groups could be a fun mini game.

Isn't that pretty much what Tropico is?  I mean that portion of it isn't so much a mini-game as much as a huge part of it, but still. Even the current version could be great with rift support. The isometric style view works well with it. Makes it feel like you're working on a scale model that you can zoom in on. Any chance that flavor includes more ways to differentiate your districts? Like dense slums if you screw up too badly, mansions that take up a lot of space if you do really well, more industries (and maybe more realistic farms), resorts, casinos, theme parks, more policy choices, even lower density choices etc.? I love the game as it is, but right now it feels like you only have the choice between medium density middle class and high density middle class. 

And congrats on hitting 1 million! Please make that Kaiju game happen :) I would love hotels and resorts for bumps to tourism. I also wish that land value took into account geography, such as lake/river/ocean plots having higher value depending on water quality and elevation boosting value as well (the rich ALWAYS live up on a hill for some reason...) Oh that sounds awesome! I look forward to the update! Thanks! Seeing as this might be the only opportunity I get, I'd like if I may to point you towards [a little discussion I had about city simulation on a different subreddit.](http://www.reddit.com/r/SRSGaming/comments/324yq4/on_the_heels_of_cities_skylines_what_comes_next/) There weren't many posts but I thought some interesting things came out of it that you might like to think about.  There are already fires, but a disaster option would be cool.  I prefer without at the moment, but  it'd be fun to go back to old games and click them on and add something new.  I just enjoy the city building aspect atm. Yeah, in other city building games like Sim City, you can toggle disasters on or off. So yeah, as an option it would be a good addition for those who want to play casual or on their feet. Killer game! Know when autosave might be coming? My irresponsibility with saving has cost me much.  It's a highly requested feature and we hope to implement it, I can say that much. No ETA - sorry! 

(Have you noticed F1 quicksaves?) Cool. And I have, but I get forgetful.  Also, there is several autosave mods that work great from my experience. They're basically just macros set to simulate you hitting F1 every 5, 10, 15, etc minutes.

http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/browse/?appid=255710&amp;searchtext=autosave&amp;childpublishedfileid=0&amp;browsesort=textsearch&amp;section=home Back in the old days, there was no autosave. 

We had to rely on buttons, specifically the F5 key. Though sometimes some game would use another F key.

Those were dark times. When instead of hitting the quicksave you push the quickload.  
That's stuff for nightmares. Oh, my sweet summer child, what do you know of nightmares? The nightmare begins when you hit quicksave when you meant to hit quickload.  When you are seconds away from death and your last true save was 3 hours ago.  Now you are doomed to try to turn the last few seconds you have remaining into triumph lest you return to your former save in shame. Been there, done that.  
Playing HL2, being in some difficult shootout and press the savebutton with only having a smidgen of HP while being surrounded by enemies.  
 The struggles, I tell you... My entire half life career right there. 

As I'm falling to my death I hit F5. Except I hit F6. And my last save was really far back. 

Soooooo yeah LPT: Set your quick/save load buttons to be more than one key apart, I personally like using F5 and F8 Autosave mod: http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=406123642&amp;searchtext= Thanks! Do you know if they fixed the COD issues it was having? 

Edit CTD not COD As someone with this mod, do you mind going into more detail about what the issues are or what COD means?  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Big high five back man! The work CO have done with the game and all the work you have done with the community is simply outstanding. You really deserve every bit of success as you have created something fantastic!! I have played Cities Skylines every day since launch and I don't see me stopping in a long time! 

From a Swedish guy currently living on the other side of the planet (Sydney):

Tack som fan &lt;3 Woop! We hope you continue enjoying it going forward, there's a lot in store :)

On the topic of you living in Sydney...

\#officielltavundsjuk

Vet du vad vi har hr? Regn, hagel och ond brd dd. I'll piggyback off of /u/leijonborg because I'm also from Sydney! ^^...Australia 

I just wanted to say that I'm usually a very efficiency-driven builder, resulting in boring square blocks all over the place, but Skylines makes realistic, aesthetically beautiful cities so easy to create I can't resist. The districts are awesome; my suburbs actually look like suburbs!

Also wanted to say that it's great to see you out here. I remember a time when I thought the future of city-building games was in the hands of a company that no longer gave a shit about us. Can't wait to see what you come out with next, cause I'm blindly buying it whatever it is.

I do have a question though, did you get a kick out of seeing on Reddit the first time someone flooded their city with a dam? Were you waiting for it? Det r ok, den permanenta depressionen gr oss till vrldens mest produktiva folk d vi desperat mste hitta mening i livet &gt; From a Swedish guy currently living on the other side of the planet (Sydney)

Goddammit this makes me irrationally jealous all of a sudden. Especially considering the weather we got here right now. Pluggar du dr? I posted a question on the Cities:Skyline sub a while back but got no answer, so I'll try again here.  

Why does the Paradox EULA only grant permission for the one-time installation of the software on one device?  I can't help but feel that this is some clerical oversight by the legal department (result of copy/paste, perhaps) as the Paradox games I have all include Steam Play as a feature, which is pointless under the above condition.  If you can't install on more than one device, saves on the cloud mean nothing except as a backup in case you need to reinstall.  But you can't reinstall either as you only get to install once by the language of the EULA.  Good question, I talked to legal and got it clarified!

Basically it's a matter of slightly imperfect phrasing. This part here: "computer **or** other game play device" implies, from a legal standpoint, that you may install it on your computer **and** any other gameplay device/unit.

It's confusing and I've shared your feedback with our legal team, so hopefully it will be rephrased in a future update to make easier to interpret. Thanks for bringing it to our attention!

For others reading this, the part of the EULA /u/PringerBeam is referring to is this:

*A.	Subject to your agreement to and continuing compliance with this EULA, Paradox hereby grants, and You hereby accept, a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable End User license to: (i) install the Software Product on the local hard disk(s) or other permanent storage media of one (1) computer or other game play device solely owned by You or under your legitimate control such computer/game play device sometimes referred to herein as a Unit); and (ii) use the Software Product for your non-commercial entertainment purposes only.*

 I seriously love you guys for being in touch with people like this The speed of this roundtrip to and from legal has astonished me more than every advance in computing or game design made in the last 50 years combined. One of our lawyers sits, literally, five meters from my desk. Paradox doesn't have many complicated procedures to go through for information to go from A-&gt;B-&gt;Customer --- in most cases. Still, happy to have been of service! :) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] From the phrasing, it looks to be saying that you can't install it on two computers (at the same time). It doesn't say anything about not being able to uninstall and reinstall on the same or a different computer. I'm not really sure what a gameplay device would be, however (tablet maybe?). Computer = gameplay device. You may have it installed on several computers at the same time :) even though it is a computer they might start considering steamboxes to be gameplay device. They may also make games for multiple platforms and not want to rewrite their whole EULA every time they do it. Congratz! You guys deserve every ounce of love you are getting. 

After that failure that was the last great City building franchise going down the loo, I admit I was skeptical about Skylines. At first I thought you were just another Cities XXL (no offense, but should probably work on expanding the name of the title to lessen confusion with that other dev team). Thankfully I had a friend who gave you a shot. His raving review made me take a chance. I have been telling anyone who will listen how good this game is. I can't wait to see what you have in store for later. 

Another user here mentioned random events and I think that would be pretty awesome. Either way, at this point I trust you and your team to know what they are doing. Just don't make us wait too long - I feel like a heroin addict needing more and more every time I turn the game on. 

You guys rock. Not only have you sold 1 million, but people without a pc (like me) will be buying the game in the future. After seeing how wonderful you have interacted with the community it makes people excited for the future of games. It's titles like Cities:Skylines that makes me save for building a pc instead of buying a ps4. If C:S were an album of music in the US, then it just went *platinum*. Congratulations!  
  
Perhaps someone could make a Platinum Plaza, featuring a shiny 12cm optical disc on a pedestal to celebrate. =D Fantastic work man! Im 24 and hang out with my two little brothers, 12 and 11, playing the game and watch them design cities. Its a blast. Your brothers sound awesome, hope they continue enjoying the game and let it spark their creativity! Feel free to send - probably some of our youngest fans - my team's regards :) I'm afraid to play this game You can start at 10PM, play for an hour, and look at the clock at 4am.

"Fuck" I always knew Time Travel could exist. Most of my saves are called something like "how the fuck is it morning", "fucking screenglare wtf it was 9pm just now", "it's not even night anymore wtf" or "what the fuck are you doing with your life". This is literally the first game to ever do this to me. Not even EU4 was this bad. I've played it a grand total of two times. Both times starting at 10pm and ending well into the morning. Once school is over though, I'll be pulling a double 40 hour week. 40 hours on the job, and 40 hours on Cities Skylines. Best 30 bucks I ever spent. You're going to get me fired.  I called in sick to a major, important meeting today, because my city was working for once.  Thank you. The game has plenty of flaws, (as nothing is perfect) as anyone who has spent a significant time in the game has noticed. All things that can in the future be improved on via patch or sequels. I could list them but that would digress my point. 

The game is pure fun though, and i believe you guys (Colossal Order) accomplished this by ensuring that first and foremost. You were always posting things that you knew we city builders wanted. Your team was so incredibly active on the subreddit and forums that you also helped create this extremely positive community that has found workarounds and acceptance with a product being result of a humans beings creating it. After release you were still on top of it, informing us and showing us you were still listening. 

I mention this cause the gaming community can sometimes be pedantic and overly critical. I think the positiveness, the passion and openness that ya'll fostered really shaped the community even while the subbreddit grew so quick after release and its still very positive. I appreciate that as much as the game cause that's whats going to continue to encourage sequels, modders and the community to grow this. 

It's an incredible game, thanks for making it for us.
 Have you guys had any conversations with people behind  simcity, where they have either scoffed at Cities or admitted regret over mistakes that made simcity so poor in comparison? I've personally spoken with a few Maxis people and received nothing but congratulations and goodwill from them, they even laughed at our tribute - unofficially naming our citizens "Cims". Can't speak for the rest of my team :) I'm not even a big fan of city builders and I still bought the game just to support y'all. Huge congrats! I bought your game about 24 hours ago and I've poured 12 hours into it already. There's just something about watching those cars go 'round and 'round...

Anyway, your game is awesome, and the fact that it's so moddable is amazing. Kudos on making something incredible with such a tiny team! I bought the game even though there was less than 1% chance it'd run on my old laptop *(Worth a shot, right?)* just to support you guys and show others that it can be done how people want, Mods, no always online, Mods, community interaction and did I mention mods?

Anyways I'm having to live with watching people play it until I get myself a better gaming PC.

 You guys have done a great job on the game. With previous city sim games I'd get a few hours in to one city and get bored but with Skylines I have put 20 hours into one city with no intention of stopping. It's a well designed game that is so enjoyable and refreshing to play.  oh man are you the colossal order? nice work on game! Just wanted to say thanks. I've only dabbled in the game so far and generally have no idea what I'm doing but its a blast! I played Simcity 4 and skipped the latest version of that game. Thank you for making the game people like me have wanted! Just wanted to say what a wonderful game you have,  it had sapped many hours of my life away.  

Thanks!  Congrats on the achievement! Cities: Skylines is one of two new games I've picked up this year and I couldn't be happier with my purchase. It's one of those games that I can put down after playing a ton over the last few weeks, and pick back up again next year and have just as much fun, I suspect.

And, seeing someone from the development team actively engaging with players on reddit is really excellent as well. I have not played cities skylines. This is mainly due to a new diablo 3 season starting up and that using my gaming time. I bought Cities Skylines after seeing multiple reviews and videos and seeing the great mod support. I have not loaded the game on my PC but I am sure my money was well spent.

Thank you. What really puts things into context is that just last September, Paradox were celebrating that Crusader Kings 2 had sold 1 million copies... after 2 years.

Cities: Skylines truly has blown all of Paradox's previous records. I'm pretty sure pillars of eternity did some solid sales as well. Maybe not as well as Cities, but they sure had a good Q1 2015. &gt; I'm pretty sure pillars of eternity did some solid sales as well.

Pillars was mostly funded by Obsidian, by way of Kickstarter.  Paradox handled marketing, launch support, and the distribution of physical copies.

Although Pillars is still very good for Paradox, they see a far smaller share of the revenue than they do for Cities: Skylines where Paradox funded Colossal Order's development of the game. I mean they were kickstarted so sales don't even necessarily have to be that 'good' (in a traditional sense) to be successful.   Wait, why? Kickstarter provides funds for development just like published games do. They still need sales after launch to achieve anything more than breaking even. Look at it this way. A publisher invests in a developer in the hopes that the game they make will make the publisher money. To do that, a game first have to break even on the investment, which means a certain number of copies has to be sold before any profit is made.

With kickstarter, there is no need to break even. By nature, a kickstarted game has already made enough money to break even when it launches, meaning any sales after launch is pure profit.

Of course, unless the dev is going to kickstart their next game as well, the game still needs to sell enough copies to fund the developer's future games.

 They still have to be maintained though. Patches, multiplayer servers, they need the manpower even after launch. 

Just making it more accurate, you are of course mostly right here. Kickstarting does a lot to make games instantly profitable.  Also this attitude that that when a kickstarter is complete the developer automatically has enough money to make the game is typically not the whole truth...Its pretty typical for a developer to look for other sources of revenue to fund their game outside of kickstarter I wouldn't be surprised if Pillars had extra funding elsewhere, 4 million is hardly a large budget for a professional studio like Obsidian.  Well I would assume a publisher is going to take a cut of the profits to make their investment worth it, otherwise why else would they publish the game? Obviously kickstarter backers aren't expecting a cut of any profits, so all profits from sales go straight to Obsidian with no need to take any of it to pay back a publisher. &gt; Paradox were celebrating that Crusader Kings 2 had sold 1 million copies... after 2 years.
&gt; Cities: Skylines truly has blown all of Paradox's previous records.

Cities skylines is developed by Colossal Order, not Paradox Development Studio. Paradox is the publisher, not the developer of this game. The sales of Crusader Kings is impressive for being developed by Paradox.

As for games Paradox has published, this might be the fastest selling, but Magicka has sold 2.8 million copies as of June 2014. Mount &amp; Blade might also have sold a lot of copies.  So if I've got the timeline right:

They hit 250k sales (including preorders) on the first day

They hit 500k sales after 1 week

And then 1million today (1 month after launch) wait until their first sale Agreed. Already the price is fantastic, but I do not have the money/time to spend on it... I'm pretty sure when they have their first sale I will cave and get this game. Looking forward to it!  Haha just put the same thing above. Whenever I bring it up my brother can't believe I haven't caved and bought it yet (I have a ton of spare money, but I'm known to be very cheap, which is why I have the spare money.) I think he's trying to get me to buy it so he can play it.. (I did the same thing to him with Mario Kart 8) Good on you, save that money -- I'm the same way. The game will be even better when it goes on sale after a few updates. 

That said, it's the first game I've paid full price for since Dark Souls 2 and couldn't be happier.  Shh, you're making me want it. Haha but seriously, being a PC gamer is extremely beneficial. No monthly payments for an online service, cheap games and great exclusives, and you can simply upgrade the components once or twice a generation and be ahead of the next gen consoles (whenever they come out). If you can afford it, having a console + PC is the way to go. And if you're tight on money, get a decent laptop. I played tons of KSP and even got through both Metro games on a laptop. Metro made it feel like a portable heater though, and I only got 15-20FPS. Still fun though! Look at it this way, it' only 30 bucks for a game that's gonna last you  longer than the average 60 bucks AAA game. Plus it'll fund more games from Collossal order.

Regardless, it's still your call, I didn't have the willpower to last until a sale Heh, true but for us cheapos comparing it to 60$ games we never buy isn't quite right. It's more like comparing it to the $15 AAA's from two years ago.  I'm on the same boat, the sales have spoiled me, not in a cheap way but in a way that i have so many games to play, waiting for me in the library to get my hands on them, that I'm avoiding buying new ones like Pilars of Eternity, Alpha Centauri, Endless Legend and City Skylines amongst the top.

As I play the games I have and sales make absolutely mandatory for me to buy the game i will eventually gave in and buy it.

A year from now the game should still be strong, it happened with most of SimCity games due to lack of competition and i don't see why it won't happen the same with this one, it's a great game, without any serious competition and with a strong mod community. The possibilities are endless! They have already had it on sale a few times through GMG IRRC not even a couple weeks after it was released.  Summer sale is when I'll be buying the game I've sunk a ridiculous amount of time into this game and a large part of that is thanks to the mod support. Best decision they made for this game was including full mod support. Any game that offers full steam workshop integration has its value instantly doubled to me.  Yup. Civ 5 BNW is a killer game by itself. Civ 5 BNW plus mods equals 600 hours of amazing experiences. [deleted] [deleted] Can you recommend some good mods, either silly or extraordinary? I love the game, but need to take breaks from it due to its extensive nature. Any mods that will help with keeping me able to not burn myself out on it? Can you recommend any mods that have been released in the past week? I've played it for about 10 hours now and would fancy some decent additions. I've only been using those Gula models and have been out of the loop for the last week. There are so many of them that it's hard to say. Some removes minor annoyances (some people don't want pillars under raised roads, as those make nested road construction a pain, there's a mod for that) while some add features that completely change the game (terraforming, piloting helicopters, etc). It depends on what you want the game to do.  
  
As for buildings, there are an absolute massive amount of growable structures for zoning, so you get a much larger variation in the buildings. I would just recommend looking at the collections and subscribing to the things you like. If you find a particularly fancy building, just check out what else the mod creator have made. Someone tell me no pillars is fairly realistic so i dont feel like im cheating if i install that mod...my intersections are awful You can choose which pillars to lose so its as realistic or as cheaty as you can build/decide PC Gamer did an article on the best mods for cities last week, don't have the link to hand but it's worth the Google, some really good stuff in there These aren't last week but just my favourite simple mods.

[Toggle traffic lights](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=411833858&amp;searchtext=)

It's a bit OP if you use it everywhere and looks pretty ridiculous in huge intersections because the cars are way too synchronized ([it looks like this](https://vimeo.com/106226560)) but used on smaller roads like suburds etc. it makes the traffic flow more steadily and also looks really nice. In real life you don't have traffic lights at every intersection either. Also helps tons with makeshift roundabouts.

[Moving sun](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=420230361)

Adds a day-night cycle to the game. Pretty quick on default but it has extensive (easy to use) settings so you can make the day last just as long as you like and also control how deep into the night it goes (the game isn't designed for night gameplay so there's really no streetlights etc. and it gets pretty dark so it's better to just jump from sunset to sunrise).

On top of these the most popular ones from workshop are all pretty good. The extended public transport UI, auto color lines, extended road ui, all areas purchasable, no money from milestones etc. are all good additions. Whenever I go to the "most popular" I'm like "oh that did bother me a bit, nice" "well I didn't even think about fixing that, but I'm glad someone else did" etc. and gotten slowly rid of all the small details that bothered me at launch. I haven't played many city builders over the years, and was a tiny bit sceptical because a lot of the hype was just "this game isn't SimCity".

That scepticism was totally unfounded though, Cities: Skylines is such a great example of a no-bullshit game that did nothing other than deliver on what it promised. I'm so glad it did so well and I really hope that the popularity of it will let the devs continue to work on content/updates for it. I really hope meetings are being called about Cities: Skylines somewhere at EA headquarters. I want them to analyze why they failed and realize it's 100% to do with how bad Sim City was when it released.

I want them to realize the name Sim City means absolutely nothing, now. They've effectively ruined one of the biggest brands in gaming so badly that a tiny indie developer who pays love and attention to its games can eat up the marketshare within a month of release.

I want EA to be scared that this could happen with other genres, too.

Congrats, guys. You deserve it for the attention to detail you've paid to the game and continued updates, but most of all for your honesty and hardwork. Thank you for giving city sim lovers something to love for years to come and proving that you don't need a huge franchise name to make a successful game. Sim City 2013 sold over 2 million copies (at twice the price of C:S) in the first 6 months of release, and was over 1 million sales in the first 10 days of release).

C;S has been successful, but financially EA did fine on SC. What was the difference in budgets between the two games? Yeah, advertising can build up quickly as well. I agree with you but remember that Cities Skylines costs half as much on launch as SimCity did.
 I bet you the budget difference is a lot bigger than a factor of two though. Maxis was not a small studio, and SC2013 had a HUGE advertising budget on top of that. Yup, the development costs for Simcity would be far greater - network code, more detailed assets, having to build a game engine from scratch - these are things where Colossal Order didn't have to allocate resources on.  And how the game was presented pre-release. Huge, one assumes. CO had 13 people.  Yeah, but you can bet if they tried to make a new one it would sell much worse. But they won't http://kotaku.com/ea-shuts-down-simcity-developer-maxis-1689454903 Nothing says "runaway success" like closing down your studio.

This is really sad though - Maxis was an amazing company :( Maxis was an amazing company - ten years ago. 

 They hit it out of the park with pretty much every game they made up until The Sims 2 in 2004, at which point they made Spore in 2008 (had a lot of pre-release promise but at release it was shit), The Sims 3 in 2009 (I don't play the sims but apparently it was pretty good), Darkspore in 2011 (no one played it because they got burned on Spore and it apparently sucked anyway), SimCity 2013 (which was so bad it basically brought down the entire franchise), and The Sims 4 in 2014 which has mixed reviews, along with SimCity BuildIt in 2014 which is a shitty mobile game. 

 Their time as a top-ranked studio passed a long time ago. &gt; Darkspore in 2011

Holy shit I've never even heard of this game. Kinda strange to think that a game by Maxis and EA could go totally unnoticed with all the marketing power they have. You'd think at least somebody would mention it casually.
 considering their marketing budget (all those doritos and mountain dews), shareholders, and Ricitello's rhino-horn addiction, that was a drop in the bucket. Hence the need for DLC's, in-game ads (really Nissan leaf?), even *before* getting the game fixed !!! Of course Sim City 2013 sold like gangbusters during the first few weeks/months before gamers were telling their friends, "It's not worth it to buy this game. It's just a vehicle for DLC EA wants to sell to you, the plots are tiny, and you can't create truly self-sufficient cities because of it."

It didn't take long for the most die-hard of sim fans to abandon the game. There's a reason EA backpedaled so fast on bringing offline play to the game, because they realized the bulk of users were abandoning the game and not playing it, meaning it wasn't the DLC trojan horse they wanted.

They've wiped their hands of it and put two in the back of Maxis Emeryville for its failures, only to have an indie game come out of left field and sell 1 million in its first month. That's 1 million people that aren't riding the DLC trojan horse, that aren't buying EA's bullshit.

Sim City 2013 may have done well for its initial sales, but I can guarantee it was not considered a success in any EA boardroom. SimCity is on of the Top 50 selling PC games of all time, and sold as many units as Sim City 4. 

You can try to paint some sort of twisted gamer angst picture, but the game did well. &gt; You can try to paint some sort of twisted gamer angst picture, 

They closed Maxis!!! No one is is painting a twisted gamer angs picture. If the game made so well doesn't make much sense now does it. Maxis closed themselves.  I just made a longer post about it, but even when you look past all the annoying EA inspired crap like DLC and always on, Maxis made a really really bad simcity game after years of effort and a massive budget.

They pegged all their efforts on an unnecessarily complex agent based engine that actually reduced the complexity of the simulation the player interacts with because it was so computationally intense that it really limited what they could do with it.  That is what led to the tediously shallow gameplay and tiny city sizes.  The painful launch and annoying EA dlc gold digging didn't sink the game nearly as much as the fact that it was just a really bad game.  Maxis really fucked up too, but EA seems to get all the blame. I think you didn't understand the context of my reply. I completely agree with you. maxis did a terrible job.

What I was disagreeing was that SimCity was a success and those disagree are just whining like the post above is implying.

My main point being if SimCity was a success EA wouldn't shut Maxis because of it. I'm not attempting to paint a gamer angst picture. I'm looking at it from the point of view of EA executives. Sim City 2013 was launched and it was intended to have regular expansion packs, similar to The Sims series. 

They've released one expansion in the same year as the game and jack all since then. From that point of view, no matter how many initial copies of the game were sold, it's a failure because it doesn't retain people to continue purchasing piecemeal DLC.

They certainly made a decent chunk of change on initial sales, but their "games as a service" concept failed horribly. That's why Maxis Emeryville was shuttered and why they're essentially wiping their hands of the attempt. I agree with you. EA seemed very weird with everything regarding that game, you can't sit their and not think that something more sinister was going on in the background. "games as service" is not necessarily bad in itself - see mmos - but said "service" needs to be good in the first place. Ye but almost no one is going to buy Simcity anymore unless they are completely uninformed giving paradox most of the sales till they release a sequel(if they even decide to and dont just pad this game with expansions till the end of time). Till then they in the paradox way will be releasing a fuckton of expansions and other reasonably priced things. So as of now simcity is doing much better from a pure numbers standpoint but that is not taking in to account how much more money EA spent on this nor the fact that over time CS will overtake and make more money then SC I don't think EA cares. EA has been burying game series since forever. RIP Command and Conquer I almost forgot about that series :/ The real question is: how will the next one do? After Simcity bombed critically and skylines boomed commercially (considering the lack of name brand recognition), the momentum may have shifted all to the new franchise.  Maybe. I don't know how well known C:S is outside of the hardcore gamersphere. SimCity is still a well known name. sorry but as a pre-order fool *"I want*ed* *to believe"* !!

edit: on the tiny plots, the fact that each neighboring city would supply any deficiencies was what made me overlook this detail. I always thought that you could have a dozen of cities with inter-changing services. Sadly the inter-city aspect simply did not work, bringing the whole game down with it. Opportunity cost, market share, future earnings, branding, competition.

EA may be eating caviar, but they're doing so with a side of crow. They were still operating with the legacy and clout of Maxis. Think how much money they left on the table though by not doing more DLC though. This is EA. Had they done the game that players wanted, they could have made and sold a lot more DLC than they did. don't forget that EA did not have to cut 30% and give it to valve [deleted] &gt; I want them to realize the name Sim City means absolutely nothing, now. They've effectively ruined one of the biggest brands in gaming so badly that a tiny indie developer who pays love and attention to its games can eat up the marketshare within a month of release.

Lol? Dont kid yourself, while among the more savy/hardcore gamers on the internet (which mostly already hates EA for many years) people might be more skeptical of the next release, most of the masses will still be exited and buy the next game in truckloads. Its not like this is EAs first picnic, people hated DA2 as well, and when DAI was announced and later released people praised it to no end and bought it despite DAI being barely if at all an improvement on DA2. 

One bad game certainly doesnt ruin anything and a big part of why skylines did so well is because there simply arent that many city building games, *there's basically no choice* for someone into that niche.  Well that's not necessarily true (Cities XL series and Tropico series) it is a valid point. I would sell myself over again in a heartbeat to Maxis and EA if they would revision it similar to what Dragon Age did between DA2 and DAI.  I agreed with your first point, but if you don't think DA:I was a huge improvement over DA3, I question if we even played the same games.  Good, they deserve it. Great game, kept in contact with the community providing updates the whole time. I have been telling all my friends and family about this game and showing them my cities. Then I show them the pictures other cities posted in this sub and the clincher for them is "it only costs $30 bucks." 

CO - you guys made something amazing with a price point that I hope you stick with for future games and DLC. Thank you for making city building fun again! Any chance of a traffic/road overhaul DLC for us million owners? Man, good for them, they deserve all the praise and success for doing the one thing SimCity couldn't.. and that was creating a SimCity game. So I'm usually not into these genres of games. The closest I get is Civ and playing Sim City drunk, loading pre-made maps and then demolishing them.

I've heard so many good things about this game. Would a heathen like me enjoy it? You can just activate infinite money option and dick around building crazy spaghetti intersections but at the moment there are no disasters implemented so you won't be able to download a city and wreck havoc in there. Alright, cool! Thanks for the info. Well you can use hydrodams to flood your city. I've seen some incredible videos demonstrating the crazy water physics in skylines.  Go watch some lets plays? Now when will the game just get the ability to merge two roads together, without creating an intersection.

I know the game is European and all, and I know over in Europe, they love their roundabouts... but here in the states, roundabouts are rare. The city I live in has one roundabout in all of 40+ square miles. I cannot recreate the city I live in because this game doesn't give the simple ability to merge two lanes together; instead, it creates an intersection at that point, which backs up traffic and makes it useless.

I've literally stopped playing the game until more ability to manage the flow of traffic and road options have improved. At that, the ability to have 4, 5, 6, etc. lane highways. I want to have giant interchanges with multiple lanes breaking off to merge elsewhere without using slow one way roads.

Basically, they need to take the RHW from SimCity 4 and stick it in the highway menu. I would be in love, then. Also, a more intelligent traffic AI would be nice. I consider it sort of cheaty with liberal usage but you could use the traffic light toggle mode to accomplish this. Man, can't wait till I have some extra cash to buy this game! I've heard and seen so many awesome things about it and seems like a good game! Congrats to them for reaching this milestone!  PM me your steam name and it's yours. This is proof of you just need a good game to sell units . Not an established IP or big huge budget. Good quality gameplay is all you need. good game in a niche genre starved for good games.

a FPS would be quite a different story I wager... I wonder if it had anything to do with the price?

Edit: So I guess the fair price doesn't matter when it comes to the amount of copies sold? I really hope that this is the game to get just everything right and just be lucky enough to become the next media darling. Might finally remind the AAA devs that just making a great game really is enough, without overdone cinematics and hundreds of millions in advertising. I don't even have time to play but I bought a copy simply to show my support for a city sim done right (or that least not so horribly wrong). Just goes to show, treat gamers with basic respect, and gamers look after you with money!

Ironic that in the boom or bust greed of business models like that which surrounded Sim City, EA walked itself into being lumped with a bust.

Getting too greedy just ruins it for everyone.

Congrats to everyone at CO and Paradox on the success, it is well earned and thank you for giving us a good game! Just like to say that Paradox have quickly become one of my favourite publishers. (and developers) Crusader Kings, Cities Skylines, Pillars of Eterntity. All very well made games, with great after care. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Its a great game and that is why it keeps selling, but im sure one of the biggest reasons to it selling this well is the "low" price. 30 is an excellent pricetag for a game of this caliber and potential. 

I just hope they keep the DLC prices fair because i want more content :D i imagine it'll probably sell at least 2.5+ million in it's lifetime, especially when the inevitable steam sale comes along.

Great numbers so far though, considering I imagine not many people have heard of the devs 'colossal order' (I certainly hadn't) This is what happens when you release a polished product with lots of support for what the community wants in a genre that you don't arbitrarily decide is dead. Great job Paradox, I can't wait to get more money to play the game! It looks super fun and I have loved everything I have heard so far. Hope they add more music as the game continues to develop. That's the one thing that this game really needs. 

Smooth. Jazz. So is this game good? After playing SimCity 2000 I was going to buy the 2013 SimCity, but everyone seemed to hate it. So what makes Cities: Skylines better? [deleted] That sounds cool, I'll probably get it. I don't usually get mods though. [deleted] That's cool how easy it is. Thanks for the info. They're in great company. Only the ~~11th~~ 13th game to be rated a 96 or higher.

For reference, a ~~*complete*~~* list of games that have gotten higher ratings from PC Gamer, ordered by score with issue in parentheses:

* **98** Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (April 1999)
* **98** Crysis (Holiday 2007)
* **98** Half-Life 2 (December 2004)
* **97** Half-Life (January 1999)
* **97** Civilization II (July 1996)

All other 96 ratings from PC Gamer, ordered by date with date in parentheses:

* Star Wars: TIE Fighter (October 1994)
* Wing Commander III: Heart of the Tiger (March 1995)
* The Sims (April 2000)
* Company of Heroes (October 2006)
* Company of Heroes: Opposing Fronts (Holiday 2007)
* Minecraft (25 December 2011)
* Spelunky (9 September 2013)

[Source](http://www.metacritic.com/publication/pc-gamer)

Also, if you haven't played Alpha Centauri, please do! The Planetary Pack is only [$5.99 on GOG](http://www.gog.com/game/sid_meiers_alpha_centauri)

\* It looks like some much older games aren't in the MetaCritic archive so they weren't listed in the source I used. I think my point still stands that all the games with ratings this high have been pretty amazing.

edit: /u/Zizhou pointed out TIE Fighter which was not in the list that I'd used for reference.  
edit 2: /u/DracoVolans found another game not listed on MetaCritic or on the PCGamer website: Wing Commander III I guess it's good that their scale actually means something instead of saturating quickly like 4 or 5 star scales do, and that they've maintained the sanctity of the last 5 points of the rating scale.

But damn, I didn't think the list was that short.  And it's odd to see that so many are from 8 years ago or more. Agreed. However,  I think there's one on there that might not deserve it. IMO Crysis isn't really a great game. I think it's rating comes mostly for its tech. Heck, the one sentence review is:

&gt; Destined to be a classic, Crysis is a creative and technological marvel that eclipses every other shooter released this year.

[When I see these responses](http://i.imgur.com/uplHwfo.jpg) I personally found the core gameplay of Crysis to be fabulous, actually. The Nano Suit, and the ability to switch between all functions on the fly led to some amazingly dynamic gameplay that really rewarded you if you mastered it. The North Koreans were also really fun enemies with pretty decent A.I that would try to run away if caught offguard, regroup, flank, and hunt you down. 

The first half of the maps were also excellently designed, giving you multiple avenues to complete your objectives while giving the player an excellent sense of freedom. Want to go in like Predator, or would you prefer to go strength mode, grabbing Koreans by their throat and using them as a bowling ball? Want to take out that chopper, but don't have an RPG? Throw some C4 on a barrel, strength mode, throw it at the chopper and blow it up. Or you could do speed mode, using hit and run tactics. Want to just go Armor mode and slug it out the old fashioned way? Or do you want to use all of those tactics, switching between them from second to second, always surprising your enemy? 

Unfortunately, I felt like it pretty much threw that all away come the second half of the game where the aliens show up, and most of the good things about the game are discarded. The sequels are another matter, but the first one did some really cool and refreshing things, and it did them *well* until they fucked it up midway through by not utilizing all the awesome mechanics they developed. Indeed. Gameplay in Crysis is fantastic compared to most shooters. So much room to play how you want.

I wouldn't give the aliens the entire 50% of the game, though. They're more like the last quarter, easy. And by then, fighting a new opponent feels fresh.

I have a few nitpicky gripes, but in the context of things, very well done. I finally got a chance to play it on PC the past few months, and was blown away by how different it played than the console release (which had C2 suit mechanics). I just want to note that the first time I fought the aliens I was genuinely AFRAID of them. I can't remember the last time I was afraid to confront an enemy outside of dark souls. I'm an FPS vet- I don't choose anything other than the hardest difficulty- and I was afraid of those aliens at first. They did a great job building them up. I dunno, the AI in World at War was [really good at throwing grenades](http://nerdburglars.net/images/gallery/2013/04/world-at-war-grenade-spam.jpg)^( fuck Blowtorch and Corkscrew)

But in seriousness, there are very few enemies that I'm actually afraid to face, particularly in FPS.  I can think of Juggernauts from MW2 and that's about it.  I should get Crysis. The only enemy I ever genuinely feared was the Rancor in Jedi Academy. That thing was scary and nearly invulnerable and then there's a level with one thats 10 times the size :( The veteran campaign in this game was a fucking nightmare to beat, no matter where you were the grenades found you  I'm pretty sure I had the AI throw more grenades at me in the final level on those steps in Berlin than there were grenades used in the entire world war. I played MW (IV, the best one), WAW, BLOPS, etc. totally by accident. I refused to buy a new COD every year, and by happenstance got on the Treyarch schedule and never played any others. FWIW Crysis was worlds better. new enemies would feel fresh if they weren't bullet sponges It's also worth pointing out how much of an evolution Crysis was from the first Far Cry.  &gt;The sequels are another matter,

Warhead was great as well. Warhead is Crysis at its best Nah, too many fucking aliens to deal with.

Whenever I replay Crysis, it's right up until the zero-g section.  Then I delete, wait a year or two, then play again.

For my money, Crysis is the only FPS in the last 10 years to actually move the ball forward in any meaningful way, and ever since then it's just been stagnation and multiplayer piffle.  As soon as the big money became online, nobody wanted to do anything new or different anymore.   &gt; For my money, Crysis is the only FPS in the last 10 years to actually move the ball forward in any meaningful way, and ever since then it's just been stagnation and multiplayer piffle.

In my opinion, the latest Wolfenstein moved the ball forward, but really only by moving back to more classical styled shooters.  Wolfenstein: The New Order was a very solid shooter. In my opinion, though, the gameplay  got dull pretty quickly. Honestly, I found myself just slogging through each encounter, waiting for the next collectible to flesh out the backstory or proceed to the next cutscene. What I really enjoyed, though, was seeing BJ do his best to *be* that emotionless Terminator type character, when he's really just an incredibly damaged man trying not to fall apart at the seams. And as unoriginal as the plot may be, the characters are very well written. I was going to say this exactly. It was innovative in that it returned to the roots of FPS classics with a witty story, creative weapons, and genuinely interesting main character. To me it seemed like the a kind of love letter to half life 2. It had all these great characters, the weapon progression, the "one unlikely hero", and the basic premise of "hero out of time returns to world newly dominated by the forces he was once fighting, works to defeat them through ragtag rebellion".

And that similarity made it an awesome game. It was just serious enough to make you genuinely care about the story and the characters, but it never took itself too seriously. I haven't played a game where I can dual wield sniper rifles since Goldeneye. And good writing; don't forget the good writing!

The scene where you first meet Frau Engel is still one of the best moments in gaming in my opinion. Metro and Borderlands and Bioshock had some cool ideas too BioShock didn't really do anything new mechanically. It mosyly felt like a scaled-back version of the systems in System Shock 2.

Borderlands had some interesting concepts, but the implementation is utterly boring unless you're playing local multiplayer - at least in my experience God that zero g section was dreadful, wasn't it. I think I had blocked it out.  Its both dreadful and amazing. The general gameplay of it is... not great. But that first time you were playing it? When you were in this crazy alien relic, tense as hell, then all the sudden the gravity kicked off? 

Holy crap that was amazing. oh god i do this.

Fighting other soldiers was so much fun, then fighting aliens was a huge let down. I haven't replayed in forever, but I thought the aliens were intimidating enough (at least at first) that I didn't try to fight them the same way. Once you get a feel for them, they're dumb, without a doubt. From a story perspective I could at least see what they were going for because I was genuinely afraid of them for a while. Could not agree more.   What happened? Just like BF Bad Company 2.  Destruction was great, but bf3 and bf4 went away from it?  Why do less of what made you stand out?  Agreed. I count it as pretty much just an extension of Crysis 1, with a lot of the same greatness and shortfalls.

I was mostly speaking about Crysis 2 and 3. Mostly 2, hadn't been so disappointed in a sequel for awhile, though 3 was better. Hell 3 was great too. 2 wasn't as great as the first too, but I still liked it. 

Though they were definitely trimmed down from the originals.  &gt;The first half of the maps were also excellently designed, giving you multiple avenues to complete your objectives while giving the player an excellent sense of freedom.

&gt;...

&gt;Unfortunately, I felt like it pretty much threw that all away come the second half of the game where the aliens show up

This sounds very much like the first Far Cry, just replace aliens with mutants. In some way Crysis is the direct successor to Far Cry as Crytek had to sell the Far Cry rights to Ubisoft in order to survive.  It's understandable that they somewhat stayed with their successful formula when they had to come up with a new IP.   My memory of 8 years ago is fuzzy, but IIRC, Far Cry was originally published by Ubisoft and when CryTek left they left the Far Cry IP behind.

Or perhaps it was because EA threw enough money at CryTek to convince them to jump ship?

Feels like so long ago... Yes. Same developer and same story pacing. Literally just before the halfway point in Far Cry, the mutants show up, and the game travels a little down hill before recovering. It also important to remember that Crysis was the first big PC fps exclusive in a while when it was released. It really showed what pc graphics/gameplay where capable of when an engine was pretty much designed for only high end pc gaming, and did not have to worry about the limitations of consoles. If I remember correctly, Crysis was actually breaking hardware. The ultimate test on PC for a long time was, "can it run Crysis?" The game still looks good to this day. Not,"it has aged well," it literally still looks better than some stuff that is released *today.* I'm not sure where you get your information. PC had a long list of PC exclusive games-Doom 3, Halflife 2, Quake 3, Quake 2, Soldier of Fortune, Far Cry. Yes, almost all of these games got ports, but it was 1-2 years after the PC release. Seriously. There are some mods that make it still look top 1%.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EmY20r4x07k

 That water looks terrible. Crysis' original water looks much better imho. Looked way too fast as well, not sure if that was changed or just because the texture was bright Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, I guess. Because to me that looked terrible. I wish someone would make a completely open-world game with the gameplay from Crysis 1.

Everything from the second half, through the sequels feels like an expanded corridor shooter.

 [Crysis has a lot of potential](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t9SPK3HN7Bs) to just have a blast with the nano suit.  The campaign (at least pre-aliens) is so damn fun. I think I played that game wrong. Damn. "4" button masterrace I disagree. Crysis (or at least the first two thirds) has some of the best gameplay in the history single player FPSs. You were given almost total freedom in how you handled most of the objectives. The game gave the player a set of problems and the tools to solve them, but it was up to the player to decide how to use those tools. yeah! it puts you on an island and is like "there you go nerd". You can punch cars, go tactical, or both! it never told you how to play.

when it got average reviews i was blown away in disbelief. Crysis 1 is awesome, and looks better than most games out TODAY. 2007 was a long time ago! Crysis didn't get average reviews. It got great reviews. Only recently have people suddenly decided it was a 'tech demo'. Completely absurd.  Definitely isn't recent. I heard that saying a month or two after its release.  &gt; Only recently have people suddenly decided it was a 'tech demo'.

Absolutely not. I remember defending Crysis against allegations like these from day 1. 

Honestly, it's one of my favourite first person shooters of all time. The first half was better than the second half, but I found that one perfectly fine as well.

Crysis 2 wasn't particularly good, but I quite liked Crysis 3.  &gt; The first half was better than the second half, but I found that one perfectly fine as well.

I never played FarCry to full completion, but I remember something similar there - the first half of freedom and human-vs-human was amazing, then there's aliens or biomorphs (or whatever was FarCry's deal) and things went downhill. 

I finished Crysis, but the first part half was way better than the second -as was the case with FarCry 3. Pattern, anyone? Tritans. Lol. Tritans. That was the worst idea ever.  i remember it getting a four out of five or 8/10 at most places.

Metacritic currently has it at 91/100 critic score 80/100 community. So it was received better than i remember. Yeah that was happening right at release. People have been calling it a tech demo since 2007. Crysis deserves the rating PC Gamer gave it, one of my favorite games.  One of my favorite scenes is when there is an ambush in the jungle with a massive truck across the road. I jump out and my jeep barrels straight into the truck, and the whole thing just goes KABLAAAAAAM. Glorious I thought Crysis was possibly one of the best games I've EVER played. 

The storytelling was REALLY REALLY well done. I never did play the second and third.....but man I wanted a continuation of the first.

That was such an epic game. The 2nd and 3rd kinda suck compared to the 1st. They're way more generic Crysis, while not a great game plot-wise, is easily modded and makes for an *excellent* sandbox. Not to mention the Nanosuit is probably the most hilariously fun thing ever allowed to any FPS player, ever. So many shenanigans you can have with that thing.

For example, it's actually possible to use Speed and Strength in tandem to sprint towards a soldier, switch to Strengh at the last second, and slug him with a punch that carries all the inherited momentum from your sprint. His ragdoll will then proceed to slam through a half-dozen fences, or even tear out the wall of a building if he's standing in front of say, a small house or a shack.

EDIT: Grammar, wording. Crysis is an amazing game. The suit is amazing. Wonderfully varied level design and alternate gameplay styles to spice things up and keep things interesting, fun and satisfying weapons, the weapon upgrade system, which seems old hat now, was great, and all in all just stellar production values on the whole package.

The VTOL level sucks, I'll grant.

It not only eclipses most other shooter, I'll play it over Half Life 2. It is, as far as I'm concerned, pretty much one of the top 5 FPSs of all time.

I find it baffling how people pass it off as some 'just some tech demo.' &gt; the weapon upgrade system, which seems old hat now, was great,

Not so much "upgrades" as on-the-fly customization, which kicked ass.  Meshed very well with how flexible the nano-suit was if you were fast enough. Crysis wasn't terribly accessible on release. The "... But can it run Crysis?" joke exists for a reason. It was dismissed as a tech demo because it was so demanding at a hardware level when it came out that sales weren't a good as they should have been. It really is a shame. It wouldn't have been dismissed as a tech demo if it came out a year or two after it did, and it still would likely have had fantastically innovative gameplay. But as it was, it looked better than anything else at the time. I disagree, Crysis is one of the most fun FPS games I've ever played.

I was crushingly disappointed with Crysis 2/3 where it became extremely obvious that they had no idea what made Crysis 1 fun, and decided to remove almost *all* of the fun parts of it.

Crysis 1 was an excellent game that definitely deserves to be on that list. So me, having only played Crysis 2 and found it to be a boring pile of shit and deleted it when my computer needed space for better games, seemed to have missed the boat, then? Definitely still holds up today, and worth picking up on sale for a playthrough. Nah. Crysis 1 and Warhead are still excellent games worth picking up and going through.

and if you can run Crysis 2 you can for sure run the first ones. Crysis had an amazing story, with the aliens and all, so tense! Well I didn't enjoy Crysis much (though I loved Crysis Warhead), but in a way they are right in awarding it so much because the game was absolutely stunning when it came out.

You played it (assuming you could) and you were just sitting there with your mouth open, it was that impressive. And that's something which is worth recognizing. When we talk about "amazing graphics" nowadays, we're not even close to capturing the sense of wonder when myself back then saw Crysis' graphics. It felt like something from 50 years in the future. In fairness the last 8 years have seen a massive increase in PC gaming where as before you did have somewhat console dominance.

Especially the PS2 era.

From 1992-2000 you had 6 titles.

From 2006-2014 you had 4 games.

So they got more selective not less.

You can disagree with them based on their choices but not based on the number.

And if you disagree based on the individual choices then all scoring is equally as arbitrary and worthless as they represent something unquantifiable, someone opinion.  &gt; So they got more selective not less.

I think that was his point. That now, with the massive increase, there are FEWER games with higher scores, whereas before with the smaller selection they gave out more.  You missed 

* Star Wars: TIE Fighter (October 1994) 

for the 96 category, probably because there's no digital source for metacritic to scrape.

Source: [I have a copy of the issue on hand](http://imgur.com/a/hHjIo) Interesting. That's not on the MetaCritic list which is what I used simply because it's the first thing I found with "all" of the ratings. It's possible their DB simply doesn't go back that far.

Editing my post. Yeah, TIE Fighter actually doesn't have *any* ratings, which seems relatively common for games over a certain age, given the way that metacritic gets the aggregate scores. It looks like at some point before Civ II (July 1996) PCGamer's reviews are no longer on their website and therefore not in MetaCritic's list of PCG reviews. I'm gonna venture to guess that PC Gamer didn't have an Internet presence prior to July 1996.

I was going to use the [Internet Archive](https://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.pcgamer.com) as my source, but that in itself apparently [launched in 1996](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Archive).

So I'll just say, one day in the mid 90s, I was reading a PC Gamer and found their dot-com address printed at the bottom of the page for the first time. Looking at the web archive they do have older reviews thoug. I was able to find the wing commander review without too much trouble Hah! I recognize that cover. I remember buying that issue specifically for the Dark Forces demo! Haha me too! I still have that issue somewhere. Hell I might even have the disk... Worth noting that PCG US and UK used to be more autonomous, to the point of producing separate reviews of the same games. PCG UK has never scored over 96. Yeah, [they have a separate Metacritic entry](http://www.metacritic.com/publication/pc-gamer-uk), but it's missing a lot, both from the past and from stuff that ends up under the main PC Gamer account now.

For instance their highest score shown there is 95 but I know they gave Half-Life a 96.

Also to back up your comment, I never saw anything above 96 and I subscribed for a while. It's odd that only indie games have made the list since 2007. I think AAA games are basically Hollywood blockbuster movies at this point:  Sometimes I come away thoroughly entertained but they aren't breaking new ground or blowing my mind any more these days. Breaking new ground is risky. Nobody wants to invest millions on developing a game unless they have good reason to believe that it will sell. This is why most AAA games are either sequels or built on an existing IP. It's safer to iterate on what works than to attempt something unique. Hopefully we'll see AAA devs do what big Hollywood studios do and release smaller experimental titles on the backs of their guaranteed hits. If I recall correctly, wasn't Portal's inclusion in the Orange Box exactly because Valve was unsure of how the game would be received? 

Actually, why don't more companies do something like The Orange Box?  &gt; Actually, why don't more companies do something like The Orange Box?

It's because we're lucky to have Valve.  I know they fucked up recently, but never forget. I'm still waiting for Orange Box 2. 

That way they can do HL3, Portal 3 and TF3 without having to release a 3 game. I think it would be more likely they put in other titles, now that Portal is so big. No way they'd do that. At least not until a while after the release of those three games.They're all just too large to combine. HL3 and Portal 3 can easily sell well standalone for the regular game price.

They'd probably space out the releases, too, rather than releasing all at once. Maximizes early sales that way. Ubisoft does this. See: Child of Light. not just child of light, also grow home and while much larger the recent rayman games Valiant Hearts. Yea, they rightfully get flak for things their AAA series are doing, but the smaller studios produce some neat games. If only I didn't have to use that godawful uPlay. It's arguably the worst piece of software since Conficker. It's not all that bad, IMO. It's annoyingly unnecessary, but I've never had problems with it. It's kind of interesting how their achievements give you points that can be used to unlock things in game, artwork, etc.

I've never had it fail on me though (in fact, it seems less buggy than Steam). Although I haven't used it as much as Steam (just Far Cry 3, Child of Light, and a few Assassins Creeds).

The interface is reasonably well designed and I've never found myself stuck or anything. So i wouldn't consider it the worst piece of software. I've seen far many pieces of legitimate software that are in worse shape. It's really only the influence of monopolies that have created this state of affairs. I'd put it this way: getting into 90/100 territory is about delivering a polished game and a great experience, but breaking 95/100 is no longer about polish, it's about breaking the mold and changing gaming. If you look at the other games in the list, they're not remembered because they were perfect, they're remembered because they revolutionized the genre and did something so new we're still trying to recapture their magic today.

I'd say KSP has earned that distinction. Spelunky is perfect. There is no other game in recent memory that I would describe as even near perfect. I actually found it boring as hell. Go figure... I really fucking tried but couldn't stand it. Went right on back to Rogue Legacy, a far superior platform rogue like in MY opinion. I wish it did local co-op better though - why have it on one screen when you could easily do split screen, or even something like recent lego games has (single screen when nearby, split screen when far away)?  My one bugbear with the game! Playing it in split screen would make it even harder than it already is though XD. Odd? Or a sign of the times? Maybe AAA studios aren't putting enough effort into games to make them get those scores. I think effort is the wrong word. AAA games cost millions of dollars and require hundreds of people to make. What they lack is the courage to try something completely new. AAA games do not innovate in the same way that indie titles do. Every AAA game you see is a variation of an already existing success. Games like Minecraft or KSP are something new entirely. It's important to note, and I really don't think I see this argument much, that these indie games are high risk and therefore there are plenty of turds out there too. Most AAA games (as long as they aren't complete shitshows) sell as would be generally expected of them, especially if they are sequels or otherwise well established. The profitability of a bold new indie title from somebody that is essentially unheard of is not so easily predicted and for every shining star (Super Meat Boy, Bastion, Spelunky etc) there is a whole load of drivel that isn't even worth talking about. I'm pretty sure Wing Commander 3 also had a 96+ review.  Yep. Not on MetaCritic. Adding it.

http://web.archive.org/web/20000226204308/http://www.pcgamer.com/reviews/1164.html Bloody hell, TIE fighter is old enough to buy booze in the US Crysis was really good, but 98? Crysis was one of the best shooters I had ever played up until the aliens part, after that it felt *off* but still enjoyable. I enjoyed Crysis:W, C2 and C3 but never as much as the beginning of C. &gt;  up until the aliens part, after that it felt off but still enjoyable. 

This is why I am surprised at the 98.  That means the game was almost perfect.  It was great, but not *that* great.  Anyways, numerical scores for entertainment media are ultimately arbitrary and meaningless. to often games are reviewed in part, see black and white 2 having so many of its stellar reviews lowered once reviewers found out the review copy was the entire game It doesn't necessarily mean that it's almost perfect. It depends on what PCGamer was defining their 100% as. Most game sites and publications stopped defining it in their review guidelines as perfect a long time ago.

I think in the case of Crysis, they wanted to use the score to show that the game is such an evolution over Far Cry. Even with the multiplayer. I never found the alien parts to be so detrimental to the game as to bring the rest of it down. It was made in 2007. The graphics were going to turn heads and probably earn the lions share of the points. 

People were a lot more focused on how pretty games were before the whole anti AAA debacle.  It was the second well-produced free-roaming FPS game made after Far Cry, with graphics, mechanics, and AI that stand up even today, 7 years after the game's release. I'd argue that Crysis suffers from the opposite of nostalgia nowadays; the graphics WERE amazing on it, but that's all anyone ever remembers of it now. The gameplay was extremely satisfying; all of the free roaming Nanosuit stuff and ability to approach problems whatever way you wanted was outstanding for 2007.

I mean, I personally don't think it deserved 98%, if nothing else because of the terrible alien parts of the second half, but I remember reading a discussion (or was it on a podcast?) from PC Gamer at the time talking about the intricacies of scoring a game like this which is so good for a long time but then drops the ball in the second half. It also happened to be a pretty good game but 98 is definitely too much given the awful second half. Crytek never understood what was actually fun about Crysis. Did you play Crysis? That list is pretty airtight from what I can see. The fact that Half-life games and Sid Meyers games make up 4 of the top 5 top rated games of all time makes me want to get a subscription to that magazine. I haven't had a subscription since the 90s.

Just the fact that there are so few games with that rating is awesome. I wonder how this would have reviewed if it didn't go through the early access process and get a cult following. I think we would have had demons souls syndrome, where an idea is so different from what's out there that it would have been lost on the reviewer without a community of specialists to show the depth and complexity. It's not really that much of a cult following though, pretty much everyone I talk to (who plays games) knows about the game. Not only that, NASA, ESA and a shit ton of people who actually work in the spacey field know the game. Helps a lot I guess? I know a few people that play it, and they absolutely *suck* at it. The dedicated community shows you just how far you can take this game.  I think for the vast majority of players KSP is the "Kerbin, Mun, and Minmus" game - I doubt most of the players have ever left Kerbin SOI.

You can go to the Mun with a bit of reading and some practice, but leaving the home planet entirely takes a level of dedication and planning that I doubt most players have. 90% of my time on that game was spent making cool rockets and seeing if they could take off. 

Even then, it was more memorable than most games I played last year.  I can get as far as landing on Duna but not getting back. Or the orbiting around the outer planets... and not getting back.  Well, 1.0 gives you the option of mining planets and converting the ore to fuel, so return missions just got somewhat easier. Mining Increases the replayability tenfold. With KAS installed it is super easy to create mining bases as well. Mining is in there default now? Holy what. God. Damn. No. NO. ***NOOOO I WON'T BE SUCKERED BACK IN AGAIN WHAT HAVE YOU DOOOONNNNN***NNnnnne

RIP Dagon' social life and other projects... again. Landing on a planet with as much gravitational pull as Duna and getting back into orbit is an extreme challenge. It is far easier to land on pretty much any other moon in the solar system and get back. Actually, Duna is by far the easiest planet. It takes only slightly more deltaV for a Duna mission than a Mun mission. Which means if you have a mun lander that has some fuel left over after the mission, there is a good chance it will make an efficent Duna trip. EDIT: And no its not easier to get to every other moon. Tylo for example is by far the hardest moon and one of the hardest bodies to land on. The nice thing about a game like KSP is that the challenge is there for you, but you don't have to take it. I find building spaceplanes much more interesting, so even if I've made it to several other planets and even returned from Eve's atmosphere (didn't land though), the vast majority of my time in KSP is spent in Kerbin atmosphere. That's the freedom of KSP's sandbox. Guilty, well sort of, it isn't actually that hard to leave Kerbin's SOI, just point prograde and burn for a while. But stranding Kerbals in orbit around Kerbol is definitely the furthest I've gone. In unrelated news, we still haven't gone to Mars. I didn't find it that big of a jump to get out of Kerbin's SOI. After you figure out how to do planetary transfers it is as complex as know your launch window and landing on the Mun. I've been to Duna twice. Once was a probe that crashed and exploded and then I sent Jeb and his lander exploded except for the pod.

In the 1.0 release, I've landed on the Mun a few times. My Mun lander has the dV to make it to Minmus and back. Grinding out science so I can have a feasible mission to Duna. I only have the individual solar cells at the moment. It'll be an interesting challenge once I have the parts and funds for it. If anything, space simulation games have become more and more popular over the decade.  Can't it be said that Elite: Dangerous or Star Citizen would have expected a similar outcome if we hadn't grown interest in space? KSP definitely isn't in the same realm as Elite: Dangerous or Star Citizen. Those games follow a lineage focused on RPG elements plus dogfighting plus open world mechanics. KSP, on the other hand, is about physics and engineering creativity.

One way to put it is this: in Elite: Dangerous, docking with a space station is somewhat challenging but it's just a part of the grind. Takes you a couple minutes and you're done.

In KSP, you had to plan, build, and launch that space station. Setting up the randezvous and docking is one of the hardest things in the game because of the way the physics work. Once you're good at docking in KSP, you can see the docking process for Elite: Dangerous and think "... that's it?" No, I don't think so. Ksp is a really fucking complicated game that has never had anything like it exist in the past. Ed and sc look a lot like eve, at least as far as the complicating strategic elements are concerned.  &gt;never had anything like it exist in the past

What about Orbiter?  Or something like Lunar Lander?  If anything, those games were as complicated then compared to now. Ok, I phrased that wrong. KSP is the first game of this variety to get any significant following. You can talk about the existence of these games all you want, but the vast majority of the gaming public hasn't heard of them. Like someone else in this comment chain said "everyone I know who plays games knows about KSP". They probably don't know Orbiter or Lunar Lander. I sure as hell don't. True, you're right about that.  I didn't realize most space-oriented games haven't made it into mainstream spotlights, so I probably thought that these games have gained more popularity than they have held onto. [deleted] Or, y'know, Elite itself... Freespace 2? It came out in 1999, has tight controls and fantastic flying in a very well-done and varied campaign. And the Open Freespace Open Project has lengthened the game's lifespan dramatically with the development of new campaigns, the addition of new ships or new sci fi universes to fly in (Diaspora for Battlestar Galactica, even a few Star Wars campaigns out there).

So I wouldn't say space sims have been stuck as a desert for the past 20 years. You've also got Elite and Star Citizen as the latest space sims, with X2, X3, and X-Rebirth coming out before them. I played Freespace after already having played Freespace 2, and it has to be said: the difference in quality is *staggering*. Freespace 2 truly was one of, if not *the*, best space fighter game. I admit, however, that I've yet to play Star Citizen.

The Freespace Open project has also done some great work with revamping the core game with updated models and graphics. But even then, if you play it with the original graphics and everything, it's *still* a beautiful game. For its time, a masterpiece. Hell, even by today's standards a masterpiece (except graphically, unless you have the updated MediaVPs). Some of the mods for freespace 2 have astounding levels of quality too. Blue Planet is on another level, with the writer being an ex-bungie dev and a published sci-fi author and the top members of the community being deeply involved with development, it's actually got to the point where people are worried it's preventing new blood in the modding scene because no-one wants to be compared to it.  I don't know that people should be too worried about that. There's plenty of high quality mods for Skyrim, Fallout 3 and Fallout New Vegas that are made by incredibly skilled people, and I've never really heard that this has been preventing new blood in making mods.

Personally, I have plans in the works for making the Homeworld campaign in Freespace 2 from the perspective of a fighter pilot. They are very rough and early plans and concepts, but I don't think I'm personally afraid of being compared with them. Elite  1984?  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y3xHj0plhDU  


Wing Commander in 1990?  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rocwNg05FL4  

Wing commander IV  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYAcyeQQlq8   Or you know, privateer and wing commander (star citizen), and elite (elite dangerous). Sure Tie fighter too but it wasnt just tie fighter....  I grew up with wing commander, privateer, and tie fighter.   You seem to understand very little about space sims. And so it should. I downloaded KSP before it was even on Steam, where you had about ten different parts, Kerbin and the Mun and no trajectory paths. To have seen it grow from that into this incredible game, where what you do is down to your own imagination, from building space stations to flying to the farthest regions of the system, is humbling. I would have never have imagined that tiny, somewhat ugly demo, would turn into what it is today. The developers deserve all the acclaim they get. Nothing was rushed, the community was always listened to and tellingly they've released pretty much the perfect game.   I remember when people were fighting on the forums if you can actually achieve orbit or not because there was no map or anything that could indicate that you're indeed in orbit and in earlier versions Kerbin was actually flat and not a planet so orbit was impossible. When you flew up in the atmosphere, Kerbal was a piece of paper in space? You couldn't get that high. Like, it was Kerbin sized but flat. You'd be pretty high up to see the whole plane. Yes you could get that high. The entire point before Mun was introduced was to get high enough to see Kerbin (rather suddenly) disappear. I'm pretty sure you mean Kerbin. There's also Kerbol, but that's not a planet so I think you mean Kerbin.

"Kerbal-sized" is rather small. You could fit 3 of them in a space capsule. Back in my day there wasn't even a moon.  Now there's a space station. One of the most deserving scores ive ever seen. The game is that good. Its hard but when you eventually do things like land on mun or minmus...etc it just lets all the work pay off. That being said, the game is super hard in career mode if you suck at the game.  At least Career Mode is much more reasonable now than it was in Beta. The prices for upgrading buildings are not as ridiculous and the part testing contracts are not as tedious so the early game goes by a lot faster, which is great.   
   
Still not the mode to play if you don't really know what you're doing though. I think Science mode is the best for new players, they get the progression through the tech tree and they're not overwhelmed by having every part available from the start. Were do I upgrade buildings? I've really wanted to upgrade my launch pad but I can't find where to do it. Right click on the building when you're in the main Space Center view. It also tells you what the upgrade does when you hover over it. Thank you! Now I can finally get into orbit! Funny, I remember how I reached Mun for first time.

Somehow after so much trial and error, I finally managed to almost perfectly land. Well, rocket flipped to it's side, but rcs thrusters are there to fix that. Navigated Jeb out of pod to surface, turned on Bowie's "Space Oddity" and for some time was just looking at Kerbin with Jeb, like this is some massive achievement we managed together. Too proud to be weirded by making a fuss out some videogame achievement. All achievements on that game feel so fantastic. It took me hours upon hours to ever reach the Mun, as I didn't realise that the game had an in game maneuver tool. I just eye balled it at first, attempting over and over, then I pulled out my high school mathematics, filled up tons of sheets with calculations, relearning all that old shit. Finally I hit the Mun.... At a speed of about 600 m/s.... And yet I was still happy about that. After that I finally learnt how to use the maneuver tools, use rcs thrusters properly to land. 

Even the other day, I spent hours learning how to dock in orbit. And then I somehow succeded four times in a row building my first space station with refuelling docks and everything. And even then, I managed to hit it with a rocket, going up on a completely different mission, I mean, what are the chances of randomly hitting a space station which is orbiting at 100km?

And even then, the game is satisfying as hell. I did that too except I was going too fast and too close to the Mun's surface and crashed into a lunar mountain. Blew up after about an hour of maneuvering and positioning myself. 

I wasn't even mad. I just laughed my ass off because it was so unexpected  I came back after years of not playing. Landing on Mun's dark side is scary, without knowing the altitude that planet is on. Just a tip, if you do IVA in a command pod, most of them should have a radar altitude gauge that will tell you how high you are from the surface below you. My biggest accomplishment was (nearly) landing on Phobos in the Real Solar System mod. Everything went perfectly and I even had plenty of fuel for a possible Deimos trip as well. 

I was in Mars orbit and had the encounter with Phobos set up, all I needed to do was wait to enter its SOI. While time accelerating, there's a huge explosion. My entire ship blew up before entering its SOI.

My last quicksave was in LEO.

Still, it was a huge achievement to get as far as I did. I have a problem with this review and don't think KSP deserves the score. But before saying why, let me say that KSP certainly is a great game. I completely agree with this statement

&gt; [Landing on the Moon] remains one of my greatest achievements in a game. It was a proper achievement, too. Not a pat-on-the-back trophy, created to convey incremental progress, but the successful completion of a challenging, self-made goal. The entire processfrom failure, to revision, to hope, to euphoric completioncemented for me why Kerbal Space Program is one of the best games on PC.

I had the same experience. First landing on the Moon was without a doubt the best experience I've had in any game ever. This is not a hyperbole, it literally is the best experience any game has ever managed to provide in my gaming history, which goes quite a ways back. And it's echoed repeatedly in the KSP subreddit by new players who feel the same way. For certain, any game that can pull this off deserves a good score and deserves the praise.

But that quote is then immediately followed by 

&gt; That this all happened two years ago is why it feels strange to be reviewing the game now.

I feel like this review is more about the early access and the reviewers history with the game than a fair review of the released version. You might ask, what's the problem, surely the released version is only better. The problem is the career mode that's been added to the game at the final stages of development. It's portrayed as the actual game, the eponymous space program. When you start a new game, it's the default mode the game starts in if you don't change it. And traditionally sandbox mode is just messing around without restrictions. But it just happens that the career mode is really quite bad while the sandbox mode is the great game everyone who's played KSP for a while is telling you about.

The review even says this but for some reason skips over it really fast and doesn't make a big deal out of it, which quite frankly boggles my mind. 

&gt; It can be a bit of a grind, as you're encouraged to spend slightly too long repeating experiments in order to progress through to proper space exploration. ...  It still feels like an area that could use some extra expansion. There are only so many contract types, and eventually I decided to abandon the career structure in favour of the continued pursuit of my own ambitions.

It says so right there that career mode is so bad that the reviewer decided to abandon it completely. And I agree with that, it is a struggle to get through the early career mode. Not a struggle because it is challenging but because it is just tedious. If you do get past the worst parts, then it quickly becomes basically a sandbox game. Most of the career mode mechanics won't matter after a while. You'll have more money than you know what to do with and you don't need any more science. As such, there's no reason to do contracts other than what you think look like interesting challenges. The game essentially is a sandbox game at this point. In other words, career mode is a sandbox game where the early part really sucks.

It seems like most of the people who genuinely like career mode are actually veteran players who take the early career mode as a challenge. You have many restrictions in rocket size and parts available, it's a challenge to get to the Moon with these limits. And it can be a fun challenge too for veteran players. Challenge in the same way of complete some other game without using any weapons. That is not something you should subject beginners to.

Any new player that doesn't realise that, unlike most other games, sandbox mode is the real core of the game is probably going to have a bad time. In this sense, I think the game would actually have been better without the career mode being in it at all. If that was the case, I might actually agree with the 96 score. It just comes with the caveat that this is a purely sandbox game, if that's not your thing then look elsewhere. Now the review makes it seem like career mode aspect is very nearly perfect as well.

So yes, part of the game deserves that 96 score, the career mode doesn't. If you don't see yourself liking a sandbox game then KSP isn't for you. Otherwise, and especially if you're at all interested in space flight and physics, KSP really is an awesome game. Just skip over the career mode, at least to start with, and focus on the sandbox mode. Watch some tutorials online, or ask for help at /r/kerbalspaceprogram. It can be a bit daunting at first. The in-game tutorials were improved a bit for 1.0, but honestly they're still quite bad and I would encourage to look for help online instead. The Dark Souls of space exploration ... look what I am trying to say is that this game is fucking hard but pays off **big time** when you complete a mission that you thought completely impossible; mostly due to your inability to get off the damn launch pad **WITHOUT BLOWING SOMETHING UP, BECAUSE WHY IS THAT BLOWING UP IT'S FINE AND NOT TOUCHING ANYTHING AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!** And the best part is when you go to internet to find why it's exploding, then stumble upon gif of someone catching and **landing a asteroid** next to KSP There is that one video where somebody build a giant basketball... basket? (that thing where the ball is supposed to be thrown into... not American... no idea what you call that in English) and then he got himself an asteroid and placed that thing perfectly into the... basket...

It was wonderful! You can't *not* provide the [video for Kerbal Space Jam.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lhRNO6EZmRA) No that's not it. It was literally the hoop (thanks /u/cr125er) next to KSC and an asteroid. People in /r/ksp also said that he should have used space jam in the background. [This one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BC0DpPy6cro) may or may not be it, but it does have the asteroid into the hoop by the space center. If we're really doing this in 50 years, I will never ever be sad.  it's going to sound a little strange but it's called the hoop.  From [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basketball):

"The objective is to shoot a ball through a hoop 18 inches (46 cm) in diameter and..." You can call it a basket as well. It is, indeed, the basket. Fuck that's awesome, link please [not exactly landing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BC0DpPy6cro) What I love about that is she still makes sure Jeb is safe by decoupling him just before the explosions start To be honest I was looking for different one but that was too epic ...and here I am having trouble landing on the moon without running out of gas. Creative or Career ?

In creative for all your fuel problems use nuke engines for parts of ship going into space, they are very fuel efficient (but not enough thrust for atmosphere itself), just with lower thrust/weight ratio.

For a lander just a small engine (those with 30-50 thrust) is enough, especially for basic lander.

There is one other trick for saving fuel on a lander:

* On orbiter, fire retrograde so your ship is on crash course with planet
* Switch to lander, disengage
* Switch back to orbiter, fire prograde to go back to orbit.

That way you are basically sacrificing orbiter fuel to save lander fuel

In Career... i often offseted lack of parts for space (like too small engines or fuel tanks) by just using a ton of boosters. Just today I put mobile processing lab + some science stuff + 2 mk1 command pods (return vehicle) on orbit using 12 Thumpers and 6 Terriers Thanks for all the help, to be honest though the last time I played there weren't any modes, or nuke engines I think. It was pretty early in development. I could always get to the moon but I'd always crash land because id waste too much fuel trying not to fuck up my landing.

But I am probably going to give it another go. Well there is always mechjeb (autopilot addon).

They changed a ton from earlier versions. Great game ;] IMO it doesn't deserve that score. I mean, it's a great game, but career mode is rather poorly thought out and lack of in-game help tools means outside tutorials are a must for even fairly basic tasks, like getting into orbit. Those are pretty significant flaws, IMO. I've played the game for over 500 hours and I completely agree.  It's a fantastic game but it still has massive amounts of room for improvement. Are the in-game tutorials really that out of the way? They're sorta on the main menu. Depends on your interest in physics and willingness to test theories as to whether or not you need tutorials for simple stuff.

I would say most high school physics educated people could achieve orbit or land on one of kerbin's moons, the only time you need tutorials or assistance is when you start going for interplanetary journeys which require finding phase angles and transfer windows or when you want to start calculating delta v requirements.

It starts off as a physics puzzle game and becomes a space game. Squad acknowledges and encourages the use of forums and wikis for gameplay and things like that; sometimes games are better when you have to interact with the community. As far as career mode goes, it's meant to be a structured challenge and its setting does so I agree. Career mode is pretty damn shallow. It's called "Kerbal Space **Program**" but there's basically zero actual management of the space program. Some sort of XCom style R&amp;D and manufacturing system would've been cool, along with having to pay employees, achieve government-mandated goals, etc. It is a hell of a game. Some of the finer points of orbital maneuvering  could perhaps be fleshed out a bit better, but there is certainly a hell of a lot done right by KSP. Really glad to see this. Squad did an excellent job with KSP. I just wish I had the patience to play the game more. Absolutely worth this score, but I know a lot of people will be disappointed when they base their purchase solely on that score.  Given the amount of time I've sunk into it, that game was worth every penny.  I would say it's a great physics simulator, but they still haven't fixed the bug where increasing the time multiplier causes your ship to tear apart and explode arbitrarily. I bought KSP about a year ago and I've spent hundreds of hours playing. The game is tough. The learning curve is high and it doesn't do much hand holding. Eventually though, I got the hang of it and was able to do some fun interplanetary missions.

This new aerodynamics system in 1.0 is like ultra hard mode. Simple craft that I would have no problem getting into orbit flip over and crash before I can even start my turn &amp; burn. Any slight design flaw causes the thing to wobble and spin out of control. And spaceplanes? Forget about it.

I can't imagine how a new player can pick this up and have any success at all. Can someone as dumb as myself play this game? It looks fun but complicated This is the ONLY game on my 'early access' list I feel was worth the money - as a finished product. The rest were a real disappointment and why I'm done with early access games. Yes it is that good. For anybody who is unsure of it, buy it. Build rocket ships with cute little aliens as the astronauts. Explode. Rinse repeat until you get to Mun Why stop at mun? It's not over till you build a colony on Laythe with an orbiting space station  Space frog: Space mission It's a good game, but considering how rough around the edges it still is I don't think it deserves such a high score. Why are people letting this game off the hook? Shitty textures, clunky feel, missing animations, parts that feel like they're entirely missing sound effects/music. 

Still feels incomplete to me. Because this scoring doesn't seem to be a composite of sound/design/visuals/etc. but a "How good is this game?" meter. Mainly because the actual game is fantastic. But those are all components of the actual game IMO. For example, when your game is space-themed, your starry space background texture shouldn't be blurry as hell. Or your parachute shouldn't simply disappear from existence upon touching the ground, and so on.

It's really immersion breaking for me. 

If a game is going to be ranked with the likes of Half-Life 2 it should at least be as impressive as that game was at the time. &gt; It's really immersion breaking for me.

Maybe because it's not meant to be immersive, but actually just a fun game? You thought of that? That's why classics like Goldeneye 007 are still so good. Not because of "immersion" or "graphics", but because they are fun games to fucking play. Is it really THAT good? Should I buy it when the price goes down?  'Good' is a relative term. It entirely depends on what you want in a game.  A great painting is 'good' but if you're not into art, you'll find it boring. So before you go and buy it, watch any of the many youtube videos or twitch streams about the game that are out there and make your own opinion. Try the demo, it is based on the current version of the game, with just basic rocket parts and only the Mun to fly to. It is a fantastic game, but has an early learning curve; don't worry if you have trouble getting into orbit at first, it is always difficult at first, but that challenge is part of the fun (and that feeling of getting in orbit for the first time, of landing on or just crashing into the Mun, it is beautiful)

since the official 1.0 release, the price of the game has gone up from $30 to $40, but is on sale for the old $30 until May 4th. Odds are you won't see the price cheaper than this until the fall or winter sale, and frankly the game is worth every penny

(and be sure to visit us at /r/KerbalSpaceProgram, we are very friendly) If you like sandbox games, you will LOVE it. Tons of mod support too. It is THAT good at what it does, BUT it is very very hard and time consuming.  I love challenging games, the harder the better! I never played Dark Souls before though. I may change my mind about that after I play it.  Been really wanting to try this game. Any chance it shows up on the consoles?

Edit: wow fuck me for asking a question right?  I don't know if Squad has officially said anything but I'd say there is little to no chance it's ported to consoles.  Even if it was I can't imagine it being anything more than a shell of itself.   I bet it comes to mobile in a couple years when phones get powerful enough. I don't see the control scheme working with a touch screen in any way You know, I'd actually like to see if you could try and maneuver with the accelerometer.  There's a 2D game that's similar, but of course far less advanced. I can't remember the name and I found it quite boring tbh.  Simple rockets or something? Yes that's it. I don't have hardware good enough to run KSP, if you could remember the name of it I'd appreciate it. Found it, it's simplerockets. On the iOS store though, not sure about Android. Also on Android, along with SimplePlanes. I play on a second-generation i3. The frame rate is low in atmosphere, but it is still playable! You can run the game on a modern i7 and it still needs to slow down the physics calculations in the atmosphere. Your could probably light a cigarette on your console after launching a big ship... No way.There isn't enough controls on a controller to play. Squad wouldn't want to have to downgrade the game for consoles since PC still have a lot of simulation to run and can get laggy occasionally. Furthermore, Modding is a HUGE part of the game community and I don't think they would want to mess that up. Agree with eveything except not having enough controls.  Could be easily fly craft with a controller, but assembling craft would be a pain. I can't really see many controller issues. I'll refer to Playstation controls but the Xbox controller is pretty much the same apart from button naming.

 Use a thumbstick for rotation and L1/R1 for roll. R2/L2 for throttle control. Map SAS and RCS toggles to square and circle; put staging on X. 

Action groups on the D-Pad, or if four isnt enough, you could use the other thumbstick to control a weapon-wheel-like interface with at least 8 action groups. Alternatively you could use the second thumbstick for translation/docking controls.

Biggest issue would be building craft, but with a slightly different interface I think it would be doable. Same with map view; you'd perhaps need a slightly different interface but I don't think it's impossible. Very very low chance. 

It wouldn't be impossible, but I don't believe it's in scope. Squad is relatively small team, it might be some sort of situation like Chivalry, where another team completely is hired to port it, but it also might be a bit out of hardware scope. The early game runs pretty well on laptops, but once you start getting bigger ships, you start hitting frame rate issues, even on "gaming" computers, so consoles might not be able to handle bigger ships that PC gamers enjoy building. Legitimate question, but I'm downvoting you for the edit.

The control scheme won't work for consoles, there are just too many buttons and too much complexity for a console control scheme to handle. That said, almost any remotely modern computer can run KSP, even on integrated graphics, so you shouldn't have trouble playing it regardless. I ignored this game at first because it was early access (as I do with every early access titles), then it got released and I ignored it because I'm not a fan of construction games and I classified it into the same crowd as Minecraft and Terraria which I don't really like, but with a score this high I might have to cede and try it out. The demo is free and I suggest you try it to see if you like it don't rush there. I said the same thing about Cities Skylines, everybody gave it great reviews and praise, and just like you, even though I'm not a fan of construction games I went and bought it (helped that the price at release was like $28 or something). Played it a few hours, and recognized that it was very well done, but just not a game for me.  So I'm not making the same mistake with KSP. I read an article at the time, written by a South African, that Titanfall had been perfectly playable in beta, but a group of gamers threatened EA with the Consumer Protection Act, which caused them to pull out of releasing it.

[Here's the article](http://www.lazygamer.net/general-news/why-south-africa-cant-have-nice-things/) Thankyou for the response and this article.

Although what they did was just wrong and i can understand where they are coming from they are trying to light a fire under EA's/Microsoft's ass but it back fired. I think much like me everyone is so tired of sub par service.  I live in Tierra del Fuego and I share your pain.

It hurts that I can't play Smash online decently. Shitty online experiences due to extreme physical distances is a problem that I don't think its going to get fixed in my lifetime. I grew up in Tierra del Fuego as well. It really makes you appreciate LAN parties and games that allowed you to host your own servers, and of course, single player games. I think Smash's online play is shitty anywhere in the world tho. Not in japan. No, it's just when anyone plays with someone from another country. Well in Japan you get 1GB connection for the equivalent of 10 bucks. Ping is what counts for online games, not bitrate. The most reliable way of getting good ping is simply living close to the server. I'm not sure why Smash even matches people from different countries. Every time I get my ass handed to me in a paper bag, it's to what I presume to be an 8 year old Japanese prodigy. I do wish they'd at least stick to matching countries that speak the same language, as I feel the skill level of most Asian players triumphs English/Spanish/German/whatever players a good %60-%70 of the time.

Obviously that statistic is NOT accurate, and is very case specific. But I can't be the only one that feels like this? Its not about skill level, but there is some serious lag if you aren't playing someone in your region. True, mostly. A higher bitrate will actually improve your ping because it's not just about how fast the first bit can be sent, the destination typically needs to see your full TCP/IP packet.

Ping is a measure of network delay, and what you're referring to is mostly the propagation delay (time spent traversing the physical medium), but there are also transmission delays (what I mentioned), queuing delays (more traffic on routers causes more delays) and processing delays (time spent dealing with metadata of a packet before you get the actual data itself). [deleted] Maybe it's your internet? I've been playing smash on the Wii U for months and rarely had any problems online. The only times I've had terrible lag was generally because either the other person/people had really bad internet or I was downloading something on my computer. I can play Mario Kart and all my PC games fine.  Smash Bros. is almost always laggy.  I've had some spurts where it plays decent, but there's always a few annoying lag spikes that mess up the round, or it's a laggy mess throughout. I'm in the US and can't figure out how anyone plays Smash online. Every time I've tried For Glory on either platform has quickly ended in me quitting due to awful latency. My good friend, I can show you how!

http://www.smashladder.com

Takes a little bit of setup and decent service, but it works surprisingly well. &gt; Shitty online experiences due to extreme physical distances is a problem that I don't think its going to get fixed in my lifetime.

It may not be solved ever. Speed of light travel from one end of the earth to another is 60ms straight-up. Fiber optics are about 30% slower than speed-of-light, so you end up at 80ms, which is already a third of modem lag and well above what people want for fast-paced games  . . . and that's assuming a straight-line path, with no devices involved. Obviously every turn and every junction box slows it down further.

Unfortunately, if you live in Africa, and you want a great online play experience, and you don't know how to break fundamental laws of physics, the only solution is servers located in Africa. And given the size of Africa you'd probably want two or three datacenters. It's highly unclear if the market could support *one* datacenter, to say nothing of three.

Speed of light fuckin' sucks, man. :( Light needs to step up its game. Shit I finally tried out Smash online last night and it's atrocious. It was a stuttering mess with constant input lag. Not to mention the modes are terrible. "For Glory" 1v1 is the only halfway decent mode in that it's set to stock. Every other mode is timed battle. Basically you're not missing much.

I live in a large American city with a great internet connection. I even have the ethernet adapter for my Wii U.  &gt; "For Glory" 1v1 is the only halfway decent mode in that it's set to stock. Every other mode is timed battle.

I love Nintendo, but I really don't get their fascination with Timed Battle. I think their stance on it is that since everyone gets to play at all times in Timed Battle, it's the friendliest to newbies/casual players, which is the demographic they care most about. They don't like Stock in non-1v1 because they think the more hardcore players will immediately eliminate new/casual players and then those players will just have to watch and wait until the hardcore players finish before they can actually play again. That actually makes a lot of sense But that's why we have modes, right? Don't like the mode, don't play it. There is no reason to exclude any demographic. The same could be said for hardcore people. Don't like it? Play "For Glory". Personally I think it's better for big free-for-alls because stock encourages people to camp and let everyone else kill each other. It is pointless in 1v1 or teams though. Personally I think stock is BS as the people I play with always hide just short of off-screen and wait half an hour for everyone else to fight it out, and then they try to drag it out as long as possible while they make cautious moves in achieving victory so they can rub it in everyone else's faces. Timed (or timed stock) forces them to actually fight instead of spamming special flags on the other side of the map.

Also yeah, smash online is terrible. I tried it out on my 3DS yesterday and I got absolutely destroyed by multiple semi-bad japanese players due to the sheer lag messing up my timing. Doesn't help that I live in Australia &amp; smash online seems to be in a worse condition on the 3DS than on the Wii U. Stock is the best for 1v1 and 2v2 competitive matches, which is what For Glory is trying to be (it's only 1v1 issue). Time is better for free-for-alls as it encourages always staying in the action. In competitive Smash, they use timed stock matches. Typically it's three stock and eight minutes, although that is a thing of the past now to my admittedly limited knowledge. At EVO I believe they played two stock and six minutes, which was a big deal because they where considering five minutes and the competitive community argued that this would lead to extremely campy play. Interesting. Usually when i'm playing smash, if one of my friends is hanging out away from the main battle (which is obvious because the camera pans way out so you can see everyone), someone, often myself, always brings attention to it so that everyone else stops what they're doing and gangs up on the person hiding. That way, people don't hide, at least not for long. While I am mad about the whole "FD only" thing, it's better then them trying and failing to make a competitively viable stage, but for the most part, I agree with you. &gt; Shitty online experiences due to extreme physical distances is a problem that I don't think its going to get fixed in my lifetime.

In some sense, it won't be fixable unless the fundamental laws of reality are different from what we currently believe. Roundtrip speed-of-light time between (for example) Bethesda, Maryland and Buenos Aires is about 56 milliseconds, which isn't horrible but is enough to be noticeable in online games. And considering that's the absolute, bare-minimum, pointing-a-microwave-directly-at-the server lower boundary, it's really tough to get games playable at distances like that. There are some hard physical limits, but they're limits that I can see getting fixed within a generation, if we actually put the effort in.

I live in the SF Bay Area -- or, in other words, Silicon Valley. You are, by my calculations, 0.038 light-seconds away from me -- or, in other words, 38ms one way, or a healthy 74ms ping. ("Healthy" especially with modern netcode.)

Obviously, that's on top of all the other sources of latency -- it's not like I have zero ping to anywhere outside my apartment, and it's not like there would be direct fiber lines from every point to every point on the globe. But it seems like you should be able to get under 100ms. Failing that, it seems like having servers *per continent* should be enough, if you've got the infrastructure to connect to them quickly enough.

There's also the old-school solution to this: Play games that let you run your own servers, and let you pick a server from a giant list sorted by ping, and hope there's someone within a thousand miles of you who wants to play. I wonder why there haven't been more games using this as a strategy, especially catering to areas without enough infrastructure to get dedicated servers? Sorry to hear dude. On the other hand, you live in a pretty fucking amazing place!  South america has similar isues so you gotta pretty much stick to F2P games to get lots of players on certain game genres like FPS's, an ideal game would be something like planetside 2 where you always have constant high playerbases but have to deal with high latency.




-I think the title should be changed to something like "It really sucks to be a gamer outside of NA-EU", buying multiplayer games is always a freaking huge gamble, hell even look at fps sales, they don't sell well outside of the PS3 in south america mainly due to not having to pay to play online, there are a lot of people already selling their PS4's because they can't find multiplayer matches for god sake, I've barely seen anyone buying xbox ones here in chile sadly (but CoD and BF are sold quite often, as i said, mainly for PS3)... this console gen is not cattered for non first world countries, which in my eyes might be a negative thing, consoles like the PS1-PS2-SNES-NES-N64 were so nicely sold in south america mainly due to how easy was to get into them, now with this console gen it's really hard because of how internet intensive the consoles are (not talking about pc, i'm mainly a pc gamer and the ones that play on pc here do know that they have to deal with paying high internet prices to get nice conectivity, but we get steam in return... which is godsend as long as we dont talk about customer service!).


 
-Do you think you're getting the bad end of the stick? hell look at the replies i got from this freaking post, a lot of uncalled racism and people saying that every south american gamer is a hacker and that we pretty much "plague" their games, there is one single fucking reason i learnt english early on and always remained on the anonimity of my country, because of this kind of people that think that everyone should be tagged as a "br huehue" or a beaner or whatever... want an eye opener guys? NA is also full of hakers, EU is also full of hackers, the scope is much bigger :x

PS: I suck at doing paragraphs, tried using multiple enters to separate the paragraphs and it didnt work, ty reddit 8( Living in Chile, this can be a problem. Luckily, Brazil usually has servers running. I also mostly play TF2, which has a great Chilean community. But before we could make our own servers if there weren't officials in Brazil. Now with all companies moving away from dedicated, we have to play in the US servers or pray they have a brazil one, and if they don't, well tough luck. 

Take Diablo 3, we can't play with less than 160 ping, and it's noticeable in the game. It's playable but I can't even imagine playing a game like Overwatch at that latency, it's gonna be awful if Blizzard doesn't add Brazil servers. Note that only corporate giants like EA and Ubisoft are moving away from dedicated servers, because they are greedy bastards.

Other companies still release their multiplayer games with dedicated servers option. Examples: Unreal Tournament 4, Reflex, TOXIKK. 

Also I am pretty sure no other ARPG other than D3 and Path of Exile forces you to play on official servers, all others have an ability to set up your own. Brazilian here, yeah am lucky to be in the southeast (tech hub of Brazil), but playing with my friends abroad is a mess I still have not been able to play planetside 2 it looks really cool guess ill never know.  Gosh, I don't even play that game, but this sounds so damn depressing. I feel you and it's really shitty that you can't enjoy many games! I just recently got into it. It takes time to learn things but joining clans helps tremendously because on that large of a scale you have to work with you teammate's to be affective. Its still kind of a grind for gear still with a noticeable advantage to players with a subscription. But even the base guns aren't too bad. Some of the base guns are the best in the game. The default gear is actually really good though. The default Vanu LMG is actually widely regarded as the best LMG in the game. It doesn't take long to get your infantry classes sorted but everyone agrees the vehicle game is tough to get into (and rather cert expensive).

Generally the guns are sidegrades overall however often times certain guns will let you be more flexible at different engadgment ranges and situations. If you stick to the default guns effective ranges you'll do fine. The main reason the subscribers seem so powerful is because they've been at this a whole lot longer, over time you'll improve.

(It also helps to not focus on kdr, it's relatively meaningless in this game) I hear stories but i installed it everyone warped around and i hit unistall. It looked so much fun but damn the lag. I would grind if it meant i could play it decently. Yeah man I'm american and even I get that teleporting thing from time to time. I'm sorry you're in this shitty situation, best of luck with it. :/ I'm from central scotland, and i cant play with out seeing random red players flying around at fighter plane altitude dude. play it. I'm in Cape Town, I get around 170ms ping. it's not great but it's playable. 

You just have to change your strategy a bit and play a slower style like the heavy assault or sniper. 

Vehicles work fine too. Its great once you get into it.  dude I play it fine on telkom fast (2mbit), even in the large battles. seriously there has been no size of battle that has introduced warping. you just have to be 10000% sure nothing else is using the line - smartphone on aeroplane mode, close steam, tape siblings to walls etc etc.

fun note about their netcode is that it is biased toward slightly laggy people like us =) (we get 210-260ms to EU servers) Dude, get on the Cobalt server in Amsterdam.   

I'm getting 230ms from Pretoria on a Axxess 2mb, which means I get 80% of the experience most players get but it is still worth it. Just don't bother sniping or flying.   

PM if you ever want to jam in game sometime.  &gt; "It really sucks to be a gamer outside of NA-EU"

Eh, we have it pretty good down here in AU/NZ/SE-Asia. Apart from $120 retail games. I've Ground Zeroes priced at that around stores that I've been to when it came out as well. Not to mention the prices want to play Bloodborne? Have fun paying 1000+ dollars for a PS4, not even including the game. 

I'm still salty about From Software being all buddy-buddy with Sony again. My biggest fear is that all future Miyazaki games will now be Sony exclusives while the Tanimura team handles the multiplatform Souls-likes. &gt; Not to mention the prices want to play Bloodborne? Have fun paying 1000+ dollars for a PS4, not even including the game.

This is an old scenario, things have changed quite a bit. Now you can buy a PS4 with 550 usd. Still not optimal, but way better than how it was 2 years ago.

But physical games are still super expensive, so digital is the way to go. In a lot of poorer countires games are actually cheaper, this is what the sellers on places like G2A do, they buy a game brand new for something like $40 in a country with a lower average wage and then resell it for $50. Do this enough times and you make some decent cash. In a lot of poorer regions games are cheaper but hardware is more expensive. 

For instance in Argentina I believe it was it was actually cheaper to fly to the US buy a PS4 and then fly back. This only really applies to consoles though, the price of building a PC is generally around the same.  Depends on where you live I guess. I bought Bloodborne for about 55 USD in Rio de Janeiro. You just need to search around for a bit, and never buy games from big stores. I havent been able to find Bloodborne here in Venezuela. And my shitty 1 Mbps connection (can't upgrade, platform is oversaturated) makes buying digital basically impossible. 

Im hoping that moving into my new apartment in the next couple of weeks with some contacts I have in this city I might actually be able to get 6 Mbps or 10 Mbps internet and then I can download Bloodborne How much did you pay for your PS4? I'm looking to buy one, maybe off mercado livre where it's cheaper.  I actually bought it in Paraguay, when I went to visit Foz do Iguau. But the store where I bought Bloodborne was selling the PS4 for about 1600, if I remember correctly. It was one of those game stores in the Rio's center, there are several of those and they can be trusted. What? I've seen places in Rio selling a PS4 for about 500 USD and I bought Bloodborne for about 160 BRL, which is less than 60 dollars with the current conversion rate. Where did you see the PS4 for $500 in Rio? Sounds fishy Just to let you know, it's not From Software being buddy-buddy with Sony... It's Sony creating the idea for From, helping out with the design, paying for it and promising that it'll be a core game for the system &amp; that it will make a bunch of money and the only thing Sony asked for in return was that it would be an exclusive, which is pretty damn fair imo.

Still, sorry that you're getting shafted. Hopefully in the coming years it gets better. You should try to see if there are any groups in your area that you can join to try and raise awareness. &gt; It really sucks to be a gamer outside of NA-EU

well, you can count out southeast and east asia Claiming nothing wrong with your infrastructure but I regularly play with friends from Joburg, Casablanca, and Lagos. Every single one of them has had to leave games before because of "loadshedding". Especially my friends in South Africa in and around Joburg.

The infrastructure is a huge issue. Yes Loadshedding exists not gonna lie but we can play games online locally thats all im saying &gt;Take for example Titanfall right. I heard mixed reviews so saying good some bad not the point EA said nope not our country because our infrastructure was to bad. Which is total horse crap because we get Battlefield Mp just fine.

No, it's not horse crap. Titanfall relies on Microsoft Azure servers. If you look [here](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/regions/#overview), you'll see that Microsoft does not have any data centers in South Africa. So naturally they shouldn't sell it there. Thank you for your response.

This was never explained to use we got a generic your infrastructure sucks. This is there response word for word.

"After conducting recent online tests for Titanfall, we found that the performance rates in South Africa were not as high as we need to guarantee a great experience, so we have decided not to release Titanfall in South Africa at this time.
We understand this is a disappointment for local fans and will keep fans posted on any future plans regarding the release of Titanfall in South Africa"
 I think they're indirectly saying "not enough fans to value putting servers there" which is lame. I get they're reasoning, but at the same time it sucks for people who live there and want to play all the new games. In the lead up to Titanfall's launch they said they were not going to have servers in Australia. The closest servers were to be in Singapore, and in the pre-release demo most people on the servers seemed to be Australians with latency over 200ms. Microsoft insisted that it would be fine and that most people would be happy with it, and released the game here in that state.

It turned out that they got Australian servers set up shortly after launch but the point is that this kind of server infrastructure can be a bad deal for a lot of people. Australia tends to have it better than South Africa but we are familiar with all your gripes. One strong reason that I never got into MMOs was that basically none of them had local servers (I think WoW has only recently set up an Australian server), and a laggy, unresponsive game is not very appealing. I still basically ignore MMO news because it is a safe bet there won't be local servers.

For shooters I don't know why there has been a trend away from self-hosted servers. It is garbage and absolutely hits geographically remote countries the worst. You can't count on these games being accessible years after their prime and whatever community is left gets swallowed by a matchmaking void that simply breaks whenever there isn't thousands of others playing. If self hosted servers are available you don't have to rely on the mercy of the publisher to keep the game running.

 &gt; For shooters I don't know why there has been a trend away from self-hosted servers.

Multiplayer gaming has trended overwhelmingly in two directions that both, I think, contributed to this:

* Developers are now releasing games for free, and making their money on microtransactions, which necessitates central account control, at which point you at least want to *have* official servers so that you can guarantee a smooth experience and encourage purchases. Conversely, you don't want to be flooded with requests for supporting the use of Tim's cousin's extra PC as a server, over his home DSL connection, with a Motorola Surfboard modem/router.

* Multiplayer gamers are flocking to ranked play in droves. When I was a kid, games with ladders were relatively uncommon, and there was no YouTube, so "getting good" was a whole different thing. These days, everybody wants to put a number to how bad they are - and even if they *don't*, even if they choose to stick to casual play, they still want *matchmaking*, which requires stats tracking and at this point, everybody has to be on official servers, or it's just a huge pain in the ass.

None of this *precludes* devs from making player hosting a possibility, and some do, but most probably won't, because it doesn't strike me as a very effective use of their time or resources. Yeah your reasoning makes a lot of sense here. I guess I feel like it makes less sense when talking about the traditional FPS multiplayer though. For games like CoD and Battlefield and Titanfall having self hosted servers makes a lot more sense than a game with central tracking and matchmaking like DotA or Hearthstone. For FPS games having low latency is much more important than games like World of Warcraft or Hearthstone, and there was nothing actually wrong with the traditional server model. The main problem with self hosted servers, as you say, is the lack of control from the developer, and it is not compatible with microtransactions and rankings.

As a person that doesn't live in America, Europe or Asia I strongly believe that this trade off has been a strong trend downwards. Yeah, and I can see why; if you don't *care* about ranking or matchmaking, and you just want to play with your buddies on fast pipes, this must be infuriating.

Steam offers *something* of a way out, if you want to offer players DLC but not necessarily matchmaking. Still, they eat into your profits.

However, with FPS games, you also run into the issue of splitting the playerbase; casual players expect to press "play now" and be thrown into a match. If everybody and their mom can host their own server, casual players wind up losing out; you have to know somebody who owns a server to enjoy the multiplayer experience.

Witness: Minecraft. Though not directly comparable, the lack of "official" servers certainly presents a barrier to entry for would-be casuals; they stick to single-player and LAN play.

Valve's managed to have it both ways, though, so clearly it's not impossible. Yeah Valve seem to know how to do it well. Team Fortress 2 is a great example. A game that only had a manual server browser at launch and no micro transactions now has a very functional Play Now button with simple options while retaining the old system completely. Microtransactions have of course been famously integrated fairly well into the game.

I love the fact that throughout TF2s entire life I have been able to quickly and easily find a fast local server to play on. You can say that less and less with game today. Even the Play Now button is really quick. Left 4 Dead also did matchmaking really well and was done on dedicated servers. I think it's important to ask for, and support games that offers LAN and dedicated servers, so that people can still play with their friends, or setup a regional server. That's how multiplayer gaming developed here, with people renting computers and running counter-strike. This is the most important point in the entire post, in my opinion. The lack of dedicated server support is the biggest culprit in OP's issue. A developer wouldn't even have to deal with these issues if they'd just open up their games to community hosting. Yup and a small server batch of say 5+ servers and a player group of say 1000 players can keep the game alive. Welcome to Eastern Europe.

We go through the same bullshit but the difference is that most EA and Ubisoft games are actually made here.

And the whole dollar to euro parity bullshit has sucked for years upon years (not so much now that the two of them trade at the same value).

All I can say is that I feel your pain, brother. Wait I'm romanian and I game just fine, ping is low and download speeds are super high and cheap (1gbps/15$), EU servers are plenty and the price, even though high for the avg romanian income, is just standard 60e if you don't get them through a VPN or on sale. Plus Ubi games are super cheap, we got the Bucharest studio right here.

EDIT: fix'd mah engrish TIL Romania has a better infrastructure than central europe where 1GB/s is not even available. Yep, every time internet speeds are brought up on Reddit, those Romanian guys jump in with their ridiculously cheap/fast internet :P

(not that I have reason to complain) In Romania (at least for Bucharest) all 3 major ISP players offer competitive internet + TV cable packages priced reasonably.   
So their max internet speed offers are as follows:   
   
- RCS-RDS - internet speeds up to 1 gbps    
- Romtelekom - internet speeds up to 1 gbps
- UPC -internet speeds up to 500 mbps   

I personally use RCS-RDS services and for $20 I have 1 gbps fiber connection + digital cable TV with around 30 HD channels (HBO HD included) and lots of SD channels (including HBO, HBO Comedy and Cinemax) + fixed phone service + a 3G mobile usb modem with unlimited download cap (though there seems to be a speed cap at around 20GB data usage)    
     brb moving to Romania. Yay Canada.

I hope you like slow, expensive internet. Our CEO needs another three houses!

I pay 60 bucks monthly for 8mbps down / 1mbps up. It's unlimited, but the speed randomly dips sometimes.

It is the best price and service around, considering my needs.

This is downtown Montral, too.

My mom lives in rural Ontario, where they pay even more for a limited "broadband" service. Something like eighty bucks a month for 256kbps, limited. Only option available.

It's appalling. Downtown Toronto prices right now with Rogers(biggest ISP) is approximately $85 for 100mbps DL with unlimited download cap. The download speed is actually a big recent boost for what it used to be for the same price.
It's all still very expensive and ridiculous.  Los of eastern european countries' internet lines were put in much more recently than first world nations, and as a result they often have much better infrastructure than the decades old western cabling. sorry, but that's simply not true (at least for Romania).

we had dialup in late 90s/early 00s like everyone else, but we skipped cable/ADSL altogether and went straight to Ethernet/fiber.

by 2006 all major cities had 100 Mbps connections for cheap. i was kind of dumbfounded realizing how well our ISPs fared compared to Western Europe, even now we're still ahead in prices and speeds. 

&gt;we had dialup in late 90s/early 00s like everyone else, but we skipped cable/ADSL altogether and went straight to Ethernet/fiber.

This is what I was referring to.

 