[You can contact your Congressional representatives here.](https://fight215.org/) Is this America only? Who do we call if we are not Americans and are protecting our privacy?  That's the thing that really gets me. If you're not American, you don't have a say, even if it affects you.

So much for sovereignty.

e: Everyone seems to think that I'm complaining that I don't get to vote because I'm not American. That's not what I'm getting at.

Every time I see these issues come up (NSA, SOPA/CISPA, Net Neutrality, etc.) that could have huge impacts on my life, work, and country, the moral outrage here is "How dare they do this to us Americans!"

No-one here would give two shits about the NSA if they weren't spying on US citizens. That's what I'm talking about. There is massive mobilization when Americans are threatened by their government, but the rest of the world? Who cares?

I get it. The NSA is scary powerful, and just plain scary in general, but there's nothing that I, as a non-US citizen, can do about it. I may as well be subhuman - spying on me is fine, because *I'm not an American*.

So go, fight the powers that be. I'll be over here cheering you on, but just stopping your government from screwing you over *isn't good enough*. We should, all of us, be putting our skills, our time, and our numbers into stopping *all* of our governments from violating *everyone's* rights. You don't have a say in Freedom. Welcome to democracy! Your opinion will be evaluated for relevance after your bank account has been verified. No you don't get a say in the U.S. elected representative government as a foreign citizen. That's how republican-democracy works.

Phone your MP or representative in your country, and tell him it's important to you that your country pressures the US into repealing this. With enough clamor, your parliament or whatever your country does may voice a letter or message to your executive branch or ambassador that will help sway your country's positioning on the issue and may swing US lawmakers. But thinking, for example, that you're going to call Rand Paul (R-KY) when you aren't a resident of Kentucky (his constituent) and further aren't even a citizen of the U.S. is absolutely silly. Some guy in England phones his MP and tells home to apply pressure to the US, "Are you mad!? Do you want a well armed and funded terrorist group popping up in London!?" The MP would gladly call the US though. Can't miss a chance like that for claiming expenses. If you live in the UK, GCHQ is the UK equivalent to the US NSA.  

[In fact, Five Eyes operate as a team, and most redditors should be focusing on their own country.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes)

I say this lightheartedly, but people in the UK can't even manage to avoid their Government censoring porn on the web.  You likely have to have the conversation about your government overtly censoring you before you have the one about your government covertly "chilling" you.   To be fair, you make it out as if the porn censor has had any effect on most people. I'm willing to bet the vast majority of Brits have no idea what happened - I haven't even been asked about an opt-out parental filter yet and I've been through 3 houses since that thing passed. The U.N? When was the last time the US legitimately gave a shit about what the UN said?  On the website, if you select the 'Not in the US' part, it send you to the twitter section where people tweet their representatives of congress. Didn't we just establish that a lot of the representatives doesn't know how email works?

What's the chance they hear the voices of people who doesn't live in the US, who are using twitter to reach them? Copying my post from another thread:

For those who are uninformed, but would like a comedic perspective:

* [John Oliver interview of Edward Snowden, ex-NSA contractor and leaker.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XEVlyP4_11M)

* [John Oliver interview of General Keith Alexander, director of the NSA 2005-2014.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k8lJ85pfb_E)

For people who want a more in depth look at what has been going on:

* [PBS documentaries about Government Surveilience](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/united-states-of-secrets/)

I've found that a lot of the articles are very biased in either direction, and that it can be difficult to find raw information.  PBS is one of the better places to start.   Thanks for the link! In the name of Democracy, and freedom - I damn well hope it get's killed.

Democracy does not work when someone holds secret collection's of data and secret court orders happen with secret interpretations of laws, and an organization has access to a huge treasure trove of data that can effectively treated as a tool for blackmail. We failed at democracy a long time ago.  To be fair, we're *not* a democracy, we're a representative republic. Or an oligarchy. I forget. I think you are looking for plutocracy. I think you are looking for Demagoguery. Politics isn't about doing what is best or what people want, it is about who is best at dancing around real issues,what the people want, and what is best for the people while promoting yourself.

The word demagogue comes from the Greek "demos" and "ago" which means people manipulator. This is an art politicians have perfected.   Id say mainly the corporates with enough money to buy/control the media cough Murdock/Rinehart/many other cunts I don't know about Will both of you please shut up and go back to being consumers? The oligarchy part was a joking reference to corporate lobbying power. If only it was a joking matter *cries*.  Pick yourself up and get back to work pleeb. Mass surveillance isn't cheap. *He who controls the past controls the future.*

*He who controls the present controls the past.*

Feel that rumble beneath your feet? That's George Orwell rolling in his grave... It's hardly a joke, and very much our unfortunate reality.

http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/apr/21/americas-oligarchy-not-democracy-or-republic-unive/ I was taking the Stewart/Colbert route of tackling harsh and unfortunate truths in the guise of humor. I think you may have laid the sarcasm too thick haha It's hereditary. It's beyond sarcasm and into the realm of sardonic. It's funny because it's true. Apparently the authors (or at least one) of that study however later came out and said they never called it an oligarchy, and are unhappy the way it was portrayed in the media. Maybe it has to do with the precise definition of oligarchy or something.

Edit:  yes that was, in fact, the reason It's no joke:  
[The US is an oligarchy, study concludes](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/northamerica/usa/10769041/The-US-is-an-oligarchy-study-concludes.html)  
[Study: US is an oligarchy, not a democracy](http://www.bbc.com/news/blogs-echochambers-27074746)  
[Major Study Finds The US Is An Oligarchy](http://www.businessinsider.com/major-study-finds-that-the-us-is-an-oligarchy-2014-4#ixzz3WoqSL21D)  
[Scholar Behind Viral 'Oligarchy' Study Tells You What It Means](http://talkingpointsmemo.com/dc/princeton-scholar-demise-of-democracy-america-tpm-interview) It's not a joke, it's just true. Except studies show that we aren't really a democracy,  and oligarchy is the best guess / closest fit to what we really are.  Kleptocracy.  I think you're looking for pedantic.

you're all right! And yes, I hope this crap gets killed. hard.  I thought we were an autonomous collective.  we take it in turns to act as a sort of executive officer for the week Strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government. Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony. The two hypotheses have equal validity. Yore foolin' yourself   Bloody peasant  Reddit, yes. I was referring to America. Americans wouldn't like a true democracy. The Greeks practiced a true democracy, where every voting citizen attending regular meetings to vote on any and every kind of matter. Imagine the modern equivalent being having to attend a meeting with your entire town once a week to vote on things like "Should we put a stop light at 4th and Main?" and other far more tedious and trivial things. No. We elect "representatives" to make those decisions for us so we can go about our business eating McDonald's and watching Superbowls.

Also, true democracy really only makes sense in small communities. It'd be a pain in the ass to get every voting citizen in, say, NYC to go vote regularly. We have enough trouble getting people to do it once every two years.. *for the people making decisions for them*. 

I don't know, I just wish we'd quit calling it democracy. I think the term you are looking for is Direct Democracy.  &gt; Imagine the modern equivalent being having to attend a meeting with your entire town once a week to vote on things like "Should we put a stop light at 4th and Main?"

Representatives don't decide this stuff either. They see that people don't like roads and ask architects &amp; engineers to fix it.  Every single redditor in this comment thread, including your friend /u/formesse, is now an enemy of the Republic. Do what must be done. Do not hesitate. Show no mercy.....  Comments like this getting upvotes gets me so angry. First,  saying a state is a "representative republic" is redundant as "representative" is included in the very definition of "republic". And second, a state being a republic doesn't exclude it being a democracy, they're descriptive of two different parts of a government system.

Call it an oligarchy if you want to, I suppose that could be argued, but otherwise it's a *republic using representative democracy*. We are actually a Democratic Constitutional Republic. And it's thinking like this that continues to bury it. Look, we all know the US Government (and most governments around the world, for that matter) is a sputtering carcass of its former self, ripe with corruption and often utterly incompetent. Our democracy is broken, we know. But here is a chance for us to possibly affect some sort of change. We, the people, outnumber the government 500,000:1 and if we all believe in this and act on it, it just might work. But this mentality of "the government is broken already, I'm just going to eat chips and sit on my couch and watch the world collapse" is not going to help anyone (least of all your couch). What if we all actually call our representatives, what if we all actually go out into the streets, what if we can all actually change this? It's important to remain hopeful. 

TL;DR - stop saying "we failed at democracy," etc. We know. You're just distracting people from the main objective.  open source government To much money was invested for it to go away. It will forever be. The best we can expect to get is transparency, to a degree and it being regulated. As a 30 year old American man I can confidently say that that the "Patriot Act" has been the biggest load of shit in my adult life. Please band together as Americans and kill this crock of shit deader than dead.  For me it's tied right up there with the war on drugs. War On Some Drugs More like war on the impoverished.  War on the impoverished and minorities.  Citizens United is up there with it.  It is what my 92 year old grandfather says is the worst policy in his lifetime.   Worse than Japanese interment or Jim Crow laws? One deals with money. One deals with actual people being oppressed. 

It's easy to point to internment or Jim Crow laws and claim them to be oppressive and terrible. It's much harder to point to something like Citizen's United which, having the benefit of a politically coercive name, deals with something you can't touch and isn't tangible. Sure, it's easy to pick up a dollar bill but when you think about money what you're really thinking about is the principle behind money, which is trust. If you were to ask someone on the street which one seems worse, free flow of money or internment/Jim Crow laws you'd most likely get the response claiming internment or Jim crow laws is worse. 

This is why Citizen's United is probably the worst case ruling in US history. It's insidious and masks the manipulation and corruption it enables with the thinker's imagination of being in the position of the CEO who could use Citizen's United to further their own subjective social morays. 

Which is why things like Jim Crow laws and forcible oppression never last. It's easy to rally behind causes that aim to degrade those kinds of practices. The most insidious form of oppression is convincing someone that a specific policy or idea is in their best interest when it's actually not. That's politics and you can always pick out the clever politicians by looking at how they word their proposed legislation - usually this comes in forms of legislation developed by think tanks who employ psychologists, behaviorists, and lawyers. Mind, language, and behavior. 

On a tangent; I have a personal belief this is why philosophy has been so demonized and pointed to as irrelevant. At its heart the science of philosophy is a search for wisdom which translates into the search for understanding. You can further extrapolate that along with understanding comes the ability to critically reason. So when you hear someone say "philosophy is irrelevant" what they're really saying is "critical reason is irrelevant". The only reason someone would claim critical reason is irrelevant is if they fear not being able to manipulate others. 

Sorry about the wall of text :/ 

tl;dr money is hard to argue against but physical oppression isn't due to human empathy. 
(Full disclosure: I am a senior in undergrad in philosophy) And Australia is just starting one. Do you think they could be "out sourcing" the work. Aussie PM's love to suck US dick.  Let's just pass it, so we can find out what's in it. Like mysterious poop They will tell us its dead, but lie like they always do.  Now that would be an interesting turn of events. 

Repeal All the Programs -&gt; Keeps them Alive Secretly -&gt; Whistle-Blower comes forward -&gt; Shitstorm arrives! The amount of outrage with each new shitstorm is diminished to the point that they're just light shit mists now. Hmm, I [wonder](http://i.imgur.com/UFK7UpG.jpg)... Until they become just farts in the wind with a hint of corn. 5000 shit candles in the wind &gt;Happy birthday Rick. I baked you a shitcake. Now blow out your 5000 shitcandles

*-Jim Lahey* How many mists does it take before you take a shower? Idk, but soon we're going to need a final solution. Just you wait till the shit-barometer picks up again and the [Shit-winds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q4iDurCE3Yk) start blowing Yes, the US seems to have given up on the notion of free press on non-celebrity issues. That kills shit-storms before they're even born. I think you channeled a little [Jim Lahey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tjMkqFmRGL4) there.
 People won't care, just like they didn't care last time. Well according to Oliver most don't understand the consequences/what is happening in the program. Doesn't matter if people dont care. If the patriot act is repealed then the actions would be flat out illegal and Itd just take someone bringing it to court to get it all shut down. 

Once somethings illegal it doesnt take massive public outcry to get it shut down anymore. The reason people kinda stopped caring last time is because what on earth are they supposed to do about it. Its legal. We can basically just say we dont want it to be legal (and many people did) and hope something happens.
 Anybody with half a brain should know that the nsa won't go away because congress passes a bill. It will just become more secret. Nothing is getting killed, it's just going to get buried. I've always liked Section 31. How much did that new facility cost? It won't be going to waste. 

I wonder what kind of super computer could be developed if all NSA money was diverted.  We actually don't know what they NSA currently has. We do know a new center is set to open next year that cost $3.2B. The worlds currently fastest supercomputer cost roughly $400M. We also know the data center in Utah cost $1.5B with $2B in hardware possible along with $40M in electricty a year and use 1.7 million gallons of water a day.  California's about to be real pissed.  I doubt the water is wasted, I'll bet they just use it for cooling &gt; 1.7 million gallons of water a day

Serious question: how? Evaporator tower cooling. Like they are going to give it up just because congress passes a bill. There has been several iterations and levels of spying before 9/11. No reason to think it will stop now... I can see the NSA being capable of a secret coup if they felt the need. Exactly. Just a publicity stunt after catching so much fire.  It will be dead. 

I mean, they will replace those servers with an even more efficient system.

Why? 

Because they can and you won't do shit about it.  Time to call all rc plane hobbyists and Kamikaze the center.  Welcome to ten different watch lists Welcome to the wrath of comicon I for one welcome our new noosphere. The singularity is approaching With the secret laws the US has they will probably just rename it. We are abolishing the NSA and establishing PENIS. Proactive Electronic National Investigation System Which will be inside of a new branch dubbed VAGINA.

Edit: [Keep 'em cumming boys.](http://i.imgur.com/mxmTcoY.png) Virtual Access Governing Initiative and National Accountability Service Which will all be placed under the larger branch of PORN This has south park written all over it Jay &amp; Silent Bob already did it.  I'm sure someone will link it... [This one?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1uLzZVSIo1U&amp;spfreload=10) Practitioners Of Reconnaissance Networks Soon to be merged with the branch of CUMBOX. Committee for Unanimous Metadata Breached Outside of eXpectations Protective Omnipotent Reconnaissance Network   Omniscient might be a better fit.   The Vital Association of Government Intelligence and Naughty Acronyms. The United States does love it some acronyms. If its not a 3 letter acronym, its probably not important. This reminds me of a fun government naming mishap.

When I worked for the USAF as a programmer everybody had a CAC (Common Access Card) as our ID and had our computer credentials. To log on, we inserted are CAC into the Virtual Access Gateway, or VAG. Sounds like norm McDonald saying "cock" in my head *Your convenient terrorist attack will arrive in 30 days or less* Well, we already had "Russia hacks the White House" yesterday.  Breaking: North Korea hacks MySpace, GeoCities and AOL.  [deleted] Both of which the NSA managed to prevent, right? If they had more money and resources they would have! RemindMe! 30 days "I hope this doesn't happen..." I've seen Enemy of the State enough times to know that even if Congress votes to shut it down, a rogue senator will keep it alive so he can ruin Will Smith's life.  It all usually comes down to ruining Will Smith's life It's amazing how many things that movie got right. And it was way back in 1997. I remember thinking...Haha. Over the top action movie...whatever. Joke's on us. :-/ As a military member, the very fact that I hesitate to click, read, or Upvote on these news stories for fear for my job is...  Sickening. 

Do the right thing, Congress. For once.  This comment here, this is a representation of what is at stake. Freedom of speech. Not as *free* when you self censor yourself out of fear. Why? You're allowed to. What are you worried about? Apparently you have no problems posting in the thread though.  We have so many organizations in America with virtually no oversight. CIA, DEA (allowed to schedule the dangers and drugs AND enforce it.), NSA

These organizations call the shots. CIA and NSA operate in secret and draw heavily from black budgets. They justify it by saying blabbing about National Security. But the reality of it is they are just a form of shadow government trying to protect itself from exposure. I have no doubt that the heads of CIA and NSA have as much power (if not more) than a president. Presidents are still held accountable (somewhat) because we are allowed to know what he is doing. 

Organizations like the DEA can choose whats legal and illegal, than assign itself to enforce it. So every substance they make illegal is more funding and money in their pocket.... why the fuck would they ever change their corrupt policy? CIA was caught destroying court ordered evidence, repeatedly, and nothing happened.
 This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/apr/08/congress-must-end-mass-nsa-surveillance-with-next-patriot-act-vote) reduced by 85%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; Despite doing almost everything in their power to avoid voting for substantive NSA reform, Congress now has no choice: On 1 June, one of the most controversial parts of the Patriot Act - known as Section 215 - will expire unless both houses of Congress affirmatively vote for it to be reauthorized.

&gt; There are an estimated 180 orders from the secret Fisa court that involve Section 215, but we know only five of them are directed at telecom companies for the NSA phone program.

&gt; Is Section 215 being used to collect massive amounts of other data on Americans? Well, the New York Times reported last year that there are multiple different bulk collection programs under different authorities that are still secret.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31xu14/in_less_than_60_days_congress_will_be_forced_to/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~5564 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **Section**^#1 **program**^#2 **NSA**^#3 **American**^#4 **Congress**^#5

Post found in [/r/politics](/r/politics/comments/31xlnf/in_less_than_60_days_congress_will_be_forced_to/) and [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/31xlur/in_less_than_60_days_congress_will_be_forced_to/). Similar to the recent Snowden interview.. if they're collecting dick pics, then you can bet that they're collecting/saving pictures of kids who send nudes to each other. The NSA has the biggest collection of child pornography and pedophiles in existence. I don't know, the British might have beat us at that. I always think the British governments efforts to ban pornography as a "doth protest too much" situation. I don't understand all the replies saying that this is irrelevant because the government will just make it secret. So what? There's a large difference between a programme going on that's legally sanctioned and the same programme being carried out secretly. By making them take it underground you tie up more of their resources and effort keeping it secret than otherwise, and limit the effectiveness of the programme. And it opens the way up for others - foreign or otherwise - to attack it. You can't prosecute or declare diplomatic outrage against people attacking something that isn't supposed to exist. It's a hell of a lot better than having a publicly accepted programme based on he supposition that "they're going to keep doing it, so we should let them so we know it still exists!"  There's a ridiculous amount of people who blindly believe that if something is legal, it's right, and allowing the programme to continue just puts this weight of public opinion behind it that it wouldn't have otherwise.  but what happens if its killed? and a month or two later a "terrorist attack" happens? and then they say shit like.. "if only we had the nsa?" This isn't getting rid of the NSA.  Do people not realize that the NSA does other things too? lol That won't happen because the NSA couldn't stop 9/11, even tho the government was warned dozens of times for years before it happened. What if I've been drinking mercury to avoid the flu and when I stop taking it I get the flu three weeks later. 

CNN can do the fear mongering again but hopefully people wisen up like in canada recently.   Go on?... It's like the Simpsons.  

I have a rock I claim keeps tigers away.

The rock does not actually keep tigers away, but I can claim it does because there aren't any tigers around.  

Correlation is not causation.  The rock correlates with an absence of tiger attacks, it does not cause an absence of tiger attacks.

If I get rid of the rock and then happen to get attacked by a tiger, it wouldn't really be because I got rid of the rock.

In this case, massive NSA spying is the rock we need to get rid of.   It is not protecting us from tigers just because we don't happen to see any around right now.















 I meant with the wisening of people in Canada but thank you for the analogy :) I know, I was trying to make a joke.

In retrospect it wasn't really that great of one. 

Carry on.  NSA hasn't stopped a plethora of large crimes since 2001.  I live in Southern California. I'm 17 years old and enrolled at Upland High. In class, I'm going to contact 3 different representatives to my district: Diane Feistein, Barbara Boxer and Pete Aguilar. I'm going to ask each of them what they're going to do to kill the USA PATRIOT Act, while in the company of 30 other kids, all of whom are imminent voters who wish to see it swept away. I'll be recording this and posting it. Hopefully, we can start a trend and encourage a wave of demands for its removal. This will be done by the end of the week. Your gonna ask diane fienstien to vote against this? Lol im Canadian i even i know shes a massive cunt That's an awesome idea, wish more people would do this Pretty sure operation will go on, much more secretively with a black budget. No way the gov. espionage sector will let awesome technology/weapon die out. Yeah and then if its discovered it's illegal. Because bad people will try to do bad things doesn't mean we shouldn't try and stop them.  The government does not punish people for illegal things unless they want to, James Clapper is a good example, if he lied about some other countries military plans, he'd be killed/inprisoned for treason. But he lied about the NSA so it's ok. If you do call up, it might be worth pushing for the idea of breaking up the NSA based on its missions:

https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2014/02/breaking_up_the.html The NSA already has divisions based on responsibility.  Even if we kill the patriot act, wouldn't the NSA still use it.. secretly..? Reddit: "OMG, we need to stop them"

Congress: "Ok, we'll vote to see if we will stop them"

Reddit: "OMG, even they do stop them. NSA will just keep doing it"

Congress: "Wtf do you want us to do then?"

Reddit: "Uhhhh, stop them" Except this is not what is happening at all. They are looking at the patriot act but that doesn't mean a stop to surveillance if its not renewed.  Oh! But wait, I'm sure in less than 60 days they'll uncover some breaking intel or stop some master plan! 

I hope they kill this rediculous act. Step one would be to indict James Clapper for lying to congress. If Bill Clinton can be impeached for lying about getting a blowie in the oval office clapper should see the inside of a jail cell. There was one... ONE senator that voted no on this act. I hope to everything out there that Russ Feingold runs against Ron Johnson in Wisconsin and kicks that cake eater out of his office.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/06/07/russ-feingold-patriot-act-speech_n_3402878.html And in 60 days we all know that it will probably be renewed or simply continued under other pretenses. Or will come back withing a year a little more polished after a few key laws change.  Any protests being organized? I live in milwaukee wisconsin and would love to be involved in one nearby! i dunno, seems like maybe they shouldn't do it. I'm so fucking sick of this negative attitude coming out of reddit.  This is a massive head start for us, we owe these 30 organizations a lot already.  This issue has been relentless on reddit, every day I log on and see something else about Snowden or the NSA.  Now here we are finally on the verge of doing something about it and every other post is a negative buzzkill.  To all of you pessimists: you're playing into the NSA's hands.  In fact you're echoing the exact words of the NSA astroturfers that pervade these threads. So either shut the fuck up, or stand up and do something about it, because spouting negative defeatism puts you on the side of the NSA.

"It won't matter if they kill it, the NSA will continue anyway."

This could very well be the case. But we are a nation of laws. Laws *matter*. Making mass surveillance collection illegal opens up the future NSA to any number of lawsuits, defunding measures, etc. All it takes is for one more whistleblower to come forward after the NSA illegally continues this program and then shit really hits the fan. The NSA will have a more difficult time finding funds and employees if their program is illegal.

So [call your representative.](https://fight215.org/)  Tell them they will never receive your vote or your donations again if they renew Section 215. Thanks dpxxdp.

We're one of the 30 organizations, and we agree with you. Yes, the NSA is powerful. The Stasi was powerful too, and where are they now? Mass surveillance can end; it just requires enough people to care enough to do something about it.

And if you'd like to get involved with us, here's a link:

www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer End the Dick-Pic Program! And I damn well hope it's killed, too.  What are you doing to make that happen? What can I do from the UK? After all, it's the American Congress.  Give the money to NASA.  I have a feeling that if we do close down the NSA's mass surveillance program there will be another attack on the homeland and all the blame will be why we didn't have the intelligence beforehand because the program got shut down. Fear just has to ruin everything. Just throwing this out there. Say we kill it, something will happen that will be said "could've been prevented if we didn't kill this certain bill or act" and people will go back into paranoia all over again, go  sales will go up as ammo becomes scarce it will just be the last decade all over again. Calling it now.  Congress? How do they work? Sounds like they're on it.  Such a joke.   It's gonna live on no matter what. Are we sure this isn't just a way for congressmen to kiss the public's ass and then keep the program going secretly? Because that's what it sounds like.  im all for leaving the NSA behind... its a waste of our tax dollars Like they give a shit what the people think? They will get their votes no matter what happens. At the end of the day, that's all that matters; votes. The Patriot Act may well be killed publicly, but we all know that our beautiful United States government will never actually stop watching our every move. And it won't change anything except the perception that mass surveillance is common.

 This would presume those puppets give a shit.  I don't trust this it all. If this program were to be killed what's to stop the government from doing it anyways. They've been wiping their asses with the constitution for years so I'm skeptical. They might kill it to the public,  but it will not die. I asked for him to stop the NSA from recording my dick pics. After ending the call, I realized my dick pics will make the NSA want to stop studying me. Who wants to see? 18+ only :) They're probably working on an even more secretive NSA as we speak, that won't be as easily traceable or discovered. Though I guess, if anything. We'd be getting rid of their ability to have mass manpower. Uh the NSA has 0% chance of removing its surveillance program. Anyone thinking it would is quite literally disconnected.

Now maybe we can get some more privacy back for the future, but people really need to stop acting off both misrepresented information, as well as the idea that this internet minority is actually the real world majority view.

We already know whey few really care unless it personally impacts them noticeably. further few to none of the people on this entire site probably know the actual reality of what the NSA does and what the issues actually are and what the citizenry is willing to accept. Serious question. Should it "die", could we even believe it 100%? When this thing gets killed a bunch of congressman and Obama will trot out in their invisible clothes and tell us how they paved the way for this to finally end. If the X-Files 'Lone Gunmen' can accurately predict events like 9/11 leading us to invade two countries that weren't involved then we don't deserve to survive as a civilisation. I'll also blame Justin beiber because I can. I read 1984, you can't turn this thing off. 
 Who is this nave?  Whether it "lives or dies", it will live. A ploy to have the public believe the program was cancelled, lulling us into a false sense of security.... so that they can start up another secret program to do the same thing?  remember, the public's permission wasnt asked the first time so nothing to stop them from doing it again. Yes, I have no faith in the government that has legalized mass surveillance, torture, propaganda, and wars of aggression. It will survive and expand. I guarantee it.  The fact that you guys think the NSA is going to stop is hilarious. I am convinced all that will happen here is they will change as little as possible with as much hoopla and self congratulatory spin as they can. We should fix this shit. When do we march? How can we prove they killed it when they hid it in the first place?  As much as we can hope it will be wiped out, why would congress wipe out the power to spy on its peoples? It won't. Because congresspeople spent almost all their time just fundraising and trying to get re-elected, and whatever will get them re-elected is what they'll do. Especially representatives. They spend an even greater portion of their very quick time in Congress just trying to get re-elected. &gt; whatever will get them re-elected is what they'll do  
  
soooo keep doing the same thing and get even fatter checks from companies next time?  
  
Remember, people don't vote representatives in office, money does. Sounds like horseshit and radical, but almost every decision in the United States boils down to profits and losses; money in and money out I bet the NSA has a lot of stuff they could leak that would be far more damaging to a campaign than an issue most people couldn't care less about.  Well, even if it does die, I'm sure that they'll come up with some little open-ended clause or an alternate program which is even worse. That's right make the NSA stop breaking the law.  So uhh if they shut er' down what will they do with the muti million dollar facility in my backyard? (Utah) 
Edit: I vote indoor go karting  And yesterday, the top story on reddit and every news channel was how russia hacked the white house.

And for the next 60 days all you will see is constant new stories which back of the "need" to keep the Patriot Act alive. Do people know that taxes might go down if we don't have to pay for this program?  Taxes seem to be the only thing most people care about. Is there an email option? Or is it best to call? Since the Republicans are against big government, shouldn't this more or less be a given that it gets killed? They're only against big government when it comes to welfare and tax cuts.  I read that as NASA and thought WTF? This surveillance program was hidden by the government, so even if you think it will be killed, it will be secretely continued.

edit: english is not my first language And this is when we get to see if the power democracy gives us over government is a real thing or a fairy tale. It's already been decided.  There's no decision Congress is being made to face.  It's just window dressing that we get to see. Killed?

These guys got enough blackmail to keep this thing going for a long time. Keep it. fight to continue! It's not enough. The ignorance of Congress apparently lasts far longer than the attention span of the internet.  If they can see my dick pics, I want it terminated. I'm Canadian, what can I do? Yeah, I work in politics (Republican).  It's frustrating as hell trying to explain technology to these people -- it's a problem on both sides of the aisle.  There are younger members of Congress who are tech-savvy but you still have plenty of the old guard who won't go away and won't educate themselves.

I won't say who, but I had a long discussion with one member of the House...privately...on the issue of net-neutrality.  He truly believed that net-neutrality meant that the government could start shutting down free speech on the internet at will (especially conservative leaning sites).  His concern was genuine enough, but he simply had no idea what net-neutrality actually means.  I did my best to explain that 9/10, the government is the problem; however, as conservatives, we often have to fear big business as much as big government --  net neutrality is the rare example of government protecting liberty from corporations who would and could limit access to information.

...anyway, it was for naught.   Even the young and tech savvy can be utterly clueless on security. (I work with many...it's infuriating at times.) The Car has been around for 100+ years and most people still treat it like a magic box that is thirsty for gasoline... Yeah just take one look at /r/justrolledintotheshop

It's terrifying Fair point! They don't know shit because they're not voted into office based on their knowledge or policies. They're voted in because that person is who their party decided to expose to the people. If anyone else had the kind of exposure the Republican or Democratic party can give them, you'd see people giving these parties a run for their money. 

But you don't see any TV ads on prime time saying, "Paid for by the Green Party of the United States of America."  In the UK there are strict limits on campaign spending and a ban on TV ads.

It makes the political campaigns so much more pleasant. I remember visiting America in 2008 during the presidential election run-up and I was shocked at all of the negative attack ads on TV. Political attack ads are a huge problem in this country. They contribute to the aggressive division of the political line, and it does nothing but contribute to open hostility toward differing world views.  Creating political division and in-fighting amongst the American public is exactly what they want though. We're too busy fighting ourselves to to fight truly important issues like corruption, corporate control of politics, declining budgets for education and rebuilding our country, and ever increasing budgets for war and lining the coffers of companies that "facilitate" war. Why we don't require candidates to take a test before running for office is beyond me. And for incumbents, before you vote on the legislation, you have to take a quiz on the basic principles behind the thing you're trying to legislate. And who is the one writing these tests? This wouldn't work in practice. True or false: the Internet is a series of tubes. Either way, you're in.  That's the multiple choice question that gives you one point.

Its the second question where you score the remaining 99 points.

"Now explain why" Seriously guys.

Full Definition of **TECHNOCRACY**:

*Government by technicians; specifically :  management of society by technical experts*

---

You don't know what you're talking about?

You don't get a say in laws governing that thing. I largely agree, but in reality will probably result in highly politicized academia (as if this wasn't already the case). The problem is if you add a modifier for human nature (corruption, greed, power-hunger, etc) no system holds up well. Serious TBT  To be fair, it is much more like a series of tubes than it is like a dump truck.

UUCP, now there was some data in a dump truck. It's not like our system 'works in practice' all that well now.  To be fair our system was designed to work slowly so that one regime couldn't completely turn the country over.  If it was designed to work as slowly as it does now, that's a different question. This will work just as well as when we required voters to pass a test in order to vote.
 No, the answer isn't more tiers of power and more games. The answer is having a strong constitution limiting the power of a stupid congress. And strong people willing to say that government's power needs to be limited. I think the federal government is just too big. There's too much detachment from our own politics, it really would be nice if we could get a political focus shifted back towards the individual states.   States have a history of trampling civil rights. You almost have it right -- I'm a big believer that passage of a very basic 8th grade civics exam (in English) should be required before gaining the privilege of voting.  

As for members of Congress (or state legislators), they absolutely should be required to read/review every bill before they vote.  A big part of the problem is that there are procedural rules in place that allows legislation to come to the floor for a vote so fast that members don't have a chance to even figure out what they're voting on.  Now, there are some bills that number in the hundreds of pages -- there just isn't time for every member of Congress to read every line in bills like that; however, enough time ought to be given so that their staffs can fully review the bill. My solution (though made half in jest) was that each congressman would be given a version of the bill that was identical, except for one part randomly added in to a different place in each version of the bill. That passage says "Congressman [Insert person name here] agrees to forfeit their seat."

You'll have to read through the entire bill, and sometimes it won't be put in, so they'll have to look through it a few times in order to make sure. That's the part that they will each want to bring up to remove. Otherwise, if they don't and the bill goes through, all the congressmen who didn't remove their names are booted. "Here random interns, go through this bill an make sure it doesn't fuck over congressman ***** " All it takes is one intern to do the right thing and the lazy, good-for-nothing congressmen will be gone. And then that intern never gets a job in DC again. I would start a charity for that person should this hypothetical situation ever come to fruition. I'd definitely buy that intern a beer and some smokes.  I would hire that intern. I don't know why he'd want to work in an anthropology lab, but I would still hire him. "I'm the intern who got blamed by Congressman Smith (R).  I'd like to work with Congressman Brown (D)."

Not too hard. Ctrl+f "Name". 

Now your proposal is useless. Wow - non-searchable, text-as-images PDFs actually have a use! My friggin professors love these things. All of my case studies are in these formats, making highlighting text and cutting through filler nigh-on impossible. It's like we're back in the book ages! I can use a highlighter and scan through book pages quickly, though! And printing off 50+ page PDF's just isn't an option at the moment.  Just use a highlighter on your computer screen? Section 508 actually makes doing this illegal. That didn't deter my professor from sending us an entire module as scanned JPGs. I pretended I couldn't read it and needed the raw text transcript and she told me to send a doctor's note to the Student Disability Services. Frickin' run-around. Feel bad for anyone in the class who actually had disabilities and were too shy to speak up about this inaccessible garbage.

You think "I can't Ctrl-F", they think "I'm visually impaired, how the hell do I read something that's in image format without a transcript?" OCR scanners are really good these days? Just OCR the lot and hand them back to the class, or put them somewhere all your class can get to OCR? You think those people know how to use Ctrl-f ? That's actually the real test.  You think they don't have staff members that do it for them? You just have to package it right!

"Congressman whose name rhymes with 'hokey' agrees to forfeit their seat."

"Congressman next to the guy with the weird mole on his chin agrees to forfeit his seat."

Ctrl+F *that*! "Ongressmen-cay Ranklin-fay" *ctrl+fs "congressman"* Just have the bill say congressman like 200 separate times what's a cut-err-ell Where's the Ctrl-f button?  Text recognition software would get much better very quickly following a large amount of investment from private interests.

Then their staff would handle checking for these with that software. reCaptcha is the best text recognition software in existence. It gets millions of users to unwittingly transcribe blocks of text every day with 99% accuracy.

That's used to transcribe old text with smudged and hard to read pages, though. Current text recognition software breezes through computer printed text with 100% accuracy.  I'm for this. I'd say we should limit the language used in the bills and push for clearer wording.  The fact that some bills can be so long is absurd, there would be no feasible way to do anything in a timely fashion if everyone is constantly reading lengthy bullshit.  

 Amendments need to be germane as well. &gt; Amendments need to be germane as well.

The fact that this isn't already the case is kind of disgusting. I don't think it matters that it's how business is done; the practice is a detriment to the institution each and every time an encumbered piece of legislation is passed. Since they are trying to rewrite history that civics test would be pointless And also illegal. [The Voting Rights act made literacy tests illegal because, surprise surprise, those in power used them to target groups that might get them out of power, such as the poor or black population.](http://www.ourdocuments.gov/doc.php?flash=false&amp;amp;doc=100)

Where were you in civics class?  "True or False: The Civil War was really won by the South and they're just too polite to bring it up?"*

*This question is sponsored by Hobby Lobby...Hobby Lobby, come for the largest selection of yarn and yarn paraphernalia, stay because Jesus died for your sins.

..

Next Section:   Choose the Best Response

America:

A. Great

B. The Greatest


.
.

Israel:

A. Important

B. Unimportant to Anti-Semites No shit.  Just ask for any kind of evidence that modern day Jews are descended from the biblical hebrews, and you get firehosed with "bigot".   Logically, there's nothing necessarily antisemitic about asking that question. The problem is that historically it's been loudly and frequently asked by white supremicist and Christian Identity types who indeed are antisemitic and for that reason want to dissociate present day Jews from the Jews of the bible, God's chosen people. I may be asking a dumb question but, why would either of those matter? If they are one or the other, who cares? Are you asking why it matters whether present-day Jews are descended from biblical Israel?

If you hate the present-day Jews AND you believe that the biblical Israelites really were God's chosen people, then you virtually must argue that present-day Jews are not descendants of the Israelites. Otherwise, it means you yourself hate God's chosen people.

Edit: Some evangelicals also invest a lot of theological significance in the identify of modern Jews. There's a particular theological system called dispensationalism, which used to draw a lot of water in evangelical communities. One of its distinguishing characteristics is that God still has a special plan or purpose in mind for Israel. Some dispensationalists believe that the modern state of Israel is that Israel. At the very least, this system has made a lot of evangelicals a little superstitious, if you will, about Israel. Even if they can't fully articulate all the finer points of dispensationalist theology, they might think that we better support the state of Israel, just to be on the safe side. 

That view is not as popular now as it was, say, 50 years ago, but the question of whether modern Jews are the same people as the biblical Jews matters to some people for that reason, too. And if you don't hate them? Yeah but they killed Jesus and were no longer special so why would it matter I don't think that word means what you think it means.  Then you would be able to disenfranchise people just by denying them an 8th grade understanding of civics.  Pretty clever, Republican. These were a thing once, or at least similar to what you suggest. They were literacy tests meant to make sure black people couldn't vote. They were part of a thing called "Jim Crow laws".

Yeah, that idea is downright unconstitutional. Disenfranchisement for whatever reason is the very antithesis of government of the people, by the people, and for the people. 

EDIT: Also, voting is a right, not a privilege.  I don't think this is a good idea.  Placing a litmus test like that would encourage Republicans to withhold education funding in areas with demographics less likely to vote for them.  Voting is a right, not a privilege. &gt; Why we don't require candidates to take a test before running for office is beyond me.

In a phrase: "Jim Crow Laws".

Twas not a bright spot in US history. &gt;And for incumbents

Only for incumbents so junior members can have some leeway?

&gt;basic principles 

Creating an effective set of procedural guidelines for what is "basic" would be logistically impossible. And if sausage is the problem than a test on basic principles won't help. Let's look at the cause of the problem, not the symptom. The symptom being politicians don't know what they're passing. The problem is therefore the legislation is too long and convoluted. I think putting a limit on the *length* of legislation even though it would still make things more complicated. I think maybe we should have an "outline" and "rule" system. First, an outline is passed that sets up the objectives of the bill. This get's passed, and then it can't change. Next, individual rules are made and must be attributed to one specific objective.  
Who decides what goes in the test?  This seems like a horrible idea. Who would regulate the test? Shouldn't the election be the test?  If you don't think the person is fit for office, don't vote for him. A [test](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literacy_test) would be a great idea and never be abused at all for political reasons. That's interesting.  Are you a staffer?  I'm just curious since

&gt;I work in politics

is a little vague. Campaign consultant now.  I was a legislative assistant on the state level for a few years, and then I worked in a district congressional office.  I like consulting better. Thanks for the answer!  How does one get into being a legislative assistant?  I've been interested in that kind of work for awhile. Ask your rich dad to hook you up with his friends in government. He is in politics ... what did you expect? I think that was the point. Well if you're in politics then you know that the actual elected official usually contributes dick all to the actual language in the bill. This legislation will be written (at best) by their staffers and (at worst) hand-delivered to them by special interest groups (whatever the equivalent of ALEC is for the surveillance agencies.) There is also an office available full of attorneys who will review and markup the language.   You also have committee staff.  But, no, members don't sit around with a legal pad drafting legislation (although I have seen it happen, sort of).  The legislation is drafted by staff, but they do so under the direction of the Chief-of-Staff and the member his/herself.  They won't be involved in drafting line by line, but they are involved in ensuring certain components are included.  It's like being handed a box of legos to work with -- the member gives you the pieces and you put it all together.  

However, you're certainly right that way too often legislation is drafted by special interest groups, their lobbyists, attorneys, and governmental affairs department.  I'm not exactly sure how that practice could be banned and enforced, but I would like to see the practice end. One of the problems is that larger companies are so good at making it easy for staff to include has been included. I work for a member on HASC and handle the defense portfolio, when it's time to do policy submissions for the NDAA small companies that are looking to try and get RDT&amp;E money, they have no clue where their existing contracts get funded from. This requires me to sift through pages and pages of DOD, Army, Navy, and AF budget docs trying to find a specific line item in their budget that some company may have their funding through. Then I have to draft the language that we would insert. 

On the contrary, Boeing, Lockheed, Raytheon or any of the other big players will literally come in name their programs or weapon systems that they think need to be either increased or just have the president budgets supported. But they will have a one-pager with the line-item number, and text to submit. 

Most of the time the things they want aren't any concern of mine and other offices who likely have that product in their district will submit it, but they make it so much easier for staff.  &gt;  It's frustrating as hell trying to explain technology to these people

What's it like? Do their eyes glaze over? Just blank stares when you mention something like, "hard drive?" Pretty much, yes.  Did you ever see the video of former Sen. Ted Stevens trying to explain the internet as a series of "tubes?"  God help him, it was painfully obvious that staffers tried desperately to come up with some analogy he would understand when they briefed him on what the internet was but it was horribly mangled in translation and Stevens just didn't get it.

This particular member's only real experience with the internet is sending e-mail.  He owns a medium sized business, but he's away a lot so he started communicating with his employees via email (before he was elected).  So he does e-mail.  I *think* he even uses his phone to check his e-mail now, but that's about the extent of it.

It's funny, actually.  He found out I was a PC Gamer (I had mentioned that I build PCs and he wanted to know why), but the guy absolutely could not understand why anyone would play video games unless they were some dope-smoking slacker from California (he didn't use those words but I know that's the image he has in his head).  He kept asking me, "What do you get out of it?"  I wasn't sure how to answer that -- what does anyone get out of their hobby? Enjoyment? An opportunity to relax? It's very difficult.  Man, this sounds like my mom as a politician. I sincerely hope she never gets the idea to become one. Nancy Pelosi said essentially that *was* her reason for going into politics in a Cornell commencement speech. 

It explains... *so* much

 &gt;what do you get out of it?

What do people get out of mindlessly watching TV? Plenty of people consider watching 2 or 3 hours of TV per night perfectly normal. Replace that with video games, and everyone loses their mind. People gawk when I say I don't have cable, like it is a given fact that you must have it and watch tv all the time.  its the interactive nature of video games that get people to lose their shit.  Yet the internet, which is infinitely more useful than cable TV, is a "luxury" &gt; the guy absolutely could not understand why anyone would play video games unless they were some dope-smoking slacker from California

Great. Both ignorant and close-minded.

Anyway, thanks for responding. &gt; Great. Both ignorant and close-minded.

A fair assessment.  I don't think you can actually point to Steven's being close minded simply because that's who he is.  I think it is a matter of a generational gap, we've seen it since humans first started taking care of their elders.  The older generations don't "get" the younger generations, and it is likely a physiological reason, as the brain becomes less elastic as you age. Two things, Ted Stevens was a douche bag, he held onto his seat for dear life ans bullied his way into tenure, in 2003-2006 he was investigated with Don Young for serious ethics violations and the only reason he got off on all charges was because he had enough power as pro tempore of the Senate. Hell Begich barely beat him in 2008 and that was while Stevens was on trial. 

The second thing is that Ted Stevens was woefully ignorant and probably one of the worst people out state has ever put out. He was woefully uninformed on a variety of subjects, tied up hundreds of millions of federal dollars in useless state projects and even though I only met him once, in 2005, he was not a pleasant person. He had an air to him that he was better than everyone else and could do whatever he wanted, just like Don Young. I'm gonna go with [withholding evidence for $400, Alex.](http://articles.latimes.com/2009/apr/08/nation/na-stevens8)

The prosecutors wanted to mount Steven's head on the wall so badly, that they withheld evidence from the defense, and even had a star witness perjure himself on the stand, and the verdict was vacated and the presiding judge ordered that the prosecutors be investigated by a non-DoJ third party.

So, you may not like the guy, or what he stands for... but don't mislead people about how fucked up it was what OUR government attempted to do to him. It's sort of understandable. Before the Internet was big, the Democrats tried to squash the tide of Republican resurgence with legislation that would force radio stations to give equal time to viewpoints from each side of the spectrum. Local conservative radio all over the country was killing them.

Being willfully ignorant isn't cool, but I can see how many Republicans would jump to assume "net neutrality" was another attempt to silence the spread of ideas. &gt; Being willfully ignorant isn't cool, but I can see how many Republicans would jump to assume "net neutrality" was another attempt to silence the spread of ideas.

Who precisely equates "I have to explain both sides of an issue" with "the government is silencing the spread of my ideas"? Well. You're right that it's a false equivalency, but that isn't the problem. Partisan and academic bodies alike are usually more inclined to give due *weight* to the ideas that are perceived to have merit (*that's* the standard that varies).

If you give opposing viewpoints equal time, you lend the appearance of equal legitimacy. That's great, when they're equally legitimate viewpoints... John Oliver explained this situation with climate change denial. Even with a massive scientific consensus, media outlets will put two scientists and two skeptics across from each other, making it seem like there's an equal opposition on both sides.  &gt; Being willfully ignorant isn't cool, but I can see how many Republicans would jump to assume "net neutrality" was another attempt to silence the spread of ideas.

Would it be better to come with a better term than "net neutrality" if it means we need to sit decision makers down for a class to understand what the hell it means? Welcome to America... the more they don't know the louder they are... This really strikes a chord with me. So much action in this country is made via knee-jerk reaction. People are seemingly unaware of how a good rest or a good book can nourish an opinion. Pretty much. That's how we got into the mess in the Middle East 15 years ago We have been in a mess in the middle east a lot longer than that. Beruit 1983, anyone? Oh we got out for about 8 years in the 90s &gt; Welcome to America...

Welcome to the majority of humanity. Yeah, seriously. Humans aren't really evolved to govern large amounts of people. We are still in small tribe mentality and that shows in each of our small group of people we really want to please and be pleased by.

Everyone else falling outside that scope of our capability to care will just simply be more or less ignored. You can cry for equality all you want for the poor people around the world, some of who don't even have food, but down to a very fundamental level you can switch that caring off and just focus on your problems, and the problems of those few close to you. Like you can't afford the newest iphone just yet. All the while you still would want the poor kids of Africa to have more food.

This is essentially why people in positions of power are very inclined to use that power to the benefit of themselves and their friends, instead of to the benefit of those that they are supposed to be in power of.

Well, it's good we aren't in a dictatorship. Those individuals are generally pretty known for caring for the people, right? "Sir, I have been through it from Alpha to Omaha, and I tell you that the less a man knows the bigger the noise he makes and the higher the salary he commands."

- Mark Twain There are, it has been said, two types of people in the world. There are those who, when presented with a glass that is exactly half full, say: this glass is half full. And then there are those who say: this glass is half empty. 
The world belongs, however, to those who can look at the glass and say: What's up with this glass? Excuse me? Excuse me? This is my glass? I don't think so. My glass was full! And it was a bigger glass! Who's been pinching my beer?
And at the other end of the bar the world is full of the other type of person, who has a broken glass, or a glass that has been carelessly knocked over (usually by one of the people calling for a larger glass) or who had no glass at all, because he was at the back of the crowd and had failed to catch the barman's eye.  

 Terry Pratchett, The Truth Now I'm sad again :( It is amazing, you need a degree and a 3.5 GPA to join the Air force as an officer, but only be 30 to be and live in the state you want to run in a senator....

Edit: I got the age wrong, thanks for the info /u/AngryCod Well, military officers are expected to be somewhat proficient at their jobs. This is the funniest shit in this comments section.  Ha...hahaha..hahahahahaha. Oh wait, you were being serious.  Well signing papers and asking your senior NCOs what to do isn't *that* hard.  Lemme laugh even harder. To be fair, he just said they were expected to be. Not that they actually are. 30, actually, and you don't even have to be a natural-born citizen.

&gt;No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen. [deleted] So if you run for Senator of North Carolina and you get elected, you cannot actually live in North Carolina while you are incumbent or what? Too many double/triple negatives got you confused there. No, the beginning of the sentence says "No Person," so meaning that s/he has to be an inhabitant of that state when elected. why cant they just say that instead? [deleted] &gt; 3.5 GPA

ive gathered that, thats something to do with the american school system but thats about it. Ah, that is what I though was the case, and makes perfect sense. Damn overload of negatives confused me, as another commenter said.  It's a double-negative.  I don't see how this is relevant. Only 28 members of congress are without a bachelors degree and a large number have advanced degrees. Just because it's not required doesn't mean it's not common. We're the ones that choose them. ...that and the ability to get elected by the majority. At least one member of Congress [just learned about encryption](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20150327/07312030462/congressional-rep-john-carter-discovers-encryption-worries-it-may-one-day-be-used-computers-to-protect-your-data.shtml). Others, like the US Director of National Intelligence, want to figure out the challenge of [shutting down the Internet](http://rt.com/usa/235903-clapper-stewart-intel-hearing/)

So yeah, we should all be very afraid. Amazing:  http://www.c-span.org/video/?c4532750/cybers 

That's fucking /r/cringe territory. These are the self-congratulatory imbeciles making decisions for us?

&gt; I knew we would find wisdom from the judge.

Ugh.  god help us.  our grandparents are running the country. As i see it, it's the religious fundie, narrow-minded, ranting-over-the-turkey-and-stuffing grandparents. It's scary as hell. If these imbeciles over-regulate tech, I'm afraid that a huge amount of brain drain will happen. 

Hell, either way, you have total idiots in charge of authorizing wars and aiming the world's largest military in unethical directions that benefit their backscratchers the most.

Can we have a proportional democracy, or single-transferable voting, or things that makes **sense** without squashing legitimate concerns? "If Kwikset or Masterlock could lock up a bike so only the owner could use it, what's to stop them from putting locks on every house or on the big giant mansions so only the owners had access? It keeps criminals from stealing property, but it also lets the owner keep their possessions hidden from law enforcement. It's a real conundrum." This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/apr/18/congress-cannot-be-taken-seriously-on-cybersecurity) reduced by 86%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; Leaders are expected to bring its much-maligned series of &amp;quot;Cybersecurity&amp;quot; bills to the floor sometime in the next couple weeks - bills that we know will do little to help cybersecurity but a lot to help intelligence agencies like the NSA vacuum up even more of Americans&amp;#039; personal information.

&gt; Of course there&amp;#039;s Senator John McCain, who has been one of the loudest voices pushing several invasive &amp;quot;Cybersecurity&amp;quot; spying bills and wants control of cybersecurity oversight to be placed under his Armed Services committee.

&gt; McCain, who doesn&amp;#039;t even use email, has been consistently demanding more cybersecurity powers, but maybe he should try to fix his own cybersecurity problems first before moving on to everyone else&amp;#039;s.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/332hoi/members_of_congressmost_of_whom_cant_secure_their/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~9202 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **Cybersecurity**^#1 **Congress**^#2 **bill**^#3 **security**^#4 **use**^#5

Post found in [/r/politics](/r/politics/comments/3329n3/members_of_congressmost_of_whom_cant_secure_their/), [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/3329l0/members_of_congressmost_of_whom_cant_secure_their/) and [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/3329uv/members_of_congressmost_of_whom_cant_secure_their/). To be fair, if he doesn't even use email he's probably way more secure than the rest of us. son...you are talking to a bot.
 everyone can see what he wrote, just like you did... no I'm not. Dayum the bot does NOT like McCain. This bot keeps getting better and better with its tl;drs. It's worth noting that this is not unique to technology.  Politicians don't know much about anything except the law because 70% of them are lawyers.

There are a few who are engineers, a few who are doctors, and a number who have worked in business.

But by and large they are lawyers, and without exception almost none of them have any expertise in the areas which they oversee in committees and such. 

What qualifies a politician to regulate economics, or science, or technology, or gun control, or healthcare? they have the mandate of the people. it's our responsibility to elect people with good *judgment*. they need to have trusted council, and be able to tell apart those speak with the interest of their country in mind and those with their own interests in mind. Anyone who uses the term "cyber" can't be taken seriously on the subject. Security Engineer here,

We lost. We tried so hard to get people to stop using that cringe-bag of a prefix to describe our profession. It's over. Laypersons won out over the professionals they describe.  It's the same thing that happened to Hackers in the 80s. Expert computer scientists defined by a desire to have intimate knowledge of systems got lumped up with any script kiddie who had a computer, a modem, and a criminal disposition. 

There's nothing we can do about it now but embrace the cringe and burn it as fuel for our journey. In other words it's become so mainstream that we *have* to use the term "cyber". Well, if you aren't a CYBER security engineer, I was thinking about getting a custom safe installed in my basement. Think you could help me with that? Also, what's your professional opinion on moats and palisades?  There are a lot of manufacturers who actually offer custom safe building. Many businesses need weird form-factors because of issues with room dimension. After you get it it's pretty simple to install the thing. Any custom you order plus any assembly-line type of safe you acquire will almost always come with a bolt-down kit. Building a safe from scratch is not recommended. The precision needed for industrial safe manufacturing is too high to advocate a "DIY" solution. 

Moats are pretty cool, but not very useful in the modern world. They do see usage in extremely volatile areas where a facility is concerned about threats such as car bombing. In this scenario the car bomb will only be able to cross the moat and damage the building over more controlled points, which eases defense. Where a simpler fence could be pushed over by the car or the fence may be close enough to the wall that an explosion will still damage the building. Moats do tend to be used for aesthetic reasons, which I think is neat. 

As for palisades, the top spikes of [this palisade](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/06/Electric-palisade-fence.jpg) are electrified ;) Hah I was trying to be a smartass and got schooled. Well played! It's only over if you've given up. [deleted] So my cybersecurity degree is all for not? No, its all for naught.  No, *it's* all for naught. That's a bingo. Areevadeirchee This is the case for most things, as they are all mostly lawyers.  Exactly.  They hold hearings on all sorts of issues that they know nothing about. Today reddit learns why lobbyists exist. They plead their case to legislators who thrn decide which way to vote. 

But these days those with the most money seem to always have the best arguments.

Which is why we need money out of politics... Honestly, people demonize lobbyists way too much. Of course there are bad lobbyists representing shady interests, but there are many who fight for just causes such as the environment and yes net neutrality. If you want to actually solve the problem, you're going to need to donate to something like the EFF and stop wishing for change. "I'm not a scientist, so I won't make decisions about global warming that may impact the economy."

"I'm not tech-savvy, but but I still feel comfortable making decisions concerning the internet no matter the impact to the economy." Thank goodness it is the companies who write the bills... Oh, wait a minute. There are definitely some corporate vested interests behind these bills. Well we keep letting old fogies vote in old fogies, so this will keep happening. Again?

Do these people even... I just realized that there is a bunker specially designed to house this dumbasses in case of a nuclear war.

We're literally going to be saving the dumbest people on the planet. When they finally emerge we can mount them as hood ornaments on the vehicles of our post-apocalyptic raider collective. This is why we need elements of a Technocracy. Those who are actually qualified in a field will make decisions in the field they are qualified in.  Problem is they still need to be elected. A good ad campaign and a quick tutoring session can make anyone look literate in any field to most people, because most people won't have enough expertise in that field to see through the bullshit. Sadly, we're a long ways away to a practical implementation of technocratic ideas.

For example, once you start giving political power to engineers and scientists, psychopaths who are charismatic and excellent liars will stop pretending they're good family men or whatever and start pretending they're Real Scientists instead.

How do I put this. You know Creation Scientists? Or "Climate Skeptics"? Imagine that but in every field a technocrat might have influence in. This is why the lobbying and donation system is so damaging in the United States. Here you have a bunch of illiterate incompetent idiots who associate technology with the lazy younger generation (who rightly fully they fucked over/are fucking over). So they have no qualms about allowing the highest donors to set the agenda and just blindly sign on the dotted line because they have no idea what they are signing over. While it would be nice if this argument worked, that ship sailed long ago. These morons aren't qualified to govern **anything** based on knowledge.  Monetary policy, military operations, IT issues, science, medicine, agriculture, urban needs, rural needs, social needs, taxes ... its all a joke.

Please don't use the "congresmen are idiots and therefore shouldn't write laws" argument as a cornerstone in trying to thwart these bills.  It won't work. Of course. I don't think you could find anyone knowledgeable enough in all fields to make well-informed and thought out decisions on every law. But they should at least listen to the advice of the advisors and other experts in that field. 

As the article mentions, the Office of Technology Assessment was disbanded years ago and reviving it has been unsuccessful. So if they have chosen to ignorantly write laws about subjects they know nothing about and without experts' advice, then the "congressmen are idiots and therefore shouldn't write laws" argument is absolutely valid. They listen to advisors... Benjamin Franklin mainly Life would be so much simpler if, in order to write or submit a law, you had to be a proven and qualified expert in the general area of whatever that law covered.

Of course, I'm fooling nobody by pretending to hope for something like that. This isn't a technocracy; these people aren't voted in for their vocational capabilities, nor do they operate entirely alone. The vast majority of subjects they pass laws on are unfamiliar to them. This is why numerous committees exist, why advisement hearings exist, and why lobbyists exist (for better or for worse).

If you want to complain about money influencing policy decisions, go ahead, but drop these red herring ad hominems and focus on legitimate complaints. This is far down and so far the correct answer.  It's amazing the guy who works in politics didn't say anything to this effect, and he's the top rated comment.  Been true of all science for several decades.   Democracy, ain't it great. And this is any different than anything else they do how? My problem with the headline is this, I'm not an automotive engineer but if they tell me to change my oil every 5000 miles, I'll do so. Let's hold that standard to any other topic, do we expect congress to be experts at everything? Perhaps every congressman should be a medical doctor before passing a healthcare bill they didn't bother to read before passing on it. Or every congressman be an expert marksman before passing a gun control bill. Or a graduate engineer before passing laws on building requirements, etc.

The problem is some "experts" came to the congress and said "we're experts and this needs to happen" and they responded. If only some people got together and made their own special interest group called "The Common Sense Coalition" and did some of their own lobbying... Oh well I guess were just one person said the 450 million citizens. How could we compete against those powerful lobbists... 

"Couldn't we start our own? I mean if everyone chipped in $5 bucks a year we'd be a 2.2 billion dollar a year lobby group"

"Shut the fuck up Donny!" How are we letting this kind of stuff happen over and over again?! We need mass protests against the elite. They are obviously just pandering to the corporations and to the elite who want to take all of our freedoms and control us. They see we are getting fed up with their bullshit and are slowly taking steps to make sure they can contain us if need be. I am sure they would love to call me a terrorist for my viewpoints and that is what they do ever since W's famous "with us or against us" line and obama is following in his footsteps by expanding the powers of the federal government and removing our freedoms one by one. Repeal the patriot act, protest these corrupt assholes and lets get the power back where it belongs. "Everyone~~'s privacy~~ is in the hands of people who, by all indications, have no idea what theyre talking about." As if our politicians come up with these ideas. They are instructed to feel a certain way. And yet literally no one is surprised that a group of lawyers that get a 6 figure salary for three months work have found a way to screw up something as simple as 'If we don't know what we are talking about, how can we legislate it?'

...which is the same thing they do on abortion, contraception, education, military spending, annual budgets, the tax code, foreign affairs, civil rights, economic matters (except when it makes them or their state money), etc. etc. etc. &gt; "Members of Congressmost of whom cant \_______, and some of whom dont even _____are trying to force a dangerous '_______' bill down the publics throat. Everyones _____ is in the hands of people who, by all indications, have no idea what theyre talking about."

General template for everything. Dear God that's bad. Although it sort of explains their antics. They don't understand what Cybersecurity is or how to do it. No encryption on their phones or e-mail when you are a Congress critter? 

The problem with security isn't that we need to share info to catch bad guys, its that we have essentially left the front door unlocked.  &gt; its that we have essentially left the front door unlocked.

Hah. If only.

Congress is busy chopping down the front door with an axe, from the inside, for firewood. In July. In Miami. On the advice of the intelligence and law enforcement agencies, who are spying on the neighbors with binoculars through the now-smashed front door. The lens caps are on. And they're holding them up to their asscheeks anyway.

And they're all busy telling us that we should just sit down and be quiet, they know what's best for us. All of.you, even you, you lazy fuck, get off your ass and write to congress, write to the president, your representitive, hell your fucking mayor too.

It takes 3 minutes out of your day, do it Voting in local elections works too. Shit fucking pissed me off It is impossible for any person to have enough information required to make the right choices for everyone but we need these rulers to make decisions for everyone anyway or there will be chaos. /s In this day and age what is the purpose of congress ? Ted (The Internet is a series of tube, not a dumptruck) Stevens got it wrong and was mocked over the internet.  Later he actually learned something and seemed actually informed on tech issues. I don't think the writer is tech savy either. He just keep throwing the https words around. Why websites for public domain need https? You use it to secure login and private information but public facing content does not need https. I'd laugh, but I'm from Australia and the same kind of people just passed a law requiring telecommunications companies to retain two years of your metadata. [This, here, is our Attorney General.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EbtgULCY5zk) The word "whom" was used inaccurately. My family always said " Senator's think about the next generation, Politician's think about the next election". They run bills &amp; laws that have effects &amp; horrible causes not seen until years or decades later. Kinda like when they vote for almost any bill. Kinda like when an entire party votes for a bill on, let's just say, health care and aren't even allowed to read it before hand. The average age of a congressman is about 62. Why are they controlling a technology that has only been around for 25 years? ~~Members of Congress~~ Lobbyists

FTFY  Don't whitewash this. They know exactly what they're talking about- growing the power of government. Too bad we can't impeach all of congress.... Then what? Llamas? Start over fresh, elect new people, and then keep impeaching bitches until they get the fucking message. Was that not obvious? That's anarchy. 

Wouldn't work. 

 How is that Anarchy? We just keep throwing out the garbage until we're left with candidates that actually do the job they're elected to do. Im pretty sure repeatedly electing people is not what anarchy is You obviously don't know what anarchy is You have absolutely no idea what anarchy is do you? Anarchy is **not** democratically electing officials to work in your government. How is this different than anything else they legislate? I don't know which is worse, the fact that this actually happens, or that fact that we (Americans) vote for people who make it happen. It kind of goes full circle here from what I see. Why is this surprising? Do you think they know much about much of anything? Let's use the good ol' health care as an example... Why do congress people's websites need SSL encryption? They generally will only exist as static pages anyway, not something that interacts with users personal information. While I agree that lawmakers need to educate themselves on this stuff, the opening of this article doesnt make sense All they care is their contingencies, namely, people and businesses that fund their campaign, campaigns that market their twisted ideals to a foolish majority. By this logic, members of Congress shouldn't be allowed to pass laws about anything other than being a politician. Meanwhile, they're tasked with passing laws concerning education, the environment, the economy, etc., even though they're neither educators nor environmental scientists nor economists.  It makes more sense when you replace cyber security with anti-freespeech. but... these guys have a bag of money! That must mean net neutrality is a sin! I just want an answer to this question: HOW THE HELL ARE THESE PEOPLE THE ONES WITH POWER? Nepotism and charisma mainly.  Not having a well-informed electorate will do that to ya. How about we stop electing Kings and start a real democracy made by the people ?

 Naah just kidding, let's just watch more of that Dog Makeover episode while eating Doritos. Unfortunately this is business as usual. The only thing most members of both houses of Congress are experts in is getting reelected. Oh yeah; and lying.  [deleted] less brave new world and more 1984. I don't believe the politicians are the ones doing this. The ones doing this are the corporate interests who want money plain and simple. They simply bought the politicians, oh sorry, I mean legally donated to their funds, to get this stuff passed.

Most politicians are absolute criminals now, that's a fact. They are fucking puppets with no soul plain and simple. &gt; Most politicians are absolute criminals now, that's a fact.

That's actually not a fact, no.  this topic title is making A LOT of assumptions about certain members of congress, whoever they may be Where's a couple hackers when you need them?  They'd be a lot more concerned about security if their personal  (not government) emails were public. Total Information Awareness was a popular name for it pre-911.

Enjoy that rabbithole. [are they for real with this logo?](http://i.imgur.com/SON48yZ.png) I wonder if they do this on purpose to mess with schizophrenics. Holy shit that's hilarious. Can't beat the NRO "Nothing is beyond or reach" Octopus logo that was put on a satellite a few years ago though.  
http://s3.amazonaws.com/digitaltrends-uploads-prod/2013/12/NROL-Octopus.jpg
 Hail Hydra! I always felt like NRO was the stargate program more then Hyrdra. That's the NRO, not the NSA. It's also one of my favorite mission patches ever because it's *goddamn awesome*. Thanks for correcting me.  
I found a bunch more of their ridiculous patches!  
http://www.animalnewyork.com/2013/awesome-terrifying-logos-americas-spy-satellite-missions/ Great Bear!  'better the devil you know' ...thats...actually a really appropriate one in this context. Maybe could've done with a bit less honesty, but definitely beats giant missile-dick Anubis TIL the NRO has the best mission patches  Can... can I buy those somewhere? You strike me as someone who might appreciate this.

http://www.wired.com/images_blogs/dangerroom/2011/01/patch_bunny_slippers.jpg
 Reminds me of [this](http://www.travelingmom.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/Minute-Man-Missile-Silo-1.jpg) Well, the octopus covering the world has been a popular image for many [different](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisemitic_canard#Accusations_of_plotting_to_control_the_world) causes.  Lol. That's awesome.  I've love to see a list of funny government logos  NRO patches are generally crazy, they've since stopped caring: http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/creepy-kitschy-and-geeky-patches-us-spy-satellites-180953562/

I think it's a holdover from the pre-apollo space flights where astronauts could design the patch and name for their missions. They lost that privilege eventually but the math nerds at nro managed to keep theirs. This is the best one

http://thumbs.media.smithsonianmag.com//filer/62/5d/625dc91d-655b-400c-92ea-ee8d0cbaa259/great-bear.jpg__600x0_q85_upscale.jpg

 If you read the subtext, it is not the actual logo. The actual logo is unknown as it is still classified. Why the heck would a logo be classified? An eagle consumed by fire with the motto: Better the devil you know.

Seriously? This is my favorite space mission patch.
[World's fastest sperm](http://imgur.com/HgNqNmC) [*"Are we the baddies?"*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hn1VxaMEjRU) They like terrorizing conspiracy theorists and graphic designers alike. 

But think about it, if a bunch of Redditors got together and decided to build something called "Total Information Awareness," they'd design a logo like this. Why? Because it's funny. 

As much as Reddit would like not to believe it, the people behind these programs are pretty normal. Individually most government officials are pretty ordinary, as are most people on the street. Together though they can commit a large number of atrocities without it being considered any individuals fault. But they can still commit a large number of atrocities while keeping a sense of humor, is the point. And that's the important thing after all, right?  As long as we're all the same religion. I just rewatched the movie 'Cube', which has the vague idea that a sort of torture prison cube complex was created by hundreds of people, all doing their bit, without knowing what it was for. But they go further and hint that nobody was even in charge, it just happens because it can. john poindexter is normal huh?

only helped arm the iranians .. against the iraqis whom we were publically arming, in a war that killed over a million people, all cause he wanted to help reagan fund his contra terrorists because nicaraguans just elected lefties in their provably fair election? Or how he helped set up a cocaine trafficing network to bypass the congression purse?

yeah hitler made nice paintings.. doesnt mean he is "pretty normal"

 Are they? Maybe behind such apparent extravagant logos is a dark, evil organization attempting to disguise itself as an... Evil organization. 

Nobody would suspect a thing. Except they don't believe in the law, personal liberty, consent of the governed, public oversight, any degree of personal privacy, any degree of legitimacy derived from the people, the justice system...

I mean, other than basically characterizing  a purely evil state, they're completely normal guys! Just like you and me if oppressing the people was our fucking job! This is tame compared to [the stuff they don't expect civilians to see.](http://vigilantcitizen.com/vigilantreport/top-10-most-sinister-psyops-mission-patches/) Thank you for that link. What infuriates me the most is that highly educated people will just brush it off.

"Yeah, those are pretty sinister. But don't be a conspiracy nutter. There are just some tough guys who want to feel important and thus pick the most badass designs for their - most certainly - entirely lawful missions." Ha. Honestly, they're reading too much into it. These patches are designed by 20-something intel guys making themselves look cool. Source: was one. It sucks that anything "illuminati" is automatically associated with mental issues. So far, I'd say the conspiracy theorists are winning with everything coming to light...I mean, who would trust our government these days? Sadly, I think you're right. Throw in the organized pedophilia, insider war contractors, internation bank scandals... I don't think there's a secret club exactly (other than Davos) but we seem to have forgotten how powerful individuals can get without checks and balances.  &gt; schizophrenics

I think you might mean [Conspiracy Theorists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illuminati). I'm sure thay are so confident that they are the good guys that they use craz/evil images as a joke. I'm sure that's also why Nazis had skulls on their hats. (Remember the Nazis thought they were the good guys that had what it takes to make the hard call.) I'm sure most guys in the NSA would be against concentration camps but where will they draw the line? The CIA already has a secret prison in Chicago.   I think it's funny that you're seeing it with your own eyes, yet you still feel the need to insult people who are awake.  People are so desperate to be part of the flock. There was also both the CARNIVORE and ECHELON programs pre 9-11 that were spying and sifting through emails. I remember there was a hacker campaign called JAM ECHELON DAY where they mailbombed emails with keywords to set it off all over the place. No word on if it actually worked or not, if it did the government wasn't saying. &gt; JAM ECHELON DAY

Ah, youth. I remember it well. It was a simpler time.  You mean adding millions of extra records to your data set every week could potentially obscure the data you are actually looking for? Shocking.
 Listening to too much is like listening to nothing. the classic needle in a haystack. To which the reasonable response is adding more hay In other words increasing the size of the haystack doesn't get you more needles. That's not quite the way it works. Not defending the massive amounts of collection, but even using some basic algorithms, like the naive Bayes classifier, you actually get better results with more data. Of course I have no idea what kind of algorithms they use, but my point is there are algorithms that fare much better, the more data you have.   There were lots of warnings, some that were very specific ,about the coming attacks. The administration ignored them..

  However gathering all the calls prevents nothing. The mass of data is far to huge to cull actionable data from. However once a terrorist act happens, the government can find out everybody they talked to in a short time. It helps build a case once you know who did it. It helps track down conspirators. But gathering enormous piles of info has little preventative value. The major problem with large scale info tracking that's designed to prevent terrorist attacks is the [False Positive Paradox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_positive_paradox). Corey Doctorow explained it really well in his book Little Brother:

&gt;If you ever decide to do something as stupid as build an automatic terrorism detector, here's a math lesson you need to learn first. It's called "the paradox of the false positive," and it's a doozy.

&gt;Say you have a new disease, called Super-AIDS. Only one in a million people gets Super-AIDS. You develop a test for Super-AIDS that's 99 percent accurate. I mean, 99 percent of the time, it gives the correct result -- true if the subject is infected, and false if the subject is healthy. You give the test to a million people.

&gt;One in a million people have Super-AIDS. One in a hundred people that you test will generate a "false positive" -- the test will say he has Super-AIDS even though he doesn't. That's what "99 percent accurate" means: one percent wrong. What's one percent of one million? 1,000,000/100 = 10,000 One in a million people has Super-AIDS. If you test a million random people, you'll probably only find one case of real Super-AIDS. But your test won't identify one person as having Super-AIDS. It will identify 10,000 people as having it. ***Your 99 percent accurate test will perform with 99.99 percent inaccuracy.***

&gt;That's the paradox of the false positive. When you try to find something really rare, your test's accuracy has to match the rarity of the thing you're looking for. If you're trying to point at a single pixel on your screen, a sharp pencil is a good pointer: the pencil-tip is a lot smaller (more accurate) than the pixels. But a pencil-tip is no good at pointing at a single atom in your screen. For that, you need a pointer -- a test -- that's one atom wide or less at the tip.

&gt;**Here is an application to terrorism:**

&gt;Terrorists are really rare. In a city of twenty million like New York, there might be one or two terrorists, maybe up to ten. 10/20,000,000 = 0.00005 percent, one twenty-thousandth of a percent. That's pretty rare. Now, say you have software that can sift through all the bank-records, or toll-pass records, or public transit records, or phone-call records in the city and catch terrorists 99 percent of the time. In a pool of twenty million people, a 99 percent accurate test will identify two hundred thousand people as being terrorists. But only ten of them are terrorists. ***To catch ten bad guys, you have to investigate two hundred thousand innocent people.*** And he goes on to say that no test for terrorism is or could ever be even close to 99% accurate, and so this effect is magnified by an order of magnitude at least. Which is all well and good -- it's correct, even, in that it's basically impossible to detect terrorists arbitrarily sprinkled throughout an innocent population by using automated tests like that, but that's not really how anyone arguing for mass surveillance will justify its use. In fact, this exact thing (or a side effect of the rarity of terrorists, anyway) was mentioned in some of the leaked XKeyscore usage guidelines: you need to be extremely specific when you query for things or it'll return a mountain of useless information.

Imagine this scenario: You've got access to a big ol' database of surveillance info. One day, a guy blows himself up in a building somewhere. Well, fuck -- you couldn't prevent that because you have no way of looking at some arbitrary person and automatically determining if they're a terrorist or not.

*But that's not what that data is for.*

Some regular old-fashioned police work gives you the identity of the guy who blew himself up. Okay, that's cool. Who spoke to him on the phone? Who texted him? Who e-mailed him? Who did he talk to on Skype? What was he doing and communicating in the days/months/years leading up to this?

If he wasn't a lone wolf, you're in the fucking money. Thanks to your database, it's a hell of a lot easier to work backwards from that guy to the people who assisted him. It's a lot easier to work backwards from each of *those* people to find all the people *they're* associated with. You can blow terrorist/spy/whatever cells wide open with a single piece of information because you can trace that thread of information back to everything and everyone associated with it.

No, you can't feasibly create an automated system that stops attacks from people you've never suspected before -- but that's not what you, the benevolent (emphasis here) user of an NSA-Brand Mass Surveillance System, are going to do to prevent attacks. You prevent attacks by working backwards from known-bad dudes to the networks and organizations they're associated with, then using the much-more-valuable information you've already collected and are constantly collecting from them to prevent them from ever being able to successfully carry out a plot in the first place. You don't need to dramatically arrest some random guy your perfect automated system picked up in the middle of NY because you killed him in an air strike six months ago.

This is all entirely ignoring the ethical/moral issues surrounding the existence of mass surveillance, of course -- those are heavy questions I'm nowhere near competent enough to answer. It's just seriously doubtful that anyone actually involved with these systems expects them to actually catch loads of people with automated methods. I see exactly what you're saying an agree with you. But what that means is systems like these will never prevent individual attacks. I just think it's important people understand these systems' limitations in their effectiveness, even apart from the moral and legal issues that surround them. Pretty much! I agree with everything you've just said. &gt; But what that means is systems like these will never prevent individual attacks.

It will never prevent *all* attacks. I am not sure that the claim that all attacks can be prevented is being made, however.  &gt;But what that means is systems like these will never prevent individual attacks.

Not quite. Dismantling an terrorist organization would surely prevent future attacks. Quantifying them is hard but I think it would be greater than zero. &gt; . You prevent attacks by working backwards from known-bad dudes to the networks and organizations they're associated with, then using the much-more-valuable information you've already collected and are constantly collecting from them to prevent them from ever being able to successfully carry out a plot in the first place. 

So this program that started in 1992 should have been able to prevent 9/11 because it could work things out based on the 1993 WTC bombing, right? Indeed, the methods of mass surveillance utilised by the NSA aren't particularly useful for stopping terrorism, because most terrorists are smart enough not to talk about their plans openly on the phone or online. They either talk about it in code, or discuss it in person. 

But the main purpose of mass surveillance, or 'Total Information Awareness' as it was originally titled by DARPA was never to stop terrorism, it was, and is, to monitor the communications of all Americans (and as many other people across the globe as possible.)

Why they want this information is a matter of speculation, but the fact that they are gathering it suggests a motive that most people aren't really willing to accept, namely that they don't trust the people to continue playing this rigged capitalist game and they want to identify threats to the status quo.

It's the same reason the Stasi hired thousands upon thousands of spies. They were scared the people would organise against the rigged communist game, and they had to find out who was actively working against the status quo so that they could isolate them.

Think of the technology we have available to us now. Voice recognition is improving constantly, and almost everyone has a smartphone on them. They don't have to record audio anymore, they can transcribe 95% of what we say anyway. And then bots can scan what we say to each other, supposedly in private, and create a profile of what you are talking about in your day to day life. 

So sure, they can't test for whether someone is a terrorist, but that's not what this is all about. They are testing to see if *you* are a threat to the status quo.  &gt; So sure, they can't test for whether someone is a terrorist, but that's not what this is all about. They are testing to see if you are a threat to the status quo.

This doesn't make sense, if they can't build a terrorist detecting system, they sure can't build a "threat to the status quo" detecting system either, assuming that there are about as many "threats to the status quo" as terrorists. Even if these "threats to the status quo" are much more common, say 1/1000, you would need a system to detect them that is 99.9% accurate, which is still impossible. Not if you don't care about false positives. The difference between a terrorist and a dissident is that the terrorist conceals his plans and the dissident is quite open about them. If you're on reddit talking about how you disapprove of the NSA surveillance, you're already in the minority. You're already a matter of concern. It's that easy. Accuracy can be confirmed by a quick glance at your reddit history.

 To add another layer there is also the false negative Yes!  I was waiting for him to get into that but it never came.  Even in that example of super-AIDs, there is still a chance that the one person with super-AIDs out of those million tested didn't even make the list of the 10,000 who were identified as potentially having it.   And what's even better: unlike Super-AIDS, the terrorists are actively trying to be a false negative. The scary thing is the apathetic people who might say "Well it's worth it if you can still catch the terrorists." However, what they may fail to notice is that the chance of being labelled guilty, if you're innocent, is exponentially higher than labelling an actual terrorist guilty.  &gt; However, what they may fail to notice is that the chance of being labelled guilty, if you're innocent, is exponentially higher than labelling an actual terrorist guilty. 

These are the same people that play the lottery and are *sure* they're going to win any day now. Numbers aren't really their strong suit. Not only that, the number of people labeled a potential terrorist is also magnitudes of order higher than the number of people *actually harmed by terrorists*. Why are you talking about numbers when there are ***terrorists*** on the loose.

Are you one of them? Do you speak Arabic???  I hear he uses Arabic numerals! You make reddit a better place. Dropping knowledge bombs on us...

...and now I'm one in two hundred thousand. &gt; If you're trying to point at a single pixel on your screen, a sharp pencil is a good pointer: the pencil-tip is a lot smaller (more accurate) than the pixels.

Published 2008 &gt;In a pool of twenty million people, a 99 percent accurate test will identify two hundred thousand people as being terrorists. But only ten of them are terrorists. To catch ten bad guys, you have to investigate two hundred thousand innocent people.

Combined with torture, you get 10,000 admitted terrorists out of 10. **TL;DR: If a test gives false positives, when tested on a large group, it will give many false positives.** False positives = innocent people labeled as terrorists, in this case. Exactly...and they know this. The real reason for the mass intelligence dragnet is to suppress and control dissent, and manipulate foreign trade policy. Why not give the people who tested positive for super AIDS the test two or three times. If they all test positive every time, then that particular test isn't finding super aids, it's finding something correlated with super aids. 

If the results are "Not all the people that test positive have super aids, but all the people with super aids test positive.", then your test isn't really finding super aids it's finding some third party variable with close to a +1 correlation with super aids.


*Quick Edit* - I'm not advocating overreaching, dragnet communication monitoring, I'm just asking a question.  That example was just to set the tone for the terrorist example. You can't rerun the test with a terrorist and you only have a set amount of data to run the test on. 

Everything you said is still right though, when looking at it from the Super AIDS point of view &gt; Why not give the people who tested positive for super AIDS the test two or three times. If they all test positive every time, then that particular test isn't finding super aids, it's finding something correlated with super aids.

Because the input will not change. With biological tests, the thing that makes it not accurate can be something like human error. Giving the terrorism-detecting-algorithm the exact same input will always produce the same output no matter how many times you run it. This is the biggest part people miss. Good question. To add to /u/ijjimilan's response, Super AIDS is black and white. You either have it or you don't. So you could run a test and narrow down possible suspects, and then run another different test to narrow it further.

"Terrorist" is such a complex thing to weed out. It may eventually be black and white for a given individual, but not until they perform an actual terrorist attack. It's not a hard science like detecting a virus. And there would never be a test that was even close to 99% accurate unless they could actually read your mind and predict the future.  Project [Able Danger](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Able_Danger) was by far the biggest intelligence lapse related to 9/11.  Able Danger was a Pentagon data mining project.  To this day, the only sources regarding Able Danger were the military officers involved in the program, who claim the Pentagon knew Mohammed Atta and other future 9/11 terrorists were in the United States, and affiliated with Al Qaeda.  They knew that they met regularly in New York and Florida, and they called it the Brooklyn Cell.  These officers desperately wanted to warn the FBI, but Pentagon lawyers refused, probably because this project was illegal, and combed the credit card records of ordinary Americans.  

Shortly before the Congressional investigation into the 9/11 attacks, the Pentagon publicly announced that that their internal review revealed that the project violated the rights of American citizens, and to protect these citizens, all **2.5 petabytes** of data related to the project would be erased.  Congress subsequently made the No-Duh conclusion that they could find no records related to Able Danger.     The 911Timeline showed how many nations warned the US and were specific about planes and buildings. There were also articles in newspapers about the potential attacks. The Bush people failed miserably. And of course Bush received the memo in his daily briefing a month before 9/11: "Al Qaeda determined to hijack planes in the United States"

To be fair though, a hijacking wasn't as big a deal back then.  The plane sits around on a runway, a few people get shot on the hour, swat teams storm the plane and shoot the hijackers, and the president gets to act tough, resolute, and presidential. 

Colleen (not Katherine) Rowley of the FBI, on the other hand was desperately trying to warn people that one of the would-be hijackers was paying for flying lessons, and insisted to his instructors that he didn't need to know how to take off or land.  These instructors quickly reported him.  

A surveillance state wasn't necessary to prevent 9/11, existing systems with more competent bureaucrats, plus locks on cockpit doors, were ample security measures to defeat box cutters. 
 &gt;A surveillance state wasn't necessary to prevent 9/11

It's still not necessary. I swear people like you look at conversations like jigsaw puzzles. You find a piece that looks like it fits and then jam it in without ever even checking if its of any use.  And yet look at the masses up voting him because of his comment despite it not really being relevant at all. He didn't say it was, that's not even relevant in the context of this comment thread. Don't forget James Woods: 

&gt;One of the practice flights may have occurred in August. Actor James Woods was so shaken by a flight he took from Boston to Los Angeles about a month before the attacks that he told an attendant and authorities of his suspicions when he landed. Woods was in first-class and the only other passengers in the section were four men who appeared to be Middle Eastern in origin. 

&gt;During the entire six-hour flight, Woods noticed the men neither ate nor drank. They talked to each other in whispers and did not read or sleep. On Sept. 12, Woods called the FBI to tell investigators about his experience. He was interviewed by agents on Sept. 13. Woods's spokesman told Reuters the actor thought it "prudent not to comment on this and let the FBI continue to do their job, which they seem to be doing superbly right now."
Whether the four airline passengers reported by Woods were in fact determined to have been connected to the 9/11 attacks is something that, as far as we know, the FBI has not disclosed. But Woods himself said (in the video clip embedded above) that he identified two of the men he saw as hijackers who took part in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and that he "unofficially" heard through other sources that all four men he observed were indeed involved with the airline hijackings on 11 September 2001.

http://www.snopes.com/rumors/woods.asp#HwWIcXPlo0vlxmdR.99 *Colleen* Rowley 

 No, the Intelligence Community failed. The Bush administration is the policymakers, while they may receive some information, it largely comes through the Intelligence Community. The 9/11 Commission report roughly said that the information was known about, it's just the different agencies were not working together, therefore the true extent of the threat was not known. The presidency is the executive branch not the legislative branch. I know. There was a report done after named the 9/11 Commission Report which looked at many of these matters. Don't you guys have like 17 different intelligence agencies? What's the justification not to consolidate them? (I kinda said the same thing below, but I figured I'd reply to you as well)

It's partially because of what each agency does, there are a lot of agencies, but each one has different customers it serves and roles they serve. They often work in conjunction with each other, but each one wants to protect it's own resources and support. 

Quick summary, 2 agencies that seem to be very similar to each other. CIA and DIA (Defense Intelligence Agency)

Both are involved in HUMINT (Human Intelligence) however, the way they approach human intelligence is different, and who each one serves is different as well. The CIA tends to be the go to source for policymakers for making decisions, the information they provide can have military intelligence, but it is usually concerned about long term estimates. (ex. Number of bombers the Soviet Union can produce). 

The DIA, which is also concerned about military matters looks at similar information for their consumers: the U.S. Military. But since they are serving different consumers, the information they provide differs. The DIA serves more as a Combat Support Agency, providing intelligence that is helpful to warfighters and military commanders in the short term. This type of intelligence is not as helpful to policymakers who are looking at strategic, long term objectives.  

That's a brief version of it. I'm pretty sure I've got most of my facts straight, but I'm doing this from memory. If you have any more questions I can try to answer (I'm taking a class right now on the U.S. Intelligence Community, so I know more than most. :) )  &gt; There were also articles in newspapers about the potential attacks

Do you have any links to these articles?

(I'll hold my breath) Preventative law enforcement of this kind has little value in most cases.  Well unless you have an actual person sitting on the other line listening in to every single international conversation as it's happening, this is going to be the best you can get in most cases. Don't give them ideas man. Good news everyone!

Obama's jobs bill is in the can! I'm sorry, I believe you've misspelled "Frank Underwood". Shut up. We hate Frank Underwood. Didn't you watch season 3? ... And didn't you see that kindly rib chef getting a job? That's the America I voted for. ...And then losing it. ...And getting another job because he knows someone important. America Works! "Voted for" They already have algorithms which pick up and flag keywords.

They're now trying to figure out how to detect sarcasm.


 That sounds like a good idea. _It_ does, _doesn't_ it? I kept reading this sarcasm detector comments and thought it was, well, sarcastic.  but lo, tis true! http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950705114002226 Nah that's the old way of doing it, think cold war east Germany style. I'm pretty sure the level of automated analysis is pretty high today. Also the NSA seems to follow the strategy of trying to collect everything first and worrying about if it is usable later.  I forget who said it, but someone suggested that the Stasi would have loved to have had today's information and communications technologies. And with Facebook, people would do plenty of the work for them. Soon, you'll be able to put Watson in between every call, and that's when shit will really start getting scary. Lol you really believe they don't at least have a prototype of that already?  There's no evidence. But as we've learned, if the can do something, they're doing it. So yes, I do believe they are doing that. 

In fact (get your tinfoil hat out), it wouldn't surprise me if the Facebook App that is always listening isn't doing this already. Sure, they admit they listen to which songs you're listening to, or which movies you're watching and then use that to try and sell you the movies/music. But why wouldn't they listen to everything? Wouldn't surprise me if the "always on" Siri doesn't do this al well.

What did you think of that political debate on tv today? What don't you like about Hillary, and what could she do to make you like her more? Are you considering a medical procedure? Are you having marital problems? How often do you fuck your wife? Are you having an affair? Are you considering having a child? Are you suffering from depression? Are you thinking about buying a car? Do you think the Apple watch is stupid?

All these questions can be answered by a computer that always listens, and the value of the collective opinions is priceless from a political, economic and social point of view. I wish more people grasped the scope of power government/companies have with the technology that exists today, and technology that will exist in the near future.

Some people don't seem to understand the power of information which is collected en masse, and only seem to understand and disregard when 'facebook knows what movies I like' ( which seems trivial, but it really isn't ) Yeah I agree. It isn't trivial at all. What's worse, is that the people who don't care vastly outnumber the people that aren't even aware this is happening. The Xbox one debacle had this red flag all over it.

Snowden leak drops. One week later Xbox one reveal. Kinect is always on, you cannot buy an Xbox without it, you cannot unplug the kinect and your xbox continue to function. They said it didn't listen to everything, except there is no way for that to be true because it must at least listen to everything going on in the room and analyze what is being said to determine whether that thing that was said was "Xbox turn on". There was a shit storm and the Microsoft leadership said there was no way to separate the two devices because the kinect was rooted so deep. Then after a week of Sony kicking the shit out of them they relented on certain parts so as to enable decoupling. Proving themselves liars.


I was a little disappointed because most people talking about it on reddit were congratulating Microsoft for listening to their customers. When really the exact same mother fuckers are in charge now as before. They still want to listen to your living rooms and sell that data. They just weren't allowed to do it this time. (let's be honest, they almost certainly still are, just now they are pretending not to.) Yeah, and the thing with all these things (Xbox, Facebook, Siri) is that the speech recognition happens on their servers, not locally, so you have no clue what they do with it afterwards. Your phone might send an audio clip and the server might respond "this isn't a command", but you don't know what they heard, what they understood and what they stored.

The xbox thing really reminds me of the 1984 telescreens. Xbox speech recognition is local. Well if you have a Samsung Smart TV it's listening anyway. As well as OnStar in your car. Not sure why Downvotes. This is literally what Ed is warning us that the NSA is doing. [deleted] &gt; best case scenario it will make it easier afterwards to figure out who did it.

and usually result in an increase in power. &gt;best case scenario it will make it easier afterwards to figure out who did it.

Best case scenario, it will be a lot easier to destroy whoever it is we've already decided are guilty. &gt; There were lots of warnings, some that were very specific ,about the coming attacks. The administration ignored them..

As the 9/11 report documented, intelligence-gathering powers of the government had nothing to do with missing the attacks. Idiotic inter-departmental turf wars had everything to do with it. The clusterfuck of an agency that is Homeland Security hasn't improved the situation at all. 

Expanding intelligence-gathering powers HURTS the ability of the agencies to sort through relevant information and share/utilize it to save lives. But everyone is more concerned about their little headcount fiefdoms and avoiding cuts. &gt; However once a terrorist act happens, the government can find out everybody they talked to in a short time. It helps build a case once you know who did it.

And that went... well. Relevant: [What going back to the 90s would actually be like](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TGj227OVKY) Shhh... No, terrorist passports just fly out like that and end up being found by cops It might,  though,  going forward.  As automated transcription technology gets better and there are advances in machine learning,  it will be possible to maybe analyze every call and flag a small portion for human attention.  Not saying we should necessary do this,  but just that "it wasn't effective to stop 9/11" isn't the right argument.  Probably had nothing to do with the Bush Administration tossing every scrap of Clinton-era intelligence onto the trash heap on day 1, right?

Including showing [John P. O'Neill](http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2002/01/14/the-counter-terrorist) the door when he came with dire warnings of impending terrorist activity based on his tracking of those calls, among other things.

Heckuva job there, Condi. Don't forget that [Richard Clarke](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_A._Clarke), the whitehouse counter-terrorism czar, had repeatedly warned Bush of impending attacks for the 9 months prior to 9/11.  The administration's response?  To restructure the office so that the president no longer had to read those warnings.  After that, every single warning was routed back to Clarke's office, unread.

After 9/11, they threw the poor guy under the bus. Bill Clinton had a great interview with Fox News over Richard Clarke and the 9/11. If people haven't seen this old interview, they should.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7DI7u-TytRU

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3L2513JFJsY Wow. Thank you. Yeah, I wish more people would see this. There's something great about watching an ex-President no longer hold back and say everything he did (including some stuff he didn't succeed in) and to completely destroy a interviewer that was trying to play politics with the facts.   Not to mention Bill is the fuckin' man.  God I would hate to debate with Clinton. His mind runs too fast. Especially after our two most recent presidents, it really emphasizes how quick he is. Obama is slow, measured, thoughtful; Bush is so ingrained with folksy "aw shucks" character that it's tough to say how smart he actually is. Exactly! Don't get me wrong Obama is smart as hell but he doesn't have that Quad Core processor up there determining the proper words to say while he speaks. Bill does it like its a natural conversation. &gt; Especially after our two most recent presidents, it really emphasizes how quick he is. 

It depends on what the meaning of the word 'is' is. Damn that was a solid interview.  It's almost as if they wanted an attack to happen- Something something steel beams Wanting an attack to happen and orchestrating an attack are wildly different things Which one is a conspiracy? Both are conspiracies. Even the official version involves a conspiracy. I don't know?       

So many people on here believe so many different things about 9/11 and have such vitriol for each other... At this point my stance is "I have no idea what actually happened and don't feel I have enough information to make an educated guess." That's how I feel about most things that are happening in the news ( ) Good news - you're an intelligent individual. One is a flat-out conspiracy, the other leans more towards intentional neglect. Allow an attack to happen, and you've got the perfect excuse to war some country out of their oil. They did the same thing with Pearl Harbor. They allowed it to happen, despite being warned of the attack by Australia days before. Perfect way to gain the support of the public to go to war. 

 There are politically expedient reasons to allow an attack to happen for a rancorously elected president.  This is not the same as orchestration.  But there have never been penalties to political figures for failing to defend their people against a small scale incursion, (people rally around their shared identity; they don't attack their leaders for incompetence) so why not rest on your laurels and not have to worry about re-election?  We can't be espousing free market ideology and discounting the effect of incentives with the same mind.





I'm not saying that this is how it happened, but I'm not closed off to the possibility that the entitled fuckup son of a relatively shady ex-president would trade on the low scale cost of his countryman's lives for political expediency.  It's a heavy accusation, but it may very well be a part of our shared reality.  It also helps cleanly explain the seemingly willful avoidance of warnings and ignoble double standard applied to saudi royalty flying out of the country during a flight blackout.   Unread by the President doesn't mean unread by everyone. The chain of command was put in place and documents then had to go through a few more people to get to POTUS, but they would still have been read by the National Security Advisor who reported directly to him. My point is that the blame isn't in ignorance of Clarke's reports, it's that they weren't deemed serious enough to refocus National Security efforts. Don't forget that Clinton had plans for retaliation against the strike on the U.S.S. Cole, which would have been a direct attack against the leadership against Al Quaeda.  

Clinton rightfully did not want to have Bush take office in the middle of an engaged military action, so he left it for Bush to handle.  Bush threw it out because *Clinton* Can you source the bush administration throwing out the previous administrations intel data? [It's pretty common knowledge.](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/11/opinion/the-bush-white-house-was-deaf-to-9-11-warnings.html) Thank you. I didn't doubt you. Just wanted a source  Great that's it's common knowledge to you, but I'd also imagine old wives tails are common knowledge to some too.

Nothing wrong asking for clarification and facts. I know nothing of wives with tails... Could you source this?

How do they wear pants? I can't imagine how hard it must be to stop this stuff. If some friends and I decided we were going to pull a terrorist attack and just agreed to plan everything in person, how would anyone catch us. They wouldn't.  Nearly every single 'thwarted attack' by the FBI [has been orchestrated by the FBI themselves.](http://rt.com/usa/fbi-terror-report-plot-365-899/)  If you dig into the thwarted attacks you will always find that an FBI agent or an FBI informant made the first contact with the 'terrorist' and provided all the materials and plans needed to execute the attack with the intention of swooping in and stopping it before it happens all to justify their budgets and further survelaince post 9/11.  Hell the latest "thwarted attack" was two NY women who tried to [build bombs using The Anarchists Cookbook.](http://benswann.com/senator-feinstein-pushes-for-the-anarchist-cookbook-to-be-banned-from-the-internet/)  In response to this, Senator Feinstein proposed banning the book from the internet.  A book that was not downloaded from the internet but was instead provided by the FBI themselves.  These are the tactics the government uses to try and slowly remove our rights piece by piece in the name of "national security." Yes, the FBI had Carnivore - it was pretty much public info... And before that it was [Echelon](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECHELON) and back then when we complained about it we were called conspiracy theorists and told to shut up. It's crazy to think about where we're at. We've come so far without a substantial amount of people being bothered at all.

Like the frog who doesn't notice when the water he sits in slowly begins to boil.

&gt; Everything's fine. Don't forget about [COINTELPRO](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COINTELPRO) and all the people who bought a back door with the same technology. 

Edit: See also, PROMIS.  It's common knowledge that there were literally dozens of ways the attacks could have been prevented/mitigated.

The 9/11 commission report details pretty much all of them I find it funny that no one ever mentions the Anthrax attacks. The investigations all stopped dead soon as they realised it was US people, with US motives, using US Anthrax, from US labs. And the news stopped reporting on it. Because it has never been about protecting the people, it has been about protecting interests and control Imagine the power you could have if you knew your opponents every thought! This good especially for government contractors and politics.
 And possible leverage against most citizens of the western world? ECHELON ain't nothing new... i remember my granddad talking about this in the early or mid nineties, and thinking holy crap thats insane, no way thats happening!

turns out, not so crazy.   It was happening way before the 90's too and how many people have been labeled a "conspiritards" over things like this?  Lots.  Sometimes, conspiracies are true and maybe as a society, we shouldn't be so quick to just automatically dismiss such things.

Be skeptical and ask questions, gather information sure, but to just outright dismiss something because you assume that all people in government are good people, with good intentions and that even if there were bad people, they'd get discovered and sent packing, is frankly the delusional mind state of an overly trusting child. But they just cared about the war on drugs not the war on terror.  Their cause is so much more just and noble ;-p You can't have a war on a concept. Fighting terrosits never works. It's about control over the masses and money. or just simply profiting off of the military complex The intent of the program was never, and never will be to stop terrorists. The purposes of these programs is total informational awareness.  People say 9/11 changed a lot of stuff, but to be honest, looking at the way technology has progressed i have a feeling shit like the patriot act and unwarranted surveillance and increased security measures would have been passed through regardless.

"for the children" , "to prevent drug dealers" , "chinsese/russian/northkorean hackers" whatever label you want to use to make people scared. These people have got to be crazy if they think the government was going to allow a global communications network to sprout up out of nowhere and just let the traffic on it be free-range and unanalyzed.  "Fun" fact: the "USA PATRIOT Act" has very little to do with 9/11 and *wasn't* written in about two weeks as a direct response to the alledged attacks. [deleted] This was by the DEA to fight Columbian cartels trafficking drugs, not the NSA. (Although DEA Agents briefed NSA officials on the particulars of the program, they denied NSA and FBI agents access to the database of calls) Silly, it is about control, not security. Inside job.   The sad part is, when you really look at how dramatically we've expanded the powers of the government after 9/11 you have to seriously question if they have any reason to stop attacks. This has been going on for far longer than that and has been public knowledge the whole time. I remember watching news stories and documentaries about [ECHELON](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECHELON) as a kid back in the 1980s. Same five eyes players, same game plan.   Turns out all those crazy conspiracy theorists weren't making shit up. Makes me wonder what else they've been correct about...

 You know what else didn't stop the attack?  Steel beams. This is part of the bullshit that is the law enforcement mentality.

We had plenty of warnings pre-9/11 that were ignored because the Bush administration wanted to invade Iraq, not give credibility to the Clinton Administration predator strikes on Bin Laden. ( He was wagging the dog to avoid stories about blowjobs we were told. I wish I could find a taped copy of rush Limbaugh making fun of Clinton for trying to kill Bin Laden in 1999.  )

A flight school in Arizona called up the FBI and told them that a guy with a Middle Eastern name was attempting  to take flight classes to fly passenger jets and was not interested in learning to take off or land the planes. This man was to be the 20th of the 911 hijackers.

We had reports that Al Quida was planning to use passenger jets in suicide attacks.

On May 1 the CIA said that a terrorist group in the U.S. was planning an attack.

On June 22 it warned that this attack was "imminent."

On June 29 the brief warned of near-term attacks with "dramatic consequences" including major casualties.

On July 1, the briefing said that the terrorist attack had been delayed but "will occur soon."

At a July 5, 2001, White House gathering of the FAA, the Coast Guard, the FBI, Secret Service and INS, Clarke stated that "something really spectacular is going to happen here, and it's going to happen soon."


On July 24, the president was told again that the attack had been delayed but would occur within months. 

These and other similar warnings were ignored by the White House.

We didn't need more data.


 This makes you think.. Did they know?  Of course they knew.  Waterboard Cheneys phone do it now doesn't everyone know by now that 9/11 was an inside job?  Jet fuel can't melt steel beams. Or passports  Must be a WTC construction conspiracy then, they clearly didn't use real steel beams.  Neither can office fires.  Thermite can! [The fact that our intelligence agencies told Dubya that OBL was planning on attacking the U.S.](http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/10/us/august-01-brief-is-said-to-warn-of-attack-plans.html), probably with an airplane, about a month before 9/11, didn't stop the attack either. Can you imagine the collection of garbage meta data piling up. I wonder where they stored all those phone bill statements? One of many:

http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2013/06/07/article-2337420-1A3017AE000005DC-343_634x395.jpg I love how people assume that the government never tracked before good Internet speeds n cell phones.  I could have told you that. I dated a girl whose uncle has been doing it since the late 80's. All those college students they busted for weed and yet 9/11 still happened! Sacrificing freedom and liberty never made anyone safer. Its easier to manipulate the market and control businesses if you know everything they are doing/talking about. And have their dirty secrets to use against them. Simple really. Extortion and exploitation.   Wait so mass surveillance didn't stop the terrorists? So what's the point of it then, just to spy on us. I was under the impression that we have yet to stop a *single* terrorist plot (other than the ones we intentionally create for the purpose of stopping).  I know that a few terrorists have been stopped  by the people around them as they are in the act (like the shoe bomber, etc), but I think that's the extent of what we've accomplished.  I may have old data, though, have any of these program actually been successful even once yet? Apparently - from what I've learned here on reddit - they were concentrating on dick pics; so there is that.......... That's because their intention wasn't to stop it.  Over a decade of NSA spying with Uncle Sam's hairy fists up our asses didn't protect us from the Boston marathon bombing either. If you take all the money that has been pumped into the NSA  since 9/11, and divided it by the number of  plots they themselves claim to have thwarted, it works out to about $10 billion per.   A new high in the levels at government inefficacy. Oh?

"Bin Ladin Determined To Strike in US" was the President's Daily Brief prepared by the Central Intelligence Agency and given to U.S. President George W. Bush on Monday, August 6, 2001. The brief warned of terrorism threats from Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda 36 days before the September 11, 2001 attacks.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bin_Ladin_Determined_To_Strike_in_US

 Nearly a decade????  Come on now, you can't be that gullible we've been doing it since the beginning.    Wait, wait... hold on. Did you mean they did not stop the 9/11 and Boston Bombing? Like the NSA claimed "they've stopped dozens of attack"?

...

**GASP** Does anyone remember Project Carnivore? Correct. In 1992 a director of the PRISM program for the NSA publicly leaked information to the press to try and force them to use more effective measures that do a better job of analyzing the data. 

Before computers it was a national expenditure to open, read, and take note of important written correspondence before re-sealing and delivering mail. If countries can afford the manpower to do that you can bet they can afford computers to skim data for keywords.

Spying isn't new. It isn't exclusive to the US. Stopping the NSA doesn't stop spying. How on earth can that much data be sifted through? Unless they know pretty much exactly who is going to do what and those people clearly state their plans Bond villain style then about the only value this is going to provide is something forensic that allows for great after disaster reports.

I suspect that all the calls back and fourth might show huge networks of people but what is the difference between a network that a potential bad guy has with his bad guy friends and the network he has with coworkers, neighbours, Ping Pong players, etc?

I generally get along with most of my neighbours and eventually we exchange numbers so that we can contact each other in semi-emergencies such as 4am lockouts. I am in a neighbourhood of various Islamic ethnics. Thus if any one of them has a cousin or whatnot who turns up to be up to no good, I will be on more than one node of their network of contacts. Do I then get no-fly'd?

To me this is all old school policework. You watch for the most blatant of crimes and wait for people to rat out their buddies. But when you do get a good lead, you follow it. This might involve wiretaps, searches, and whatnot but if the lead is good any judge will give his blessing. But if it is just a fishing expedition then the lead must suck and this is just bad policework.

So what these crazy laws and violations are all about is bad policework. A great example would be prisons. Generally all their communications are 100% available for monitoring. This is a high concentration of a small group of criminals. Yet all kinds of communications result in all kinds of crimes involving the prison and things outside the prison. 

So if the police can't even stop the criminals when they have no privacy, no real rights, and have been concentrated into a very restrictive location and environment; what hope in hell do they have when none of these conditions aren't available? Even if they are able to completely eliminate our privacy to the point where they are allowed to randomly search our homes the example of prison shows that this will not stop terrorism any more than it stops prison crimes.

My personal paranoid view of why they want these laws is not to prevent terrorism in the first place but to go after people who pose a threat to the status quo. Today's Martin Luther Kings. People who propose reforming Wall Street. Politicians who propose reforming the NSA. These are the threats that they want to go after. I think that most of them know that a few guys plotting mayhem in some desert somewhere are basically way outside their ability to thwart unless they are given explicit directions as to who and where which basically means that traditional techniques are closing in anyway. 
 IP-Address just says where something was happening, not who was actually doing it.

If my car was part of a crime, but they only had my license plate that doesn't prove I was driving the car at the time. Lawyer in Florida argued that in court over the cameras that ticket you via mail when you run a red light. He took it to court and told them to prove he was behind the wheel. Got it thrown out. Traffic laws in NY say that if your car was not reported stolen and you can't prove it wasn't you driving the vehicle, you're responsible.  Bastards Really doesn't make sense when you stop to think that people borrow others' cars all the time. Or drive their drunk friends car so the drunk friend doesn't have to.

The cameras are relatively pointless. $urely there mu$t be $ome $ort of point to them.  I gue$$ it'll have to remain a my$tery. why do i read thi$ with a li$p??? Don't know, you should be reading it with a Perl. You clever bastard. I don't get it. Lisp and Perl are programming languages. they're talking about perl the programing language. Also, nobody has mentioned, the joke is particularly apt because Perl is renowned for its use of the dollar sign for variable names. Instructions unclear. Got a segfault Instructions unclear, wrecked my Segway. Do you want to have to throw in unnecessary greps?

Because this is how you end up throwing in unnecessary greps. I "C" what you did there My python is still reading it with a lisp. I C++ what you did there. Weirdly enough, my first instinct was to read it in Billy Quizboy's voice O.o
 is that not a lisp?
 It's a lateral lisp, which is not what people usually think of as the "classic" lisp.  So, yes and no. ah, i understand. thank you Like sloth from Ice Age? "I wanna go back into my sack..." I think you're $upposed to make a loud "CHA-CHING" noi$e when you read it.  Our state resolved it by not putting points on your license as they can't prove it is you but stating you are still responsible for the fine and who pays is up to you to resolve.  So basically they said "we won't take any points, because this isn't really about driving safely. We really just want the money"  I once got a ticket for running a yellow(from a real actual cop), partially because it was raining and I couldn't stop in time (bad tires), the ticket* cost as much as I had just finally saved up for new tires. 

Guess who kept driving on worn out barely legal tires for a couple more months?

*EDIT Forgot, not a red light ticket, it was an "impeding traffic" ticket that's not a moving violation.   It is a pain, it's like fines for defects. If you couldn't afford to fix it then, how can you afford to fix it after a ~$300 fine and the subsequent time and money spent getting it through Regency (road-worthiness inspection).

But if there were no repercussions then people just wouldn't fix dangerous shit, like tires. Many people just don't care, you already see people driving on the wire even when the fines are huge here.

Now, a ~$300 fine and re-inspection costs because my battery cable wasn't "Secured every 10cm along the length of the cable" was stupid. I could have fixed it with the zip tie in my glove box there and then, and it was perfectly taut between the secure points, so it was no danger. My father used to be really big on the fuck tickets approach because of the size of the fine. Back when something like a speeding ticket was $25, sure give people tickets. Now you are likely taking food off someone's table, so he pushed his men that presence was more important than giving a ticket unless the guy was being an ass. The 100 cars that pass you having someone pulled over does more good than making the guy pulled over pay $300, and a lot of times the being pulled over is a wake up call to ensure you scrap things together to get the needed fix done so you are *safe* on the roadway.  that seems reasonable. My brother let his friend borrow his truck to move a few states over. About a month later he got about $400 in fines and backcharges for not paying tolls in three states. The guy thought he had one of those automatic toll pay things, but it was his GPS... Even if he had one ... you still have to pay the bill But you'd get a bill, or you'd have already paid for it. I imagine if his friend borrowed his truck to move and a bill showed up for tolls, the guy would have paid it. They automatically run your credit card, and you wouldn't get fees for nonpayment. Pointless?  The companies that install those things make major bank off of them.  And the city gets some money, too.  The city gets a surprisingly small cut of the pie. As low as 15%.  But they look at it as free money (the red light cam company takes care of everything). Not here in Edmonton. There was an article in the paper this morning about huge cost overruns for the program. 15% of revenue before expense is relatively high. Many businesses don't make 15% net profit. Obviously here they probably make much more I'm just pointing out 15% isn't a small piece of the pie. 

Plus you're right it's free money considering the main point is to change behaviour and reduce accidents.  Red light cameras increase (minor) accidents, do nothing for major ones, and likely don't change behavior a whit. Their purpose is to make money.  [The Highway Safety Research Center disagrees with you.](http://www.hsrc.unc.edu/safety_info/traffic_operations/red_light_cameras.cfm) they claim that rear end collisions go up by 15%, right angle (t-bone) collisions are reduced by 25%, and red-light violations are also reduced (by 70% in Charlotte NC in the first year). Huh. First time I've heard those numbers. Worth looking in to. Thanks.  Wasn't the study that showed that also in a state or city that had their amber lights set to only run for 1 second before going red? That sort of shit is going to cause accidents with or without camera's. My city has really absurdly short yellow light durations and it definitely leads to people locking their breaks up unnecessarily. Whereas they could have traveled through the yellow light safely &amp; without fear of running a red. I mirror your sentiments exactly. It's simple. Make a profit,  then increase the tickets amount by 15%  So what we are proving is that the gov needs more eyes in the skies?
 They got their eyes on my pies and it's no surprise easiest way to tell someone is drunk in Pennsylvania is if they're doing the speed limit, easiest way to tell if they're old in Pennsylvania is if they're doing 5 miles under the speed limit Easiest way to tell if a Pennsylvanian is drunk is if they aren't swerving to avoid the pot holes. Fucking penndot. Which category are they if they are hogging the left lane on the turnpike/476/80?  So I may or may not have received speed camera tickets. In more than one state.

On every ticket it says if this is not you in the picture, tell us who it is and we will send them the ticket.

If someone borrowed your car and you don't know who it is, that's usually called stealing. And it should be reported. How would that fall under the category of being unable to prove you weren't driving the car? If you friend borrows your car and gets a ticket but refuses to pay then it's your friend that's the arsehole not the law!! What?! I live in WA and it's the opposite here. You just tell them it wasn't you and they drop the ticket immediately. No proof necessary. In Iowa, camera tickets are classified as non-moving violations so they don't care who was driving. The owner is responsible. Same in Florida. If a redlight camera catches your car, it will mail you a letter with 2 pictures of your car ... what they mail you isn't even a ticket, they just send a letter stating that you need to send them a check for $215 or go to their website (for a private company, not a government site) and pay with a credit card. If you contest it, or don't pay within 30 days THEN they have a "court appointed officer" review it and write a citation for the same fine + court costs. You can then pay that OR go to court. At the time my father had to deal with getting one, they judges in his county were automatically throwing them out so he elected a court date and paid nothing. He had received one for running a redlight, and it was clearly his car in the pictures, on their website you could watch a video of it and I saw that it was triggered when he came to a complete stop before making a right on red, but happened to stop about halfway over the line. It really irked me that some company cuts the state in and has carte blanche to send threatening letters to people demanding payment or they will turn the matter over to authorities. If you think that's bad, in some jurisdictions district attorney's offices are letting debt collectors [license their official letterhead](http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/16/business/in-prosecutors-debt-collectors-find-a-partner.html?hp&amp;_r=0). 

If Joe's Collection Agency wants to buy my ten year-old Capital One debt and harass me with phone calls and letters that's their right (within the limits of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act). But if Joe's has a letterhead licensing agreement with my local DA's office, they can send me a letter with my county's official seal and the DA's office info on top... even though it's 7 years too late for anyone to take legal action against me for the debt (here in NC; your state may differ).  "Look here, see the car is clearly not moving in this picture." " It is clearly  not moving about 20 mph to fast"  Ah, yes.  The Shaggy defense. "Picture this we were both buck naked driving on down the road." Which is how it should be. I don't think our process typically supports the "prove your innocence" tact.  Legal mumbo jumbo dictates that because some of these things are "Civil infractions" they don't need to give you the same rights and they have non of the obligations of a regular court. That's why it's so hard to get out of parking tickets. What's the point of having the cameras then?  Couldn't everyone just say they weren't driving the car? Most places I've lived hold the owner responsible unless you can name who else was driving in a specific document. Most shore a photo with the driver visible too. In Oregon you can show them your DL to prove it wasn't you driving, but they cannot compel you to identify the person who was driving. Unless, I believe, if it is a vehicle registered to a business.  Same thing with Manitoba, only you don't lose any points on your license, you're just on the hook for the fine. In Montreal if you contest, you can usually not lose any points but you still have to pay the fine. You're then responsible for collecting whoever owes you money. 

To clarify in case points aren't universal, in Quebec you have 15 demerit points and you accrue* points based on the offence you committed. If you lose them all, you lose your license. You can buy back your points after 2 years so you're actually fined twice. 

Edit: thanks /u/PM_ME_YOUR_SUNSETS for pointing out you don't lose demerit points.  Guilty until proven innocent. Perfect. In Germany they always take and send a photo of the driver driving the vehicle at the time. Whether its speeding, too little distance or a red light. wear ski mask while driving -\&gt; profit There was a great story of a guy who wore a monkey mask every day driving to work. They had dozens of photos of him driving through red lights and speeding, and every time he'd say "Not me! I don't know who is wearing the monkey mask."

So one day they waited for him to go through the light, pulled him over, and he wound up convicted of all the other times he was wearing the monkey mask too. 

http://www.loweringthebar.net/2009/09/monkey-mask-fails-to-defeat-traffic-camera.html My friend got a stop light ticket mailed to him once.  They even attached the picture.  Crazy thing is his car was on the back of a tow truck.  It got dismissed pretty quickly. In Colorado you can use those automated tickets as toilet paper if you want. State law requires a police officer to serve you a citation in order for it to be enforceable.   This is why most places don't count it as a moving violation and instead as a civil fine, iirc. [deleted] I am really shocked by these cameras that don't need your face.  There laws in some countries, that owner of the car gets the ticked, because he is responsible for who he gives his car, and he can then deal with the person who was driving.  My history teacher did the same for a VA ticket his son got while driving his car. He won In Alberta, Canada.

Here, the tickets from cameras are treated much the same as parking tickets. Registered owner is deemed responsible for their vehicle and it's operation. "I wasn't driving" is met with "so make whoever was driving pay you the cost of the ticket". Law in Europe is a bit different, unfortunately.

Here it doesn't matter who actually committed the offense, but whose name the internet connection registered to. When tracing spits out your name, you're gonna pay. The german term is "Strerhaftung", and while I can't think of any reasonable translation, it means that you're at least partially to blame if someone, for example, hacked your WLAN and did illegal shit.

Needless to say that there are plenty of shady lawyers that try to take advantage of the law by sending C&amp;D letters with hefty fines and threats to random people, hoping there are enough people who fall for it. &gt; you're at least partially to blame if someone, for example, hacked your WLAN

This is not true. You're only responsible [if you didn't try to secure your network reasonably](http://www.telemedicus.info/urteile/Telekommunikationsrecht/Haftung-des-WLAN-Betreibers/1057-BGH-Az-I-ZR-12108-Sommer-unseres-Lebens.html), like if you didn't encrypt it at all or set the password to '123'. If you could prove, that you'd been hacked, you would be fine.

A more realistic scenario that can get you in trouble would be, if you gave random people access to your wifi, who then do illegal stuff. You have to know their names, so open wifis are problematic. If you're going to share your connection with e.g. your neighbors, let them sign a piece of paper stating they're using your connection, so you can easily prove you're not the only one using it. As somebody with very little IT knowledge, is the criminal "forging a fake set of license plates that look like yours" or are they actually "stealing your car with your actual license plates to commit the crime without your knowledge"? Somebody (isp)  switches the plates from all cars. For Identification one would need plate and exact time &gt;Somebody (isp)  switches the plates from all cars. For Identification one would need plate and exact time

And that only can narrow it down to which car at best, not which person. Car meaning location, and most locations would have a small set of potential residents. Even accounting for guests. There are probably 8 houses with an average of 4 residents within range of my guest wifi.  That doesn't count pedophiles who park on the street to download kiddie porn. And there is one car per house that multiple people regularly use and you leave the keys in it at all times (unsecured wifi) so anyone could drive it.  It could be me committing the crime in my car, but if all they have is a license plate and no picture of me then I could say someone stole it. The burden of proof is to say I was actually using my car at the time a crime was being committed with it.

They could have my IP Address, but they don't know if it was me, my wife, my kids, or a random stranger who jumped on my un-secure wifi. Unless they tell you to fill out a report for the theft, and then look at traffic cameras until you get nailed twice as hard. Absolutely. I've done criminal prosecutions where ip addresses are used as evidence, but it's not enough to prove that a particular person did something. You need more evidence for that. Same with a phone number, just because a call comes in from a number doesn't mean a certain person made the call. 

Best story: documented gang member breaks into a car and steals a debit card. He gets home and, of all the things he could buy on the Internet, purchases various upgrades and DLC for his WoW account, which is what shows up on the bank records. So I subpoena Blizzard's records related to the card  number. And that's where he was nailed: not just the logged ip corresponding to the household's ISP account, but his mailing address, and his email address, [kid's name]@hotmail.com. He plead guilty.  Exactly. If a murder happened at your house, it doesn't mean it was you. Seems like a good argument. Especially with the rampant viruses out there.

I could just load a proxy server on to some non-tech-savvy grandmother's computer, use it to download a torrent, and she gets blamed.

I wish the justice system had more critical thinkers with IT experience. I wish more people in general were critical thinkers with IT experience. I wish more people in general were critical thinkers

 I wish more people in general were thinkers I wish I was a little bit taller. I wish I was a baller. I wish I had a girl who looked good I would call her  I wish I had a rabbit in a hat Well, that goes without saying. The justice system has a whole bunch of critical thinkers. The problem is the IT experience/experts. And luckily they're starting to come out in droves. I always wanted to be the one to sit between IT-Stupid lawyers, judges and cops and Citizens, to defend them as an expert witness when they come up with insane bullshit.

Like the prosecutor who convinced a judge the Kevin Mitnick could start World War III by whistling launch commands into a phone.

I would love that job. IT really started to kick off in the late 90s, early 2000s. Most judges are 50+ generally speaking, people today grew up with technology on that scale while the judges have gone 30+ years without anything. I got RAT's all over tha retirement home bitches computers, yo.    They call me *zero-ensure* up in that piece. Here is a video of such a grandmother in germany. It's an o-tone in a radio show, that was turned into a remix with some visualization added.

[Everquatsch The Dancefloor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ZpQeEPcqJk) Do you have a link to this? I mean what was their response to his argument? I'd imagine they would claim the ticket goes to the vehicle owner right? I'd like to know the amount companies have wasted on highly priced lawyers versus the amount "lost" by piracy. 

My bet is they've pissed away far more money than they've ever "lost". I work for an internet company. We frequently get notices from movie and tv studios demanding we turn in a customer with such and such ip address.  The problem with this is we provide ftth service and  the software on our end does not store ip address histories. We can see who currently has this ip address but not when it was acquired or dropped by another customer.   We generally send that customer a letter telling them to knock it off. I believe here in Canada, Canadian ISPs are required to keep a record of which houses were assigned which dynamic IPs at which time for a minimum of 6 months. Sounds like a great argument to use a proxy or vpn with kill switch. "Ping -a YOURIPADDRESS" and you should see, for example, sTHE-MAC-OF-YOUR-ROUTER.shawcable.net You know routers can fake MAC addresses, right? (insert random Canadian ISP here) literally gives no fucks whether you are torrenting or not.  They are required by law to forward notices sent to them and nothing else.

Source:  I work for one of these ISP's. I don't think anyone said anything to the contrary.  We know they are required by law to forward the notices. A place I was working at had one of those letters come in, listing a bunch of porn to take down.  My coworker jumped out of his chair yelling "that's me!" and it was hilarious, because it was him. That would have been the guy claiming his stinky fart during childhood. Then how do you ensure the correct customer is getting the notice if you don't track DHCP allocations? They don't, that's the point. They don't really care either.  So they scare some random person with an angry litigation letter from the MPAA?  And don't you dare lose the lottery again. I got a letter for torrenting, of all things, a Christian music album.  You'd think of all people, they would want their media spread, regardless of the means. Make no mistake, Christians fucking love money. Why else do you think they hand the dish around to put money in? mind you, FTTC and FTTP are pretty stable connections. People could go months without experiencing a disconnection and having to renew a dhcp lease. Very true, however IP addresses often have a lease time associated with them and will be released after a given amount of time.  Ours for example renew after about a week. DHCP servers will usually prefer assigning the same IP address to the same host, unless explicitly configured otherwise. 

I'm not saying all, but just the majority.

If the DHCP pool is made of ~100 IP addresses, for example, but you constantly just use about half of them, unless $myPreviousIp is currently busy, even after a downtime, my system will request $myPreviousIp on system boot, and if the server has it free, it will usually allocate that one.

Frequent case of where you DON'T see this behaviour is extremely cheap routers.  "extremely cheap routers"

Story checks out What if the customer doesn't knock it off? Then we tell them again with bigger font. That's sure to work, and if not: underline it.  Whoa dude we dont want to punish people *that* hard Oh shit, he's using italics...better listen to him /u/OCDPandaFace! Depending on the company and agreement you signed, they can throttle your connection till you call and explain what's going on. Or they will cut off your internet and each go their own way.

 I would say if they keep coming back with the same IP or another IP that is assigned to that customer it would eventually lead to that customer being the torrent user. I too work for an internet company. that serves dial-up/ADSL/VDSL/FTTH/Docsis And our level 2 support can see who had what ip for up to a month, and then we can see up to 6months.

And my previous employer (big monster mega cable company) keeps records of what IP was assigned to a cable modem mac from up to a year. (I got caught downloading an HBO show and was sent a letter 3 months after the download.)

and I'd put money on someone in The NOC at your isp can too.

Is the company you work for not using PPPoE auth for FTTH?  Is it similar to DOCSIS authentication?  I always thought the reliance on IP addresses to prove who downloaded a movie seemed pretty dubious legally.  If my IP address is used to torrent something, it could have been:

1.  Me
2.  Girlfriend
3.  Roommates
4.  Any of the dozens of people who have been given the wifi password over the years
5.  If Wifi is unsecured or uses weak security like WEP anyone within wifi range
6.  Anyone on the planet if my computer is compromised

That someone can lose a piracy case when the only evidence against them is an IP seems pretty fucked up. then why do so many people get convicted ? No one or at least very few get convicted. Convicted implies criminal offence, it's normally a civil matter. they can't afford a good lawyer The settlement is fine tuned to be just under the cost of hiring a lawyer. This is the same method used to troll patent laws or rob ex husbands Most people just get scared and pay whatever the company suing them asks to settle it. Generally, they settle out of court. Proving that it wasn't you costs a lot of money. I believe the courts in Florida already decided this a year ago Yeah, but the more cases that follow this precedent, the better. But preferably outside of Florida.   Florida is really a great place to live. We have great beaches, fishing, warm temps, the Florida Keys, NASA and SpaceX, and the cruise industry. Plus ft lauderdale /Miami  Really, it's the people that ruin it. Drugged-out crazies, retirees who are too old to drive but do it anyway, idiots on vacation... If it weren't for them and the summer heat, it'd be downright pleasant. As an Arizonan, I usually can say I'm used to and love the heat.

I have never visited Florida, but that place scares me. Not only is it often *hotter* than Arizona, but the humidity is orders of magnitude higher. Yeah, the humidity is what gets you. Though Arizona seems to get much more into the extremes -- in a lot of areas here, snowing is a thing that just doesn't happen. Actually, it rarely gets hotter down here than AZ does in the summer. I've lived in Florida for over a decade now, and I can't recall it ever getting north of 100 degrees.

Granted, it'll get up to 95 with 90% humidity like... every day in August, but the absolute temperature doesn't quite reach Arizona extremes. And the hurricanes. Florida doesn't always have hurricanes, but when they do they really suck ass.  and you also give us wonderful subreddits like /r/FloridaMan and /r/floridawoman  Don't forget [this guy](https://i.imgur.com/JP4kyf9.jpg)! Does torrenting/browsing through a VPN provide much protection? I've been using a VPN for a year now for these purposes after I received a copyright notice from my ISP. I haven't received a notice since. I've received over 10 notices with no penalties up to this point. Turns out - comcast just cares about my money. The copyright agencies just know what ISP an IP address belongs to. The ISPs arent going to give up their customers identities when they dont have to so they just appease them by agreeing to send notices. Depends on the service. I use PIA, and they don't keep logs of which client was connected to which IP address at any given time. Plus, they utilize shared IP addresses, so any number of people may be using the same IP address at the same time. I'm not a lawyer, but good luck proving who torrented what in that situation. Furthermore, you can pay for their services with Bitcoin...

To truly anonymize yourself enough to where you'll at least be avoiding those pesky notices about torrenting from your IP, you register an email address while on an alternate VPN using a TOR browser.  NEVER EVER EVER log into that email ever again unless you are once again, tunneling through this same way or alternate way.  That email is the one you will use to register with PIA and then pay your BITCOIN, which of course you obtained through a tumbler (a way to further anonymize Bitcoin).  They then send you their program in the email with the login details baked in so all you have to do is run the program and your VPN is good to go.  So, final step now is to setup your VPN on the computer you wish to use as your torrenting PC, and then have it on 24/7 -  Since they do not keep logs, AND, they can't track you back to the email address you initially setup, you are a couple hops more than the effort to track down.

Anyway, I don't really condone torrenting things because you are cheap, but I will say I torrent a lot of my stuff out of convenience.  I hate having to go to different different webpages to get all the TV shows I like, so I just torrent the ones I want to watch, even though most are offered free on network TV webpages these days.  It's just super convenient.  But, I don't want those ridiculous notices showing up either, so I have my PC that I torrent everything on.  PIA is a great service. You're missing the obvious leak that PIA (or any other VPN provider) will see your IP address when you are tunneling your traffic through them, so registering over TOR is rather pointless.

Also, even if they don't continuously store logs, you are A) trusting them when they say that and B) trusting that no government agency is actively compelling them to track you. So I would say your scheme is sufficient for dodging typical copyright claims, but against more persistent law enforcement efforts (such as what brought Lavabit down), it would be severely lacking. Oh I agree, it wouldn't stop real efforts to stop you.  There are definitely ways to unmask you.  But, this is going to keep you from getting all those pesky letters from your IP, which was the ultimate goal.

I assume those committing serious crimes have more ways to hide themselves. It has to be if the VPN provider doesn't keep logs. Where I live the goverment doesn't care about piracy... yet. But I started using VPNs years ago in case they just start logging us silently. [Piracy Intensifies] I've been making essentially the same point for quite some time now, even though i live somewhere where I don't have to worry about this.

You have an IP address.  Safe assumption, you have a wireless router.

"Yes, that's my IP address.  I never set a password on my home wifi.  Friends, guests, neighbors, strangers, anyone with a wifi-enabled device can freely use my internet connection."

Unless it was formalized in law along the lines something like 'the named, registered account holder of IP address 186xxxxxxx shall be held responsible for any violations of any law which may occur through the use of foresaid IP address, and thus must take any and all steps deemed necessary to prevent any such violations' then an IP holder really has nothing to worry about.

imo defense council in all of the other cases was lazy if they didn't employ this common-sense stance &gt; Unless it was formalized in law along the lines something like 'the named, registered account holder of IP address 186xxxxxxx shall be held responsible for any violations of any law which may occur through the use of foresaid IP address, and thus must take any and all steps deemed necessary to prevent any such violations' then an IP holder really has nothing to worry about.

I don't think such a law would ever occur.  At the most, you might some day be able to be charged with irresponsibly leaving your network unsecured.  But just as you can't be charged with murder if someone steals your car/gun/knife and kills someone with it, you can't be charged with a crime on the internet if someone uses your internet.  agreed 100%.  If it was, it would be akin to what you said- the owner or account holder is ??now responsible for acts committed with their property entirely outside their knowledge, consent, etc.    

Absolutely ludicrous, and will never happen. [deleted] This is why the EFF is encouraging a return of open wireless. At this point, all of the shit on your phone is HTTPS anyway, so running on an open wifi connection isn't that much of a risk. But if everyone has an open wifi connection, there is no central way to track people, Internet is everywhere and free, and you can't be stuck with bullshit charges based on an IP address. I used to rent an apartment in Bethesda, MD.  I had my pick of at least 30 open wifis, nobody passwords shit beyond "admin" and "12345."  if anyone should be held accountable it's Comcast, they set that shit up and didn't explain what needed to be done.  I'm a CPA, if I'm performing an audit I will advise you of the law and what we need.  If I give you bad...or no professional advice I am held accountable, legally, and can be sued personally, which could ruin my career.  Where's this same sort of accountability for the ISPs?  Oh, yeah, their legal counsel and risk mgmt have determined it's wiser to invest in lobbying on K St in DC than doing what's right.  My office is on Conn. Ave., I know K St. well, they talk A LOT when you get to know them and share a few beers.  Corporate lobbying is nothing less than modern day mafia, especially since Citizens United.  The more I think about the truth the more I want to move my family out of this country.  At least in 2/3 of other countries the bribery is a known thing and manageable.  Sorry for the edits/typos, new phone sucks for auto-correct.

 they need auditor's and the company don't want to take the risk.  The more power a company has, if they don't have front line men to take the brunt of the risk, your right.  For example, contractor's who work for aero-space.  The shit rolls down hill, and the contractor is expected to be on his toes for considerably less pay than the non contractors (actual employees).  Which means they don't get the proper training, but are expected to abide by all the regulations of every employer above that contractor's position, etc, etc.  But someone's got to do the job.  

I hate that shit.

I want to move to.  Can I hide in your trunk!

The govt's idea isn't about fixing issues, but in making the small guy watch his back and make him liable.

Sorry for my rant. An address identifies an address, that's all.

If you knew something potentially illegal happened at 2515 Meadow Lane, you couldn't just show up there and arrest all the residents and charge them with a crime based solely on residing at that residence. Not only can you not verify who's using a machine based on the IP address, but don't routers reassign IP addresses on a fairly regular basis? No, not as a rule. Also, even when a router is assigned a dynamic IP and that IP changes (which usually only happens if there is a good reason, rather than changing at random), ISP's do generally have records of which device was assigned a particular IP at a particular time - something that developed countries governments have been making mandatory by law, where they can get away with it.

 hehe an ISP employee above specifically states that he can't look up timestamps on DHCP... only who presently has the IP. I'm sure this varies by provider though. Varies by provider and country. Very much provider dependent. If you are using some companies routers they can have even more information on you. 

Like with FIOS. The new router setup is done through their web interface by default. Not by logging directly into the modem like you traditionally would. So theoretically they can have access to the MAC addresses of all devices attached to them. And see what traffic is going where. Also, my IP address on FIOS does not change. I imagine they could feasibly have much more access if they were so inclined. 

Other ISPs, like the one the guy mentioned above, basically give you a new address when you reset, and the router is your deal. So a bit less 'big brotherish'.

Though if you do have FIOS or something similar, there's nothing saying you have to use their router / set up tool. And quite frankly, it's in your best interest not to.  &gt; The new router setup is done through their web interface by default. Not by logging directly into the modem like you traditionally would.

And then [this happens](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XIdPpYgRj34). (Basically an ISP had router management software that had a huge exploit allowing retrieval of phone numbers and stuff of subscribers. That ISP is Verizon FiOS as he accidentally reveals at 34:54... he actually didn't scrub out some Verizon IPs in the screenshots anyway)... Some companies switch your IP at set intervals and just rotate through a list, others just leave it static. Year 2025: Everyone has IP addresses assigned to their birth certificate and drivers license. 99% of the population has no idea what an IP address is A large portion do not. And a fair portion of the people who think they do don't really. Especially since a lot of people have unsecure networks.

Do you think it's offensive to the networks if I say, "Insecure?"
 [deleted] I would not put it pass the content industry to write or sponsor a bill to tie IP addresses with identities.  You know that judge is totally downloading Game of Thrones episodes on TPB. This is something I've always asked - if someone accuses you of downloading copyrighted material, or child porn, or hosting a terrorist website, with only your IP address, why can't you just argue that your computer was hacked?  If you have an unsecure wifi, someone can just drive by your house and use your IP address.  Surely you cannot be legally held responsible for everything that travels through your network any more than you could be held responsible for a crime that happens in your backyard.   But then they'll get a warrant and search through your computers and drives to find the content. So remember to safely encrypt everything and hope they can't crack it. Yeah, remember to safely encrypt your child porn and terrorist websites.  All 5 terabytes? This will take a while.  I know I'm late to the party and this comment will never be seen but I've gotta chime in here.

These courts have *actual* shit to do. They are not designed to be corporate playthings with which to harass the very citizens that the courts serve. This kind of shit happens everywhere these days and I'm sick of it.

Wells Fargo tried to sue my family for $120k+ last year over my educational loans. I've been enrolled in a full schedule of classes every semester since I started college in 2008 (don't ask, it's a long story filled with moronic decision making and doesn't have much to do with this lawsuit).

They hung us out to dry for months, all the way until the day that they had threatened to file suit came... and went. With no incident. People get ulcers over this type of shit, it isn't OK. I just got a sudden urge to pirate a certain movie. It's generally a stupid way to go about the problem anyways. People are glad to pay for things when they have the money and it's a good product.  Tell that our German judges please....

They keep logs in Germany to see who had a specific IP at a certain time. But that still doesn't cut to the root of the issue. "Who had a specific IP" might guide you to a household, but it still doesn't tell you *who* was actually downloading anything. You can't really charge an IP address with a crime.

That's the entire point of the matter, trying to link a chain from "IP -&gt; Household -&gt; Person who pays the bill" and then charging the person who pays the bill for what could have been some dude hacking into his Wifi from the van around the corner. I'm in Germany. We share our fiber optic connection with 8 people. Good luck proving who was downloading illegal scat porno. The contract is registered to our HOA. Scat porn is illegal in Germany? I thought you guys invented it! That's like banning tentacle porn in Japan. That or he was referencing scat porn that is too extreme even by German standards. I wish somebody would tell that to my government (Germany).

Open networks are literally labelled a "danger source" here because they could be used for "criminal activity", for which the owner of said network is liable.

Worst case: someone hacks your network, torrents stuff, you are one of the unlucky ones who gets caught, and are financially ruined for life. Might even get a prison sentence. "Justice". Wow, germany sounds like more of a shithole than america. In this kind of legislation it's really pretty much the same as the US, where some parts are worse (this) and some part are better. 

Just like in the US, our governments since the 70s have been rock-hard corporatist. What do you think the EU is doing in Greece right now? Merkel built a taxpayer-to-banks pipeline by denying Greece bankrupcy and by funneling European money into the problem.  That's good. My roomate pirates so many things. Our ISP keeps threatening to inform the authorities, but my roomates refuse to stop. That sucks. Hope they don't shut down your internet. Manny is a Manny Pacquiao documentary. Why are they calling it an action film?

Anyway, good thing I download the film from a niche private tracker.  I stream, therefore I am.

 You should still be using a proxy. To specifically identify the person downloading the data, they would need to have the MAC address of the computer. With IPv4 Addressing, the MAC address of the computer is removed, and replaced with that of the Router before it is sent to the Internet. So it will be impossible to uniquely identify an individual with IPv4. However, that will all change when IPv6 comes into full swing. IPv6 addresses contain the MAC address of the device using them. So this argument will become a lot more interesting when that shit is more popular. The onus in court with respect to computer acts falls on the prosecution. If you can't prove someone was physically sitting at a computer, you can't prove that an IP yields a person behind it.

Just look at Casey Anthony. Holy shit a judge with common sense when it comes to computers!  Whoever read that article and saw their own IP address listed needs to write a thank you letter to this judge.  This can't stand.  Every argument this state district judge used in dismissing the case could be used as a defense by anyone caught doing anything illegal on the internet.  I suppose this, now, is an open invitation for pirates, dope-sellers, child pornographers and terrorists to set up shop in her district of Florida.
 Doesn't thepiratebay already generate and add random IP addresses to the swarm? In this case it truly is impossible to know who actually was pirating. This is not how *anything* of this works. That's not how english works either. *English

And FYI, I'm not a native speaker.  http://i.imgur.com/xgz9nkR.gif /shrug 

Autocorrect capitalized it but I fixed it.  I'm not talking about the article but here is that ancient article that I remember.

https://torrentfreak.com/the-pirate-bay-tricks-anti-pirates-with-fake-peers-081020/ While evidence gathering, however, you'd want to a) geofilter the list of IPs to your jurisdiction, b) connect as a peer to each and every one of them and have them give you data, then c) file paperwork for those that you could prove are uploading. Mere downloading is much less of a case (and can't be proven without uploading yourself), merely being on a tracker is mere circumstance, due to dynamic IP allocation.

That's not hard at all, tells the court that you've done proper work, and completely defeats adding random IPs.  Don't think tpb even has a tracker anymore.  But I do recall that being the case years ago. An IP Address is more like an RV (mobile home).

Which has no locks at the doors and keys stuck ready in the ignition and everybody can drive around with it.
Weeks later some copyright "dude" comes running to a judge with the RVs license plate. More like a taxi where anyone can come along and use it, in the case of unsecured or public wireless connections. Except in this case there's a magic logbook who knows exactly when and who was given the keys every time they change hands. No such thing as open networks?  Better stay out of Starbucks and millions of other places.  Also, Comcast, by default, left open the wifi signal in all of their customer's routers to create a large public wifi network - AT&amp;T does the same. I'm not USA, so not sure, but I thought to use the comcast wifi spots, you had to sign in to some sort of portal. Identification right there. If it's anything like my uni was, it also blocks torrents anyway.

And starbucks and McDonalds etc all take measures to block torrenting. Whether its data caps, or blocking connections, or deep packet inspection, they're responsible (and they know it) so they work to block it. &gt;Also, Comcast, by default, left open the wifi signal in all of their customer's routers to create a large public wifi network 

Comcast creates a separate IP address for it, so no.   Comcast also increases bandwith so the public wifi doesn't harm the customer one iota. Honestly don't know why people get in such a hissyfit over it.   There's a "magic logbook" that knows the address that the crime happened at, not who did it. 

That's like playing "Clue" and saying everyone is the murderer as soon as the game starts.  "Magic Logbook" always convinces judges, particularly if you'd also pull out your wand. Isn't it amazing that we actually have one then! A wand you mean? I love how the movie industry likes to attach IPv4 addresses to people when there aren't even enough IP addresses to cover every person in a province, let alone a country or the world.  Oh the folly of not upgrading to IPv6, where everyone *could* have their own IP address. ISPs are offering IPv6 addresses, even Comcast. What are you talking about? The internet at large isn't using IPv6.  I can only access a handful of websites using strictly IPv6 addressing (at least in my day to day).  Until we get rid of IPv4 and NAT, we're not going to be getting our own IP addresses. province = yes  
world = no  
There are technically around 4.2 billion addresses. Well slap my ass and call me Turd Ferguson. An example of a judge actually understanding the digital concept he is about to rule upon.

I know this isn't the first time it's happened as far as court cases involving information technology, but the ones I usually read about tend to make my blood boil. I can't believe that an IP address was ever used in any case against pirates.  Dynamic IPs have been around for a while... And people are still bring up this argument... Guess retards never learn or can use Google. They know what MAC address the IP was assigned to at a given time.  Mac address is much more concrete than an IP address, but it can still be changed or spoofed.  A combination of the two would be a fairly good indicator, but there will still be room for plausible deniability without additional evidence. Hope this can trend nationwide and Comcast, Time Warner and the rest go the way of Blockbuster.  They're not going anywhere.  All they have to do is up speeds and lower prices, which they can easily afford to do.  There's just no point to doing that at the moment, so they aren't. Which is fine.  As long as there us competition.   I don't know.  The only two providers is my town are Grande Communications and Time Warner.  Grande offers a 400/20 connection for $65 while the best Time Warner has is a 50/5 for $70.  The competition hasn't swayed Time Warner at all.   Holy asymmetric connection,  Batman!  That's barely enough upstream to get the ACKs for the incoming 400. What does ACKs mean? I found this http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acknowledgement_%28data_networks%29 but I don't understand why a 400 connection needs a upstream of &gt;20 to "acknowledge" the 400 signal down? (I'm very network illiterate) TCP packets generate ACKs to know where to slide the window (packet size) and to know if the connection is still open/in use. 

I exaggerate hugely. Data to ack is usually 100,000/1 with modern networking tech.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sliding_window_protocol Ahh alright. Thanks for the explanation!  I'm only familiar with TCP ACK because I had to go into my registry and shorten the delay closer to zero manually for a game I play online When more people vote with their wallets, they will be forced to change. I pay $105 for 4mb down in Alaska's biggest city. When I upgraded from 1mb down it was a big day.  Note to self: fuck moving to Alaska. This occurs for the same reason that the average consumer would buy an iPhone without doing any research into what other phones may be available. I have a similar situation, but TWC is the better choice. TWC offers 300/25 for ~$65/mo while Verizon keeps sending me ads for their "great deal" of 25/5 for ~$75/mo. WACO? I am jealous of those prices.

I'm paying 56 a month for 18 meg down at&amp;t u verse.  They are the only provider in my area. I have Grande and I really like it. &gt; All they have to do is up speeds and lower prices, which they can easily afford to do. 

And really, that's all most of us are asking for. As much as I'd love to see them all go bankrupt in a spectacular fashion, that isn't going to happen. Plus it'd just create the same situation with different players.

At the very least, though, I just want to see increase in bandwidth without shelling over half a month's paycheck. Time Warner did actively increase speeds in Los Angeles. It went from ultra shitty to intermittently shitty. Yay. I feel like not a lot of people know though. 

Called them and told them I was unhappy with out service. They said, " we're about to give you 10 times the speed." Great 100/10 now that's acceptable from the 10/1 I've had for 8 years. 

Month later nothing has changed. Call TWC and they swear up and down that we have 100/10. Figure out on my own it's the fucking modem THEY GAVE ME, that isn't capable of speeds that high. So I had to go in and get a new one, with hardware useable by the higher speeds. 

 The flip side of that is that we can easily scare them to up speeds and lower prices, by sprinkling fiber nationwide. 

Not even Google is able to build across the USA, so increased competition is the more practical policy. Here in Pennsylvania, it's illegal because of shitty laws, definitely lobbied into place by Comcast. I thought the FCC ended that? Kind of. But there's court cases against it currently. So no one's going to build a damn thing before they know the outcome. At least in places where muni Internet was illegal.   I thought I read that a lot of cities laws won't allow it. It's actually illegal for the "damn government" to offer internet access in places so you are forced to give money to comcast/time warner etc.. E.g., http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Municipal_broadband#Controversy. Can they be last mile providers without being an ISP? Then let ISPs compete for customers using the city's last mile? 

Edit: clarity  If by that you mean that in poor rural/suburban areas it stays around for decades longer than anywhere else.

[2 years old](http://qz.com/144386/map-of-blockbuster-holdouts-reveals-one-city-with-more-stores-than-40-states-combined/) So then Google Fiber served it's purpose. That is 100% correct.  Google Fiber is meant to threaten the ISP dominated internet model which threatens Google's core money making businesses.

The best example is pay per click ads.  Google makes insane profits off of pay-per-click and they don't want ISPs making you use their search engines (and pay per click).  In a single year, Google Fiber destroyed the ISPs myth that you couldn't build a proper fiber network and/or get consumers to pay for it.

We have Google Fiber and it is hilarious to see the price decreases and speed increases that the traditional ISPs are offering as soon as Google Fiber opens a new neighborhood.   In my area Time Warner had 20mbit as the maximum speed with no plans on increasing it, since they said nobody wanted it.  

Fiber starts rolling out half the country away.  All of a sudden we've got 50mbit, with 100 and 300mbit coming down the pipe in the near future. Lucky. Up here in Canada google fiber is pretty much non existent and we still have to suffer through awful isp's.  I have Saskatchewan rural internet and reach insane speeds like 120kb/s download :/ Whoa, I always heard here on the west coast that you prairie people were off the hook, but I never thought it you were *that* wild. Well their phones are obviously off the hook... I'll let myself out  I live in western Alberta, about .5km out of town. I have 1Mb/s download speed I love in Edmonton and get 4mb/s. The speeds google fiber offers seems Iike some kind of myth that couldn't possibly be true. And then we get fucked in the ass by phone companies (I'm looking at you Rogers.) I just got fucked by Bell 20 minutes ago! "But really, who doesn't like a good ass fucking?"-Bell I mean, it's what the consumers want. They pay us money, and we fuck them in the ass. It's a win win honestly.  Stop making me want to move to Canada, even if it's just for the kinky ISPs &gt;///&lt; Hey you don't have to move to Canada. I'd be willing to give you the same quality service that they offer but in the states. I hope once Google is done dominating USA, they'll come north to liberate us from the RoBeLus Saskachewan has fiber. From a crown corp. What's your excuse?  In select districts in Regina and Saskatoon, a few neighbourhoods in PA, Moose Jaw, Estevan and Weyburn in a province in which 46% of the population lives in rural areas. Not even close to adequate. But we have the conversatives to thank for that, since the "sask party" raided the fun Sasktel had set aside for exactly that. To pay for a football stadium no-one wanted. I'm stuck with the 20mbit on TW. They advertise higher speeds like 100 and 50 but you cant actually get it.... I had that issue with cox at my house. 2 hours on the phone with tier 2 tech support and we got it to 95mbps behind my router. Call those fuckers and get your speed! Im not sure but im almost positive cox throttles connections the longer your modem is up. Try resetting it the next time you have issues. I'm gonna test your theory now...

Before 79.37d/9.39u
After 80.67d/2.18u

Wtf?

I was at 95 yesterday. Something fishy going on here.  DOCSIS is really weird - it's a shared media with seperate upstream and downstream channels. Usually it's shared bandwidth, sometimes it's not, it depends on the size of your node and the total subscribed bandwidth.

Really, in a large, heavily used node, you can have speed tests results all over the place and it will be normal and expected. I'm one of those lucky fucks who has TWCs 300Mbps. It's fucking great. Downloaded GTAVs 65GBs in an hour. ...and now half of Reddit hates you. That's okay, open invitation to all redditors to come use my internetz. What's the bill feel like as it smashes into your nether regions?  $80! With free TV, HBO, and Showtime. Because I live in a condo that has a pretty goddamn amazing deal with TWC. You lucky bastard  Ditto with Time Warner Cable here. I had the top consumer-oriented speed in my area, 30Mbps for ~$75/mo. 

6 months ago I got upgraded for free (including a free modem upgrade): 200Mbit.

Typically actually around 217Mbit. That's right: the extra 17Mbit bonus I'm getting over and above the new advertised speed is almost equal to the *entirety* of the advertised speed I was previously paying for -- *for the same price*.

(Novelty still hasn't worn off. Sometimes I download shit just to watch how fast the progress bar fills up.)

I won't complain too much because I've never *personally* had any problems with TWC, and I've pretty much always been able to get my advertised speed or a little over. But the fact that they can upgrade huge swathes of customers in a major metro area to 6-10x their previous speed *at no charge* really just proves what we've all been saying all along: the utter lack of competition allowed complacency, stagnation, and monopolistic practices. &gt; Fiber starts rolling out half the country away. All of a sudden we've got 50mbit, with 100 and 300mbit coming down the pipe in the near future.

"Near future." Be aware that they will say anything to keep you paying. Promises are nice. Results are better. Yeah, I even live in Austin where Google Fiber was rolling out and even though I didn't live in an area where I could get it, AT&amp;T in no time at all had their own gigabit offering for ridiculously low prices. I now have the full gigabit service + a bazillion channels + HBO + who knows what else for like $150/month. I hope it is all well utilised because in the end, you are paying $150/month which moves into the major household spending arena.

 If Google came to Tampa I would drop brighthouse like a brick. Granted the service isn't bad and can support two laptops, three phones, a tablet and I can play Xbox live with my brother in the same house. Occasional lag issues even when I'm the only one home though. Sometimes internet decides to shit out for who knows when.  Hopefully when I move I can afford good internet. I actually wrote an email to Mayor Buckhorn about investing in municipal fiber. Who knows what good it will do but it is worth at least showing that there is interest.

The beauty of Gfiber isn't the service itself, but more the precedent, the proof of concept. They showed that it is possible so anyone with the capital (ie the city of tampa) can invest and create a highly competitive network.  I live in Atlanta, suddenly Comcast is promising us 2GB internet.  Magic! [deleted] It's 2Gbps.  Nice dude. Totes jelly. I live in the metro area of Atlanta, and I just miss google fibers new area by a few miles.  I don't think google ever intended to be a nationwide service provider. Their intent was to threaten current monopolistic ISPs into improving their service so that google wouldn't HAVE to be a national service provider. 

Unfortunately the current ISPs are insanely stubborn and it's proving harder than I think they ever anticipated to get them to budge.  That was certanly part of their intent.  Anything that makes the internet faster or that expands access to the internet is going to help Google indirectly, since such a large share of web traffic goes to Google services or services that use Google advertising.

That being said, I think they do want to become an ISP as well.    A lot of the moves Google has been doing lately make me think that they're trying to find alternate revenue streams other then advertisements.  That makes a lot of sense from a business point of view, IMHO, since advertising revenue tends to be a very cyclical business.   A secondary, more steady source of revenue, like from running an ISP service, would make Google much less vulnerable to economic downturns and such in the long term.     But the ISP's have no reason to improve anywhere that google fiber isnt Very well said. 

And just for reference, compare Comcast's response to the muni fiber effort to Google's. From the article:

Comcast: "In general, cities have extensive needs like roads, police, parks and community development, and we think especially in times of fiscal tradeoffs that taxpayer money should be focused on those needs rather than competing with the private sector."

Google Fiber: "Increasing local choice for super high-speed broadband is a good thing for communities." Comcast is literally saying "We think it's better if there is no market competition." Comcast still won't increase my speed even though Google Fiber is going to be in my town in a few months, a year tops.

I did get them to drop the price to an acceptable level a few months ago before they increased EVERYONE else's speeds. 50Mbps isn't even an option anymore. If you're able to get Google fiber at your house. Switch. It tells them that you won't stick by them after they fucked you so many years I'm not able. Apartment management is getting kick backs from Comcast.  I would say Google wants faster speed so they can serve up larger ads and have more searches per user...cause they get search results faster. More likely Google Fibre started up to prevent monopolies selling YouTube (which delivers ads) access packs before net neutrality gained momentum.

NetFlix wasn't the only company vulnerable to ISP selective pipeline tampering. You can avoid tollways when you are big enough to build alternate roads.

Build a bigger better faster road and you've just kicked the troll off the bridge.  They want to be in on the current AR and VR revolution that's around a decade out. Virtual Space and Alternate Reality overlay space (aka real world with layered ads, is going to be an insanely lucrative market aka mulch-billion maybe multi-hundred billion dollar market that could see explosive growth.

If VR/AR properly takes off and you have MMORPG/MMOGaming Integration into daily activities and books like Halting State start becoming a norm or become guidelines towards a game-type future, ad space in those areas would be even more lucrative.

Google fiber is the first step in helping Google secure that future. If a user has insane amounts of bandwidth to use with consistent high speed channels of delivery with relatively low latency overall? Well then, you can push some rather unique stuff to them that they may see a benefit from without it being invasive. Worth loads and loads and loads. I'm actually in a good area for TWC. I pay for 50 down and 5 up, but get closer to 60 down and 6 up. However, google fiber is coming into my area (unfortunately not close enough for me) but TWC  is increasing my speed to 300down this summer, for the same $60 a month price, so really not bad Not bad, still gonna drop it like a rock for Google fiber  Trust me, I would too if I could. I'm just glad fiber is at least close enough to make them up their game Exactly. Too little, too late. I'll enjoy TWC while it lasts, but once I get options, I'm ditching them like a ton of bricks. I was living in So Cal area where I went from 50-100-300 in the span of 6 months on TWC as a local company began offering gigabit fiber.  I love how ISP's are proving that they are lying pieces of shit that can still make amazing profit while providing more speed with every Fiber buildout that happens. I think the FCC declaring that states can't prevent cities from creating municipal networks helped give them the green light that might have caused concern that they might spend money evaluating the infrastructure that they would need and then it all being for nothing when the state quashes their plans.  That being said I'm sure concerns that cities that got Google Fiber before them would be at a competitive advantage for employers was a factor. Yea that might be the biggest win of it all... In the end competition is what is going to grant us just as much or possibly more as defined net neutrality rules.  However, very defined rules are needed as of now and that may never change. When you do things right, people won't be sure you've done anything at all.  It's like everything else in IT.

Until something goes wrong outside of your control, then you are incompetent and worthless. So to really be celebrated in the field of IT, let things go to shit in a controlled matter, then fix them fast? I just take a long vacation (2-3 weeks) once a year. Reminds people how much I do. Yaaaaas. As much as I wish our help desk had enough documentation to keep up with issues that arise, my absence is a scary little reminder to the user base. Just to remind them that all progress relies solely on your network. Once and a while things go down with no explanation. Did I pull a connection? I wouldn't do that... First I was God, and then I met God!

 I can't wait for Google Mobile to disrupt the cellular space. Interestingly, my town (Sandy, OR) has had municipal internet (both wired and city-wide wireless) for probably 15 years now and started setting up gigabit fiber years ago. It's not citywide yet, but it's $40/mo for 100meg and $60/mo for gigabit. 

Anyway it's fucking awesome.  Not yet. The Comcast still draws breath. It must be strangled by the might of the fibre and sealed away. When every city gets fiber optic networks, and the government collects the money back from Verizon and AT&amp;T which was given (mostly in the form of tax breaks), it would give us a federal budget surplus for that year. So they're going to do that, right? 400 billion smackeroos. No more telcoms. Just taxpayer supported infrastructure. Unless this activity discourages GF from coming to those cities and then the cities fuck up the fiber. Remember Oregon is the state that was going to make the ACA portal to end all ACA portals but fucked it up so bad and had to go to HealthCare.gov with their tail between their legs It looks like Google Fiber has started a wave.  Cities petition to receive the service and when they can't get it, they build it.   This is wonderful because it shows that people and cities want the service and are willing to make the moves to obtain it.  They will no longer sit on their arses and allow a Telco to string them allong. You could say a.... Google Wave &gt;"We're supportive of public-private partnerships where tax dollars aren't competing against private investment capital,"k Comcast said in a written statement. "In general, cities have extensive needs like roads, police, parks and community development, and we think especially in times of fiscal tradeoffs that taxpayer money should be focused on those needs rather than competing with the private sector."

That is some next-level cynical bullshit corporate double-speak. Wow.  &gt;"In general, cities have extensive needs like roads, police, parks and community development, and we think especially in times of fiscal tradeoffs that taxpayer money should be focused on those needs rather than competing with the private sector."

I like how they don't quality fiber as part of community development. 

"Times are tough, and money is hard to come by! Don't waste taxpayer money, let _us_ take care of it"

Lol
 &gt;That is some next-level cynical bullshit corporate double-speak. Wow. 

Especially because billions of dollars of tax money was given to telcoms to build fiber networks starting literally 23 years ago and they never did. Telcoms are obsolete. Communication lines are infrastructure. I get that they might have been a commodity back when people were still used to writing letters to communicate, but now they're just a fabricated business. Pay 100 times what something is worth by opting for private business instead of a simple tax-supported solution. 

PS

Give us back all that tax money we gave you to build fiber networks and we'll use the money to build fiber networks. &gt; Give us back all that tax money

plus interest Well, if you look at it from their perspective, obviously municipal fiber is terrible for them, and they want to make it sound terrible for you.

Imagine if there were only 3 restaurants in your town, and they all charged way crazy prices for food (like $40 for a burger was a happy hour special). Then imagine those restaurants also owned the only grocery stores where stuff was just as expensive.

Then, imagine a city wanted to pay to open its own grocery store / restaurant, and it was going to charge reasonable prices.

OF COURSE the current restaurant monopoly would complain about the new city thing. This is why we have anti-collusion laws. Fuck the US (yes the entire US) for allowing Comcast and TWC and all the other ISPs that lie and collude with each other to allow it to keep going. "The private sector can do things better than the government." 

*1 year later...*

"How dare those governments do things better than us! Somebody needs to stop them!" Part of the main reason we moved to a certain city about a decade ago was because they had a high end, city network. The network wasn't all fiber, but the backbone was.  It was fast by the standards of the day and has made that city boom. I live in the Portland subsets and it has the best roads/highways I have ever driven on and an ABUNDANCE of well maintained/gorgeous parks. But I'm from the SF Bay Area so maybe I had no idea what kind of roads and parks were offered to the public outside of CA. Oregon gives a shit about roads, I miss it. Check the bridge to Washington and the midpoint quality change Translation: We are supportive of taxpayers buying the infrastructure that we get to charge people for.  Vermont has already started its own Municipal FTTH Network as well!

www.ecfiber.net The issue is the prices are retarded.

Residential Service Levels

    Basic Internet: 7 Mbps $ 66.00
    Standard Internet: 20 Mbps $ 91.00
    Ultra Internet: 50 Mbps $ 116.00
    Mega Internet: 100 Mbps $149.00
    Wicked Internet: 400 Mbps $250.00
    (Please note: There is also an $8 monthly charge for the Optical Network Termination Device)
    Residential phone lines with unlimited local and long distance calling may be ordered at $20 per month per line (Please refer to Telephone Service FAQs for a list of included calling features.)

    Digital voicemail services are available for $3 per month per voicemail box. This includes the voicemail to email feature, which allows you to listen to your voicemail from your email account when you are away from your home phone! (Sign up for automatic monthly payments when you subscribe, and receive one free year of digital voicemail service!)


Edit: I looked at Vtel again and boy does their service give me an erection. http://www.vermontel.com/gige-home/internet-plans
 You're right, the price is crazy high.  Wicked high, you could say.   To shreds you say? wicked smaht  Everything I hear about Vermont really makes it seem like a great place to live. Unless you dislike cold and snow, lots and lots of snow. That's what the heroin is for! I wish someone had told me that sooner. So its like every other northern state then. That doesn't sound so bad. Though I'd prefer meth myself. Are you from the Granite State? It's definitely not. I've lived in mass, New Hampshire, and Vermont. For me New Hampshire is the best, if you can afford the ridiculous property taxes. And if you want a misdemeanor for smoking a joint... Vermont is by far the best state in NE New Hampshire state troopers are a bunch of evil, sadistic Gestapo clones tasked with funding government operations by ticketing anyone with out of state plates going .2 MPH over the speed limit. Except for the heroin problem Municipal fiber, no billboards, *and* access to heroin? Sign me up! Nowadays every place has a heroin problem. In Vermonts defense most places have a huge heroin problem. 

It's really just under the radar.  And those damn hippies! If it wasn't for boredom, high cost of living, and no jobs it would be.   Good luck finding a decent job there, though. It's great for retirees, ski instructors and boutique art gallery owners, if you're any of those. Yep, but you gotta be able to deal with cold and be able to entertain yourself, not a whole lot of night life and whatnot. &gt;But at least a few cities wonder if they couldn't do it better - or at least more affordably - than Google Fiber.

&gt;"They may be a benign company but they would still be a monopoly," said Lake Oswego city manager Scott Lazenby. "And monopolies charge what they can."

Smart guy.  Really hope they'll eventually reach into small towns like Canby. Choices here are slim with awful customer service. Canby Telcom has had a fiber network since 2010, albeit not everywhere is covered but we're undertaking major expansion projects every year. I'm sorry to hear you've had bad customer service in Canby. Canby Telcom isn't the only option but we're a local co-op and pride ourselves on our local customer service. I worked in technical support myself for years and we always try our best to help customers. Please call in and see if your area has been upgraded to fiber or if you can improve your service. That sounded *helpful*....I'm suspicious. I'm gonna go build my own gigabit networks...with blackjack! And hookers! In fact, forget about the blackjack and the hookers! I hope they're coming to EPB to find out how Chattanooga did it. I miss living in Chattanooga for that very reason. :( Wait is this.....could the legends be true.....INFRASTRUCTURE? I thought that was just an old myth we used as an excuse to funnel billions to the telecoms?  I am excited to see how many jobs are created because of municipal fiber projects.   200 billion to be exact, ~$660 from every person living in this country.  Laying out a fiber network really isn't rocket science these days.  80% of the effort is obtaining the right of way to run the fiber to each residence.  Beyond that, it's mostly setting up some COTS networking equipment in a closet and working out the subscription mechanics.  
  
I keep saying this, but if you give me maybe $10B, I could put Verizon and Comcast out of business in a decade. It's that right-of-way that kept Google out of Louisville :(. That was such bullshit. Now there's that tiny rollout by two different companies,  who knows how long that's even going to take I thought we were going to get a decent alternative with that "SiFi Networks" company,  but their Louisville page is gone now so I am not sure if that one fell through or not.  The other alternatives want people to pay outrageous prices for less than stellar "fiber" internet speeds and/or are only servicing businesses. Yeah Louisville is turning into a cool city,  gig in all the "Hip" areas would attract shitloads of tech people and startups.  

But the politicians are mired in the typical old school crappy policies 
 Or better yet, take a page out of Verizon's playbook!  Pocket the money and don't do shit. I tried searching on my own once and couldn't find any good sources for this. Do you by chance have any? Congress in the 90s handed them money in exchange for promises to build out their high speed networks. They found a way to get out of the promises and held onto the cash. 

I remember the bill having a lofty name, like 'High speed Access for America.' $10B, go on... I'll do it for 9.9 You seem to know something about this subject. Could you point me in the right direction to learn more? I'd like to get an idea for what it would take for a small town to set up its own fiber network.  I'd say to really do it right you should at least have a CCNA level of networking knowledge.  Preferably you'd have a legit networking engineer with a legit ECE degree as well, if only to oversee things.    I work for an ISP based in California.

Everyone commenting here is overlooking the fact that investing in the right of way/rights, cabling and wages to build out massive fiber infrastructure from the nearest datacenter to a given neighborhood is MASSIVE.

Ojai California is a high elevation town with a few hundred homes. The cost of building out fiberoptic cable underground from the nearest hub, up into the mountains and up to every doorstep, is insane. Couple that with the fact that commenters here don't seem to want to spend more than $50/mo for this service, you're looking at several years to make a return on your investment for those homes.

That's without going into the maintenance and support infrastructure required to support those connections.

Overall, people really have no concept of the financial aspects of this debate, which is frustrating from an industry perspective. Of course... but you could have said the same thing about coax back in the 70's and twisted pair phone lines even before that.  Obviously fiber has a bit more overhead associated with it, since you don't need a clean room/van and specialized technicians to install copper coax, but the same basic principles apply to the right of way issue.  
  
Anywhere there is currently coax or telephone line, it means *someone* already has right of way in that area.  I think that's what is most frustrating to me - Comcast and Time Warner already have 80% of the legwork done in that sense - they just have no incentive to make their current network, and it's associated sunk costs, obsolete by building fiber on top of it.  It's one of those paradoxes of capitalism, where there is demand for a product, and even potential for industry-disrupting profit margins, but the only players who are big enough to realistically sell that product have every incentive not to.   If personal data networks in general were a new or emerging  industry, you better believe there would be 10 different companies falling over each other to be first out of the gate here.  
  
That's why I really do think this is a place where government needs to step in with a bit of the Scandinavian model - create a nationalized service to fill a void where capital markets are failing, and then slowly sell that service and infrastructure back to private enterprise once it has been established. &gt; . . . you could have said the same thing about coax back in the 70's and twisted pair phone lines even before that

There's a political cartoon that I can't find, the character in it was being skeptic of public utilities. He talked against the idea of indoor plumbing, telephone lines, street lights, etc. because they were "too pricey" and "unnecessary." It outlines and supports what you're saying here, that these house-to-house utilities were indeed expensive but the implementation of it proved beneficial in many ways.
______

Allow me to expand a bit on some of what you commented in order to help the average Joe understand why the financial side of networking is always used as [a point of debate](http://www.ecmag.com/section/systems/copper-vs-fiber)...

&gt; . . . Obviously fiber has a bit more overhead associated with it, since you don't need a clean room/van and specialized technicians to install copper coax . . .

Fiber can be, and normally is, cheaper than copper for outdoor and regional network backbone (see bottom). People don't know that. Depending on [how many fiber strands, signal wavelength, singlemode vs multimode, and what kind of reinforcement you want](http://www.siemon.com/us/white_papers/13-07-08-light-it-up.asp) it can be cheaper than copper. [Overall costs will vary](http://www.ecmag.com/section/miscellaneous/copper-cabling-really-cheaper-fiber-optic-cabling) depending on if you're [replacing cable/upgrading](http://www.belden.com/pdfs/techpprs/10gbase_t2.pdf), [creating](http://www.cablinginstall.com/articles/print/volume-10/issue-5/contents/optical-fiber/horizontal-cabling-costs-fiber-vs-copper-calculations.html), or [extending a network](http://www.cablinginstall.com/articles/print/volume-11/issue-10/contents/design/media-converters-continue-to-extend-budgetsnetworks.html).


/u/Titty_Sprinkle is right about *regional costs and installation*. Some [smaller studies](http://www.ctcnet.us/CTCCostsForAnchorInstitutions.pdf) show that costs indeed vary depending on existing structure, region, and municipalities. See what was researched on [Verizon FIOS](http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Terrence_Mcgarty/publication/237378204_Fiber_to_the_Home_Capital_Costs_and_the_Viability_of_Verizon%27s_FIOS/links/53f767130cf2823e5bd6e610.pdf) from another company focusing on the New England area. Also check out [Texas A&amp;M](http://www2.ntia.doc.gov/files/grantees/texasam_infrastructure_application_revision_6-14-10.pdf). It's not cheap to install in mountainous areas nor creating in-ground conduits (vs telephone poles). [Termination hardware is much more expensive and requires more training](http://www.cablinginstall.com/articles/print/volume-19/issue-1/features/trends-in-fiber-optic-cabling-termination-styles.html). I can terminate a jack in under a minute on a good day and an RJ-45 costs less than a quarter, if even that. Tools are much more simplistic, repairs are cheaper, and fixing mistakes is quick with little impact to connection performance.

Now, home-to-home installation/drops. Fiber-to-home is, unfortunately, expensive as said. Copper is cheaper by a long shot. On top of that, your home network is copper ethernet anyways. It makes more sense to use that in order to cut out the cost of another media converter. People who want fiber dropped right to their home don't understand how damned expensive it is: the shorter the fiber run, the more expensive it becomes. Installation costs (&gt;$169) are justified given the materials, labor, and splicing required.

_____
_____
_____

**TL;DR**

* Fiber, by foot, is cheaper by the mile because:
 * It takes less space to match the bandwidth of copper
 * Fewer signal repeaters required overall
 * Fewer cables to pull results in less labor
 * Datacenter-to-datacenter can be "future-proofed" with extra strands (still low-cost)

* Fiber can be cheaper when:
 * Upgrading equipment
     * SFP (small-form factor pluggable modules)
     * Increased bandwidth, no extra cable
 * Installing a new datacenter
     * Relatively fewer equipment = less heat, less cooling systems
 * Space between distribution closets (i.e. equipment divided between floors in the same building) is small
 * Cable volume could cause EMI problems for copper

* Fiber is more expensive when:
 * Terminating connections
     * Training employees
     * Buying termination and testing equipment
 * Pulling over short distances (esp. less than 1000 ft)
 * Replacing an existing infrastructure 
 * Replacing damaged cable


* The ugly truth about fiber:
  * To-home connections are unfeasible
  * Current copper networks can increase bandwidth equal to that of fiber (ex. 10 Gbps)
  * LIUs/Fiber termination racks have varying jack types; copper (ethernet) is standard across all modern implementations
  * Homeowners don't really need 1 Gbps^+ connections, meaning that current copper infrastructure can remain with small upgrades
  * Home-visit repairs would increase in cost due to the rise of training technicians (i.e. pay raises)
 

_____
_____
_____ 

_____

**HARDWARE**

It's a nightmare. [Modular devices](http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/products/collateral/switches/catalyst-4500-series-switches/product_data_sheet0900aecd801792b1.html), [media converters](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiber_media_converter), repeaters, [small-form factor pluggable transceivers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Small_form-factor_pluggable_transceiver), cable trays, cable signal interference ([cross-talk vs alien cross-talk](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crosstalk_%28electronics%29)). Some references above also outline costs.

____

**RIGHT OF WAY**

Shitstorm. I'm not going there.

_______

**COSTS AND WHATNOT**

Manufacturer | Description | Cost per foot | Part number
---|---|----|----
CORNING | MIC 12 strand SM TB Plenum Indoor | $0.83 | 012E88-33131-29
CORNING | ALTOS 144 strand SM LT Outdoor | $1.44 | 144EU4-T4701D20

^(Discounted, likely, as we are a University)

Cited in the FIOS study (pg. 19): 96-strand fiber is $0.90/foot

Cat5e, Cat6, Cat6a vary depending on shielding, but as an estimate our unshielded Cat5e plenum is $0.21/foot per 1000ft. box.

Fiber "patch" cords (intranet) for device-to-device ports with backbone network equipment is more expensive than ethernet, plus there are varying termination types. Ethernet uses a standard RJ-45 for all implementations.

^(*Ninja edit*: I spent 4 hours writing this^^ADHD and I have a final exam tomorrow. What the hell am I doing with my life?) Promise? &gt; but if you give me maybe $10B, I could put Verizon and Comcast out of business in a decade.

Not if you didn't use 1 billion of it to ~~pay~~ lobby politicians and pay lawyers I guess towns are learning that the ["FCC Just Overruled State Laws That Were Blocking Municipal Broadband"](http://gizmodo.com/fcc-just-overruled-the-state-laws-that-blocked-municipa-1688200941). Except that was never an issue in Oregon. We've had municipal broadband in smaller cities for over a decade.  Bristol, Virginia has had it since 2003 One of the things I liked the most about living in Ashland was the fiber network. It was built in the late 90s, but apparently has had some financial difficulties after I moved.  The financial problems weren't with the Internet part, it was with the cable tv side, which the city sold off.  People in Ashland don't really watch much TV. Thanks for the update, I really miss that place.  Because Oregon is awesome.  i wonder what free-range, GMO-free, certified-organic, municipal fiber tastes like... It tastes like Freedom, friend. With a slight hint of ironic hipster. Yum.  I lived in a town with municipal fiber for a few years - Tacoma, Washington. It was better than you would believe.  &gt; On Friday, Comcast said it plans to eventually upgrade nearly its entire service territory to gigabit service - and bring 2 gigs to many customers.

Lol. Uhuh ok. Isn't Comcast the company that threatened the FCC by saying they would drop "plans" that they had to upgrade their networks if the FCC didn't rule their way?  And then people pointed out that it was unlikely they ever had such plans. Even if they did and someone else offers slower fiber, I'm still dropping Comcast. We have a small telecom company in our area (town with a population of about 8000) that has been building up a fiber infrastructure.  They are expanding to include residential internet, phone, and TV now and are providing fiber lines to the door.  Not as cheap as Google Fiber, but considering I'm paying for the highest tier TWC offers (50d/5u for $95/mo), I'll soon be getting 100d/20u for $50/mo.  And gigabit is an option, but is pricey.

Point is, smaller companies and municipalities aren't going to wait for the big boys to continue screwing people over with bad options and high prices.  This is why I love competition. Oh MINET how I miss you why did I ever move from that beautiful fiber network...:(  Right!? Having to deal with either Centurylink or Comcast where I'm at in Salem is infuriating. MINET was awesome. MINET is great. 

Love having fiber to the door, though their speeds are on the low side for a fiber network.  ITS WORKING! Thanks Google!! Better be in Eugene quick-_- It's up to the city to start the process.  Contact your city council and ask them where they're at with regards to getting fiber.  Give em hell if they parrot Comcasts line or claim it's too hard. Right?! I'm using centurylink, will gladly switch over. Century link was awful where I am in eugene. I know people hate on Comcast but it's faster and about the same price.  Now if only we can get the university towns (Corvallis, Eugene, etc) to do the same.... This is the TRUE benefit of Fiber. To make people hungry for speeds they deserve, and to force other businesses to have to do the proper thing and upgrade their service to compete. 

At the end of the day, Google still wins anyway because it's more traffic to their other services. 

And more importantly still, consumers are getting what they deserve and pay for.  I literally read this article while mooching off Internet from a Starbucks in Hillsboro From Canby, Oregon, we've got gigabyte speed  COME TO OREGON CITY, IT COULD BE SYMBOLIC OF THE PILGRIM TRAIL AND...
i really want gigabit.. Someone being that shit to Silverton. I'm so fucking tired of dealing with Wave Broadband and their "55Mbps" speeds that in reality are about "2Mbps" because "too many people are using the Internet and our network isn't upgraded yet."  They didn't mention Canby Telcom which I work for and we've had it for years! We're a local co-op and one of the first in the country to offer IPTV and Gigabit! C'mon! ISPs don't have a monopoly on engineers and technicians who can build networks.  Any city or county can hire engineers and technicians to do it. This year just keeps getting better! &gt;They may be a benign company but they would still be a monopoly, and monopolies charge what they can."

I think a lot of people (like myself) are infatuated with the Google name, because they've earned it. (Self. Driving. Cars.) But just because their motto is "don't be evil" doesn't mean they'd be immune from the evil of a monopoly. But I think in this case, their motto is what's driving them to break up the current monopoly. Wasn't that what Google wanted in the first place? They started the whole Fiber thing not because they wanted to be an ISP, but they wanted to show that A: America wants Gigabit internet and B: It can be done. 

I think each town should take up doing this! Guess they really want to play Oregon  trail multiplayer without the lag Lafayette Louisiana already has a setup like this through LUS.  How long until comcast sues these towns? And this, ladies and gentlemen, is how change is going to happen. It won't come from government intervention as change is against their interests. It won't come from corporate actions because change is against their interets. It's going to come from the consumers finally getting fed up and taking matters into their own hands.  This needs to be a nationwide thing. And hopefully now with the reclassification of internet as a utility Comcast will no longer monopolize the markets. with blackjack? and hookers? Real do-it-yourself types here in Oregon. For example I just smoked a bunch of weed all by myself.  *Looks on reddit
*See's article
*Hey that's my state!
*Opens article
*town I live in getting high speed internet
*Joy ensues 
 Dear Governor Pence,

If you want to start rebuilding your reputation, start with this.

Sincerely, 

Indiana Ah yes, nothing quite like being in Oregon at the moment. 

You can enjoy a nice mellow day on the porch of your all-natural honey farm in the beautiful farmlands while downloading Terabytes of BDSM porn for date night with the lovely wife. So many of you are missing the point here.  Municipalities are investing in building their own fiber networks so services like Google, Time Warner, Comcast, etc. have no other option than to lease the use of city/state owned fiber network infrastructure to provide their services.  Municipalities have rights to deny outside entities from putting shovels in the ground and building proprietary corporate networks within muni boundaries, which forces an ISP to lease access to muni owned fiber infrastructure (provided the muni network exists and the ISP really wants that subscription base).  This forces ISPs to pay a municipality to provide services on the existing network infrastructure or not enter the muni's market at all.  Through this model of municipality owned networks, your subscription to an ISP would provide you internet service and also contribute to your muni's revenue since the ISP is paying your muni to provide its service over their fiber network.

tl;dr Municipalities are building their own fiber networks to profit off ISPs.

Sauce: Telecom veteran. You're making it sound like a bad thing, can you please elaborate why? Provided the physical plant is well built and maintained, that's probably the best scenario of all. In no way did I make it sound like a "bad thing".  I simply described the motive of municipalities for building their own fiber network. reclassifying as title II gives the telecoms the right of ways though no? Yes, but you must remember federal and state laws differ and many municipalities simply do not have defined regulations for such construction.  Not to mention many existing utility poles and underground conduit routes are privately owned. It's disappointing that I will remain paying $250+ monthly for 30 gigs of data. I had hopes of getting broadband on the early side of 2001. I'm still expecting it to take 10+ years. But I love being forced to only have Comcast in tanasbourne. I live in Hillsboro but on the tanasbourne line. I hate being fucking force-fed comcast. The data cap is fucking stupid, 300 gb for a 150 Mbp/s connection. Thanks douche bags, my Internet is capped after 4 hours and 20 minutes of downloads.  Yeah I clock about 400 gb a month and my speeds are always slow now. Beats century link though my parents can't even stream YouTube videos in west linn. Yeah. :-( we were heavy netflix users and now we can't even watch a few movies a month without going over. Comcast is pure and utter shit.  TIL: Most of the people think that they are forced to use internet.

At the same time, most of the people use internet for posting updates to FalseBook and spying on their ex-es By forced I mean that I only have one option in Internet service providers. COMCAST It it is that painful, why not to cut the cord. Will it have blackjack and hookers? What still sucks here in San Diego I pay 70 a month for 130mbps at home with Cox, and at my business 60 a month for 5mbps  Won't take long for internet companies to start sueing, claim "unfair competition". Monmouth and Independence Oregon (mentioned in the story) have had MINET fiber for well over four years - don't remember how long.  The towns still provide financial support even though it was sold to us as a cheaper better faster system that would pay back it's massive loan post hasty.  The people are nice though, and I loathed Charter.   &gt; "we think especially in times of fiscal tradeoffs that taxpayer money should be focused on those needs rather than competing with the private sector."

Haha, especially when those taxdollars directly compete with our hard-won de-facto monopolies.  I think public bandwidth is a fantastic use of tax dollar, precisely for the reasons comcast says it *isn't*
 10 to 15 years ago [AT&amp;T] or SNET or SBC hung fiber optics in my area. To this day I don't think they are being used.

We are ready for google fiber. There's a town in Alberta Canada that has done the same thing. Olds Alberta has a population of around 8200 people, the municipality decided they wanted their own reliable source of internet so they invested in their own fibre lines. As someone who works in ISP customer service field I can tell you, people from that town are nearly impossible to keep around and honestly I don't blame them. All the power to Olds man, power to the people!  Come on Hillsboro, don't fail me now.  I never thought I'd have a chance to say this, but great job Oregon. so is Seattle btw.  This post makes me happy to be an Oregonian. I love the fact that we don't just wait around for big businesses to do everything for us; we just do it ourselves for half the cost. Everyone in the US is getting fiber, increased internet speeds and lower prices. And us in Rural areas get nothing. Dial up or bust for wired internet. reminds me of an interesting case in italy, i believe it had something to do with modifying an engine or something... but the italian courts basically said "once the sale is final, you have zero rights over what the purchaser does with it" That's the doctrine of first sale, which also generally applies in the US.

There are a number of powerful interests who realize that there's a buck to be made in undermining this doctrine. Car manufacturers are also joining the choir, because fixing your own car might be "unsafe." Of course, forcing you to use overpriced dealer service is their proposed alternative. My friend's prius needed a new cell in it's battery pack.  Toyota will not replace a single cell, you need to replace the entire battery pack.  Luckily there is a third party company in our area that will replace a single cell and give a 2 year warranty. I'm sure Toyota would love to put this place out of business.  [This guy's diy]( http://imgur.com/gallery/j8Bcp/) That's fucking awesome. My favorite bit, apart from how cheap it ends up being, is the metal hand in all of the "after" photos. Doesn't he know that metal is conductive?  How reckless. I was about to link this. Dude is a bro. A guy on reddit fixed his own cells himself for ~~a few hundred~~ ten dollars and did a DIY. 

Edit: [here it is!](http://i.reddit.com/r/DIY/comments/2vs5fc/toyota_wanted_4450_to_replace_my_hybrid_battery) 
 To be fair, while replacing a single cell isn't exactly hard, the voltage you deal with can kill a person. Can you pick which person? Cause that would almost be worth it. Cersei. Walder Frey. The Mountain. Meryn Trant. Weese," she would whisper, first of all. "Dunsen, Chiswyck, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling. The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Gregor, Ser Amory, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei." Instructions unclear; Lost face.  Valar Morghulis Valar Prius All men must low T To be fair, while lifting an engine isn't exactly hard, the weight you deal with can kill a person. I get what you're saying, but the risk of electrocution in handling a car's high voltage battery pack is pretty significant and also pretty new. (Also, they're kinda heavy too.) 

Of course you should be allowed to attempt to repair one if you really want to, but it actually is dangerous. I think the point is that both tasks have risks, but if you have half a brain there are many precautions and safeguards that can be enacted. If you attempt to fix a high voltage battery and you don't know what you're doing, then just let natural selection do its thang. We ain't got no more room for that. So is fixing pretty much anything in my house.

Do you think I shouldn't be allowed to touch my own A/C or light switches simply because they're dangerous?

edit: Or mow my yard, cut down a tree, use a saw, etc. As an electrical engineer that has worked on HV powertrain on cars... don't kid yourself into think your mains power is close to as dangerous as those battery packs.  I'm all for people being able to mod their stuff but opening the HV packs is dumb for anyone without full understanding of what's going on.  Driving the car can kill a person too... I'm sure the company he used to replace the pack knows this and trains their personnel for it. &gt; That's the doctrine of first sale, which also generally applies in the US.

Yeah, hasn't that pretty much been dead for anything involving computers since [*Vernor v. AutoDesk*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vernor_v._Autodesk,_Inc.), if not since [*Wall Data v. Los Angeles County Sheriff's Dept*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wall_Data_v._Los_Angeles_County_Sheriff%27s_Dept)? Software is treated as the lone exception to the first sale doctrine, and I've never heard a cogent defense for that. It's just "new = different," except it's not new anymore. Yes, I was thinking of how your not suppose to jailbreak your phone.  Except you very much are allowed to, as stated in the original article. It's not that different buying a personal computer. Both entail Billions of dollars of encapsulated IP with the compensating share built into the buy price as negotiated by the product builder.

The idea that any of this encapsulated IP is licensed is just ludicrous. The owner of that IP isn't even party to the sale agreement. If they aren't happy with the terms the retailer offers then they need to have the manufacturer imposing it on the retailer who then imposes it on buyer.

Bloody absentee third parties to a sale thinking they can make up the terms in retrospect without the buyer ever seeing the terms (to the manufacturer or the buyer) prior to the sale agreement being made.

&gt; Congratulations on the purchase of your new car/house. We are the manufacturer of said product and are willing to offer you the keys to the car/house in mere exchange for your first born child. What do you mean you thought the sale was finalized and you could use your purchase in every legal manner? No.No. No. We're only got our cut from the builder. Now we want to change the rules and get a blank cheque from you. Same reason why even though you only see 'check engine' your cars on board computer will know exactly what's wrong. They want you to pay the dealership to plug up a laptop to charge you for something you could have done yourself, or that wasn't needed at all.

Edit: I know how cheap it is to buy an adapter and get the info. That's my point.

Edit: I'm not devaluing mechanics skills, I'm just saying if some cars can detect some problems specifically it should indicate specifically or at least give specific error codes as seen in computers. The same goes for car manufacturers engineering cars so that you have to disassemble the entire front end to change a headlight. This is obviously to force the customer to go to a dealer for the most trivial of all car repairs. $18 on amazon (depending on your car) can get you a code reader that will give you the error codes, which you can look up online. This this has saved me hundreds and hundreds of doll hairs. Or you can just drop by an auto parts store, and they'll read the code for you. Only in some states. It is illegal for auto parts stores to do that in California. I don't know why. It's probably known to cause cancer in the state of California. It seems everything does. Those signs are so prevalent they become ignored.

I could literally walk into an asbestos coated smoking room and not even think about cancer risks because I have blocked those signs out. &gt; This this has saved me hundreds and hundreds of doll hairs.

I mean, I think this is odd, but who am I to judge you for what you do with the money you save? I'm still trying to figure out the Dollars to Doll Hair conversion.  &gt;Same reason why even though you only see 'check engine' your cars on board computer will know exactly what's wrong.

Going to break the circlejerk here.

No, it doesn't. It knows what the designers have triggered it to know, and while a lot of times that's perfectly accurate and fine, there are also a lot of times where you can check the code and have ***no fucking clue*** what's wrong.

One of our techs made fucking bank on people who'd gone to AutoZone and spent $500 buying a new catalytic converter after they checked the OBD II when it was really a short in a circuit in another component in the same series.

There isn't any harm in looking up the code, but if it points to something that's more than $100, have it double-checked by a professional. Or you can go to pretty much any auto parts store and use the free loaner OBD-II scanner to pull the code and know exactly what the problem is. OBD is standardized, and a CEL has to illuminate as a result of a standard code so inspection computers know what the issue is as well. You may have non-standard codes for other devices in the car, but those won't trigger a CEL.  This is just common sense. its common sense unless youre a corporate whore beholden to the shareholders. when it comes to "shareholder value" common sense is completely irrelevant.  They just know that it's insane, right? Like, I really don't think the people working for the company think this is a logical thing; they just know it's an argument that they can make.  Heres my rant about incorporation and the stock market...

together, they remove all human responsibility from a created entity that effects enormous amounts of people. in EvilCorporationA, the employees dont care about what crazy things the business does (im poor, i need a job, i just work here!). the management of EvilCorporationA doesnt give a shit about what crazy things need to be done to boost shareholder value, as that is their primary and only concern, and the shareholders who own EvilCorporationAs stock have no responsibility over decisions made, "i just own the stock/fund!".

were left with an entity whose sole purpose is monetary gain with zero responsibility for our societies long term health. Thats where bullshit decisions like this come from...**anything** for *shareholder value* This is why I love EvilCorporationB. They'd never do shit like this. Yeah, ever since they changed their name from Umbrella to EvilCorporationB they've been on the up and up. Rebrand and pivot, baby Interested, very interested, or very interested? 

Which one? 

Which one? 

Which one?  After that fiasco at Raccoon City they had to re-brand. Don't blame me, I voted for Kodos.  [deleted] Good start, but you're missing the worst problem this created. Since the creation and adoption of the 401k, people's retirements are tied into the performance of the stock market. Therefore, anyone who has any stock ownership has a monetary reason to turn a blind eye to all but the most egregious corporate shenanigans. 

Take for example the BP spill. Calls for punishing the company for its negligence became an international political thing. British politicians made it very clear that we wouldn't be doing any such thing because so many pensioners depend on BP.

I'm not saying there's a better way. I'm just pointing out one of the pitfalls of the stock market as we use it. Pention funds were tied to the stock market too. It's not any different. Also 401k can literally be invested anywhere. I have a half baked principle I came up with for this. It's "subdivision of evil." If you can subdivide an evil act among enough members of a group, each member can round their portion of that act down to zero. 1 act of evil "counts" as zero acts of evil to each individual, with enough subdivisions.

This is exactly why I feel that the larger something gets, the worse it is. 6 people in a room doing something evil still have to process 1/6 guilt. 60,000? 1/60,000 barely registers. 350 million? You get the idea. &gt;were left with an entity whose sole purpose is monetary gain with zero responsibility for our societies long term health. 

And *that*, kids, is why regulations are necessary. As Baron Thurlow supposedly said, "They have no soul to save, and no body to incarcerate." I've been making this exact argument for ages.  The current system of public trading is, if not purposefully, then through a million bad small decisions, created to remove responsibility and consequence for immoral and unsustainable behavior from all parties involved in making it happen. Like when Microsoft tried to enforce the terms of their EULA on a product that was never opened. Spoiler: They screwed with the wrong kid.

http://www.clevescene.com/cleveland/kill-bill/Content?oid=1490131 Kid settled though, so Microsoft got away with it basically.  No precedents set, no major public change. But at the very least some one tried. It isn't often you see someone, especially a college kid, challenge a corporate giant Man, that writing style pisses me off. yea, 2/3's of the article is fluff.  That was a good read. I'm surprised I hadn't heard about it before.  Remember that time that Tesla pushed an over-the-air update to raise the ride height of their vehicles to avoid a potential accident risk? Users weren't notified, but the purpose was beneficial so...

Some in IT believe that OTA/push security updates would save us big big bags of money, protect user personal information and even fix vulnerabilities potentially exploitable for sabotage or terrorism.

I don't know the answer. The thing about how complex our world is is that I don't think its reasonable to expect end users to really understand the need to hotfix vulnerabilities in their products. Maybe they need to take it on faith, accept authorities.

I have no fucking idea. But is 'just common sense' enough? But what happens down the road when the company stops making patches and stops supporting the vehicle, but it's still otherwise mechanically sound, but you can't perform repairs without diagnostics, which you can't perform because they'll still sue your ass for it? You buy the newest model of course, silly. Well, the right solution is to just "end of life" the car, remove all formal support, and then allow people to use 3rd party diagnostics/service at their own risk.  That's more or less what enterprise software does. Unless you sign that right away (see Ferrari). You can't sign that right away. In Ferrari's case what they do is that if you do something they don't like, Ferrari will simply not sell you their limited edition cars (which they sell directly) any longer. You can still do whatever you please with the car, as long as you're not planning on buying any more limited-edition cars from them in the future. Weirdly, it doesn't apply to land. HOAs are inescapable once they're connected to the deed. HOAs fold quite often and give their common land to the local government quite often.

I joined my HOA board in a long-game attempt to cause them to fail. That's when you start your own company Lamborghini.  God Damn Purrari It also has some relation to buying DVDs, where you have the right to watch the DVD but not copy or modify it for sale or redistribution. I'm told that there are sources for modified computers (control modules) for most modern cars that allow owners to modify the cars behavior and make possible hardware changes to its engine/drive train. This should also be possible for tractors, assuming it would be profitable to do so. My guess is that market is too small.  fortunately, i do have the right to copy a dvd for personal use, except the whole bullshit dmca crap of having to break the law to do what im legally allowed to do. its at the core of why the dmca is garbage.  Which is when Ferrari changed their contractual language for their top of the line vehicles. 

 Ferrari can't take the car back though. They just won't sell you a special edition one again.  Patent law has this doctrine - the first sale of a patented item exhausts a patentees rights in that item, regardless of contractual obligations.  But this concept is not applied faithfully to copyright law.  

The whole problem is that people are using contract law (ie, a license) to expand the scope of a federal copyright.  There's a simple preemption argument to make against this practice - can't use state law to expand/modify the scope of the federal copyright protection that congress afforded us (indeed, state law cannot even act in the same space because of ne dormant IP clause)!- but the courts (and their junior inexperienced fresh-out-of-law school clerks) don't really understand IP law and always get it wrong.  Le sigh.  Stupid IP law.  It's really just great for lawyers at this point and no one else. Pretty much with Ferrari and their cease &amp; desist.

They don't like what you do to their car, even though you bought it ? They send you a cease &amp; desist letter. This is the same thing that allows Netflix to distribute physical media (DVDs) of shows that they aren't allowed to stream. The content producer cannot legally prohibit them from renting the DVD, but they can prevent them from streaming the content. [deleted] People are missing the point.  This is not about modding the equipment or having rights to reverse engineer the firmware. Mainstream consumers are never going to do this. 

The real problem is what happens when the manufacturer decides to stop supporting the equipment. Even if the manufacturer is not trying to be malicious copyrighting everything will screw consumers especially for equipment that is typically used for many years after the manufacturers discontinue support.  Many tractors made in the 1950's and 1960's are still in use today.

TFA mentions a farmer who bought $200,000 worth of equipment that is perfectly serviceable, but he cannot fix it because the manufacturer used copyrights to lock down the service manuals and diagnostic tools.
 Oh man this wasn't even mentioned in the article but it is definitely the best argument. 

I have had several video games become entirely unplayable since their servers shut down. No offline patch or opening of the code for someone to take over. Just gone forever Funny how a shitty 30 year old NES cartridge made by 20 or so developers has a better lifespan than a 6 year old game with a 200 developer team. That's a design feature, not a bug. Don't play old games, EA doesn't get paid when you play old games. They then re-release old games on the new systems as a download for $4.99.  This way you pay to play a game for a second time, albeit at a much smaller amount.  It's a second mini-pay day.  Which is why always-online gaming is never going to be the future that I want to be a part of and why Nintendo will always have a place in my home. My family has a shared cabin (sounds more impressive than it is).  Out in the middle of no where, no cable, no internet, trees make it impossible for satellite, and you barely even get a cell signal.  It's awesome if you want to get away from the world for a weekend.

But sometimes it rains and storms and you are trapped inside with nothing to do.  A TV and DVD player are great, but I like grabbing my console and totting it out when I go.  I'll relax with a beer and play some Skyrim or whatever as I wait the storm out.  Having an Always-Online game system would destroy this ability.  Tying my ability to game to the internet seems absurd to me.

I get that I am in the minority, but what happens when/if the internet goes out at home?  I'm denied my games because Comcast is having technical difficulties?  When the internet is out is when I want my games the most.  I don't think you're in the minority with that view.

That's why everyone was pissed at Microsoft when they first announced xbone was online only. As someone who deployed to a combat theater I feel your pain. No good internet for a year.  Everyone played offline games during downtime and rest time. I'm on my phone right now so I can't link it, but there is something going through the court system now which if it succeeds will allow people to create new unofficial servers for games that no longer have official servers available. This could potentially revive a bunch of old online games. I miss City of Heroes. It's basically advanced planned obsolescence(which should be cracked down on IMO). But how are poor corporations supposed to make money if they don't force you to give them hundreds/thousands every few years? Its easy. Once the TPP goes through (in secret), any company affected by changes to the DCMA can just sue the government (of many nations) for the loss in profits they receive from being forced to provide their customers with the information needed to repair items which they no longer support.  Well they'll have to join the music industry in the poor people villa with only 5 swimming pools. As BRIC countries improve their research and development capabilities obsolescence is going to happen at faster pace then ever imagined.  Obsolecense is a thing already. I'm talking about manufacturers that knowingly design their hardware to expire in a really short time, for no reason other than money.

With computers it's a bit of a grey area because of major advancements in computer hardware coming out every year or two. Actually, I know someone who owns a company that specifically modifies the timing of certain engines to make them more efficient. This could be a potentially criminal act if John Deere and GM have their way.  How do you find such a company? My car warranty is up soon. What type of business is it? There are a number of engine programing tools you can buy that lets you adjust timing, fuel, air and probably some other stuff as well.  NAPA, AutoZone, Parts Plus.....everyone has them. They work on diesel engines, probably won't work on your car, unfortunately. I don't know a lot about how the product works, only that it does.  Exactly. It's the same thing with all new consumer goods which have supposedly been "upgraded" with the ability to receive software updates; do you really think your PS4 is going to work in 20 years as easily as your NES? Or that "smart" TV? Or your iPhone? &gt; make it possible for pirates, third-party developers, and less innovative competitors to free-ride off the creativity, unique expression and ingenuity of vehicle software. 

Add convoluted, unintuitive, and dysfunctional to that list as well.  Some of the worst designed UI i've ever encountered. They don't want third parties modifying software because then they couldn't charge $3500 for a whole new hardware system when the only upgrade is a minuscule software change. My favorite part about Top Gear was Jeremy constantly pointing out the absolute shitburger of a nav system in some $100,000 luxury sports sedan. Imagine if they just allowed an online community to mod those things, people might actually be able to use them. Yeah especially considering most auto manufacturers seem nearly completely unwilling to put out updates unless it's completely broken.

Hell, I'd even *pay* for an update program if it meant regular improvements and bug fixes. Unfortunately, paying for updates to make it functional is now a business plan. That's the root of the problem right there.  Seems as though we are about to enter the age of real-world vehicular DLC. This is why both Apple and Google have created car-centric systems. In a few years we're going to see these becoming more popular. They'll have world class interfaces and they'll get over the air updates. Once a few of these get into mass market cars, it'll make the average consumer much more aware of how shitty most of the proprietary systems are. People already do mod it, but the legality of it depends on the situation. When it comes to hacking devices with new roms and such I think that people are more than entitled to do so, but any warranty should be void. You have altered the original operating structure of a device the waranty is meant to cover a list of likely accidents that can occur and damage the product. By hacking it you have changed the state of the device that could possibly lead to damage and thus the warranty would be forced to pick it up.  The warranty for things related to the software, sure.  But wholly voiding it favors the company unreasonably. Mental note:

* Found new luxury car company.
* Install off-the-rack electronics into car.
* Build car systems off of FOSS software whenever possible.
* Include language in ownership paperwork that explicitly enables tinkers and do-it-yourselfers (if car is a lease, make sure the cars are easily re-imageable by the dealership).
* Release Open Source SDK for car.
* Profit. Yea my 2010 Jeep's GPS (which was pretty terrible) needed a map update. $300 for the 2015 CD. Screw that.  All I'd need is a way to connect my phone with Bluetooth to display it's GPS on the screen. When I'm in the newer vehicles, I never use their gps I think that's what Apple and Google are trying to do with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. Select manufacturers are now including them stock with their vehicles Had the same thing with my VW. $300 for the map update - looked on eBay, $40 for the map update, firmware update and a few other software updates. Dealership software taken and burned onto DVDs by a guy who worked at a dealership somewhere. Careful, your car might be a decepticon now. There might be a way to put OpenStreetMap on your Jeep 2010 for the cost of $0. This is such a strange and scary area of ownership/responsibility.  With driverless cars on the roads, responsibility for software will be a huge issue when something does go wrong.  It is scary that the same level of corporate control gets to be held over what your coffee makes will brew for you and who is at fault when your self driving car runs off a cliff.  

On the big picture... all the technological advances are not worth it when we hit a point we simply work and lease our rewards from our bosses. &gt; t is scary that the same level of corporate control gets to be held over what your coffee makes will brew for you and who is at fault when your self driving car runs off a cliff.
&gt; On the big picture... all the technological advances are not worth it when we hit a point we simply work and lease our rewards from our bosses.

Its almost like we are living in the Guided Age 2.0... 

In all  honestly the law and Government is supposed to be a 3rd entity in the buyer/seller transaction that underpins capitalism.  Its function is supposed to be such that neither side gains unfair advantage and distorts the invisible hand.    But when the sellers are funding the government's officials, suddenly the entire dynamic changes and fair doesn't really enter the picture anymore.  

Its why corruption is a cancer that destroys countries.    FYI, it's "Gilded Age", as in covered with a thin layer of gold leaf, under which lies a substance of substantially lesser value. Ahh thank you
 And you know someone will get Linux running on their car. That further confuses responsibility. Should Tesla have secured their cars better or should the hacker not hack the car? Who's at fault?  I would argue that at that point you are using the product in an unforseen and unintended manner, likely breaking either Tesla's ToS, some new law, or both.

In my eyes, when I buy an iPad it should be mine. But jailbreaking it is using the device in a manner not approved by Apple, so they won't help me fix it if my Cydia app turns out to be malicious, and I'm (somewhat) okay with that.

Similarly, I could imagine a self-driving car being mine completely. However, the second I modify the software or the OS, I could imagine liability for any software-related incidents falling on me. I think the self driving car scenario trips up a lot of people, but I don't see it as overly complicated. The same rules still apply as they do with a human driver. The software drives the vehicle. If there is a wreck, it should be fairly easy to determine which car violated the rules of the road that caused the accident. If the software malfunctions, that's on Google (or whatever company designs the software), if a physical part fails, that falls to the manufacturer of the part (or owner of the vehicle if it failed because of negligence) and if the OS is modified in a way that violates the terms of service that falls and whoever modified the OS, unless it can be proven that the OS could not have caused the software malfunction. 

Just my two cents, but I feel like that covers %95 of situations.  There should be some set of government standards that you have to adhere to in the software. 

Similar to today, you can make physical modifications, but you can't undermine the safety of the car.

We should absolutely be allowed to modify our own property. Where it's legal to use on the other hand can be the tricky part. Completely agreed. Let be a set of standards in place that software has to meet. Maybe even some sort of yearly testing to make sure it meets safety requirements. Kind of like what an inspection is supposed to be for. Even though that brings the issue of people just altering the cares software to show false results to what sort of inspection process they had to go through yearly. 

But at the very least, a set of safety guidelines the software has to meet in order to be a commercial product.   But the difference is jailbreaking an iPad *probably* won't kill anyone. If that Linux distro the hacker puts on a car isn't up to snuff, it could cost lives. 

I tend to agree with you, but I can't predict what will happen. I can see arguments both ways. I'm curious to see how society adopts these cars going forward.  Sure, but at the same time, people are already tinkering with their cars. They're swapping engines and fixing brakes; all of that could result in deaths as well, either through wrongful installation or faulty products.

It's definitely an interesting thing to think about though. Someone could kill someone with their car without modifying it. There is an inherent danger with cars, as opposed to iPads. That would be on you though, the modifier. If you keep it stock you wouldn't be liable. A car is the last thing I would put my own selected distribution of Linux on. No fucking way. \&gt; "So who the fuck drove this car into that tree?!"  
\&lt; "Gnome(s) did it." If you modify your car and replace the brakes, suspension, add a turbo, and then something fails and causes your car to crash, the automaker won't take responsibility. But if your stock car has a brake failure and goes careening off the road, the automaker could certainly be responsible (depending on vehicle age and similar things). The manufacturer assumes responsibility for what they create, you take on that responsibility if you modify it in a way that changes its behavior. Common sense would dictate that if you modify something from what the original manufacturer created it is now your creation and you're responsible for what happens.

As long as they don't provide you with tools and means to hack it (Hacking port in the dash), then they really shouldn't be liable for what you do to your car.  This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://www.wired.com/2015/04/dmca-ownership-john-deere/) reduced by 91%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; In a particularly spectacular display of corporate delusion, John Deere-the world&amp;#039;s largest agricultural machinery maker -told the Copyright Office that farmers don&amp;#039;t own their tractors.

&gt; General Motors told the Copyright Office that proponents of copyright reform mistakenly &amp;quot;Conflate ownership of a vehicle with ownership of the underlying computer software in a vehicle.&amp;quot; But I&amp;#039;d bet most Americans make the same conflation-and Joe Sixpack might be surprised to learn GM owns a giant chunk of the Chevy sitting in his driveway.

&gt; Urge lawmakers to support legislation like the Unlocking Technology Act and the Your Own Devices Act, because we deserve the keys to our own products.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/33ctdq/we_cant_let_john_deere_destroy_the_very_idea_of/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~10178 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **own**^#1 **Copyright**^#2 **Make**^#3 **manufacturer**^#4 **software**^#5

Post found in [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/33cptv/we_cant_let_john_deere_destroy_the_very_idea_of/) and [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/33cqob/we_cant_let_john_deere_destroy_the_very_idea_of/). Pretty impressive work, bot. Ya done good. I try my best. 70% bot, 30% human? 15% concentrated power of will I think it just became sentient... Joe Sixpack would be a mediocre superhero name That's why I go by Joe Thirtypack when I fight crime in my neighborhood.   Let's raise awareness and support for YODA! thank you based god This is a seriously impressive bot Gee, who could have possibly predicted that the DMCA would be abused in such a way in order to screw consumers?  /s And to piggyback on precedents that have already been established by it, John Deere is, according to the article, arguing that allowing people to alter the software could make it possible to pirate music with a tractor.

What the fuck? I suppose then they're liable for what the tractor does. If the tractor drives into cars in the John Deere head offices' car park, it must be their fault. Also what if the harvest isn't up to snuff?  I think they should be held liable for that too. No, because the judge you will take this case to has his campaign for election financed by John Deer and he will dismiss it at the request of his "owners" who hold the money.   Ah ah ah, they don't own him. They're just working with him under an implied lease. Working as intended.  Additionally, if John Deere owns the tractor, shouldn't they pay for the repairs? This is exactly what I was thinking.  Ok, you own that part of the tractor.  That part is not working and is affecting what I own.  You are now legally responsible to fix your property so it does not infringe on what I lawfully own. how does this work with land? if your land prevent someone from accessing their land, don't you have to provide an easement or something? You don't own a leased car, but you still have to pay for all service &amp; repairs.  I am not agreeing with what they are doing, but it would more or less be the same thing. If that's more or less the same thing, then John Deere needs to be making lease agreements instead of sales.  I'm willing to bet they wouldn't like that idea though. Yeah but you also have a choice to lease or own. This is saying no matter what they own it. Also if you rent a house the landlord has to pay for repairs not you. True, but with a leased car your more likely to be able to take it to a shop, and the company isn't actively trying to prevent you from fixing it.  Well then apples owns my iPhone and IPad because the hardware runs their software on it. This is very similar to the whole jailbreak thing where Apple didn't want it to happen so they took it to court and lost That's pretty much the jist of it.  The way I see it is:

If you want to delete their code and put your own/ 3rd party code in, it should be fine. It's your tractor.

If you want to take their code from your tractor and put into something else, it shouldn't be OK. You buy the tractor and the license for the code to run on the tractor. Not rights to the code.

What's being discussed is a more gray area where you are modifying their code. This should be OK as long as you don't distribute it. The Copyright Office currently has an exception to the DMCA which allows the circumvention of copyright on wireless telephones 
&gt; "where circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of enabling interoperability of [lawfully obtained software] applications with computer programs on the telephone handset."

I think that with a little thought this can be extended to all consumer products especially those where the software is not being used to subsidize the price of the product. Modifying code is already pretty standard in terms of licences. If its open source you follow the terms of the licence, if its not you get sued. This is where it gets a little screwy for me. Usually there is no problem with one buying a product, improving the product, and reselling it for a profit. However, it gets muddy when dealing with code because of its ease of reproduction. There should be no problem with someone improving to code on a car and then selling that car, however once they've done that, they could sell the code that's mostly not theirs, which is the underlying (legitimate) issue. &gt; If you want to take their code from your tractor and put into 
&gt; something else, it shouldn't be OK.

One of the reasons you are using a cheap, extremely powerful computer is because a group of people did exactly what you suggest they shouldn't be able to do. Humans have been sharing for the entirety of our existence. It's how technology works, it's now business operates, it's how society functions.

If i buy a tractor and find a cool modification, I can't tell my neighbor so he can do the same thing? That's horseshit. That's the point! It's like Einstein had to reinvent differential calculus because Newton/Leibniz put a copyright on it. You could distribute instructions (ie software) to alter the code, for sure. 

However, you couldn't necessarily give him an already altered copy, because it includes the information given to you by them under the condition that you not redistribute it.  Just an other expression we wouldn't think might be in everyday use:
"Is your tractor rooted?" Seriously... Reading this article, all I could think about was how I'd love make a living cracking farm equipment computers and making them run on open source software. Yeah, it could totally be a thing. 
My father works in agriculture, and the company bought a device on the combine that can tell you the yield of the plants and it draws graphs and stuff based on GPS coordinates, so you can determine the amount of fertilizer to be scattered in that area. But the software was total crap, you couldn't export the data correctly and it was complicated, and hard to use... 
So it could be very useful to modify these softwares, because the sensors are already there. It's akin to the same bone-headed move Keurig made with DRM. It's just going to drive consumers elsewhere.  Unfortunately the competition for tractors isn't exactly the same as the competition for at-home single-cup coffee brewing There is a reason that well maintained farm equipment depreciates very very slowly.  The second hand farm equipment is on a very large scale.  Honestly, if you go for a drive out to the country I will bet you that you will drive past at least 4 second hand equipment lots.  Seriously. I have farmers in my family who recently sold their tractor as they were selling the animals to retire. The tractor was purchased in the 1950s and they used it every single year.  I have a 1959 Massey Ferguson that I got from my dad. He rebuilt the motor once upon buying it, fixed the hydraulics twice. She still runs hard and requires little maintenance. Eh? There are plenty of other/better options.  Jd, yanmar, mahindra, Kubota, kioti, Massey furgeson, case/ih. Did you know JD owns the patent for the side by side pedal arrangement for hydrostatic transmissions? That's why all the other manufacturers (save for yanmar now), have to have a treadle pedal setup. I have rarely understood a comment less. If you've ever driven a tractor or even mower with a hydrostatic transmission, John Deeres have seperate forward and reverse pedals right next to each other, which is ideal. They apparently have a patent on that, so other manufacturers are forced to have a treadle pedal which is where forward and reverse are on the same pedal and it rocks back and forth. Ohhhh, okay. Yeah, I've driven both kinds, and the treadle pedal can go straight to Hell. I don't understand how something like that can be patented.  

I would expect the patent to be somewhere else...like on the transmission itself.  Pedals are damn near universal on equipment today. Hope this helps:

Jd , Yanmar , mahindra , Kubota , kioti , Massey Furgeson case / ih .
Wussten Sie, JD besitzt das Patent fr die nebeneinander Pedalanordnung fr hydrostatische Getriebe ? Das ist, warum alle anderen Hersteller (mit Ausnahme yanmar jetzt ) , mssen ein Pedal Pedal -Setup haben . My family owns a JD dealership and I can tell you that one of the big things driving sales is Deere's hardware/software solutions. I'm sure there's plenty of folks out there who don't want a computer on their tractor, but if you're planting hundreds of acres you're going to want precision guidance and as much data collection as you can get. It's going to be a very long time before this issue has any impact on Deere. I'm glad Wired is writing articles on this issue, but I don't think Deere's main customers are going to be getting on board any time soon. We deal with farms that will trade in most of their equipment and buy all new stuff every two years. It's insane &gt; It's just going to drive consumers elsewhere.

I dont know about that. Modern tractors have impressive functionality that is tied to things like sensors in their fertilization tanks and GPS for example. Tractors now are capable of metering out precise doses of material at specific points in a field. A farmer can just about write a script, install it, run it and sit back and watch movies on the in-cab theater system while the tractor does ALL of the work.  
   
The software/hardware mixture allows a farmer to save a lot of money on materials when he couples the modern tractor with his experience in reading the earth and his crops, and a few fairly cheap soil samples. The days of driving a tractor across each and every row are gone. The tractor helps the farmer by working only the areas of the field that need to be worked.    

While a farmer could go get a 40 or 50 year old tractor, spend what little money it needs to be refurbished, then use it to grow things, there is a limit where the inclusion of technology minimizes cost and time required per acre, thus becomes quite valuable.   

What John Deer is doing, I disagree with. People have been successfully modifying parts of the hardware/software in cars for years either for increased performance or to troubleshoot and repair problems, it has never (to my knowledge) led to someone "stealing" that hardware/software. What the fuck would they do with it if they did manage to "steal" a very specific set of components specifically design to make a particular car work? Having said that though, and granting that John Deer sure does look very piggish in their efforts to "keep" their software, the real bad guy is the Copyright Office that will/could/probably will allow them to do it legally. You can't really fault a company for doing something legal that gives them the potential for more profit. You can fault however the legal authority that signs the paperwork. 
 This is basically a perfect example of the law of unintended consequences and why we shouldn't have media companies writing our copyright laws. The specific section that is causing this insanity is 17 U.S. Code  1201 or simply Section 1201 of the DMCA. The initial reasoning behind this section was to create civil and criminal penalties for the circumvention of DRM. 

Media companies such as film companies wanted to make it illegal to circumvent the encryption on DVD's to limit the ability for pirates to access the files. What makes this inadequate is that these encryption schemes can be broken in a matter of days after release and all it takes is one copy leaking for it to make it to pirating sites. The rationale is to deter piracy but all it does is raise the barrier for normal consumers by making it difficult to make legitimate and fair use copies for personal reasons. That's what it's all about. The average pirate isn't going to purchase a second copy of a movie if they lost their disc. A less tech savvy person may just purchase that second disk. 

The problem with all of this is that the intended purpose has been perverted by manufacturers to extend copyright into areas that had never before seen copyright protection. As software begins to be integrated into every facet of our lives, companies have started to aggressively pursue extended copyright protections on their products. In the case of automobile manufacturers, many are attempting to use copyright to force buyers to only use their certified repair shops and technicians. It's essentially forcing consumers into having a limited choice in repair and maintenance so that dealerships can make more money. They do this by claiming that the software is proprietary and that unauthorized access constitutes copyright infringement. What makes this particularly bad is that manufacturers are starting to make it impossible to perform maintenance without access to the central software. The manufacturers claim that unauthorized access could cause accidents or unsafe operation of the vehicle that could open them up to liability, however, this already the case as you could just as easily go and cut your break lines and slam into a car. Manipulating code in a harmful manner negligently would follow the same tort standards.

The most absurd example is the Keurig 2.0 example that puts DRM on the k-cups so that only Keurig approved cups can be used in the system. If another manufacturer were to make a product that circumvented that, they could be forced out of the market under threat of copyright suits. This type of abuse has been reigned in by the courts with cases such as [Lexmark International v. Static Control Components](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lexmark_International,_Inc._v._Static_Control_Components,_Inc.)

This always boils down to companies abhoring true free market competition. They want to lock consumers into their ecosystem to avoid competition as much as possible. However, they are perverting copyright law to do so and it's ending up with absurd results. Courts are skeptical and hesitant to grant expansive interpretations of copyright laws to products that have never needed copyright protection before.  If they claim they own my car, ill send them the insurance bill. This is what happens when 80 year old technical illiterates write legislation.  Even though automotive firmware was first introduced in the late 80's (if not earlier) lawyers who go into congress simply don't have any interest.  We got a handful of doctors, some former military, but mostly all of the federal government is lawyers.  Just lawyers.  If this is a representational democracy where are the truck drivers?  That is the most popular profession in most states.  Where are the software developers?  Where are the engineers?  The accountants?  The teachers?   what an awful website wired has become, all those floating widgets when you scroll are quite distracting. back on topic though, fuck john deere and the "you're just buying a license" brigade. Wired's journalism quality has also taken a dive recently. They're now a buzzfeed for design and technology Seriously. The images and quotes that kept sliding in made me close the article before I got to the end. America's intellectual property laws are a complete joke. So many people claiming ideas as if they own them when in reality they just added icing to things people have been doing for centuries and claiming the whole cake belongs to them. Why is is that people understand the ridiculousness of this when it applies to physical objects, but not when it applies to software. **The Old Model**

Business produces product. Consumer buys it. The product generally works and the consumer is generally happy to buy another when it stops working. Everyone is generally happy.

**The New Model**

Business produces product. Consumer signs an agreement to use the product, opting in to a contract with the business in which they are allowed to use the product in a specific manner or face litigation. The business is happy to charge a monthly access fee to associate the product with a recurring revenue source and provide limited "coverage" which can be extended with another fee. The consumer is generally dissatisfied with the product but unable to change it because of the aforementioned agreement, even though the business released the product early to add value to the proposition of the agreement ahead of when said product was ready for the market. Nobody is happy except the lawyers. Wow.  Libraries have been dealing with this for years with electronic book and journal licensing.  Gamers are dealing with it now in eStores.  It's awe-inspiring to see corporations try to apply it to a physical object like a tractor.

The balls on these people. You wouldn't download a tractor, would you? I can't fucking stand GM anymore. First it was the 1984-like GPS tracking shit in every new car, then the attempt to hide the ignition switch problem and now they are on board with John Deere about this shit. I'm sure there have been countless other fuck ups over the years that people can point out but this has just been the past few that have really managed to get under my skin. I'll continue to give my money to other car companies. Fuck them.

My first car was a Saturn from the times before they destroyed what that brand was and just made those cars Chevys with a different badge slapped on the grill, and before they ultimately killed the brand in 2009 because nobody wanted a repackaged generic GM car. I don't plan to ever buy from GM again. We need to drastically reevaluate how we want to handle digital copyright (and copyright law in general) as a society. Right now, we're basing everything on a set of laws drawn up by old men 17 years ago. It turns out that those old men from 17 years ago had no idea the sort of society that would be emerging over the next few decades. Since the headline is completely fucking useless, here's the part of the article that explains the position:

&gt;  Because computer code snakes through the DNA of modern tractors, farmers receive an implied license for the life of the vehicle to operate the vehicle.

Right or wrong, I'm just doing legwork for you. There is nothing wrong with the title.  Selling devices with a limited license to use the software that makes it work undermines the first sale doctrine (and the idea of ownership.)  And what if you replace the software with open source software? Does their copyright not apply anymore? This is a really good point.  If the market sees a profit in reverse engineering the things and writing their own code, expect it to happen.

This isn't about the tractors themselves, it's about the code.  Example:

I'm an A/V programmer.  I write a module that takes two weeks to develop that I use on every job.  Now, if a job is small, it might take me less than a day to program it.  If I use that module in it, do they get the rights to that module since they only paid me for a day's work?  The current going policy is that they don't.  They get a license to use that program on that system.  Now, they own the hardware and can go anywhere they want to have a program written, but if I wrote it, I still have some say in how my program is used outside of the original use.

For instance, some people even limit the use to the house.  So even if they move and take all their hardware to another house and set it up the EXACT same way (which NEVER happens, because no two houses are the same anyway), they can't re-use the program.

And we're not even talking about the uncompiled code yet. OSS makes no difference: they want to prevent you from changing the software, not to prevent you from looking into it (though I'm sure they want that too). &gt; And what if you replace the software with open source software?

If the software is open source then there are no restrictions on how the owner may use or modify it.   The manufacturer cannot use software with an open source license to limit what the eventual owner can or cannot do with the product they purchased.

&gt; Does their copyright not apply anymore?

I have no idea what you mean to imply with that statement.  Open source does not conflict with copyright (it is not the same as public domain).  The copyright exists (and therefore does "apply") regardless of the license.  What would be the purpose of any license if there were no copyright? I meant will they still have a claim if you replace their code with open source code. Yes.  The problem isn't really copyright (no one is trying to copy their code to some other tractor.)  The problem is that the DMCA makes it illegal to bypass* technical restrictions they have implemented that prevent someone from modifying or replacing the code.

\* More precisely it makes discussion of and tools for bypassing such restrictions illegal. I feel like I would be less against it if hardware and software were sold (and leased, respectively) separately.  The problem here is that the hardware isn't usable without the software.   To sell them separately they would have to sell what is effectively useless hardware.  And that is why people get so upset about this.   If the hardware were usable for its intended purpose without the software then there wouldn't be a issue.

Also, copyright by itself doesn't prohibit (at least in the US) modifying the software.  It prohibits distributing/sharing the software (modified or not.)  It is a) the DMCA  and b) practical restrictions (encryption, etc.) on installing other software onto the hardware that are the problem.  Both of those would not be relevant if the software and hardware were sold as separate products.

TL;DR: The whole problem is that they are not an cannot be sold separately. &gt; The problem here is that the hardware isn't usable without the software.

That's kind of my point. That *is* what they're selling, right now, if they actually sold the hardware and then leased the software, at least it would make sense how it's legal.

I'm not saying they should be doing any of this, or that anyone should buy into it. I'm just saying if they're going to go this route, their current methods don't seem like they should be legal. They should, at a minimum, have to be honest and sell them separately.

This is entirely imo &gt; There is nothing wrong with the title.

There is everything wrong with the title. Saying that farmers don't own their tractor or that John Deere claims that farmers don't own their tractor is simply not true. It's either a deliberate lie or complete ignorance of the facts, both of which mean that the author has no business writing headlines. The title is sensationalist. John deer is not "redefining ownership" they are simply doing what most companies that produce software hardware combos are doing. The author picked john deer because "tractors should not have software" but in reality this is basically what Geohoot was sued for in like 2011. The idea of owned hardware with licensed software was championed my play station and apple years ago. That does not make is right, but it is not new. What is new is that it has become a proven business model, and is spreading to unwelcome new places. The title is clickbaity instead of informative. But the title **actually** summed up the idea of the article. John Deere and General Motors are trying to change the idea of what ownership means. It isn't click bait if it does what it says. I'm not taking a position on either side of this issue, but to clarify, they're not trying to *change* the idea of what ownership means in any legal sense. They're merely trying to establish that when you purchase one of their tractors you're actually purchasing a license to use it in certain specified ways. So if anything, they're trying to change the default *presumption* that purchasing a tractor from them means you own it free from restrictions. Again, not taking a stance on whether that's right or wrong, but the article title is definitely agenda'd and inaccurate.  Again, the title reflects exactly what the article was conveying.

The first paragraph even restates the title with more detail.

You people need to quit nitpicking titles and stick to the actual article. The title is fine; what John Deere and General Motors is doing is not fine. Not everyone needs to know that you disagree with the way a title was worded...

Discuss. &gt; The title is fine

No, it's not. *Somebody* owns that tractor, and that somebody is John Deere. No capitalist entity is interested in "destroying the very idea" when it comes to ownership. Ownership is how they make their money. It's right there in the name.

They're changing the condition of the sale. That's emphatically not the same thing as destroying the concept of ownership. &gt; No, it's not. Somebody owns that tractor, and that somebody is John Deere.

Do you understand what you are saying?

You are stating that people who purchase things do not actually own them. They just purchase the rights to use it. That defeats the purpose of user ownership. Why would you purchase something if you cannot possibly own it? You wouldn't; you would be better off paying for it to be made. &gt; You are stating that people who purchase things do not actually own them. They just purchase the rights to use it. 

Right; this is *exactly* what John Deere (and many others) want to turn their client relationships into.

But it's not destroying the concept of ownership. Not anymore than downloadable music instead of buying CDs "destroyed the concept of ownership". *This is about John Deere wanting to change the nature of the relationship with its clients to its own advantage.*

It's a sensationalist title that wildly overstates its case, and in doing so detracts from the argument against a shitty practice by John Deere (amongst others). Your example was fairly poor.

When you purchase music online or purchasing it online you are purchasing the right to listen to the music. This is well established and well understood.

Purchasing a physical product, copyrighted, makes you the owner of the product. This means you are allowed to do as you please with it. John Deere is applying the "content creator" concept to it. You do not own it, but instead purchased a license for the machine.

The reason you do not own the music is because it is unique and should not (cannot) be duplicated. If we apply this to everything then no one owns anything. I just mean the title makes you wonder what the author means by destroying the idea of ownership.  Is John Deere moving to a leasing model or what?  Oh, they're claiming the machine is licensed because of all the proprietary software.

One cannot begin to create an opinion on the matter without understanding wtf John Deere is trying to do.  The title gets us nowhere to that end. God forbid you have to read more than the title before you form your opinion. You aren't supposed to be able to form your opinion based on the title. The title informs you about the thesis of the article so you can decide whether or not to read it. Not everything can be said in 10 words or less. They're not moving to a leasing model, its just they need to ensure customers keep updating there software as the equipment is now online and provides live updates to dealerships.  See my last post:

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/33cptv/we_cant_let_john_deere_destroy_the_very_idea_of/cqjq75k You form opinions based on the titles of articles alone? You must have a bunch of wrong opinions. 99.9999999% of reddit forms opinions based on article titles alone. That's pretty much reddit's whole culture.  wtf does implied license mean? Is that even a legal term? Was a license distributed to the purchaser? Was the purchaser ever made aware of the existence of such license? Does this mean I can write and distribute software and then take ownership of the users' souls because that was a clause in the implied license that they never saw? I read that line in the article, and I'm failing to see the issue here. Basically, they're just saying that you get to use it as long as it exists. Wherein lies the problem? headlines are meant to grab a reader's attention and provide a teensy bit of information about the article. this headline is fine. in fact, it's great, because it is hugely attention-grabbing (without actually misrepresenting the truth that significantly) even for people who don't care about tractors. Open source hardware. See http://opensourceecology.org/ and "open source farming" as a generic websearch term. [Life Trac](http://opensourceecology.org/wiki/LifeTrac): an open-source tractor designed to be build with off-the-shelf parts, for a tiny fraction of the cost of a conventional tractor. The DMCA, killing technological advancement since 1998.  It isn't even 20 years old and already it is ruining basic consumer rights.  This idea that you're buying a license not a product needs to die and fast. Why the hell are we paying taxes on vehicles we don't own then? Last time I checked, you don't (directly) pay property taxes on the apartment you're renting. If I don't own my GM vehicle, then let GM pay my yearly taxes on it for the rest of the time I own the vehicle.

Sure, this may increase the cost of a car upfront, but that'll only make the less expensive cars from manufacturers not willing to enforce this bogus DMCA BS on their consumers more appealing and force GM to lose sales.  So copyright started with books right? Does this mean I can't write in the margins or highlight interest parts? No, it just means you can't repair tears with tape yourself, you have to bring it to a bookbinder. A certified bookbinder under the license of Penguin books mind you. the content of the book is copyrighted, not the paper it is written on. So, the copyright does not extend to protecting the hardware of the book? yes, you are copyrighting the "work" not the "copy". Here is the pdf on copyrights from the US copyright office. It is an interesting read: http://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ01.pdf
 Isn't this just how Steam works? Yes and no. This is closer to the actually operating system on your computer. The difference is though is that Microsoft won't try to stop you from running Linux on your own personal PC. John Deere is arguing that the owner is not allowed to change the software that is running the tractor.

Imagine if your computer stops working, and the only way to figure out what is wrong is to pay Microsoft $100 just to diagnose the problem, and that is your only option because no one else has the proprietary diagnostic tools needed because Microsoft won't give it out to anyone else, even certified techs.

That is what John Deere and Chevy are proposing. They set up proprietary ECU (engine control units) that only they can diagnose when an issue arises, meaning you have to pay dealer prices for any repairs or diagnostics instead of just plugging in your own OBDII reader and getting the error code yourself. Yes it is. It's also a problem when Steam does it. People have given away First Sale Doctrine and chained themselves to a single source that has control over their games, and have gained very little in exchange for that. 

Buying new games through it might be convenient, but that's about it. Does the average person really reinstall their games so often that it's a major convenience to have them in a central repository? And does the fact that Steam makes patching convenient say more about how we've gotten complacent towards being sold broken and unfinished games than it says about Steam itself?

 I'd say that easy patching is a great way to deter pirating, nobody wants the hassle of endlessly downloading new versions of a game when a legitimate copy does it for you.

Steam is by no means perfect, customer support is inexistent and they should really follow origin's lead. But on the whole it's a great platform that makes piracy less attractive. &gt;I'd say that easy patching is a great way to deter pirating, nobody wants the hassle of endlessly downloading new versions of a game when a legitimate copy does it for you.

That doesn't really benefit the consumer. It benefits the publisher. In fact, if releasing a broken game is a form of DRM, it actually harms the consumer by forcing them to join the vendor lock-in of Steam &amp; Co. to avoid the hassle of constant patches.
 But not all patches are for fixes. You're always going to have some bugs that weren't spotted in testing.

Decent publishers who continue to support their game and add content over time are the ones that benefit most from this and protect themselves against piracy.

Cities skylines is a great example of this for a game that has been widely praised

http://www.pcgamesn.com/cities-skylines/paradox-plan-to-fight-cities-skylines-piracy-by-making-the-game-better As cool as free bonus content is, the companies releasing it are a numerically tiny exception.  Software is not hardware. You know all of those license agreements attached to every piece of software that no one reads? It clearly states you are purchasing a license to use the software, and that you do not own the software. No such documentation was provided to me when purchasing my car. I read every word of it before signing. &gt; You know all of those license agreements attached to every piece of software that no one reads?

Yes I know them. They're the problem. In the past, we had the ability to resell a software product we bought. Now that right has been taken from the consumers, while the price of those same products has stayed roughly the same, even though our rights to them have been reduced. 

While many people occasionally complain about this, nobody seems to care enough to actually do anything about it. It remains to be seen if the same happens with physical goods. 

You could probably already do this legally with physical products, but it makes very little sense with most consumer products that have a limited shelf life and there are multiple manufacturers to pick from, so the consumer can easily avoid you. 

The first ones to try will be companies like John Deere, who have very few competitors, manufacture products that can see more than a decade of use, and their customers can't survive without those products. 

If John Deere succeeds in that, other companies will follow suit, and in a couple of decades you might be buying a 5 year license for your car for $35,000. After all, there's a large amount of software in that car, without which it can't function.

Just like with software products, no matter how carefully you read the license agreement, you have no other option than to sign it if you want to use the product. The major car brands are in the hands of a handful of companies, so it's not like you have a massive amount of options if you don't like a particular manufacturer's licenses.


 In some ways but they aren't pissy about modding your local copy of the content (yet) This is exactly my thought.

I don't really have a problem with my games being 'rented' from Valve/Steam/whatever.  It's much harder for someone wrap this idea around their heads when it has to do with a physical, real device/product/tractor rather than...a PC game. &gt; I don't really have a problem with my games being 'rented' 

That was I was thinking before GTA San Andreas update which deleted some music tracks and made the game unstable.   All the always-online DRM crap applies just as much when you buy a physical copy anyway.

I'm just waiting for the moment when tractors require a constant internet connection. That'll be fun for farmers, I'm sure. If John Deere started selling tractors at 90% off around the holidays, I bet people would care a lot less.

There's also the fact that if most of my Steam games stopped working tomorrow, I wouldn't even *know*, let alone care.  This is significantly different than a machine you need to do your job, that you'll probably be using for your entire career. If I live in a city, I can get around just fine with the actual physical cars and buses and bikes that I ride being owned by taxi companies, the city, and the bikeshare system. There's no problem with rental or paying for temporary use for physical, real devices, as long as you know that it's what you're getting in for.

Of course, that only makes sense in the city because there's no need to have the same vehicle available every day for private personal use - most of the time you're just traveling to the same place as hundreds of others, so you have to share a single train rather than trying to cram a lot of cars into one space. I imagine that farmers use their tractors in far more repetitive and personal ways, where ownership really does make more sense, and it's what the company *pretends* it's providing. There is something similar with Ferrari FXX- You can buy it but You basically cant own it or register it in Your name.  Not even a first world problem, but rather an elitist problem. first percentile problems? [&gt; The model was only sold in Europe. Units can be imported, but not owned, in any other continent.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferrari_FXX) How about this then, due to them owning the code and saying they own the vehicle and we "rent" it, they should be required to replace it at no cost when it breaks down, just like a renter would require the landlord to maintain their property. They're arguing that they own the *code*.  The article argues that the code is part of the vehicle you bought.  I'm sure John Deere will replace the code as much as you want. I like their older equipment better anyway. 

I'm a mechanic, and it would kill 10-year-old me to find out that their newer stuff is designed like absoulte shit with horrible quality parts. Not to mention dealers that are hard to work with and expensive parts that can only be purchased through them. 

Their old stuff though? Still kicks ass and sees lots of use from me. These kind of headlines are making me wonder what kind of markets will open up for simpler things. I have two motorcycles, both are carburated and simple, no computers necessary. There is something very freeing about this.  I agree. I also have two bikes, both early and late 90s machines that really don't have too much special tech into em. If you want to complain about not actually owning a device you thought you bought, try reading the apple terms of service agreement sometime. I tried. I got lost somewhere between the second book of John and the human centipede part.  That's software for the most part. I don't particularly give a fuck if they copyright, and even enforce copyright, on their software. But I'll be damned if I'm ever going to think it's okay to ban people from innovating, and improving hardware. Maybe by doing so you violate the warranty, that would make sense, but there's no reasonable logic behind a company saying, "It runs our code, therefore it's ours." You don't see Microsoft arguing that they technically own most of the computers on Earth because they're running Windows.  or your house, or your property, or pretty much anything you pay insurance or taxes on Same reason why it's technically illegal make a hackintosh because you don't own the software you are trying to install on your hardware.  The TOS for my iPhone isn't materially different than the TOS for my Samsung Note 8. Im glad you can't copyright Sourcecode in the eu. Somehow I feel like that can't possibly be true.  You're saying all code written in the EU is public domain? Interesting enough this isn't a novel model of ownership. This is how medical implants work. When grandma has an artificial hip implanted it is more or less lent to her despite It being literally in her body. The provider actually has the right to get it back. While it's never asked back while the person is alive, it is sometimes requested after the grandma dies haha. 

Also, no one keeps records of implants. So while vehicles have VIN numbers, implanted devices generally do not. This can be a huge problem when a few years after they've started implanting artificial jaw joints to help TMJ using a silicone lubricant and they realize it deteriorates and causes more jaw problems, and other problems, than it does. The product then gets taken off the market but they've already implanted thousands with no way of tracking who has them and who doesn't.

When breast implants first ran into major issues they had 30,000 people complaining of the same problems with their breast implants. So everyone asked how many were put it... It makes a big difference if it's 30k out of 30,001 out 30k out of a couple million. Turns out the manufacturers of the implants, the doctors, and the government all said the others were supposed to be keeping track. No one knew until a business grad student figured it out by looking for the sales tax that corresponds to the price of the breast implants haha.

So ya medical implants are already treated like the tractors and it's actually a bit of a problem. I saw a movie like this.. where artificial body parts were on a pay-as-you-go rental system and if you couldn't pay, they were repo'd. I feel like this is just one side of a much larger and ongoing trend. Ownership is being downsized, by turning everything we use into borrowed products. 

The fact that people throw away their DVD's and CD's in favour of Netflix and Spotify, for example, makes me sad. 

I worry that not a large enough part of tractor users will care enough about this to stop the new trend. 

If things go badly we might end up with borrowerism, where none of us have rights over stuff we own anymore, because we simply don't own it.  This is a great point. Everything we "buy" now is just something lent to us. Additionally, when you truly own something, you don't have to agree to those terms and conditions that plague the world. You are governed by laws which are easier to understand than all those agreements we make with Google, Apple and the like. So basically, what I got out of this is that John Deere tractors are wrought by goblins? Yes. Unfortunately for farmers, they don't absorb things that make it stronger.  TL;DR: just try it, it doesn't take long. It'll at least be more effective than, let's say, [sending water in envelopes](https://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/31kie8/dont_worry_california_i_got_you/). EDIT: All the overwhelming responses of supportive Redditors has inspired an [AMA request for a congressperson voting on section 215 on June 1st](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/323vt3/ama_request_a_us_congressperson_planning_to_vote/).

I did it. Live in PA. It took literally 30 seconds out of my day. The other comments in this thread, while bringing up valid concerns, are also revealing the common troublesome mindset of learned helplessness. "I don't think that there's ultimately anything i can do, so why do anything?" I agree with the other commenters that so much more needs to change. But water can break down stone a droplet at a time. I'm proud to be a droplet if it helps to erode that stone even a fraction of a degree. You can too. Try it. They automatically connect you to your congressman. Leave a message. It's easy. If it doesn't work it doesn't work. 30 seconds away from r/WTF, r/aww, and r/pics will not ruin your day. You may even feel a little bit good about it.

Edit: If you did end up trying it, could you post an "I did it" below or whatever you'd like? I'd really love to see the momentum going with actual posts of people that tried it, hopefully to encourage others. As karma is nice, and I appreciate the upvotes, I'd just really like to see others actually doing it. That would make my day!

Edit #2: Thanks so much for the gold kind redditor! Can someone help me spend it to help with getting the word out there about 215 or increasing action somehow? OP u/johnmountain maybe you have recommendations? Are you affiliated with fight215.org? If so, maybe donate my own money to fight215.org for the same value of the gold I've received?

edit #3: Droplet of water? we are a river, fellow redditors!!! Thanks so much and keep it up!

Edit #4: Check out all of the comments below! Such great contributors to fighting 215! And checkout the ones from [u/rebelcinder](http://www.reddit.com/user/rebelcinder), an individual involved with [restorethe4th](https://www.restorethe4th.com), a group affiliated with [fight215.org](https://fight215.org/), the website linked above. Also [u/dpxxdp](http://www.reddit.com/user/dpxxdp) has created [a list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_3szcb_yVxTieNLlJE7CRDWxMj2b3f-sfexofuE8Bto/edit#gid=0) of those congresspeople that voted nay or abstained from voting to revise the Patriot Act. Very targeted calling rather than just to your congressperson. Takes just another 30 seconds!

Edit #5: Great work on April 9th, 2015 folks! Used your comments to come up with a figure representing what you did today. I'm a data nerd and trying to earn that gold I've been given! [Here are the number of calls per hour reported in Eastern Standard Time, with a 24 hour clock. Typical government office hours are listed.](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10PXDOz33ByMRxh2pHG61ZkBD3ygDm62YrtzbFPovc_I/pubchart?oid=1006630625&amp;format=interactive). A lot of calls during business hours. Fantastic! These are just the ones that were reported since your comments began at 1pm EST, and does not account for sharing amongst friends, on social media platforms, etc! Keep spreading the word. Did it, also from PA. For those who want to know what to expect:

I typed my phone number into the form at the top of the site. Immediately I got an automated call from the EFF with voice prompts that asked for my zip code. I typed that in, and the voice prompt told me it would call my US House rep, and it automatically connected us, where I spoke to his assistant and left my message. 

I pressed * on my phone, and the EFF prompt disconnected us and told me it was connecting me with my US senator, where I then left a message on his voicemail. Pressed * again, EFF prompt told me it was connecting me with my other US senator, and I left one more voicemail at that number. Pressed *, heard a final EFF prompt, then I was done and hung up. What did you say to the assistant? Is there a script?  "Hi, I'd just like to ask that the congressman vote against the NSAs mass surveillance under the Patriot Act."

If they ask why (they won't) or if it's a voice mail, I add: "It doesn't make us more secure and goes against our civil liberties."

Tried to keep it in simple language that I don't stumble over too much when speaking. :) Yes. There is a script that they provide that you can read.
EDIT: It's on the webpage Did it. Took less than a minute. Did it too, hopefully the outcome is positive  You were the first, kind sir. Thank you! I did it because I read your comment. You Helped. I do feel slightly more powerful I appreciate you saying that! I'm so glad I was able to increase awareness for the cause somehow.  your name literally means the Black Black man.

It's so German in its redundant clarity.

Also, I shit myself from the pun. So there's that. Thanks. I did it and I don't usually do it. Did it, I also don't usually do it... I'm from NJ Thanks so much! Love this comment. Thank you! My senators are Feinstein and Boxer... &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;  
I'll try, but I'd have better luck getting a retarded chimpanzee to listen to me. If you get enough people calling them, even they might have to reconsider their stance on this. Apathy is their goal, don't let them succeed! Thanks for this! Great comment. Politicians do like apathy, don't they? Makes things easy for them.  You don't have to convince anyone of anything if they aren't even willing to participate.  You're right and I do think it's the motivation to participate that sometimes people lack. They care. They may care deeply. It's just so hard to act. It definitely helps to see others act though! One of the powers of Reddit, I think. You have to try.

It's entirely likely they won't immediately change their minds on something like this.

But it's about the constant pressure.  Politics in Washington cannot change overnight and if you get disillusioned by a single loss then you're truly fucked.  It's like surrendering an entire war because you lose a battle.   Feinstein isn't going to change her mind *at all*, much less immediately. She's been there for so long, supported all kinds of BS, and has no reason to listen. Even if she were to run for office again and lose, she could just as easily retire.

I'm not saying people shouldn't try, but I think Boxer is a much better bet than Feinstein is. I'm not disagreeing at all.

In fact- I don't expect anything to change this time around.

I completely expect the patriot act to get renewed with the same provisions this time around.

The point is that we have to lay the groundwork starting now- and apply consistent EVEN pressure.

Feinstein may never change- and that's fine- but guess what- she has aids and interns who have to read through these and listen to phonecalls.  They aren't isolated in their own bubbles.  They talk to other aids and interns of other senators and congressmen.   Me too, (for some reason I was super nervous talking, just one of those days XD), but that makes two of us that called them ^_^ A few comments to assist (though mostly it ought to be common sense) - 

1) Call the DC office.  If you call the local office, you'll talk to people who are great at getting you your missing Social Security check, but know nothing about anything policy related.  

2) You're not going to talk to the member.  In some ways it's even counterproductive to ask for them; it's certainly counterproductive to be obstinate and insist on talking to the member and not staff. 

3) Be specific.  Saying, "I don't like PATRIOT Act" is kind of worthless.  Saying, "I'd like Congressman X to vote against reauthorization of PATRIOT Act Sec. 215 when it comes up for a vote in the next few weeks" is not worthless.  

4) The person you talk to in DC is almost certainly not going to be the person actually advising on these issues; if you want to talk to that person, you want to talk to the "Homeland Security L.A."  They probably won't be available for a cold call (and it's doubtful you'd be given their direct extension), but in most offices they should be willing to call you back, and you should be able to get their name and email address.

TL, DR: Call the DC office.  Be specific with your request.  If you'd like to get in an in depth policy conversation (ie something beyond just registering your comments), ask to speak to the "Homeland Security L.A.", and be willing to wait for a call back or alternatively email them. I did it and it feels good. I didn't even call in for net neutrality but now I'm disappointed in myself that i didn't.  I'll make a point to make a call about any issue like this again in the future. MA here! One minute. Three reps. People picked up and I was nervous and I said, "Hi I have a comment? Can I tell you my comment?" and they said "Of course!" and I copied /u/Erorus word for word and said "Hi, I'd just like to ask that the congressman vote against the NSAs mass surveillance under the Patriot Act." And then I felt silly and added, "Because it's really dumb."

And they thanked me and said they'd pass on my comments and then said bye. :). Did it, don't usually do it. Now on the "list". If The List gets big enough it'll become The Census. I'd call that a possible victory condition.  I DID IT!

I actually spoke to my representative's secretary or something, so it was super intimidating but it was a pretty easy process.

I do feel kinda proud about myself. For the record - the person answering calls is early/mid-20's (at most 25 generally), and probably knows less about the issue you're calling about than you do.  

Be polite, but they're probably more intimidated than you are (particularly if they're taking a lot of calls on this issue).   Love this reply too! For you, maybe this feeling will also support other action in the future about doing this kind of thing for stuff you believe in? Maybe doing even more? I don't know about you, but for me it definitely does!

Edit: clarity I have!

I sent an email to my congresswoman in support of Net Neutrality as well. I always was off the mind "well, once I'm an adult, I'll be involved."

I'm 21, and I still don't feel like one, but, I figured these are close issues to me so I might as well! Did it. I'm usually too cynical to do these sort of things, but I did and it felt good. Did it. Even though I'm awkward as fuck on the phone. 

The people I connected with are pretty nice, but maybe that's just Oregon.   I did it! Being from Kentucky, I was connected to Congressman Yarmuth, and Senators Rand Paul and Mitch McConnell. I also added that if they didn't support Section 215 than they'd have my support in elections, which I might not have meant when contacting McConnell and Paul. It was really easy, and if anyone reading this hasn't done it and can, you really should. Make your voice heard! Did it in IL I emailed my congressman, got back a reply thanking me for the email and how he appreciate the chance to reply. Never said anything else and never addressed the issue I emailed him about.  Maybe it's an auto-reply? That's what I've heard. Unless you have the personal email of one of their assistants, your email is just auto-replied to. This is why they are pressing for you to make phone calls. 1) Anyone can get the personal email of said assistant.  Call and ask for the name and email for the "L.A. handling ____".  In this case, most offices would probably have someone handling "Homeland Security" that'd cover this issue area. Say, "Could I please have the name and email address for the Representative's Homeland Security L.A.?"

2) Short of burning up the phones (ie so many calls nothing else can get done), I'd argue emails have a bigger impact, because they're trackable.  My LC (Legislative Correspondent - the person handling all incoming/outgoing mail) can tell me precisely how many emails our office has gotten on an issue.  

But phone calls?  That's trickier - because it counts on the Staff Assistant or intern taking the call logging it properly in the system; that's rarer than you'd think.  

If you do want a higher chance a phone call will be logged properly, you in no uncertain terms need to share your name and address.  And really you need to insist on a response. Done! I hope Scott Garrett hears it. did it - thanks for encouraging all of us! Did it. Yeah! Did it.....Ny checking in Did it.  Shared it with friends, so far at least my girlfriend is going to do it too. I did it, because this is an especially important issue. Did it. It wasn't able to connect me with my D.C. senator after my main district rep so googled his number and called him myself. Took an extra 30 sec. Worth it. Nice commitment! I'll do the same, actually. Didn't think of that! Did it. Incredibly easy. Done. Now time to share Did it and also emailed both of my senators, and my congressman.  It has been done Finished, took two minutes I did it, and I never do this kind of thing!

I know I am just one person and I hope that with just my one call a difference will be made! But I posted my comment a little over an hour ago asking people to indicate if they did it or not. There has been an insane response and that is only the people wanting to comment. You're not the only one. Thanks so much for calling! As a brazilian citizen, I shared on fb and did the three tweets. I hope I helped in the river. I did it, it was brutally awkward and had to give them some information but hopefully it will amount to something.  I did it too. I'm pretty awkward on the phone as it is, so it was slightly painful, but I feel good about it. Did it! Got one of the representatives names wrong because the program told of a past rep apparently though.. Luckily the call receiver wasn't rude about it. Just did it.  The receptionist was very nice and quick.   &gt;The receptionist was very nice and quick.  

She probably learned that from the congressman. 

 Did it! it's really easy surprisingly. Just had to say the script and give my information. We are affiliated with fight215.org, and were founded here on Reddit. If you feel moved to donate or volunteer, we'd love the help! www.restorethe4th.com Did it, quick and easy, plus guy that listened/passed it on was nice.
 I did it. Barely took a minute. Did it, felt empowering. Done and done :) Made the call. I did it! Took about thirty seconds! Nebraska checking in. Took about a minute. The gentleman I spoke to was very kind and professional. Did it, took less than 5 mins. :) Did it. Easy. I did it as well. I wasn't expecting to actually talk to a real person. It feels good to do something. Just did it. Boy did that feel good. Almost *too* good
 Did it! Somehow I was expecting to get no reply or a sassy rejection, but my representative's office was actually very friendly. Did it. From NE. GBR Done. Here's hoping. Done! Let's see what rep Ed Royce in CA does :) So this is a first for me, but you convinced me to try. It took roughly a minute, got through to a couple of assistants and voicemails. Thank you for convincing me. I believe we can make a difference! Called Steve Israel  Super easy! Thanks for the positive outlook and making the situation real.. I think people like you are what make this country amazing. We all do in some way, but to do what you just did is amazing within itself. You're a rockstar, dude. Have a good one. From PA as well, did it too! This was my first time doing this. The lady was kind enough to ask my name and my email, to respond. I figure it might just be her sending a reply to everyone in the name of my rep. but it's still better than nothing.  That's exactly what it is.  

Which is what you want.  Your goal is to be one call on a tally sheet.  

That way when it's getting ready to come up for a vote, and the senior staff is sitting in the boss's office trying to decide how he's going to whip (which means how he's going to tell his leadership he's going to vote), and the LD (Legislative Director) yells into the back office, "hey LC (Legislative Correspondent) - how many calls and emails have we gotten for and against PATRIOT reauth?"  the LC can respond with a much bigger (as big as possible) number opposed vs. for.  

You're not going to get a personal reply from the member.  And if you want an effective member, you don't want one.  They have better things to do than answer the several thousand emails and calls that come in per week.  That's what junior staff is for. Learned helplessness is the psychological response to being constantly bombarded with messages about a non-specific threat that you have no power to mitigate...  threat of terrorism = media ratings.

Hey guys, Threat Level Orange! But, you can fight the terrorist by buying more stuff. I did it, but considering there was mass surveillance before the Patriot Act, I don't think it'll do much. I think the best we can hope for is transparency when it comes to their operations. I did it, and am confident that the NSA knows about it already.  Can I just tell them here?

I do not support section 215. 

Maybe some keywords to get some attention. I can say bomb on a plane. Bomb bomb bomb bomb bomb bobomb I hear if you type Obama and Assassination in the same sentence, they are alerted to your message. 

HI, GUYS! FUCK OFF! :D "I am going to kill Barack Obama, President of the United States of America"

[Oh hi NSA.](http://funnyasduck.net/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/funny-go-fuck-yourself-man-arms-animated-comic-gif-pics.gif)

Edit: jk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QEQOvyGbBtY &gt;bobomb

Gamer confirmed, likely terrorist.  &gt; I did it, but considering there was mass surveillance before the Patriot Act, I don't think it'll do much.

That's actually not quite true. There were programs, yes, but 9/11 and the Patriot Act changed things considerably.

&gt; NARRATOR: Tenet, whose own agency was designing covert operations against al Qaeda, called General Hayden.

&gt; MICHAEL HAYDEN: George calls me and says, Mike, any more you can do? I said, George, no, not within my authorities, not within my current authorities. And he paused and said, Thats not actually the question I asked you. Is there anything more you could do? I said, Ill get back to you.

&gt; NARRATOR: Hayden got the message. At NSA headquarters, he spread the word **Take the gloves off. Bring me an aggressive plan.**

&gt; EDWARD LOOMIS, NSA Cryptologist, 1964-01 : And they asked me, Is there anything that we had that could have prevented 9/11?

&gt; NARRATOR: Loomis told them what he believed was necessary begin monitoring foreign Internet traffic going through the United States.

&gt; ED LOOMIS: The U.S. Internet hubs handle so much of the worldwide Internet traffic. So I said, Let us allow collection between U.S. and foreign, foreign to U.S. against the terrorism problem.

&gt; NARRATOR: But others in the agency were proposing much more aggressive data collection.

&gt; PETER BAKER: **What they proposed to do is create a whole new surveillance program without warrants, trapping all sorts of information, taking advantage of the fact that modern communication trunk lines tend to come through the United States.**

http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/government-elections-politics/united-states-of-secrets/transcript-61/

Of course, the rules were massaged such that eventually, all domestic traffic ends up collected and stored anyway. They will argue that collecting and storing doesn't violate the 4th amendment. I'm going to on my way home from work. Will provide update in a few hours.

edit: called, left a message, easy as pie Done and done. 1 of my time used productively. did it. 1:01 of my day. Just did it, took 1:36! I normally don't call, but I'm glad I did! I'll try and get my friends to do it too  I also called, and it was the easiest thing ever. The assistant said that Rep. Earl Blumenauer shares my support on mass surveillance. That felt awesome. 

edit: I shared the link to Facebook and made a group, "Fight 125," inviting all of my friends. You should share this link across all your media outlets too! We can really make a difference. One droplet at a time. I did it! Feels good. Posted to Facebook too.  Thanks for sharing to social media! Much appreciated! DID IT -Arizona  Did it! Didn't take too long. I did it. It took me less than a minute on the bus.  Done, made 4 calls in under two minutes.  I feel empowered.  And the guy's recorded voice telling me I was doing great between each call was nice.  The senators' offices didn't care where I was from, but the representatives wanted my address, which was fine. I did it. it's easy as leaving a couple of answering machine messages because that's literally what you do, perhaps unless it's your local rep.

I'll sign a petition or send an email but never do I call. But I did this because it's important.  NJ here, I did it. Wasn't more than a minute of my time. I wholly agree with the information, sentiment and overall tone of the information, but who is this group Fight215? They need to update their Twitter directed posts as they still point to Reid as majority leader.  I sent an email a week ago about it. Got a response a few days ago. Probably automated or from a secretary but it's something :|
 Emailed my rep a few days ago. Her response seemed positive, although it was pretty obviously a canned response written by an intern. I did it, it took like 3 minutes. easy peasy Great post. I agree it only took 30 seconds or so.

This is a great link for any of you armchair activists (like myself) out there. It's totally fool proof:

https://act.eff.org/action/tell-congress-my-phone-calls-are-my-business-reform-the-nsa
 I did it! 

People with anxiety - If you are dreading the phone call I understand but you can do it! I paced around the room 10 times before finally plugging my number into the site. 

You don't have to worry, the assistants that took my message were polite even as I stuttered through the script on the site and told me that they would pass my message on up. I had to walk off my adrenaline after the calls but I felt that it was worth it!

Thank you /u/dgrsmith for the confidence boost!
 Did it.  Took 2 minutes.  Thanks for the encouragement! Did it! Broke out of the apathetic group theory mode i was in! thanks for the pep talk! I did it...  I don't know why I was nervous to have an opinion about something that dramatically affects my life... I did it! I started rapping when the phone hung up.  "end it...  Done amend it!"..  Lol. I did it.  Joe Heck is a hell of a piece of crap though.  Hopefully we the people can make a difference still. From NYC - did it. Very simple. I called my rep's office in DC. I did it. Wow, that felt good. First time I've felt like I might be able to make a difference. If you're on the fence about it, just do it. Did it, couldn't find the script while panicking (Even though it was right there) I said my name and city then said "I urge you to vote against NSA mass surveillance as it's pretty... terrible" the spaghetti fell out of my pants I hang up and cried.  I called all of them from Washington. Sent a text with the website to any friends that I thought might give it a go, and emailed all of my representatives too. We can all make a difference. If I type "I did it" here, having not actually done it, does it still count given that the government's online surveillance will report back that I did it? Nope... I'll take your word for it though, if you type "I did it" :) Or you could do it, and get the little bit of a high from it, and not type I did it, and I won't know. If the good feelings inspire you to take pics of any kind, say of cats or d!*ckp!cs, then yes. You'll be in the repository. ~~I'm so fucking sick of this negative attitude coming out of reddit.~~ **EDIT3: This is fantastic! Keep it up reddit!** This is a massive head start for us, we owe these organizations a lot already. This issue has been relentless on reddit, every day I log on and see something else about Snowden or the NSA. Now here we are finally on the verge of doing something about it and every other post is a negative buzzkill. To all of you pessimists: you're playing into the NSA's hands. In fact you're echoing the exact words of the NSA astroturfers that pervade these threads. So either shut the fuck up, or stand up and do something about it, because spouting negative defeatism puts you on the side of the NSA.

[So call your representative.](https://fight215.org/) Tell them they will never receive your vote or your donations again if they renew Section 215.  I don't care if it seems like your voice doesn't matter.  There are 5 million readers on this sub, if everyone does their part we make progress.

If you are a software developer, [volunteer](https://www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer).  If you are an artist or designer, [volunteer](https://www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer).  If you are a salesperson, [volunteer](https://www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer).  If you value the freedom that so many have died for, [volunteer](https://www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer).  The next time this opportunity comes around, Hillary Clinton or Jeb Bush is going to be president, and the Snowden leaks will be 7+ years in the distance.  Let's not blow this people.

One hundred years from now, people are going to recall this unprecedented surveillance state and ask why nobody did anything about it.  Don't be the German citizen who said nothing when the Nazis came to power.  And *definitely* don't be the person who dissuaded others from taking any action at all.

EDIT: **People are asking what to say to your congressperson.  Here's a start:**

* Bulk collection has had ["no discernable impact on preventing acts of terrorism"](http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-phone-record-collection-does-little-to-prevent-terrorist-attacks-group-says/2014/01/12/8aa860aa-77dd-11e3-8963-b4b654bcc9b2_story.html).

* This spying program [hurts the United States economy](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/11/how-nsa-mass-surveillance-hurting-us-economy).  No other nation wants to import US-made technology any more.  I don't blame them...

* This spying programs has [systematically degraded US cybersecurity](http://time.com/2966463/nsa-spying-surveillance-cybersecurity-privacy-advocates-schneier/).  By putting backdoors in everything they've made only the NSA stronger and every technological device weaker.

* The spying program [is unconstitutional](http://www.cnn.com/2013/12/16/justice/nsa-surveillance-court-ruling/).

* The author of the Patriot Act [did not intend for this use](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-switch/wp/2013/10/11/patriot-act-author-there-has-been-a-failure-of-oversight/).

EDIT2: **I'm sorry I said I was sick of reddit's attitude!  The action has been incredible!  Keep making your voices heard!  Several of us have collaborated on this list: [Team NSA](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_3szcb_yVxTieNLlJE7CRDWxMj2b3f-sfexofuE8Bto/edit).**  These are the 193 congresspeople still in office who had the opportunity to defund the NSA shortly after Snowden's revelations but who voted NAY or ABSTAIN.  The vote only failed by a thin margin (205-217) and the vote was NOT split along party lines.  This means we have a chance!  Call call call!  Call once a day every day between now and June 1! A lazy and defeatist attitude on reddit?! *gasps*

I will make the call because even if it doesn't make a difference, it does. Thank you.  That's all I ask. &gt; Hillary Clinton or Jeb Bush is going to be president

We are so fucked. Out of the millions of Americans, we get to choose between a Bush and a Clinton. Whoever it ends up being, it won't be Bush.  When Republicans run on personality instead of issues, they never win, and that's what Bush's strategy has been so far.  In addition, his last name is mud right now in American politics, and the GOP is still trying to disavow the years of 2000-2008. Good to know the GOP is evil in the future, too.  not true. We have more than a year and a half and there are possible candidates like Bernie Sanders (V-I) Called my congresswoman. Took me like twenty seconds. Please call. Just did. Can confirm it only takes a max of 30 seconds and makes a big difference. Please don't sit around and complain if you're not willing to take 30 seconds to make a difference. I'm stuck in Mississippi.  I'll do it but I'm sure they still believe global warming doesn't exist still.  This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](https://fight215.org/) reduced by 77%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; Section 215 of the Patriot Act was re-interpreted in complete secrecy to allow the surveillance of everyone without suspicion.

&gt; For years, the United States government has been collecting every record of every phone call you make - when you call, whom you call, how long the call lasted, and how often you make those calls.

&gt; It&amp;#039;s Section 215 of the original Patriot Act that the NSA re-interpreted in complete secrecy to allow them, with the help of the FBI, to collect millions of phone call records per day.


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31zxis/stop_the_patriot_acts_mass_surveillance/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~5735 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **call**^#1 **Section**^#2 **Patriot**^#3 **Act**^#4 **program**^#5

Post found in [/r/privacy](/r/privacy/comments/31x4du/stop_the_patriot_acts_mass_surveillance/), [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/31zvwr/fight_215_call_congress_now_and_urge_them_to_end/), [/r/news](/r/news/comments/31zvxs/fight_215_call_congress_now_and_urge_them_to_end/), [/r/nextlevelsafety](/r/nextlevelsafety/comments/31z9zp/contact_your_congressional_representative_and/), [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/31zw4w/fight_215_call_congress_now_and_urge_them_to_end/), [/r/Libertarian](/r/Libertarian/comments/31zvy7/fight_215_call_congress_now_and_urge_them_to_end/) and [/r/POLITIC](/r/POLITIC/comments/31xesz/stop_the_patriot_acts_mass_surveillance/). I don't trust this bot at all. It discourages reading the article, and how can I know that it's not inserting its* own bias into it?

* its = the bot's creator's I understand your concerns with it, as there's already a site-wide problem of people not reading the article. But personally, I upvote if the bot does a good TL;DR, and downvote if it's not good. People already don't read the article. At least with this, they're getting a summary. I was inspired by [a post](http://np.reddit.com/r/news/comments/31sufc/video_shows_south_carolina_police_officer_shoot/cq4yzjy) that was linked in /r/bestof by a vet.

&gt;Hard truth: The military does NOT fight for your freedom. The military fights for your security. YOU have to fight for your freedom, and that's by speaking up and taking an interest and active role in what happens at home. How about we urge them to just repeal the Patriot Act?  It's the power the government always wanted.  Thanks, Bush. Better, tell them to pass HR 1466, the Surveillance State Repeal Act. It repeals the Patriot Act, protects whistleblowers, AND addresses the other parts of the surveillance state.

Also, sign up goddamnit... www.restorethe4th.com/volunteer!

- Alex, national chair, Restore The Fourth I did it, it might of came out fucked up, but the message was sent.  Exactly how I felt after hanging up. What's important is it is done like you said.  [deleted] Good on you! You could start now by shaming the reps who voted "No" on June 24, 2013 Amendment which would have defunded the NSA. The vote narrowly missed, 217-205, and the split was not along partisan lines at all, which is why I think we have such a strong shot this time around.  [Here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_3szcb_yVxTieNLlJE7CRDWxMj2b3f-sfexofuE8Bto/edit) are the Reps from Team NSA. I took mine (sec215.org and sec215.com) and redirected them to https://fight215.org/ Well to be fair..  
You got comic sans on your website.  
I like yours more! I would support and donate to a site that names and shames representatives who would renew 215. Making it available before the vote might even discourage those that would renew it.

$1 /u/changetip Though I agree the Patriot Act does need to be revisited, and unconstitional surveillance needs to stop, what is going to stop the [other nations of the 5 eyes programs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Eyes) from spying on the other nations and continuing to share the information? 

Edit: Please do not take this as a "why should we fight", I completely agree with you guys and /u/esadatri absolutely killed it for the answer.  You ask a very difficult question to answer, and there is no clear answer.


To gain context, ask yourself "What allowed the five eyes to get this much power?"

IMO, Lack of interest, understanding, and awareness in the eyes of the citizens that did nothing to stop it. It's hard to know something exists when it has been obfuscated purposefully from the start.

So to combat all five sides of the five eyes, awareness needs to occur in the masses. I think John Oliver's interview with Snowden did great numbers for this cause by putting it in terms of "can the government see my dick pics?"

Once one piece of the five eyes has been removed, then it becomes an accepted possibility that the people governed by their respective governments are able to make a difference on the matter.

But it's not that simple. Even after the PATRIOT Act is removed, there will be other pieces of legislature or executive orders that need public attention and revocation before a measure of privacy is restored.

Keep in mind that the opposition is fond of and will protect its power and abilities, and will stop at nothing to continue to the best of their ability. "Repeal the PATRIOT Act? Cool, we will just have to figure out another way of 'legally' obtaining our goals." is likely their frame of mind. Everything done so far reeks of it. Anything we do, they're likely going to try to find a way of subverting or nullifying it. So there will be plenty more struggle afterward. 

So to answer your question, what do we do about the other  five eyes?

Continue fighting against the grave injustices that we feel is being allowed to continue until there is no more work to be done. It's all we can do.

I will ask you this, though: What is the alternative reality presented if we do not struggle against this situation? Is that a world you want to live in?

Edit: 'reek', not 'wreak' (thanks /u/thegypsymc for the catch) Great comment. Just wanted to point out that the word you meant to use is "reeks", not "wreaks". http://i.imgur.com/nBw1BqE.jpg While this is a concern, closing one eye is a step in the right direction. Nothing, but it also has nothing to do with fighting 215 and reforming the Patriot act. Step by step man. That's certainly a good point. But I think that Australia, UK, New Zealand, and Canada, don't have near the spying apparatus that the US does. If anything, I think we can do what we can to scale back spying or make it harder. I did it, took maybe 45 seconds. Living in Utah with an NSA data center that was recently built there's no way in hell our Congressmen would ever vote to get rid of it... Worth a shot though. if you're interested you can get involved with our Utah chapter: http://restorethe4th.com/chapters/ut/salt-lake-city/ ITT: introverts who get nervous talking on the phone. Crazy how I was too young to know what the Patriot Act was about when it was voted in but now that I'm 22 I'm trying to stop it from continuing  I called my congressman, and spoke to his assistant. It was an awkward call, but that's because I'm terrible with phone calls. Hope it actually gets passed along &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; god it was awkward for me, too. glad I called though \#fight215 on twitter is trending
 Thanks for this info! It took me less than a minute to complete. This was my first time calling and I fucking nailed it  As an Australian, good luck. I really hope that makes an impact.  I did it! 
I got super nervous and tripped over my words when a live person answered! Haha but I got the point across and feel happy I did! And now my social anxiety is slowly dissipating. Thanks reddit! I'm In AZ. I'm about to call John McCains office to leave a message. Nobody likes talking on the phone but it's actually really easy to do this, the people who answer are super nice and it feels good to at least try, took me a minute to talk to 3 different offices!  Did it!  Here is what I said:

Hi, my name is -----.  I am one of your constituents.  I feel that section 215 of the Patriot Act is far too vague is used by the NSA to illegaly invade my privacy.
I feel that this invasion of privacy is not worth the minimal security it creates.  In addition, I feel that government surveillance in general, while to a certain extent necessary, needs increased over-site in order to prevent abuse. Please feel free to contact me at ______@__.___ I just called David loebsak using this site. Took a total of 3 minutes. Everyone do this. I just did it, but because of my social anxiety, I fucked up. I called. Fight it, people! I have the opportunity to hand my congressman, Patrick McHenry, a letter tomorrow. Will someone help me? 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tYlAL_6NAvlNiZAruSGsLTMVS_1bSkrJN0XHlu8BgJo/edit?usp=sharing I did it. Quick and easy.  When is the actual vote? I would like to send a physical letter too, the tangibility of it can make a bigger impact.  Did it, barely took a minute. Feels like I'm making a difference.  Seattle resident reporting for duty. Call complete. Easy peasy.  Did it.. Hope others do too.. Personal privacy and freedom is the basis of what this country once was... It's our job to fight for it back.. Nobody else will do it for you. Did it. Easiest phone call I've made all day.  What are some good facts to cite? Like "this program has not stopped a terror plot" or " the program lacks oversight which encourages agencies to overstep their bounds even further", etc. &gt;What are some good facts to cite?

"You'll lose my vote if you pass this." Why not both? the amount of people in this comment section that are completely passive to and don't really give a flying fuck about basically having their every move under surveillance by the government is kind of shocking to me I did it.  My voice was a little shaky because I wasn't expecting a live person.  But the lady said it would go directly to the congressman and I may even get a call back! Just called. It literally took 30 seconds. Everyone do it. I did it felt weird bc I hate talking to unknown people.  How about just end the Patriot Act all together? I just did it. Feels good to know that I at least did *something*. I get that we need to continue to fight for our freedoms and that's the basis of democracy. We should be happy to live in a country that allows us to do so. But sometimes it just seems so futile. It is Congress' full time job to decide on the laws that govern our country, not ours. Yet it feels like we would need to make it our full time job to make sure our security, privacy and freedoms are protected. I see posts all the time about contacting our representatives to tell them our stance on net neutrality and mass surveillance bills. We did did so with CISPA (or whatever it was called) and it seemed like such a great movement and accomplishment. And then what felt like only weeks later there was another post about it another bill that was almost the exact same. Just seems Congress is going to beat us into submission or piggyback something they want on to another bill for anything that they want to get passed. You guys are truly an optimistic bunch.

Cheers! I said this in another thread. I called my Congressman and Senators- They sent some bullshit form letter in response.  I tried to post the responses but they were removed from multiple subs. Done. :-) even though I live in Oklahoma and don't much trust my congressmen to listen to a thing I said... Their secretaries were super nice haha Super easy, just keep hitting star (*) when you're done though so you get through to ALL your reps. Called. Even if it is getting lost in the mess, at least I can say I did something instead of nothing. You can too as long as you call. Called two legislatures in under a minute.  Super easy. My rep is...well...was...Aaron Schock.  I guess he finished last week.  Any options for me? Try your u.s senator I was under the impression this was a House vote thing. Both houses need to re-authorize the Patriot act and submit it to be signed by the pres. My dick pics are not for NSA eyes, damnit. I have sent dick pics to this lady that works at the NSA, but I don't think that should be regarded as the same thing. I emailed my senators and representative a while ago. Diane Feinstein (I'm in California) said she not only supported it but thought it needed expansion. Fuck her They asked me for my email address, home address, phone number and last name (which is in my email address). I think at some point during this phone call, I forgot the purpose of why I was calling... If it passes then do not pass the people who passed it VOTE THEM OUT OF OFFICE Unless you're a Democrat and they pass laws to give you other people's money, or you're a Republican and they vote for the Bible. In which case you'll vote for them no matter what. 

Which is why they'll vote to renew it.  That... Isn't what Democrats do... They don't just take money of people and give it to other people. They up taxes to better public services... So many votes so few comments... Did it. There was a little but of an awkward phone conversation between me and my elected representative's secretary... but I did it. I just did made the call.  It was a very quick process, and I'm happy to have contributed to the effort.  I did it! I'm from Southern California. It was quick and easier than I expected.  "They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety."

Done Do you have to be 18 to do this? No.  We're just going to put the tip in. I just did it. I'm watching you, rep! Called, it's pretty easy. If you care you will do it.  I just called my congressman's office and told them my position on the issue. It literally takes a few minutes...hopefully enough people do this so it starts to garner more attention! If you want to do something more than calling.

Give money to the EFF (who sponsored this tool).  They have been fighting the good fight for decades.

http://eff.org Did it. Feel good about it. Even if nothing happens, it's gratifying to know you attempted to be a part of the solution.  I never felt any better than I did just now, I'm so glad I called. I'm not gonna sit in the shadows anymore, I'm an goddamn American.   These emails are the gift that keeps giving. Thank you wikileaks.  https://stop-ttip.org

Go here if you want to help stop this horrendous piece of draconian legislation. 

Edit: Also check out this short 2 min video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_sbeTHSzhw and share it with everybody who still haven't heard of this.  Can you if you are in the US?  No, that site is only for European citizens. But this http://action.sumofus.org/a/stop-ttip/ is for everybody. 

Edit: And this https://act.eff.org/action/don-t-let-congress-fast-track-tpp is directed at the US Congress.  Not European citizen but citizen of the EU. I'm from Switzerland, couldn't participate. Same here, I'm from Norway, so I just changed my country to Sweden. Dedication, moving to another country for the cause.

(I know, he is proxying through Sweden. But that isn't nearly as fun) Huh, guess the swedes are good for something after all! I filled out the whole thing then couldn't find the U.S.  



I was actually bummed that I couldn't submit my signature. Clicking the site for everyone now. :) That's what I was looking for. Is there anything else we european can do? Tell everybody you know about this and make them tell everybody they know. This is getting almost no coverage in the mainstream media. Perhaps share this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_sbeTHSzhw short video.   Already shared of course. I'm going to see the video later and share. Holy hell, 1,000,000 of the signatures are from Germany alone.  I'm sorry to ask this, but could you or anyone else explain what this even means? Imagine living in a world where corporations could sue the governments of other nations. Take a country like India that provides a lot of labor to companies based in other countries. Let's say the government of India decides to raise the minimum wage or require certain benefits for it's citizens who are employed.  This will cost companies based in other countries money if they have their labor from India, and "hurt their future profits."  The TPP would allow for that to happen, and to happen completely in private. :( 


*edited to add* You can also think about this with regard to countries that export resources, natural or otherwise. What if they wanted to generate more money and try to set a higher export tariff on their export? This would also adversely affect future profits for companies needing the resource. Don't companies sue the American government all the time? The difference is, this will give them teeth to increase what they can sure for, even if rational logic dictates that it is against common sense for them to be permitted to sue.

Good I hate corporate citizens bring given this much power. I hate the fact that "Corporate Citizens" are even a thing. Yeah if it was equally applied rather than unequally, I might support the concept better. If a private citizen violates the law, they can go to jail and its assets can be seized. When a "corporate citizen" violates the law and its assets are seized and the Owners/CEOs are sent to jail, rather than some minor fine being assessed, I might reconsider.  Right now, corporations have the benefits of being a "citizen" without any of the downsides :P

Since the corporations write the laws though... If you have heard of NAFTA or other trade deals that have done nothing for the average person while strengthening corporations' power to make money, then this is the next logical (and horrifying) step.

It's a secretly-negotiated trade agreement that is so secret, the citizens of the countries involved won't even be able to see the contents for FOUR YEARS after it is passed. That's why they are fast-tracking it, if they didn't, they would have to debate it on the floor of the senate (or other legislative body) and therefore release information about it.

Read the OP and then do a search for TPP or TTIP depending on where you live. It's seriously some evil, draconian shit that I can't believe is even being considered. Another interesting fact: Politicians have the right to know what it is in the agreement, but once they do, they are forbidden to talk about it to the public, or even other politicians. I would like to know more about this. What is the reason for the secrecy? National security?? Did they do this same kind of shit when NAFTA was in negotiations?Edit: Decided to read up a little on this *shit*:[On TTIP](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transatlantic_Trade_and_Investment_Partnership)[On TPP](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans-Pacific_Partnership) The reason is they give a fuck about you, welcome to modern democracy where your vote is used as a legitimation for their actions, but your voice is ignored. I don't know about other EU-countries, but in mine it was never even in the news that this is a thing that's being considered in the first place. The only reasons people know about it now are the internet and the fact that a satirical tv-program did an item on it. 






And there you have your reason. Our governments are being (/have been/will be) taken over by corporations. This is their latest invasion of our freedom. corporate wants power, so they're pushing legislation to sue any government that messes with their revenue. &gt;potential revenue

Whatever that means.  with the two bills, "that" is very clearly defined Major ISPs can sue the FCC for enforcing net neutrality, companies like Kraft, Coca-Cola, and McDonald's could sue the FDA for enforcing food safety standards or making them label certain things like GMOs or nutrition information, corporations can sue the government for enforcing a minimum wage or outlawing child labor,  etc. Some of the possibilities are really fucked up.  TL;DR Huge corporations and high ranking government officials want to create new laws to crack down on piracy as well as other things, these laws will be global. Have you read OP's post?
 It might be a dog asking, whose owner might have already gone to sleep. But why male models? Didn't those emails get leaked last year? Are just beginning to get to the good stuff? They recently put up a searchable index of them.  Link for those interested: [https://wikileaks.org/sony/press/](https://wikileaks.org/sony/press/) I think the right strategy to adopt here would be to abandon popular media, which not only wastes our times, conditions us to be useless, but also deprives us of real worldly pleasures. None of this information would have come to light if weren't for whoever hacked Sony. Those responsible for the hack, rightfully deserve credit for exposing these insidious plots to the world. Why hacking is still important. More than ever, I guess. I guess that's easier on the general public than installing root kits.
 the media publishing industry might just be the most entitled industry in the world.  In large part because most people don't encounter it until they massively violate their rules... Hey Sony, provide an online movie software similar to Steam with affordable prices, release movies the minute they finish their Cinema cycle for 20 bucks a piece

what will happen? shit i dunno, ask Gabe how much money Valve has been making for the past 10 years. To be honest, it doesn't matter to me what they do now. I'll be boycotting them for life for trying to pull this shit. Government^TM , brought to you by MegoCo. 

Replacing that outdated notion of democracy with oligarchy for only 5 easy payments of all your money, or we'll arrest you!

Coming next year, ThoughtCrime 2.0! I have zero faith in Western Democracies ability to resist the Corporate Feudalism era of the future we are rapidly approaching   And even when the people manage to catch the most egregious, monolithic attempts to pass laws like these, there are plenty of smaller ones that slip through -- death by 1,000 papercuts. (Or the boiling frog metaphor)

People only have so much energy to fight this shit, and corporations as a whole have unlimited resources and patience. If they don't get their way this year, this decade, they eventually will. I rather fear that each time massive bills and trade agreements like this are toppled, the next attempt will be even more insidious and fast-tracked through.

They won't stop at "Oh well, not then." They'll stop until they succeed. we /r/cyberpunk now Soykaf's up, chummer. Johnson's got us another milk run. http://shadowrun.wikia.com/wiki/Corporate_Court

http://shadowrun.wikia.com/wiki/Shiawase_Decision

Stranger than fiction indeed. All we need now is a dragon, 3 metric tons of C4, and the internet to crash, and we're already there. Arguably SYRIZA in Greece are resisting it by refusing to force austerity on innocent citizens, all to subsidise Western Euro banks (90%+ of ongoing loans go straight back to banks' coffers). Because God forbid a bank should ever lose in the game of capitalism. Risk/Reward only applies to shit kickers on 45k that take out margin loans or mortgages for risky property. 

But back to Greece. Look at how even the *citizens* are being demonised by most media and even citizens of other countries... The citizens for christ sake! [The most unemployed and longest-hour working people in Europe](http://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2011/dec/08/europe-working-hours) are being painted as lazy, evil and incompetents because that's what people are being told to think. This is what happens when you decide that maybe the banks should take a hair-cut. Your sovereignty and dignity is undermined on a global stage. 

Large Businesses run the Western World and worst of all, people make it possible by thinking it's for the best. We need growth all the time after all.... and the best way to achieve that is to give large corporations carte blanche... When we drop this foolish mindset, maybe we can stop seeing the erosion of the middle class and set some boundaries for the oligarchs that run the world.  Me either. It's already a done deal. People are easily manipulated, especially in aggregate. &gt;~~arrest you!~~

break into your house and shoot your dog


 &gt;next generation of criminal enforcement

This has dystopia written all over it.  There is a book that has this concept. Check out Jennifer Government. Fantastic read.  Somewhat relevant 



https://youtu.be/XFKoGtgg6Mo https://youtu.be/vLfghLQE3F4 Wait, are you a bot from early 2011 or something? Obviously I have a conflict of interest but I think that thoughtCrime 2.0 is the best kind of thought crime honestly. Thing is guys, we have no long-term game plan. They are going to keep drafting these bills and "trade agreements", one after the other. All that's been happening seems to come down to "we, the people" basically plugging leaks in a breaking dam, or putting a band-aid on a hemorrhaging wound. I'm not for the TPP by any measure. But our responding to things like this does not get to the source of the problem. Agreed. It's a fucking bummer. The source of the problem is legalized bribery, also known as campaign donations and the revolving door of jobs.  That needs to be fixed before anything else can be fixed. Well reddit could push for someone in 2016 who is against stuff like this. I know where Bernie Sanders stands on this, but he isn't even running yet. Clinton hasn't come out strongly either way. If shes for it, or doesn't come out boldly and say how awful it is, than I hope reddit doesnt circlejerk around her come election time. No one president is going to be able to fix this. To really stem the root of this level of corruption and greed, we as a GLOBAL entity, as a species, have to de-incentivize greed, hoarding and money for the sake of money, and incentivize community, decentralization and sustainability. 

Our economic system obviously incentivizes predators, and obviously centers around the proposition that one section of society must suffer for another to thrive. We have to dismantle these paradigms and incentivize just fucking taking care of each other. And no president can do that. It has to come from every single one of us. I'm just not sure how. There are so many of us... Clinton is a corporate lapdog to the Nth degree, there's no way in hell she'd actually oppose this sort of thing in office. 

Edit: Misread your post, sorry about that. I'll leave my point though for other people's benefit.  You won't have to worry for long. Record poverty, record separation of wealth, record debt, record population... is there even anyone who thinks this is indefinitely sustainable? Because history sure as hell has something to say about that. here a fucking bright idea... 

STOP using the 1920's model of copyright , and move into the digital age of the WORLD WIDE WEB! 

then maybe, more people would by your content if they could get it! rather than illegally downloading it. 

i can speak on this because i come from australia, the WORST country for illegal downloads. maybe if you didn't take 6 months to get your tv show to us, OR make is pay through the ass to get it. GIVE US THE OPTION TO BUY IT!  But it costs money to ship digital content to other countries. /s yeah those megabytes are a killer on DHL right? You just know they'd ship on floppies. Do you know how long it takes those freighters to ship internet bytes to you?! To get there in 6 months, they have to start a year out and SURVIVE long enough to deliver Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt pallets to you, you ungrateful pig! Mates recently signed up and started paying for HBO Go from Australia.  Required setting up fake US iTunes accounts and addresses etc to get access.  This is TO ACTUALLY PAY FOR THE FUCKING PROGRAMS!!!!

HBO Go is threatening to shut down accounts of people in Australia circumventing geo blocks to pay them.

I repeat, they are threatening to shut down the accounts of people in the country with (supposedly) the highest rate of piracy in the world (not true) who are actually paying them for content.

THIS IS FUCKING INSANITY. &gt; but it will allow corporations to sue governments for 'cutting into their future profits' and to get the countries to repeal laws like environmental and food safety standards to maximise profits.

Can you elaborate on this point a little using existing material? The issue regards investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) clauses; similar to the terms built into NAFTA.

* [Eli Lilly Raises Stakes: Says Canada Now Owes It $500 Million For Not Granting A Patent It Wanted](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20130723/05101823898/eli-lilly-decides-it-was-not-greedy-enough-now-suing-canada-500-million.shtml)

John Oliver had a good piece on this topic.

* [Last Week Tonight with John Oliver: Tobacco](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&amp;v=6UsHHOCH4q8) The John Oliver video's what first got me to realise how serious the TTIP issue is and look in to it further. Definitely worth a watch. I appreciate what John Oliver is doing, great work. I watch these clips and see so much of Jon Stewart, I bet he feels good about how he changed news Both of them should feel good about how they've changed (some) people's perception of the news, and made us think more critically about the pap we're being fed.  As for the news industry itself, I only wish it would change.

I'm going to really miss Jon Stewart. I hope that Trever Noah is up to the task. Updated the OP to make it a bit more clear. In existing material, the term is referred to as an ISDS clause / mechanism. In fact, some governments have already been sued using them. To give an example, Australia is being sued by Phillip Morris Asia Limited over plain packaging laws. The Australian government, in its enduring campaign to reduce levels of tobacco use, introduced laws which force cigarette companies to use plain packaging. The idea being that marketing will be less effective and the product less appealing. Phillip Morris is suing for lost profits, and is also seeking to have the legislation overturned. http://www.pmi.com/eng/media_center/press_releases/documents/20111121_australia_plain_packaging_lawsuit.pdf

But the funny thing is, many countries already HAVE such agreements in place. They are a cornerstone of most modern free trade agreements. I.E recent Australian - Chinese FTA : (http://www.theland.com.au/news/metro/national/general/chinese-corporations-allowed-to-sue-australian-government-under-free-trade-agreement/2717647.aspx) Although I think it is a scary concept, it actually isn't anything new. 

Kind of a libertarians (I use the term loosely) wet dream. Lost profits, that's the best. 

Hey company that didn't hire me for work, I lost money when you didn't hire me, now im suing. 

Hey country that doesn't want me to rape your environment and economy. I lost money when you voted against it. Now I'm suing. Shame on you for thinking your law is above my corporate profits.  This is tpp in a nutshell right here.  Corporations trump the masses, the masses being the government that represents them. If we vote to kick a plunderer out of the country they sue?  How the fuck is this fair?  Its not. Its anti-democratic and I would think anyone from a democratic government pushing this is committing treason.  Hence the secrecy  We could always burn down their buildings and hunt down and kill management. &gt; I would think anyone from a democratic government pushing this is committing treason

Interestingly enough, we have had several attempts to abolish right wing extremist parties due to being against democracy, yet we have a government actively advertising to abolish democracy (read: TTIP). Still curious how long it will take until we have a violent uprising, despite the efforts to defame anyone vocally displeased with their clear attack on the foundation of democracy as "rage citizens". It is kind of a race to the bottom to attract international investment. I.E If I am picking a country to invest in, I have to weight up government intervention. Would anyone invest in a country whose government constantly introduced legislation that hurt companies? And Ideally it would work both ways, whether the legislation is garbage or not. I.E sue over a law that requires all smart phones to track all information, and then forward the gathered information to government databases. Google or Apple could sue a government on the basis that people stopped using their products over privacy concerns. 

But ultimately the whole thing lacks commonsense. Tobacco companies have been sued before for negatively impacting the health of people in dozens of countries. The U.S government sued 4 of the biggestt tobacco firms in 1999 (including Phillip Morris). They argued that the negative impact of tobacco caused a greater reliance on government health programs. As a settlement, the tobacco companies agreed to allow greater government regulation + pay a compensation fee every year (effectively a tax). Companies with highly negative externalities are only going to open a can of worms on themselves if they sue using ISDS mechanisms. And as it stands in the Australia case, Phillip Morris is being accused of "treaty shopping". They invested in the Australian arm after the plain packaging legislation passed... The Australian government is arguing that Phillip Morris only invested so it could sue the government. Lol how backwards is that?
 Quite as backwards as it gets, well stated  &gt;Hey company that didn't hire me for work, I lost money when you didn't hire me, now im suing.   
  
Yeah but you're not a major corporation. You don't have that right. &gt; Kind of a libertarians (I use the term loosely) wet dream.

Extremely loosely. I think most libertarians would be opposed to such government trade agreements. The entire deal definitely. Most schools of thought would be against the TPP.

But this specific part? it just depends (on the school of thought). To use the Australian example, most schools of libertarianism would be against the government mandating plain packaging on cigarettes. And they could argue that firms have a right to sell to the people, and package their products how they want, while the people have a right to buy a product or leave it.

Anyway I used the term loosely because the many schools of libertarianism often contain some very contrasting philosophies. I guess it probably favors crony capitalism or Right-libertarianism more than anything. 
 That's a fair point, but I'd say that the IP section of the agreement is kind of anti-libertarian. After all, patents, trademarks and copyrights are basically "monopolies" given by the state. (But yeah, this too might be different in some branches of libertarianism..) So public policy isn't a justification for laws under these agreements?  What are the elements of a claim for violation? The elements for a claim are really specific to each overarching agreement. To give an example, the Australian government is currently trying to have health and environmental policy exempted from any possible ISDS mechanics, with regards to the TPP agreement. 

 Bizarre.  Just so bizarre.  Did they not realize they'd be subject to ridiculous claims when they accepted the treaty? My future profits of a company I haven't invented yet is in the trillions of dollars. I'm going to sue for it.  Sony? Just say NO. Yeah but guys, Ben Affleck didn't want anyone to know his ancestors owned slaves! 


Not that I need to ask, but why is *that* the Sony email story all the news outlets are running with?  A well crafted piece of PR deflection They recently got hacked and ddosed. So they are the only ones we can actually pin it on atm The war on drug is soon to be over, they will need something else to make everyone a criminal.  The only *real* reason the war on drugs will be ending is because someone in power realized drugs could make governments lots of money. I'm all for decriminalization, but don't be naive enough to think that it has anything to do with logic. Money always wins.  No, that's not why the war on drugs is ending. You don't think people knew before that drugs would make money? It's way more complicated than that. Care to elaborate? I'm one of the uninformed. It would help a lot with explanation. Central banks make lots of money.   The war on drugs will end because the majority of 'citizens' are starting to see the state as pure evil and illegitiment.  If the state wants more money, it will simply print it.

Currently, the majority sees IP as ok and it won't revolt over it. Links for Aussies to protest the governments involvement and demand this shady piece of shit agreement is released to the public.


[Choice petition](http://choice.good.do/tpp/)

[Get Up petition](https://www.getup.org.au/campaigns/tpp/tpp/the-dirtiest-deal-youve-never-heard-of)

[Avaaz petition](http://www.avaaz.org/en/stop_the_corporate_death_star/?copy) (this one is global - you choose your region)


It's a start for anyone who wants to share on social media, raise awareness, feel like they're doing *something* about this clusterfuck of a situation. Remember when reddit was freaking out about SOPA we need to do even more to stop the TPP from being passed we need to post information about the TPP all over the Internet this has to be exposed to all the people of the country's effected by the TPP  Punctuation I almost passed out from reading that sentence.  Didn't know when to take a breath.  All of us have been feasting on the content companies' property for years and the government doesn't care because it keeps us pacified while they keep creating tax breaks for the wealthy and bailouts for the financial institutions.

Enjoy your free windfall while it lasts, but realize that while you sit glued to your tablets endlessly binge watching movies, shows, and porn... the wealthy are slowly taking more and more real, tangible assets while you settle for consuming pixels.

We feel wealthy because we can watch any movie, see any tv show, play any game, watch any porno, read most books, listen to any music, but most of us can't buy a house, pay off our student loans or a get a decent paying job.

The internet is the opium of the 21st century... never forget that while you spend hours numbing yourself on content.

ETA: Thanks to whoever took the time to gild and recognize my comment...  It's a message which I care passionately about so it is much appreciated. I just got done watching HBO's Scientology thing. 

Everything seems evil. Pff, everything was *already* evil. You know how the North liberated the slaves? We burnt everything in the South to the God damn ground so that they couldn't supply their troops. How did we defeat Japan and end their brutal occupation of the Pacific? We dropped the two deadliest weapons the world had ever seen on their cities. Everything in this world is evil; cogs of bone greased by blood.  

Fuck this. &gt; cogs of bone greased by blood

BRB, writing a Metal album. I was in a fucking *mood* this morning. Good Lord. History is written by the victors, unfortunately Why do people make it sound like it'd be easy as fuck to prevent these sorts of tax breaks for the wealthy?  Why is there always this pacifier argument yet no argument on how to ensure less bailouts and more trickle down opportunities? Well, that's all fine and romanticised.

What would you like us to do? I already vote third parties and take active participation in my local politics, but I still enjoy reading comic books, watching movies and the like. Would you like us all to pack up and move out to the Scottish Highlands?

While I do agree that you have a point, you communicated it a bit too melodramatically and insultingly, you sounded like some religious radical giving a speech on the horror of modern technology.

Yes, the hyper-rich manipulate us, but that's the way it has been through all History, it's unavoidable, we can't stop it. But I really don't think we're living in a life of enslavement. I could go and burn all my comics and video games then go buy a shack in the aforementioned Scottish Highlands, nobody could stop me. I wouldn't do that not because I have some mindless connection to them,but because I enjoy them specifically, the ones I don't I refund and get rid of. (I wouldn't say I "mindlessly"consume either as I usually make mini-reviews and critical analysis of stuff afterward for fun.)

I also wouldn't go as far to say as the internet is controlled by the "rich" (which seems to be your boogeyman...), seeing as it's got the freedom to give us access to the info we're discussing, again I will agree that portions of the internet are corporate sponsored and controlled, but everybody knows that anyway, it'd just that most people don't care and don't see corporations as super-villains (Not to say they're not dodgy in their operations, but they're not the satanic force for pure evil that some people believe them to be)

I'm all for people being free and skeptical of the government and big corporations, but I think you're getting a little dramatic.
 Holy shit, you're right. Consuming content is like a giant pacifier. But if they take it away from us, I don't doubt that people will throw a fit. However, with national weed legalization becoming more of a reality, perhaps we won't complain about our content anymore if we can be stoned off our asses the entire time. Really hard to protest something if you're stoned and binge-watching the next new Netflix Original Series.  George Orwell in 1984: Films, football, beer, and above all, gambling filled up the horizon of their minds. To keep them in control was not difficult. As if legalization will make people smoke more.. You need to realize that the legalization is mostly to keep people off jail etc. (not to mention other goods it brings?) It doesn't necessarily mean that people will smoke more, the idea was to make it legal so you don't face punishments for it later on. Do you really think the average Joe will go get high just because it's legal now? The government won't ever touch content... because people would awaken from their "drugged out" haze.  However, I think once companies like Google, Apple, Netflix, Amazon end up taking over the content business from the old paradigm... the tech companies will end up regulating it themselves.  Since it currently belongs to companies like Sony, they don't care if people steal it... but once it is their own property, all bets are off.

People are worried about the wrong thing... it's the big picture they need to understand. Wow...

I wish we had this sort of transparency on every corporation.

Its clear by the way they speak Sony at least itself believes it has undo influence on politics and legislation.

This is where the real action happens now, not in governments. Government is simply the conduit for corporate control. That's what happens when we continue voting in the same spineless compromised politicians. The problem is that we don't really see any alternative honestly.

At least in my country, Italy, with the movement "5 Stars" there was a boost of hope for the change but in the end nothing changed and now we've just 1/3 of the parliament composed by culturally illiterate and people that is clearly just puppet in the hands of the head of this "movement" while the base of this movement is full of cultural illiterate and neo-fascist.

Things only goes in the worst direction. just when you think it can't get worse, it does.

they're really pulling out all the stops with these ones. I can't stop thinking about the last scene of fight club. They're actively fostering propaganda created through paying professors to build a body of evidence supporting their claims. "Oh look, we said it was bad and this person with all these qualifications says it too!"

Anything printed by a professor should come with a label indicating who paid them to write it. The most depressing thing of all.. The US is going to sign this lock, stock and fucking barrel. It makes no difference who's in office. Obama wants this, Clinton wants this... Republicans want this.  The reason this thing will get signed is because people like MPAA Chairman and CEO [Chris Dodd](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chris_Dodd) are their close friends from back when they all served together in Congress.  

Chris Dodd is one of the most morally corrupt individuals on the planet - he is one of the primary people responsible for the idea of "too big to fail" and banks getting bail outs (because his friend Angelo Mozilo ran Countrywide Bank and gave him crazy good loans for his multiple properties).  Dodd as also been at the heart of several note-worthy financial scandals following the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market.  [He is on record as saying Fanny and Freddie were in no financial distress.](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/sen-dodd-calls-fannie-freddie-fundamentally-strong?dist=hpts)  [He is on video taking credit for allowing AIG executives to keep their bonuses, despite the company failing so hard it needed a gigantic money injection from the government.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1GoK0539Gl4)  And the best part?  He vowed not to lobby after he couldn't get re-elected as a Senator - [a promise he broke within months](http://www.salon.com/2011/03/02/dodd_13/).  He now writes the legislation that the MPAA uses when they put forward things like SOPA and CISPA.


This is a truly evil, shallow, and treacherous individual who is just one of the cogs behind this devious bullshit.  He knows how to fast-track legislation, who to talk to and what favors will cost in the Beltway.  This will not be an easy fight with snakes like him hiding behind these slimy agreements. And it's not going to change a damn thing as it pertains to piracy. It's like a hydra. [Hail Hydra](https://41.media.tumblr.com/a2a69ec85f9377833495df3a5d0b13a6/tumblr_n3o6ubgZXB1rehc62o1_500.jpg) And to think I wanted to work for them... Why do we have to keeping fighting the same fight over and over again? Why does it seem that the governments are working not for their natural people but rather their corporate people? Do you know what it is called when you have a blending of corporate and state?  

What we need is real change and not continuing to have to kill one bill then fight the same fight later again when they think people are not watching. I am willing to bet that the TPP k as much of the SOPA bill in it. What you need to convince your friends and family of is that we need a revolution and to form a new government. Not saying it is easy but clearly what we have is worthless and not working for the benefit of natural citizens  Who else among us thinks we need to get John Oliver's attention on this?... Does anyone know HBO's stance on the issue? 
With Game of Thrones being one of the most pirated shows on TV, I could see them having views similar to Sony's.   If so it could put a road block in John Oliver reporting on it to the degree he did with Snowden, police militarization, etc This is a fair point. Although, anecdotally (downvotes be damned), I get the feeling that he would still speak out about things like some other hosts do/have done. Conan openly talked shit about NBC when he was with that network. Stephen Colbert did on comedy central visa vie Viacom once or twice. I wouldn't put it past Mr. Oliver to do it because it would get more people watching/talking about his show which HBO would still benefit from. Perhaps, But I am also fairly certain that HBO Knows their audience well enough that if they came out in support of this, it would seem incredibly Jarring, especially in comparison to previous episodes, and that any dancing around the issue would just seem dishonest, and thus lose them a large portion of the audience for Last Week Tonight. They really do not have much of a choice but to take the sane side on this matter. Suddenly I don't feel so bad about the Sony hacks. dying forms of media desperately trying to stay relevant.  No no, this isn't forms of media. This is about controlling the means of distribution. They like to call themselves content creators, bit these are people who controlled distribution them used that control to strong arm content creators into giving up copyright. 

Their terrified because the internet removed their monopolies on distribution by removing the barrier to entry. I'm not sure insulting the "idiots" who voted for Obama is a good way to open your post. Plus it's not like it was his idea nor does he have some sort of super power to make it happen if he's even involved with it directly.  Oh for all gods sake. Does this really need a proof? The fact that these *four letter agreements* are created and negotiated behind closed doors without access for civic organizations isn't enough to see that there's something really wrong going on? If its that horrible, why do so many politicians of so many countries want it? It cant just be all about kickbacks and corporate donations - all I ever see online is the negatives - so what are the benefits? They had to get sold on this somehow  Whenever something benefits large corporations or the wealthy, they sell it as "good for the economy" or "helping job creators"

That's usually how they get away with unfair tax cuts. I DON'T WANT MY LAWS BEING WRITTEN BY COMPANIES. Then you're going to have to convince people to stop giving money to companies.  Money is power, and people are concentrating their money into these megacorps by purchasing the products they sell. Welcome to what we call "neo-liberalism", or essentially, materialist dictatorship. It's like the matrix, but without the fancy tech. The TPP isn't going to extend copyright law in the US because the US already has the most draconian copyright law. The TPP is going to mostly affect countries in southeast Asia, where there is either no copyright law, or no enforcement. No, the tpp also extends copy right law of foreign companies and us companies over the law of nations. That's what is terrifying. 

We could pass a law, get the president to sign it, and a 'court' of industry appointed lawyers decide if the company or nation is right.  Guess who they'll side with? It could happen to you in the USA with a foreign company, but it's more likely that USA companies will use it to fuck others. 

The issue is sovereignty.  If the people pass a law, and a group of lawyers can act like a court and over rule that law on favor of a corporations profits (even projected profits) then our government has officially been hijacked. 

I can't believe Vietnam is on board with this. They have am economy with lots of copy right breaking.  As soon as they sign,every company can come to Vietnam and make people stop. No more cheap dvd shops, t shirts with Apple and Disney, etc.  And if you've been here, you know it's a big part of their economy.  It would also prevent any reversal in the trend for increased copyright terms. If the US government were to suddenly gain the sense to realize that its terms were ridicuously long, they wouldn't be able to pass a new law to decrease the term because the treaty would bind their hands. It isn't just detrimental to foreign freedoms, but American freedoms as well. I'm like 75% sure most of Europe is going to have violent riots if this passes. There are no European signatories to the TPP. It's called TTIP in Europe. There's a very similar TTIP agreement between US and EU. 

Also secret with the text not released and it being fast tracked through governments.  IIRC something very much like the TPP is in the works for transatlantic trade, however.  please look up the TTIP. You guys aren't rioting about the US spying (or, for that matter, your own government's spying on you).

Why would this be any different? They can't say, "terrorism" and "free-trade" in the same sentence and be taken seriously..

..fuck, please don't prove me wrong oh merciful masters. We are passing this legislation to ensure that the free trade of our nations is not inhibited by economic terrorists.  
  
There, Done. Everywhere should probably be as crazy as Greece and Brazil, considering how far government and corporate corruption has gone...  What part of Trans *Pacific* Partnership was unclear? TPP means that the big corporations win (profit) either way: Either the TPP court judgment is deemed to win out over sovereign law (such as in the case of pain-in-the-ass environmental or worker-protection law) or the government in question has to pay damages to said corporation in exchange for the sovereign law that harms their profit.

So basically, if you like the idea of global corporate authoritarian control, the TPP is a great, great start.  Fight these company's where it hurts Stop supporting these company's no ps4 or Sony TVs
 They can't make money doing good business so they have to fight some way.  **For non mobile users:**  
 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trans-Pacific_Partnership
&amp;gt;http://  
  ^^[Complaints/Messages](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=UnacceptableUse) well, that didn't quite work... Boycott every single company supporting this. If you think that's not possible you're lazy. Money speaks louder than democracy. Beat them at their book game.  This is really unsettling. What can I do about this?  Have you seen the end of Fight Club? A lot of sockpuppets on the comment section, downvote and inform others, don't waste your time &gt;    These two images are absolute concrete proof that Sony/MPAA are lobbying governments to push the TPP/TTIP's extensive copyright laws. One part reads, 

Except they're not. 

&gt;This here is concrete proof that corporations globally are pushing laws for their own profit at the expense of the people, this will be basically SOPA/CISPA on steroids. 

Corporations support laws that help them. shocker.

&gt;they have been put in charge of implementing the punishments for breaking these laws.

No they haven't, you're quote doesn't support that. 

&gt;And as I'm sure it's a sensitive topic of discussion right now, the UK will likely lose the NHS as well.

Except it's about changing laws not existing ones. The word is "claimed" not "potential". What about the other companys pushing for it? If we just focus on Sony another company pushes for it. Unless I'm missing something here...oh that's right, a license.  If they put half as much effort in leadership training and r&amp;d, Shareholders wouldn't be getting reared every quarter.  The amazing thing is the futility of these ridiculous copyright enforcement ideas. The ingenuity against them will always win. I'm a software engineer, but not a special one. I'm no genius, but I know a few. Nobody with any talent wants to work for the government or fucks like this anymore. They can't win. Anything they can possibly come up with will be circumvented in a way the masses can adopt.  the social veneer of corporate acceptability will fall in the face of this.  sad, most companies are not evil shits. If our legislatures put our country in harms way by making our governments pay for alleged losses, then the legislatures should be held over for treason charges.   I wish I could be motivated to do something but it already seems so, so far out of our control.. These people are completely beyond public control or consternation. I'd love to be proven wrong but short of devoting my life to defending freedom I don't see anything I do even registering on the radar, and devoting my life to lobbying against people that will never care about me doesn't put food on the table. I'll just leave this here.

http://shadowrun.wikia.com/wiki/Shadowrun_corporations No more sony for me Strong copyright laws - know what? I'm actually for that. Artists etc *should* get paid when the product of their labours is consumed. No issue whatsoever.

That, obviously, needs to be balanced with social and cultural norms as well (i.e. let's talk about durations...)

What **really** gets my goat is then the guise of "copyright protection" is used as a ruse to create artificial barriers to free trade and to (effectively) extort money from customers/fans.

With the likes of Netflix and other services, *people want to give Sonay et al money*. They actively **want** to do this. Infringement would go down if the price and service is right (and it seems it is in many cases). So why resist?

Only one reason I can think off, infringement is not as bad as is claimed and the lost revenue in providing a fair service is greater than any loses through said infringement. So they go for bullshit like this.

It's ridiculous. &gt; Strong copyright laws - know what? I'm actually for that. Artists etc should get paid when the product of their labours is consumed. No issue whatsoever.

This isn't about that though. Artists who use improper/outdated mediums to deliver their work are at fault and cannot complain if the medium becomes out dated. They are not special, these people are to be held to the same standards as everyone else. If I lose my job due to it being out dated through automation I cant demand the destruction of the machines that took my job.

Artists have to adapt. Like everyone else. Its just another form of mass layoffs due to automation and advancements in technology. We cant sell CDs anymore. If someone decides to do things the old way its their fault. 

Nobody is going to stick up for taxi drivers or truck drivers when THEY are replaced. We only get to hear about it when the wealthy cry. I say ignore them all the same. Especially with this shit, fuck them even.

Get in line like the rest of us. &gt; Artists who use improper/outdated mediums to deliver their work are at fault and cannot complain if the medium becomes out dated. They are not special, these people are to be held to the same standards as everyone else. If I lose my job due to it being out dated through automation I cant demand the destruction of the machines that took my job.

Yes, just because they are artists they do not deserve a living from society. Just like anyone else - if people don't purchase your labour, you get nothing.

The problem here is that it's not really the artists; it's corporate trying to make globalisation flow one way and actually **stop** it from being true globalisation. Because true globalisation (the oft touted ability of a starving farmer in in Peru to sell his llama milk or whatever for a fair price) actually removes the control of the vested interests.

That last thing they want is globalisation and a free market! Man, this is a scary potentiality. But the challenge is trying to explain something this complex to my friends and facebook newsfeed. I hardly understand it myself. Can somebody help dumb this down into concise and easy-to-explain concept for people to use and share with others? Explain that one day we might see all fast food workers be replaced with machines and nobody will stick up for them. However when wealthy people and corporations are put in a similar situation they go absolutely mad for power.

Imagine fast food workers burning down a mcodonalds because they were replaced machines. Imagine them destroying machines that took their jobs in riots on the streets in hopes that they can force corporations to not replace them and even pay them 30-50 dollars an hour! Once they organize they can control all fast food they can name any hourly wage they want!

Its the exact same thing that is going on for them but they are far far more powerful and will cause far more damage than some silly riots. Does anyone know of a video that explains TTP/TTIP impartially? I get that it's generally accepted as a bad thing, but "The Dirtiest Deal You've Never Heard Of" is hardly trying to let the viewer draw their own conclusions. To quote Gomer Pyle, "**SURPRISE! SURPRISE! SURPRISE!** April 19, 2015

Dear Mr. Slowshot:

This law firm represents VIACOM. If you are represented by legal counsel, please direct this letter to your attorney immediately and have your attorney notify us of such representation.

We are writing to notify you that your unlawful copying of GOMER PILE USMC infringes upon our clients exclusive copyrights. Accordingly, you are hereby directed to

CEASE AND DESIST ALL COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT.

VIACOM is the owner of a copyright in various aspects of GOMER PILE USMC. Under United States copyright law, VIACOMSs copyrights have been in effect since the date that GOMER PILE USMC was created. All copyrightable aspects of GOMER PILE USMC are copyrighted under United States copyright law. Everyone posts these threads every week and no one actually knows anything about TPP. Yes the negotiations are handled in private but so was NAFTA and other major trade agreements.

I keep seeing these posts about "suing governments" but the wording from the documents isn't different than what we have with other agreements already in place. It is designed to prevent governments from taking control of industries after foreign companies invest in the development of that industry in country. It isn't perfect and needs to be handled better. In addition, setting up a tribunal to enforce the agreement was designed to push through laws and regulation when a country's corrupt and slow court system will not. Again it isn't perfect but that's why it's on the negotiation tables.

I keep seeing people freak out about this and they're making noise. They should want to know more and should voice what they want. However, they need to also take a step back, breathe and understand how to create the correct message.

We need to have a trade-agreement in place with Asia. This is essential for growing a free-market globally. The argument that we would lose jobs in the U.S. is preposterous, as the industries that would most benefit from it are already outsourcing production. The legal issues need to be addresses as we have problems with copyright in Asia. China is known for outright stealing designs and intellectual property. This is also a reason why China is not part of TPP, it is also designed to help check their expansionist growth. 

Asking that the U.S. back out of the TPP is a misguided mission. TPP will happen, the U.S. needs to be in discussion so that it is not excluded. TPP can help the U.S. maintain a strong economy.

Oh. Addressing environmental issues. That's part of TPP not to remove regulation but to enforce the U.S. standards overseas which are by far worse that what is in the U.S.

Reddit gets bits and pieces of TPP from old meetings and random e-mails that discuss certain things but they don't get the whole context or all of the information. I see people making wild assumptions about things they do not know enough about. Also, the negotiations will continue to be held in private because of this very reason. TPP is more complex than any one post or website can explain. It takes people who have Ph.D in Economics, Finance, Business, Management, Environmental Studies, Human Rights, to create what is involves. Reddit may have a lot of experts but they can also be completely wrong too.

Be warned, "if everyone is thinking alike, somebody is not thinking." 

Note: I have more knowledge of TPP than the average Redditor because it will affect my job working with Corporate Social Responsibility. I do not have any insights into the actual negotiations, but I do keep updated on what I can. From what I've seen, everyone is boiling over about things that are used as negotiating pawns but will be thrown out because they are too ridiculous to be written in. Australia and New Zealand have said they will refuse to sign if certain "sue the government" provisions are left in.  Yeah, the people here are going batshit crazy over nothing, taking things wildly out of context, misunderstanding the legalese involved, and making faulty extrapolations based on that. There so much FUD surrounding TPP (and TTIP) it's not funny. I'm surprised you actually got upvoted here, unless I'm in a specialist subreddit ([such as here in /r/economics](http://www.reddit.com/r/Economics/comments/30qpqh/tpp_leak_reveals_extraordinary_new_powers_for/)) it's usually mass downvotes. &gt;This is worse than we thought /r/technology 

&gt;this is a life or death situation for the internet and most of modern society

The hyperbole is strong in this one.

 Is this really surprising at all? Companies are legal entities with the sole objective of making as much profit as possible within the bounds of the law. When you're an officer of such a company, you are appointed by the shareholders with the objective of carrying out the company's goal of making profit. When the laws actively hamper your profits, it's in the business's best interest to change said laws.  This is such an important topic right now and I really don't know whether the US populace will ever be motivated enough to stop it. There will be a 60 day public comment period before it is passed but I just don't think it will be enough. 

Is this something big enough to wake the people up and get them in the streets?  Great! So now we have evidence of political corruption and we can hold the politicians accepting the bribes, and the citizens who are bribing them, accountable for their crimes and get this country back on the right track! Right? I'm getting really sick of hearing this, America. Greatest country in the world my ass.  The new apocalypse. Boycott Sony!!

Yes? 

Nah, who am I kidding lol.

But seriously... if y'all want too.  What's the TL;DR here? are they going to slip a rider into legislation that promotes literal slavery disguised as anti-piracy?

I'm just no good as this type of shit. Someone throw me a bone. is there anyone that would be willing to write an intelligent email instead of the canned email they give you and make a way for you to customize it somehow as to have it be less robot-driven and more personalized for a large number of people? i know that sounds kind of stupid but hey, the more effective the better Maybe if they put that money in to a decent distribution platform then they wouldn't need to. That's the typical corporate though, fuck the customer - give us your money and fuck off. That download button in the video though.

/r/itsaunixsystem  Japans new techno army bent on world domination weeds its evil roots into the us government. Once full compliance is reached all citizens known by SSNs from now on, comply with the consumerist party. Welcome to Earth.org. I dont understand any of this,. Now I don't know if I want PS4. #FirstWorldProblems  Once they pass this (if they do) they will see what an incredibly huge mistake they have made.  This is such a huge fucking deal. Why isn't this going to direct voting instead of being left in the hands of corrupt, incompetent idiots who has everything to gain personally from this while it is directly undermining the European quality of life.  Nothing will happen though. A few people will get upset, and rightfully so, but most will just shrug and go back to watching Paradise Hotel or some other shit.

Most people have given up on having power over their own lives. We're basically back to a scenario where "kings and lords"(capital owners) can do whatever the fuck they want and people just fold and forget.

A lot of people even seem to condone privately run totalitarianism, buying into so called "trickle down economics" and worshiping the these capital owners as admirable "entrepreneurs". You really needed a leak to sony is lobbying for laws that would profit them ? Every companies with enough money do that. We should simply disallow any type of lobbying. Must be really butthurr about PSP. &gt;This here is concrete proof that corporations globally are pushing laws for their own profit at the expense of the people

What exactly is it that you think lobbyists do? &gt;However, this train has now set off and cannot be stopped now. Let's stop this reddit.

I'm confused...if it can't be stopped, how can reddit stop it? Can you Americans PLEASE start pressuring your government to make lobbying ilegal?! Not all lobbying is bad.   Honest question coming up...

If none of us think we should pay for content, why would anyone pay to produce content? &gt; If none of us think we should pay for content, why would anyone pay to produce content?

People do pay for content. The movie industry is as big as it's ever been. Evidence shows that wherever Netflix goes piracy decreases. Steam has put a massive handbrake on piracy. 

These companies that want tighter copyright protection are doing so to protect out-dated business models instead of trying innovate and keep up with consumer demands. They're an aircraft carrier in F1 race. [deleted] It's more like consumer demand boils down to paying for stuff as long as the price is reasonable and the content is easily accessible.  And reliable. &gt; Patience is more of the issue.

Perhaps, but in the age of digital theatres there's no reason to delay the release of a movie, sometimes by months, from one market to the next. There are still reasons to delay releases. A studio might want to see how a film performs in one market before determining how much to advertise in other markets. They aren't going to want to spend millions for something that flops. People only pirate due to availability. I pirate, simply because UK Netflix last time I checked was shite. People pay for things all the time.

...when they're fairly priced, convenient and easy to access.

This is why Netflix, Spotify, GPM and Steam are doing so well.

Unfortunatly record/movie/game companys are not very forward thinking and still think they are in a world where people still go to stores and buy stuff off the shelf -_- who are you to decide what's fair price? Go try that shit in the real world.  
If I created something, **I have every right to distribute and sell it at whatever terms I please**. If you don't like it, go buy something else. What don't you people understand about this? You're 14 aren't you? Wow you seem like an intelligent and rational person that people will really enjoy having a thought provoking discussion with. [deleted] I never said everything should be produced by Netflix. Everything should be ON Netflix.

It's 2015, Netflix shouldn't have to pay to bring movie companys into this century. What difference does it make? [deleted] Netflix spent 90 million on Marco Polo. You don't think they would easily spend 100 million if they got the rights to make Star Wars? [deleted] Of course not, but Disney didn't spend billions for just for the movie rights. Most of the insane price is the merchandising rights. [deleted] Netflix is the main reason to not pirate. It is extremely convenient and the price is right. I get enough content to watch that I don't need to waste time watching television.

However, I don't think piracy is even the issue. Pirates usually wouldn't be customers anyway (or can't be customers due do international licensing).

Lets review all the ways movie studios are idiotic and behind the times and hemorrhaging money that have nothing to do with piracy.

1) Not releasing everywhere in the world at once. Or trying to limit distribution to certain countries. We have the internet. We live in the information age. This is inexcusably bad business. All the buzz and hype of people talking about a movie is global thanks to the internet. Why would you not take advantage of that?

2) Not releasing movies for sale as soon as or very shortly after it is in theaters. Why make people wait even more? Why have to spend additional money on advertising something you already advertised and built a ton of hype for? If your movie is bad do you think people will forget that it is bad and buy the Blu-Ray anyway?

3) Charging stupid amounts for digital rentals. Redbox kiosks shouldn't exist (at least in any areas with half-decent internet). There is absolutely no reason for a digital rental to cost more than getting a physical disc out a machine and all the business overhead that goes along with that. If it were a dollar a rental I would rent a movie a night without even thinking about it. At $5 a rental I am waiting for it come out on Netflix. It isn't even about the money. I can easily afford it but it feels like a ripoff price.

4) Charging more or the same amount for the digital version than the disc version. Are they trying to irritate their customers? They are just encouraging me to wait until it is on sale in stores so I can get both digital and disc versions for less money. Just because some people are willing to pay sky-high prices doesn't mean that is the price-point that will make you the most money. It is Econ 101.

5) Charging more for the HD version and/or not making it obvious you aren't purchasing the HD version. What the fuck are they smoking? Do they want people to have a shitty experience with their product? Yeah you might get a few people accidentally buy both but you are irreparably harming your relationship with your customers. The only reason to not always show the HD version is the customer has a slow connection in which case you let them choose to downgrade.

6) Charging the same price for all the movies in the theater. I might pay to see Star Wars in theaters at current ticket prices, but there are plenty of good movies that I won't pay to see in theaters that I would if they quartered or halved even the price. Even if it is just for the Matinee showings they could at least get more butts in the seats. Are they trying to make sure as few people see the movie as possible? Are they so stupid they think more people seeing the movie in theaters will will hurt Blu-Ray sales because people will have seen it already?

I could keep going but you get the point. So, I actually completely agree with you, and rarely and i mean RARELY ever pirate anything. The reason I oppose these laws is because of the draconian invasion of privacy rights, the draconian punishments, and the absurd amount of control it gives corporations.

I don't mind piracy/unpaid streaming being illegal, fuck it should be, but I don't like the idea of felonies for doing those things, and I don't like the idea of corporations suing governments for not cracking down. Hey. Draconian implies that there is a lot of arbitrary structure in place, how the fuck else are you going to invade privacy rights? [deleted] No, the privacy invasion of individual users is whats so awful, that and the felonies for streaming, not hosting. Moreover illegal free content online has a questionable impact on sales.  

For instance most of what I pirate is anime, most of which is either prohibitively expensive, or just not sold here, if I didn't pirate it I would never watch it, I wouldn't have bought it, because a lot of them are 100$ + for a 24 episode show.

That said, the reasonably priced, or the legally streamed(Netflix, crunchyroll) anime I don't pirate and I do pay for. [deleted] I'm living proof that this isn't how it works, as are a lot of people who enjoy products digitally, shit man I don't even have/support adblock, I'll watch ads and pay to consume whenever its reasonable, but if your product isn't easily consumable.(Netflix, amazon, kindle, etc) and you want way above market rate due to "rarity" then fuck you I'm pirating. 

I'm willing to pay, I'm not willing to be inconvenienced and gouged.

hell the few games I've pirated have ALL been ones that can no longer be bought. [deleted] If it's not available or it's way over market value due to easily correctable reasons? yes. I'm the same, the exposure that free anime has got has earned them more money from me as I have bought the series I have liked but would never have found without the internet. Crunchyroll is a good service but unfortunately doesn't provide legal access to everything, hell at the moment it's only providing 30% of what I'm watching. I find it a shame that a lot of people are too shortsighted on this issue though.  Really? You think piracy should come with the same prison time as rape and murder? Because they are trying to make it a felony crime, which would mean they would treat it that way from a law enforcement perspective, including swat raids on little twelve year old billy for downloading some music. It is draconian.  Of the highest grossing movies per year over since 2000, only 5 of them didn't manage to gross over $1 billion. Hell, Furious 7 hasn't even been out for 3 full weeks and it's already grossed over $1 billion. Hollywood and movie studios have been making money hand over fist, and they still claim that people torrenting movies is killing their industry.  The big successes pay for all the failures, as well as the massive support infrastructure that makes up the studios that doesn't get factored in to the cost of making a movie. So if I have a successful business, people should stop paying me simply because I am successful? That's the million dollar question.  I often find that most of /r/technology is very smart on the tech side of things (obviously) but are completely ignorant when it comes to economics and financials. Irrelevant.  Privacy is more important than the movie industry. [deleted] You think they have some magic technology that only spies on pirates?  The ISPs will monitor everyone if the RIAA has their way. [deleted] Public areas aren't assumed to be private, fuck anyone that wants access to my private info(email, search history, chat history, download history.) Get the userbase to generate it's own content; attention whoredom is a well documented phenomena. Case in point, reddit.

I feel like your status in society is best definied by how recent of brainwashing information you get, if that makes sense. Obama(or anybody else we choose to pilot the war machine) gets rally really high quality easy to digest and efficient brainwashing, you know? Reddit is very recent all things considered, but it is not very high quality at all.

And we are pissed off we can't get this brainwashing I guess is the issue, right? And we live in the scary world outside of the lawful good diety's enclaves, and the fact that enclaves exist for evil and even chaotic or lawful neutral enclaves based upon the extraction of capital from the society disturbs us, right?

Enclaves within enclaves probably lead to sex cults. Have one cultic level!

 To be honest if all production relied on donations or other forms of income (theater revenue for example), I think that quality would improve. Production values might suffer because content producers would have to do more with less, but the only people making things would be the people who care more for their art than for the paycheck. I think the state of things would actually be better overall. Do you have any examples of success in this tactic? Well there was the whole classical and pre-classical (baroque, etc) musical eras, before there was any widespread protection of composers' rights. How many of today's musicians will be celebrated three hundred years from now?

and with film, the most original and entertaining productions today are often from independent or foreign filmmakers who receive very little money in comparison to big budget blockbusters that rake in millions from DVD or BRD sales.

It's just my opinion, but music and art did just fine before even the idea of copyright existed. There's no reason that it can't again. You can't honestly believe that... Right? &gt; the only people making things would be the people who care more for their art than for the paycheck

enjoy your 3 movies / year. Not to mention, what's stopping people from creating movies that you want to see? as if hollywood produced more than 3 decent movies a year as is.

they can't even come up with an original thought. that's why there's a new poltergeist and a new mad max and ben affleck is fucking batman etc etc etc. I thought Ben was fucking jimmy kimmel. Not batman... well people are obviously going to the movies "America is a piece of shit, news at 11." What little irrelevant pissant country are you from, pray tell? I've got a novel idea that I found in the history books... can we hang these people? Sony must be run by Dr Evil.  Whats wrong with it is that I have not been able to see it. in that case, it is probably all wrong Leaving the government to operate in secrecy like this isn't going to end well. We can't stand for this.  [Obama's reaction](http://i.imgur.com/Dq0LGPJ.jpg) With no civilian oversight, we end up having to foot the bill for the Empire's exorbitant and outlandish ideas! The Death Star was blown up with a single missile, and apparently nobody bothered to actually show the engineers the final blueprints, resulting in complete destruction of the station!  Typical Rebel media.  How about some solutions instead of complaining about all the great things the empire does for us.  Personally I'm amazed that the engineers were able to get the exhaust port for a gigantic space station down to just 3 meters. No the politicians did that after the initial designs. They didn't want such a large and ungainly vent to be shown. Hence why a single missile in a single vent caused so much damage. An engineer would have simply routed various vents around the station, so there were no large vents so no one vent led to all the vitals. But that was deemed "cost ineffective".  that actually really really really makes sense.  I wanna watch star wars with reddit commentary.  Actually, this would be a fantastic playful use for AI that can easily handle big data. Have an AI scan all of Reddit for all comments made about Star Wars, then create a subtitle file with each comment time-stamped to appropriate places in the movie. Maybe Vader just wanted a straight pipe exhaust system so his new space station would make a cool sound as it cruised through the Galaxy. I mean we can't have the Millennium falcon sounding more bad ass than the almighty deathstar right guys?  Goddammit, I love you reddit and all of you beautiful sonsabitches...  Whayt has the empire ever done for us?

Interstellar highways.

Ok so interstellar highways but what else

The imperial measurement system?

Ok so that and the highways but what else?

Wookie insurance.

Ok......

cloaking devices

......

Hyperdrive safety regulations...

Ok but.......

Oh and they make great star bases......

Yes but aside from the highways the wookie insurance the bases, the cloaking devices and everything else.

Oh and they keep the streets safe at night.
 And they got rid of that eyesore Alderon. they forgot to file for appeal....they had 15 weeks all the paperwork is in our office on gamma sector 12 Apathetic bloody planet, I have no sympathy at all. Yeah but the storm troopers keep shooting unarmed wookies in the back. It is alright they were making another one in secret and they definitely fixed the issue. If that's not an analogy for our governments situation, I don't know what is.  Art is the expression of suffering. You just have to be looking for examples of it to truly know if something is expressing the correct feelings in the right direction.  It was actually 2 ~~photon~~proton torpedoes, but your point still stands... *proton torpedoes.  This is a very important statement. As our government grows in complexity and size this is  very real threat. Something very small can work its way inside and case it all to fall on itself. That's why the us was so strong. There is strength in simplicity. That's not very fair, we do not know what was going on with the blueprints. Were they wrong? Correct? We do not know. Were they followed or not? Again, we do not know. 

What we do know is that it was only stated it was "functional", not completed. 

Want to lay blame somewhere? Lay it on that ego maniacal asshat walking around in a cape and helmet choking fuckers out when they even suggest things aren't ready. 

That's right. The Dear Leader screwed it all up. Not the engineers. let our farce be with you!  This is the most transparent administration in history, -Obama 'And these are your reasons, my lord?'


'Do you think I have others?' said Lord Vetinari. 'My motives, as ever, are entirely transparent.'


Hughnon reflected that 'entirely transparent' meant either that you could see right through them or that you couldn't see them at all.


([We miss you, Sir Terry.](http://www.extenuation.net/disc/quotestt.html)) The turtle moves. :( maybe it is... In America maybe, that's hardly a compliment considering prior administrations. Instead of spitting out relative compliments why not actually I don't know actually become transparent. 

Nah lets just excuse it with rank order saying but but we are a little better then the others.  I'm not sure if you're kidding or not, but the main reason people hide things is because they know others won't approve. [deleted] But I'll still be watching  Where are we, [Cigars and Stripes?!](http://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/33zlho/)

Edit: I don't, understand punctuation? There are plenty of times I would not approve of you pooping, like almost everywhere not private lol That's an apt metaphor.  They are pooping out the TPP, that's why the door is shut. Thats poetic The government expects us to give up our privacy yet they will not give up theirs. Hmmm...
 "If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear." Clearly only applies to us peasants and not the aristocracy. It should *only* ever apply to those in a public service position, and only to things done under that public service position. That means that the government as a whole need to be under that idea, with public over sight.

The private individual should never hear that phrase in their life.

But that's just my desire for an imaginary world where unicorns exist talking. I don't know about what the US did, but the EC has published the documents after people started complaning.

http://www.faz.net/aktuell/wirtschaft/ttip-und-freihandel/kaum-jemand-liest-die-ttip-dokumente-13542243.html

The documents have been released on January 9th and have been accessed 2300 times until April 8th (25 times a day).

So it looks like people just really don't care.

 I'm very interested in TTIP, but I hadn't heard that they'd released the documents. I think it's more likely that people *do* care, they just *don't* know. 

Thanks for the link to the article! For anyone else who's interested, here's the direct link to the doc from the bottom of the article: http://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/press/index.cfm?id=1230 They're still actively working on it.  I don't see how relevant a 3.5 month document would be if there have been dozens of iterations since then. Not to break up the circle jerk, but doesn't that kind of mean we should reserve our judgment until the negotiations end and we have a final product to examine?  I'm no diplomat, but, from what I understand of foreign policy, these sorts of negotiations involve ongoing dialogue to determine the particulars, which are in a state of flux until finalization. I guess we're interested in the particuluars before they're agreed upon. Want to? I think wikileaks is hosting a leaked copy at the moment. Wikileaks has an outdated draft, which may be only a partial draft. So even the illegally obtained copy we have might not cover exactly what's in the TPP. 

I'm not against the trade agreement, I'm not for the trade agreement, I'd just like to know what's in the final trade agreement before I make a decision. Is that really so much to ask of our leadership? Im with you, Remember Candidate Obama talked about all meeting being held on C-Span???

That ended quickly... "they trusted me, dumb fucks." More like, "Welcome Mr. Obama. We're the CIA/FBI/Lockheed Martin. We'd like to show you a video of the last president to go against our will. Note the magic bullet."  I doubt that's exactly what's going on, but I'm sure that once you're in office you're privy to a lot more goings-on than you expected. Like the Stargate Program, to use a ficticious example.

Also explains why Presidents go gray-haired so quickly. Ori infiltration is the reason for the grey I guess -Mark Zuckerburg, originally 


edit



the context was people using thefacebook.com during the harvard phase  Most transparent administration in history The scariest thing to think about is that statement may be completely true. I've seen other people on Reddit saying that when the TPP is finished that it will be open to review for the public for a set amount of time before being put to the vote.  The issue is that they're trying to fast-track this, so when it does come to a vote, it's an all 'yes-or-no' and nothing in it can be changed by those voting on it.  IIRC they're saying it will be open to the public to view for only 2 or 3 months before it's put up to a vote.  There are also some other restrictions, like they can only debate on it for a limited amount of time, etc.

For me, the main issue I have is the fact that they appear to have lobbyists and big corporations that are able to review and have say in this treaty while it's still in the process while the rest of the public is being kept out of its view.  Also, the fast-track to get it passed so quickly just seems really fishy. &gt; Also, the fast-track to get it passed so quickly just seems really fishy.

"Quick! Here's a treaty. Yes or no?"

"Well, I...."

"THERE'S NO TIME MAN!"

"I just want to rea..."

"VOTE NOW!" "Well then I guess if you insist. 


No." A "no" vote. This is what should be the reaction. Definitely. Whenever someone tries to rush any kind of legislation through, it's deeply suspicious. I mean, what's the big hurry? We've clearly made it to this point in time without the legislation, so why can't we continue to do without it just long enough to discuss and debate it properly? Nothing is *that* urgent. 

The pushier they get, the more determined I am to know *exactly* what the hell it is they're pushing *for*. Not knowing (or in this case, not being *allowed* to know) would make it an automatic **NO** as far as I'm concerned. &gt; The issue is that they're trying to fast-track this, so when it does come to a vote, it's an all 'yes-or-no' and nothing in it can be changed by those voting on it.

That's not exactly uncommon with international treaties. Suppose each treaty could be altered by each signatory country's legislatures. When the diplomats left the meeting, they had 1 treaty with the same terms. After the legislatures are done with it, there are now 25 different versions. That's not how you get a treaty passed.  It's almost like treaties should be left for really really important stuff that countries will absolutely agree on without resorting to tricks to fool their citizens. "It's a democracy when it's convenient for us" is not really an appropriate response. I honestly could care less how difficult it is for the poor legislators/lobbyists trying to get a bill passed. I don't care if the bill gets changed a billion times over. The point is transparency and open access. You don't sacrifice a fundamental cornerstone of democracy simply because you want to move faster.  I am quite against that draft that became public. And with how shady is being acted about the current form, I'm fairly certain I'll be against that too.

Especially how ingrained multinational interests are in it.

They can already act above the law, with the TPP multinationals pretty much become nations, just like they are supposedly persons in the US.

Gaining the same rights and barely any of the responsibilities or consequences. If they become nations can we start holding CEOs responsible for crimes against humanity when a corporation fucks up big time? Sure, but that means they'll also be the judges.

Spoilers: after an ~~impartial~~ investigation, turns out nothing bad happened! "We've investigated ourselves and found we did nothing wrong.  Carry on." My last line makes one suspect a no. All you have to know is who is at the bargaining table and you will know who it benefits. I don't think the people are even allowed to know that. And that is the same resource that our supposedly elected representatives have.  Even if the TPP raised the minimum wage to $20, set very high standards on worker's rights, the environment, etc., it should still be voted down because it is a piece of legislation written by secret corporate representatives.  It is a sham.  It is bullshit. It's not legislation. It's a draft agreement. Before it becomes legislation it has to be introduced into Congress just like any other kind of legislation. At which point it'll be public information. 
 But then it is a felony to simply read it.

 Really? Under which law? I thought it was only illegal to leak classified info, and once out it's fair game for citizens? its a felony to smoke this kush too.... that gonna stop you? What shitty state are you in where minor possession is an actual felony? He converted one of those barbecue smokers into a bong. Any state or cop that wants to claim you were doing more than possessing Arizona I think it's a felony regardless of quantity. Fuck that state. "We have to pass the bill so we can see what's in the bill." Probably my favorite quote of all time. The most hilarious part is that Obama is using the exact same reasoning when it comes to criticism of the Iranian nuclear deal...

But that deal is mostly supported by reddit, so you wont be hearing much about that. I thought we did know details about the Iranian deal. We know what facilities can process what, and for how long, what kind of monitoring they'll be doing ... There isn't an Iranian deal yet.  Just a framework, a basic outline.  The US and Iran have different ideas about how that will be fleshed out. Except that we don't actually know that. The version released by the US is completely different from the Iranian version:

&gt; [Iran nuclear deal: different versions of the same agreement, says Zarif](http://www.euronews.com/2015/04/17/iran-nuclear-deal-different-versions-of-the-same-agreement-says-zarif/)

We also still have no idea how long the restrictions on the Iranian program are going to last (which is the most important point, considering Obama himself said they would be able to get a nuke within days of the restrictions being lifted). That link doesn't say that at all. There WAS no Iranian version (one of the first sentences is "The Iranians don't intend to release..."), and they say the American translation isn't "exactly" correct. That's a far cry from us being totally in the dark, like we're supposed to be with TPP. [Iran releases fact sheet of nuclear agreement at odds with US version](http://www.jpost.com/Middle-East/Iran-releases-fact-sheet-of-nuclear-agreement-at-odds-with-US-version-398360)

[Outline of Iran Nuclear Deal Sounds Different From Each Side](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/05/world/middleeast/outline-of-iran-nuclear-deal-sounds-different-from-each-side.html?_r=0)

[Differences emerge in US, Iran interpretations of nuclear deal](http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2015/04/iran-lausanne-differences-joint-statements.html)

[Irans Persian statement on deal contradicts Obamas claims](http://nypost.com/2015/04/04/translated-version-of-iran-deal-doesnt-say-what-obama-claims-it-does/) Fair enough about the fact sheet, I didn't know Iran had published one (and in fairness your prior link said the opposite). Still though, the NYTimes story says there's significant overlap and important differences, which was my original understanding. The differences are likely matters of diplomatic posturing. Its a lot different than TPP, where the agreement is already well-developed and very detailed, but the details are all being kept secret. The Iran deal is still far from developed and the details simply don't exist yet. The secrecy of these two deals are fundamentally different. &gt; The differences are likely matters of diplomatic posturing.

Really? How do you figure?  That's false. What has been agreed to has been released and is well-known. http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/02/world/iran-nuclear-deal-parameters/

Also, pointing out "reddit's" hypocrisy is annoying and dumb. Reddit is not a person. It has no beliefs. The popular opinions on reddit are sometimes contradictory because it's not a single person's beliefs, it's just popular beliefs, and there's no reason to expect all popular opinions to agree with each other. And that all means you're not pointing out any real hypocrisy, you're just misunderstanding the nature of this platform, and doing it to demonstrate how much smarter you are than "reddit". he is saying that reddit, as a population group, is generally in favor of the deal - which is entirely true.  Before reddit, I didnt even know liberals were supposed to hate jews Then you should probably read this and rethink

"While this is a very famous quote, often cited as a gaffe by Pelosi referring to the Affordable Care Act, it's another example of context being very very important.
Pelosi was addressing a Legislative Conference for the National Association of Counties, discussing the controversies about the healthcare bill and the process by which it ended up in it's current state as well as the mis-information that's out there.

[Pelosi said "It's going to be very very exciting, Congress has to pass the bill so you can find out what's in it, away from the fog of controversy." She's simply saying, we can tell you how great this thing is, but until we pass it and the benefits are real for the american people, the fog of controversy will continue to impact people's perception.
Again, a very different meaning without the proper context and full quote."](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/341ogc/president_obama_demands_critics_tell_him_whats/cqqgbjl) You are absolutely right about this quote.

It was taken out of context.

However, let's not forget the dismissal of criticism that has become a real

Nor should we forget Obama's promise to keep existing policies if you choose.

That was a flat out lie.



EDIT: OH NOES REALITY!
 That sounds worse, at least before it didn't sound like she was insulting our intelligence  She was. She was insulting the intelligence of everyone who didn't read the bill and understand what it was about. She was insulting the intelligence of everyone who went to their preferred partisan news source to find out whether they should like the bill or not.

Her point was that the vast majority of people "up in arms" about it were just being told what to think and if they could actually comprehend what it would do, they would like it. Unfortunately it is a simple fact that that is impossible in modern America.

I don't blame her for insulting our intelligence. We're stupid. While this is a very famous quote, often cited as a gaffe by Pelosi referring to the Affordable Care Act, it's another example of context being very very important.

Pelosi was addressing a Legislative Conference for the National Association of Counties, discussing the controversies about the healthcare bill and the process by which it ended up in it's current state as well as the mis-information that's out there. 

Pelosi said "It's going to be very very exciting, Congress has to pass the bill so you can find out what's in it, away from the fog of controversy." She's simply saying, we can tell you how great this thing is, but until we pass it and the benefits are real for the american people, the fog of controversy will continue to impact people's perception.

Again, a very different meaning without the proper context and full quote. The reason why the 'misinterpretation' has become so popular is because it's true whether or not Pelosi meant to express that truth in her statement.   There is simply no way that any member of congress read that bill before voting on it.  I find reddit's incredulity in this regard upsetting. Congressfolk employ staff to read these bills. No individual member of Congress is likely to have read all 2,000 pages, but it's not like these things just go without vetting.

The problem is that most of our representatives don't represent the little guy. It's not that they're voting blindly for every bill with an appealing name. 