Way to go, shooter. Shoe-ter perhaps? mcgavin? Just stay out of my way... or you'll pay! LISTEN to what I say! Hey, why don't I just go eat some hay, make things out of clay, lay by the bay? I just may! What'd ya say? He eats pieces of shit for breakfast. He eats pieces of shit?  NO [NO](http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view3/1108468/shooter-mcgavin-o.gif)
 God! You people go back to your shanties! That was on fucking point. On fucking pointe perhaps? [en pointe](https://s3.amazonaws.com/images.fineartamerica.com/images-medium-large-5/ballet-dancer-en-pointe-don-hammond.jpg). It's a ballet joke. You're doing gods work son. All I can here is that Australian guy at the begining of the first Jurassic Park. Shoe-ter SHOE-TER Shoe-tah! Shoe-tah! -gets eaten by raptor- Clever girl. I suppose you could say that he fixed an isSHOE Haha yeah he killed a wasp with his SHOE One might even say he got HIS SCHOOL ON LOCKDOWN



^^^I ^^^think ^^^I'm ^^^doing ^^^it ^^^wrong Naw this is reddit, that's pretty spot on. You forgot TO capitalize a word. He was loafing around Oxford It's the right weekend - he can get that gold jacket if he holds on until Sunday. Gold jacket. Green jacket. Who gives a shit? I eat pieces of shit like you for breakfast. You eat pieces of shit for breakfast? This deserves so much more karma.

EDIT: There ya go, natemach.  You owe me a finder's fee of at least 33% of your 2864 karma (at the time of edit). Thanks! First comment that's gotten me any karma :') /r/fuckingnathan http://i.imgur.com/wLHb6MO.gif He eats pieces of shit like wasps for breakfast. You eat shit and wasps for breakfast? http://imgur.com/3hNXlk8 https://i.imgur.com/sy9lVl4.jpg

edit- [for OP above](https://youtu.be/CirrRY_6aaU?t=8s) THIS IS AWESOME. ...CLAP, CLAP, CLAPCLAPCLAP! Thi is so underappreciated
 Huh? Y'all eat pieces of shit? What's the basis? HAAANNNHHH? He shits wasps for breakfast No, he eats shit *like* a wasp. Carefully, I presume. Wasp shit is packed full of vitamin c I heard they was some dudes eating feces over here... Y'all got any Chinese Buffet Bidet? There could not have been any way better to respond to that comment. Tbh I kinda like the nickname "shooter" it's also a fun story to tell how you got it :D Meet you at the Red Lobster! **SWATS FIRED!** **WASP FIRED** **UNEMPLOYED WASP TURNS TO CRIME** So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. 
He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. 
Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line. Thank you for not putting paragraphs or I might actually have bothered to read that, which I gather would have been a mistake. &gt; So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line.

I hate you so much. But I respect that. You got me good.

Edit: Oh god what have I done &gt;&gt; So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line.

&gt;I hate you so much. But I respect that. You got me good.

Haha. Yeah. &gt; So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line.
&gt;&gt; I hate you so much. But I respect that. You got me good.
&gt;&gt;&gt;Haha. Yeah.

How long are we gonna keep this up? Until some random asshole breaks the combo like this. C-C-C-C-COMBO BRREEAAKKEERRR &gt; C-C-C-C-COMBO BRREEAAKKEERRR

Haha. What a story Mark! &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line.

&gt;&gt;&gt; I hate you so much. But I respect that. You got me good.

&gt;&gt; Haha. Yeah.

&gt; How long are we gonna keep this up?

I am become tumblr, destroyer of attractive comment hierarchies. &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; So there once was this wasp that lived in a jungle. This was not your ordinary wasp though-he was smart, philosophical even. One day he finally got fed up with his repetitive, insignificant life and decided that he would leave his hive, his family, his entire close-knit wasp community and he would go out into the world and make something of himself, just like the humans do. So the wasp enrolls in school, and passes with flying colors. Remember, this is a very smart wasp. He gets his high school diploma in a little under 3 years, with a 4.0 GPA and all that snazz. After high school, believe it or not, the wasp gets accepted to Harvard. Harvard! This too proves to be no challenge for our hero, as he graduates in just two years, again a 4.0, on the Dean's list, and all that snazz. Not to mention all the clubs and sports he was in-the newspaper, rowing, student government-and the fact that he was by far the most popular student on campus. Even his professors looked up to him. He goes on to get two PhDs, and when he finishes his education, the wasp faces a bit of a dilemma. How does he apply his knowledge now? Where does he go from here? He decides to try out politics. After all, he was popular throughout school, did well in Harvard government. So he runs for mayor, and wins in a landslide. He greatly reforms the city, fixing virtually all its major problems. He runs for governor and again wins in a landslide. Two years later, the presidential election was coming up, and the wasp decides he might as well go for it. Of course, he wins in the largest landslide in US presidential history. His presidency goes exceedingly well-he is loved by all parties, and has the highest approval ratings in history. He also finds the cures for cancer, AIDS, and broken hearts while in the White House. After 8 years (yes, of course he was reelected) the time has come for him to leave his office. Even his successor his saddened by the wasps departure, but they all know its what must be done. Back at his vacation home in California his first day after leaving office, the wasp looks back on his long and fruitful life. He realizes that he hasn't been back to his hive at all since that first day he left. He suddenly feels a twang of guilt as he realizes how much he misses his parents and his little brother. So he heads back to the hive, looking more worn out than he remembers. He goes inside and greets his family, who are overjoyed at the sight of him. He talks about how his life has gone as his family listens in wonderment. Eventually he decides he is thirsty, so he decides to visit the old watering hole he remembered. Once he gets there though, theres an extremely long line. He decides its worth the wait, so gets in line. One hour. Two hours. This is the slowest moving line hes ever seen! Eventually he calculates that it could be a few days before he gets to the front of the line, so decides its not worth it. He decides to go get some cider to drink instead, but waddya know, another huge line of people waiting for cider! He remembers one other drinking area that never had a long line-fruit punch! So he decides to go get punch. He arrives, and lo and behold, there's no punch line.

&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; I hate you so much. But I respect that. You got me good.

&gt;&gt;&gt; Haha. Yeah.

&gt;&gt; How long are we gonna keep this up?

&gt;I am become tumblr, destroyer of attractive comment hierarchies.

&gt;IT WILL NEVER END. [deleted] And that's enough reddit for today. You

Sick


Bastard


Why

would 

you

make

mee

do

this

 GG. No re. i was expecting tree fitty I really love this. Thank you.  **COMES BACK AND SHOOTS UP SCHOOL** Haha thanks for this comment. I'm in the bathroom crying and laughing my shit out. Literally.  **OP'S FIRED** [These were never more appropriate.](http://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0148/2332/products/walking_on_guns_glitter_blck_1024x1024.jpg?v=1379969579) /r/retiredshoes I wish that was a real place full of pics of peoples old worn out shoes. /r/retiredshoes Holy smokes. Whoever reported that as a gunshot has never heard an actual gunshot. A firearm discharging indoors is an extremely different sound than a shoe.  Came here to say this.  This is a semi prestigious University full of dumb paranoid people. Mine was put on lockdown for a ninja-sword umbrella handle mistaken as a rifle by a bus driver, so yea. Hello RIT.  RIT?  Hahahaha came here to say RIT but apparently I was beaten to the THWAP  &gt; This is a semi prestigious University

To be honest that probably makes it MORE likely that they're going to be complete morons when it comes to anything related to firearms. The important thing is that you feel superior to them.   &gt;This is a semi prestigious University full of dumb paranoid people.
     
&gt;... complete morons when it comes to anything related to firearms. 

Those poor, poor grad school students. How in the world will they survive after graduation with their Master's degree from a semi prestigious school?

edit: **/s** ffs people.  Yeah, that wouldn't happen at U of Alabama! What's new?   Is it really so surprising? Most people have not fired guns before.  Especially not indoors. For real though, you don't need ear protection for a wasp/shoe murder. Unless you are the wasp being murdered, of course.  I'm either calling BS on the story or the individual who reported the "gun shot" is borderline retarded. But this is a post 9/11 world. You never know, man! hes holding a poptart gun, take him down! The worst part about this comment is that this actually happened  Explain please, I wanna know the story of the poptart gun A kid chewed a poptart to resemble a gun, and was suspended. I had a friend in high school that "air" pumped a shotgun and made a shooting sound with his mouth. Got suspended for a day. http://www.cbsnews.com/news/examiner-recommends-school-board-uphold-pop-tart-suspension/ Dude, there are a lot of people who have never even shot a gun before. So besides call of duty or halo they don't really have anything to reference. So that loud shoe bang was probably convincing enough for that epic call of duty player I could also imagine on the other end of the spectrum someone hearing a .22 and going, "that wasn't nearly loud enough to be a gunshot!" A lot of people who the media has made paranoid. &gt;Whoever reported that as a gunshot has never heard an actual gunshot.

No shit. I have never heard an actual gunshots and I plan not to in my lifetime. You blew their sting operation.  Zing! *Buzz*-zinga! &gt; Not the hero they need &gt; but definitely the one they deserve SWAT team. They should be able to swat the wasp for you. Next thing you know, there's a dead wasp with a taser next to it. Too soon No. It's always too soon, unless its 100+ years ago, then its not relevant.  Get the fuck out Are you mad because you wanted to eat the wasp, starving African boy? this guy WHAT? I DIDN'T HEAR THE GUNSHOT. WHAT **WHAT? I DIDN'T HEAR THE GUNSHOT!** Gunshots can't melt steel beams! But can they make dank memes? JET FUEL CAN'T MELT DANK MEMES Dank memes can't melt steel dreams Thanks, Jaden.  [dank memes cant melt steel wasps!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UUGlOKsJGuI) But my mixtape can. **WAKE UP PEOPLE!!!! THE EVIDENCE IS RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU!** It's "sheeple." Poser! [Wake up, Sheeple!](https://xkcd.com/1013/) THEY'RE SELLING CHOCOLATES!!! WHAT?!? WHAT ARE THEY SELLING? Scumbag OP.  Swat'n a guy cause he's wearing the wrong colors. You didn't even kill the wasp. I am disappoint.  Full credit for good intentions, though.   Well that's why the swat team was on standby, they were awaiting word that the wasp died. They were also on order to take down OP if he started laughing at the cops. Hello disappoint, I'm Dad. I can just imagine a detective with a flashbulb getting a close up of the wiggling wasp as another man attempts to make a chalk outline of the tiny bugger. Just stay out of my way... or you'll pay! LISTEN to what I say! Hey, why don't I just go eat some hay, make things out of clay, lay by the bay? I just may! Whatta ya say? Thank you for getting that right. It's a criminally misquoted line.  It wasn't perfect but the order is right.

Source: favorite movie when I was like 5-10 Oh man, something similar happened to me in high school. And by similar I mean kind of. 

So we had these inner tube things for sledding at school cause it was smallish and we had a hill on school property that we could go tubing down. Fun times. Well because they were snow tubes there was a layer of vinyl or whatever over the hole in the center. This, we all soon found out, turned them into giant suction cups if we so wanted. Getting one stuck on the ceiling was of course an impressive feat. 

One day after we all get done hitting the hill after lunch we return our tubes. I did my traditional tube slam smack on the wall. Only this time immediately after, a really weird alarm goes off. 

Somehow, in ways I don't know or give a damn about to learn, the vibration of the tube hitting the wall caused the fire alarm to go off. So the school evacuates. After all the proverbial dust has settled I am blamed for it. Which is fine. 

The problem is the principal, teachers, and fire chief are all accusation me of falsely pulling a fire alarm. They are pissed. Yet I am totally unfazed because I know I didn't pull a fake alarm, I did something which caused an alarm to go off, but it wasn't even an accident. It was that I did something totally unrelated to pulling an alarm and it just so happened to set it off.

It took like an hour or two for them to give up on making me "feel bad" and take responsibility for the wrong I had done. They threatened to have me arrested and when I asked why, it was this weird loop. 
 
Them: "Because you falsely pulled a fire alarm."

Me: "No I didn't."

Them: "You caused it to go off."

Me: "Probably."

Them: "Then you falsely pulled a fire alarm."

Me: "No, I stuck an inner tube on the wall too hard and a fire alarm went off."

Them: "That's the same thing."

Me: "How so?"

Them: "Because you falsely pulled a fire alarm."

Me: "...no I didn't."

I had said sorry for accidentally tripping the fire alarm in a way that had no similarity to walking up to an alarm and deciding to pull it. 

I blame the fact it was a stupid conservative Christian school and they were just getting really pissed off that I wasn't buying their guilt trip this time around.

I thought the whole thing was funny. They also seemed to hate that. In the end it was dropped and never mentioned again. You're awesome Are you sure it was a wasp? Sometimes color blind people have trouble distinguishing between the various species. You should probably get that medically diagnosed.  Well, they all look blue and white to me.

I don't think I'm doing this right... Hey big brother, how's it going? I guess I'm in the "meta" morphic stage after that comment.  
&amp;nbsp;

^^^^I'll ^^^^see ^^^^myself ^^^^out You've said (imentary) too much Igneous Its black and gold, you subhuman. It's just the lighting. It's also the greenhouse gases ...did you just make two separate joke replies to this thread?  Where do you draw the line?? When you got two funny things to say you say it in two comments for double the karma. That's how this thing works. You can still say it in two comments for double the karma. Turns out you were the only SWAT team they needed... As a fuckin' wasp FBI, I find this rant offensive. WASP SWAT I think this is one of the TIFU's we can actually corroborate with a real news source, anyone got any leads?

edit: Couldn't find anything in the last 24 hours or last week about any colleges or universities Minor lockdowns might not make news. This is also true, it wasn't actually a school-wide lock down. Just the building that he works in. :) You don't think it be like it is, but it do.  -Oscar Gamble -Michael Scott Is it just me or are there a lot more wasps and bees this year? Rereading that it sounds kind of dumb, but really since it warmed up I haven't been able to walk 20 steps without getting a flyby.

EDIT: A quick google and as I type "more wasps" the suggestions that come up are "more wasps in 2013", "more wasps in 2012". I guess 2014 wasn't a good year for wasp-kind. Anyway, probably noticing them more since they are just now coming out. Wtf am I doing I should've just deleted this comment since I answered my own question. Fuck it. And why is should've red underlined? That's a word dammit.  WHAT What ain't no country I eve heard of! They speak English in what?  WASP HE KILLED IT Beat Debra! Well if this story is true it would be in the local papers (that there was a false alarm lockdown at least). The only thing I can find is this: http://www.whsv.com/home/headlines/Active-Shooter-Situation-at-Ohio-University---Southern-289361631.html but this refers to the false alarm being caused by a armed security guard, not a wasp-swatting IT guy.  
  
Then again, I think I would make up a story about some guard as well if I were the police. There's a lot more stories
 https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&amp;gl=us&amp;tbm=nws&amp;authuser=0&amp;q=university+lockdown&amp;oq=university+lockdown&amp;gs_l=news-cc.3..43j43i53.1759.7019.0.7217.21.11.1.9.10.0.92.669.11.11.0...0.0...1ac.1.S6OPxOOsLNE 
Filter by last 24 hours (when this supposedly happened) and there's nothing

Maybe it happened, we'll never know That's not true. We had lockdowns once in a while at Hopkins and nothing would ever make local media. Can confirm that lock downs I've been in, even with armed men, have not made the news around here Utterly rekt.

Straight to /r/thathappened with you, OP. Friend of OP phoning in, not that it matters, but this did happen today at our school. Got a message from him almost immediately after it happened.  Yeah right OP's other account. nAME OF SCHOOL NOW South Hampton Institute of Technology. I've heard its a pretty shitty school how so?  their degree program for "Combined Recreation And Productivity" is the best world wide. semi-Strayer University So you work with OP and are his friend, or you are a student at the school he works at and happen to be friends?  Sounds like a sting operation. SWAT team. That should help the wasp Seriously shooter Maybe its different wherever this story is based, but in the UK the arrival of a wasp would not require any more immediate action than opening a window and coaxing it out with a rolled up newspaper.  &gt; police officer is questioning me, getting my information, and taking pictures of my kill like hes the fuckin wasp FBI.

In all fairness, given recent allegations of police violence towards African Americans, he probably needed to thoroughly document his investigation of what might have been a violent crime against a WASP. Where dyou work. They probably have a vacancy now and am looking for for a job  Please learn proper grammar before you apply.  Way to bee. You should roll with it and adopt the "Shooter" nickname instead.

Dingle "Shooter" Tits on your office door, the whole shebang. my kind of tifu tldr; swat, SWAT "I'm not hijacking this school. I'm trying to save it!" Wait OP! Clarify please!  Did you get fired???  This is what happens when the media turns us from "America the Brave" to "America, Cower in place". Why was there a lock down and not a single person that ever considered that loud bangs come from other things then guns?  Grow up America, the bogeyman man doesn't exist.  They call him Shooter McGavin You'll never live up to the real Shooter. The only and only Shooter McGavin. You are now tagged as Shooter OP White Anglo-Saxon Protestant The SWAT team was already there Texas A&amp;M? Because we had a false alarm today... Looks like someone cooked their cheesy pita on the oven setting instead of toast.

Nice job fire guy. http://puu.sh/h8f14/63cea383d4.png Best tifu ive ever read LEATHER SHOES CAN'T SQUISH WASP WINGS  Bullshit.  Absolute bullshit.   Wasp-going on? SWASP team is on the way This.  This right here, wins the day. Sounds like you were the SWAT team taking pictures of my kill like hes the fuckin wasp FBI


That made my day man! Way to go. That was a million-dollar military drone wasp you just swatted. &gt;I can't work here anymore, everyone's calling me "shooter".

Upvoted for this. I keep reading thwaped like thwayped. You thwaped an innocent underaged wasp and that's why they're questioning you. You monster.
TL; DR school closed down from video footage of a serial thwapist We had two lockdowns a day apart earlier this year. The first one was some kid who wanted to get out of classes, so obviously he called his hacker friend in Indiana (I live in Florida) and had him call in a bomb. Except when he googled the school he got the wrong school. So our rival school and us had a bomb threat minutes apart America.  Surely the fuckup is on the part of whoever got the school to lock down for a guy hitting a wasp with a shoe? Our society has diminished into a bunch of scared little pussies.  You, good sir, just managed to express in a single short sentence what I've been trying to for a long time. Keep being awesome. most points to whoever it was that mentions swat team in regard to the bug joke they had this perfect opportunity to make
 God, imagine how it would be like for him. First this guy bloody turns you into a sardine, then he laughs manically. [Visual representation of what I think he must have felt like..](http://p2.trrsf.com/image/fget/cf/600/600/images.terra.com/2015/04/22/ghostgif.gif) Once I fucked up by sitting behind my mom like that and, when asked if I wanted a separate chair I said, "No, we're reenacting ghost." 

I thought being gay made it ok. I was wrong. 

EDIT: And I just received my first PM asking if my mom is hot. For anyone considering asking me the same question, you should probably ask someone other than her gay son.  Your poor mother  I'm like 85% certain she's a closeted lesbian anyway.  You are relieved your mother won't be turned on by your advances because she is a lesbian? Not relieved. I just figured, I'm a gay male, she's probably a lesbian, sex joke won't be the end of the world. Did I mention my parents are incredibly mormon?  So basically you are living a sitcom. Now if only I could get the disembodied voices to stop fucking awwww-ing whenever I say something sweet to my boyfriend.  *canned laughter roars* *WWWOOOOOOOOO!!!!* AWWWWWW!!! *cue laugh track * Wouldn't you be? What I've gathered is that rubbing my penis against a lesbian is 'OK'.... Thanks guys! That WOULD explain where his gay came from. If I understand genetics.  Sounds about right to me. 

Source: English major college drop out  It's better than graduating with an English major! No because if you do graduate then atleast you can write a great suicide note. "It was the best of times. It was the blurst of times." DAMN IT! My lecturer the other day: "Now all my years of study have left me with this arts degree with gives me... well not much. But it's taught me how to write a strongly worded letter." &gt; I thought being gay made it ok.

It would have if you weren't a girl. I am a guy who is into guys. She is a woman who is married to a man but who I suspect secretly likes women.  oh thats awkward. I thought pfft girl on girl action. What *is* that?  The most memorable scene in the movie "Ghost". [No ghosting!] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1RFD8O1pNZk) Looks like a scene from Ghost https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KEoIlgVZ_2E inb3 TIFU by being a sardine &gt; I'm dick to ass with some guy

I prefer the term "nuts to butts" I'm a fan now. Round and round we go, Jack. Hey. I bet everybody would love to hear about your rendezvous in the parking lot of the Oyster Bay Drug and Sundry. You know what I'm talking about.

Where the guy gave you the passports and the documents? Or how about your little phone call in Thai? &gt; "I'm nuts to butts with a guy who looks like I just shit in his cornflakes"

This line will someday make it into a book... If I ever write a book. 50 shades of gay? I think this was an Ulrich like from last weeks Silicon Valley  I'm personally a fan of "pole to hole" In some countries, you're now legally married to him. Or at least owe him a couple of goats  Should've signed a prenup, man. If you ain't no punk holla we want prenup, WE WANT PRENUP! YEEEAAAAAAAAH! Cause it's somethin that ya need to have! Get stuck in a revolving door and go dick to ass I ain't sayin he a goat digger But she ain't messin with no broke shepherds. Get round, bro, go head, get round.   Goat round, bro,  goat head, goat round. This is fucking hilarious Cause when he leave yo ass he gonna leave with half 18 years... 18 years... And on her 18th birthday he found out it wasn't hisss I aint sayn' he's an ass grabber Did anyone else just sing this in their heads whilst reading this?  that sounds like it could be a line from a lonely island song it's kanye. *yeezus Wow.  I'm actually awake early enough to see a reply to a top comment on a thread that made it to the front page.  I liked your comment and then looked to see how old it was.

4 minutes.  4 minutes old.  I never thought this day would come.  What do I do now? Now you watch everyone except you get thousands of upvotes Deservedly so! Bask in it friend, it's all downhill from here Status? 

I'm in the upvote hole. 

Get out now!

No, I must dig deeper. Since the other gentleman was in front, that makes him OP's wife.

 fiddy shekels Can confirm. Was legally married following a revolving door accident in Botswana. It's not legal unless the balls touched. And in some places he would be executed. Girl caught your eye, guy caught your dick. God it's like high school all over again What the hell happened in your high school? Amazing things. We didn't all go to the school of hard cocks. *It's the hard cock life, for us!* This TIFU has the best comments of all time. Girl catches eye, dick caught by guy. This is how TIFU's should be: short, to the point, and hilarious. Now all we need is a bored animator with a novelty account to illustrate it /u/Animates_Everything

He used to be pretty active. Calling /u/AWildAnimationAppeared

Page not found :( Calling /u/ADankGifReferenceAppeared

Page not found :( HAHA

I DID IT

[Look at my beautiful gif.](http://gfycat.com/GoodSereneColt)


I should not get a job in animation.. Hehe, awesome!

You really captured the essence of the OP. And there's pizza... with sausage! ^\(It's ^cornflakes) I've never done animation before. I'll go try my hand at it. No promises or anything though. Seriously. I suck at all things art. And it's my first ti[m]e. You've unknowingly set yourself as the dominant man.  You think I should go back and piss on the door to mark it as mine?  You should shit in the door's cornflakes And then piss in them too, just to be sure. There must be no doubts that you are the Alpha. But make sure to maintain eye contact the whole way through. By but fucking him while simultaneously shitting in the man's cornflakes? Now that I phrased it that way I realize just how Alpha this guy is. Well played OP &gt; He looked back at me as if I just shat in his
cornflakes 

You paint with words.  Ah don't feel bad. I had some dude sneak in on my revolving door segment a couple weeks ago,  I gave him the same "who are you and why are you shitting on my cornflakes glare". And of course he doesn't walk fast enough so the door keeps bumping on his heels... which causes me to stop because I run into the door... Finally got outta there but FUCK was I ever unimpressed. I work in a building with one of these. 99% of people who want to use the revolving door should not be using the revolving door.  [This makes me laugh every time I watch it.](http://www.gifbin.com/bin/112013/1383848274_bernie_ecclestone_revolving_door_fail.gif) "I am thoroughly unimpressed with your revolving door skills." I was thoroughly unimpressed with his human being skills. I am afraid of revolving doors. Like... actually afraid of them. Won't go near them. The entire concept scares the crap out of me.

When I was a child I was at a zoo's entrance that had these full-height revolving door turn styles where if you went the right way you'd just pass through an opening but the WRONG way has these metal teeth that mesh with the turn style door. I wasn't paying attention and walked in to the "out" door but between the door and the mesh. Meanwhile the person trying to leave didn't see me and started pushing really hard. In the end I was probably only being squeezed by the door for a fraction of a second before someone yanked me out but my child-memory of the incident was that I very nearly died by being crushed.

No thanks. [You'll love this then!](http://ak-hdl.buzzfed.com/static/enhanced/webdr05/2013/4/5/15/anigif_enhanced-buzz-12704-1365189267-0.gif)

Sweet dreams. Last year I saw a blind person with his guide dog walking towards a revolving door. It was a small revolving door. I kind of froze in a panic, wondering if the guy didn't realize it was a revolving door, or if his dog would get cut in half by the door or something. To my relief, the dog knew to step into the tiny revolving door partition with the owner and they both made it out the other end safely. I was horrified though.  He'd probably be ok anyway, many blind people are just incredible in how they cope. My aunt went blind in her late teens, yet she has no problem walking up the street by herself and walking to your house without guidance as to which it is, as well as having lived over 2 years without a guide dog now. People have died from fires with revolving doors because people will push and jam them, keeping them from being able to move. That's why fire code now dictates there must be a regular door next to a revolving door. This also helps make places ADA accessible.  &gt; revolving doors because people will push and jam them

Reminds me of The Walking Dead
 Fucking Nicholas This is my biggest fear! Not the fire part, just that someone will stop up the revolving door while I'm in it. I will always use the door next to the revolving door! I don't even understand why revolving doors exist! They exist so you don't have to build a vestibule. Keeps cold out/hot in or the other way around For years I worked in a building where they would lock the regular doors during winter and make you use the revolving door. It was supposed to save on heat or something. It really sucked, although I loved that first day in late fall when everybody would try the normal doors and go, "aw, shit" and then go through the revolving door. Sometimes I'd just hang out by the door for 20 minutes at a time, enjoying tiny doses of schadenfreude. I guess that's the part that sucked the most. It showed me my true self: a petty, cruel man.  This made me choke on my coffee, have an upvote This made me shit on my cornflakes, have a bum rush. [Shitty bum](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u3RV03T9XOo) That link can stay blue on my works computer, thank you. Have no fear, for it is only a music video, showcases the amazing first ever shit flavored bubble gum 

I'd mark it NSFW..wouldn't I??? 
(   )

*edit*
Apparently you scared bastards don't like music  Risky click of the day over with!  upvote gif - http://i.imgur.com/czaZhK0.gif
relevant to this tifu in particular I looped this more times than I'm comfortable sharing  For about 3 minutes? What would he need it running for the other 2 minutes and 24 seconds? Nothing like a good ol' fashioned taint slap. [Improved version](http://i.imgur.com/B6nqI1b.gif) 

Also, /r/buttvotegifs why will upvote come out of OP's mouth?

after so many upvotes(slaps) an **EDIT** should pop out No reason in particular. I just think that version is funnier.  "TIFU by choking someone with my TIFU." Made me laugh out loud in a stall in a crowded bathroom at work. Have an upvote. You're on reddit in the bathroom stall, why does that scare me? Isn't everyone?  This is the sort of quality stuff we don't see enough of around here. Yes please. Short, sweet, and hilarious.  I'm just imagining two penguins in a revolving door. I don't know why.. I imagined two girls in kimonos this is called "backpacking" and it's a great way to show your dominance over coworkers FBLMFAO Damn, this caught on quick. What am I missing out on? A guy in a reddit ama said *Full bodied laugh* resposne to some commenter's top question. It's on the tip of my tongue who the guy was

Edit: It was Chris Hansen Chris Hansen is on the tip of your tongue? I knew he had his own dirty secrets Thank you! I think it started on a cris handsome ama.  FBLOL 2meta4me Yeah /r/outoftheloop  In the Chris Hansen AMA, he said *full bodied laugh* instead of something more conventional, like *haha* or *lol*. LMFAO stands for Laughing My Fucking Ass Off, and is used on the internet to mark something that the commenter found particularly funny. FBLMFAO, in this context, stands for Full Bodied Laughing My Ass Off. Full butt laughing my ass off?  Never go full butt  So meta this is amazing, the image in my head  "He looked back at me as if I just shat in his cornflakes" 

I tried to imagine it, 10/10 would imagine again fantastic imagery, very relatable, short and sweet. Frankeh you're a good person Love it. Sounds similar to a situation I still cringe about:

Walking towards revolving door and see a girl in the building reflection. In my head, I wanted to hold the door open for her, but it's a revolving door. Probably the 3rd one I've seen in my life at the time.

I end up waiting at the door and staring at her, smiling. Once she steps into the door, I follow right behind so we're both in the same segment like it's some sort of chivalrous gesture. We end up awkwardly shuffling. If I was that girl, I would have run. Except there's nowhere to go...you seriously cornered her in an small enclosed space. Nice job. ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?! Here, take my upvote! This was too funny. I just imagined you awkwardly shuffling and then as soon as you get out - Waluigi style, arms bent at 90 degree angles at your sides, hands in a crazy open air grasp stance, laughing crazily at the sky.  As the aerial camera (manned by a little dude on a cloud) flies up and away in an asymptotic trajectory. Lakitu? REVERSE n One time I drove away from the Taco Bell drive thru window forgetting I hadn't gotten my food yet. I was kinda embarrassed and it was the middle of the night and empty so I sped around the drive through again. The guy was sticking his head out the window looking to see where I'd gone. I pulled up, snatched the bag from his hand and in a Waluigi voice yelled, "You thought I left didn't you?! HAHAHAHAHA!" 

Between this and trying to reenact ghost with my mom, I have a lot of really weird, relevant stories for this thread.  WAAAAAA! WEH &gt;He looked back at me as if I just shat in his cornflakes

I laughed so hard You already committed with the dick to butt, you should have just gone all of the way.  &gt;then we both shuffled our feet at breakneck speed

i can't breathe Where I work there's RFID badge readers on both sides of the revolving doors. To get in or out you have to swipe your badge. If somebody from the inside swipes out, and somebody from the outside tries to come in as it spins, the revolving door will halt suddenly.

So I get to watch people smash their faces into the glass pretty regularly. Once a contractor facebutted the revolving door so hard the wing came loose. It's a minor job perk, but it brightens my day. You said you had a lapse of concentration in a revolving door...  More like a lap dance in a revolving door This turned my day around, knowing someone else got the receiving end of a dick to ass. Wait...did i just say that out loud??? Nope. You typed it out on reddit. maybe he said it out loud while typing? Then typed what he said internally to himself about saying something aloud. Im confused. Which one is the receiving end? Two don't FIT!

I had that yelled at me when I did the same thing. At my job, I stand at the front door all day and watch this happen at least ten times a day. The different reactions are fuckin hilarious. Everytime I see it happen, I say to the people, "YEAH! TEAMWORK!" And get a chuckle that defuses the situation. "He looked back at me as if I just shat in his cornflakes"

Gold Do NOT do this to your boss! 
SHE will not see the humor.   
Trust me...  DAE check out the reflection of a girl in store windows or glass doors instead of looking right at her in situations like this?  If DAE means did anyone ever then I have just realized that.....ive been pronouncing it as DAYY in a retarded voice up until now.  Does anybody else I think She was coming through the door in the opposite direction, haha.  Did she notice your situation? Any reaction on her part? No idea. My attention quickly shifted to the fact that I'd broken about 20 social norms in a tenth of a second.  Brilliant :D
 After you wrote, "Oh Shit, I'm dick" I thought it was going to be about you getting your dick stuck in and evolving door. Me too, I am glad that it wasn't what happened, these doors are heavy and have a lot of momentum. My mom will do this to me whenever we go out to eat at a restaurant in my hometown.  I've gotten better at thwarting it now, but it's really a case of who remembers first. Why are people so afraid of the truth. I bet if you said you saw a hottie and wasnt paying attention, hed have asked where and went to go see. Then you both would of high fived and laughed. TIFU by reading this post and choking on my lunch in laughter I intentionally do this to my husband whenever possible. Laugh included. Only in my case, only one of us is embarrassed. You should call in sick, have some Xanax and have a shitty cartoon version of that  tattooed on your chest.  Thanks for this. I'm currently in a union meeting and I just burst out laughing. Now everyone is staring at me.  &gt; '~~Oh shit~~ *hell yeah*, I'm dick to ass with some guy who is already in here.'

FTFY

 Haaaa! This made my day. So simple. Yet so sweet. This shit has me dying in my programming class, thanks for releasing  stress from finals. Take my up vote This is the first TIFU to make me actually laugh quite a bit in a long time. Upvote! that's hilarious. i'll sometimes do this to my female coworker as we're heading back from lunch. you nailed the shuffling experience perfectly I was diagnosed with gout yesterday, and have barely been able to walk for a couple of days. This has turned my day around, and now I feel like it's going to be a good day, because at least I didn't go dick to ass with a guy in a revolving door, then laugh like an evil warlock at him. I thought I'd be slick and yank the door's handle to stop it thinking I would let my friend walk into the now stopped revolving door.  They don't work that way, theres some sort of breakdown clutch on each door or something.  My door broke and security was none too pleased and it took a lot of apologizing for my immaturity.  I was with clients as well and we all had to stand there watching me be a moron.  We lost that contract, no idea why!

Also, I was 38-years-old at the time. I laughed a lot harder than necessary at this.  I would love a short, exaggerative animation of this. &gt; He looked back at me as if I just shat in his cornflakes

Well, then... &gt; Oh shit, I'm dick to ass with some guy



[/r/nocontext](https://www.reddit.com/r/nocontext) I just shat Starbucks Grasshopper Frappucino all over my screen laughing. Thanks /u/Frankeh.

EDIT  spat not shat You know, I already had a mild fear of revolving doors, but now I've got this to worry about too. Thanks OP.  The maniacal laugh really tied it together, well done. I imagined this and had a giggle fit.. But then I remembered Noah.. "Got you right where I want you! bahahaha" I'm willing to bet my neighbours think I am crazy now.  I read it about 10 times now and each time I laugh my ass off till I can't breathe holy crap this was good! 11/10 would laugh again Should have said "It's just a prank"  You sir, win. I work in an open workspace style office and have now cackled with laughter to the point of drawing a crowd.

Also:
&gt; He looked back at me as if I just shat in his cornflakes

Poetry. I figuratively died laughing at this hahhashshshshshshhsshs I am going weak with laughter here. FUCK ME hahahahahahahaah

It's one thing for that to happen (he's talking about the smaller revolving doors) and another for you to laugh like a madman. hahahahaha I can imagine this guy sphincter pushing 30 odd carbon atoms into a small diamond. &gt;FUCK ME

Okay. You want to don'tcha. Depends
Who is male here? Male reporting in, how good are you at giving hand jobs? Amazing,  better with blow jobs. I read this in class while watching a few of my classmates give a presentation. I broke out in an uncontrollable laughter, tears and everything and the person talking stopped because she thought I was laughing at her. It was a little embarrassing, but I guess you could say, TIFU by reading your FU during class. This made me laugh so hard! Thank you for sharing! This is a good idea for a YouTube prank channel. Someone let me know when it happens. This is maybe my favourite TIFU ever. It made me laugh out loud.  You should have tipped him some bitcoins to compensate. ;-)
 Triggered.  I grew up in Phoenix and with our climate revolving doors are rare to say the least. I am on a sales call in the midwest with my manager, and I'm a bit nervous. 

Not really knowing how these things work, I get in the revolving door with him and we have to do the nut-to-but shuffle into the lobby of our large client. Of course our clients are waiting for us in the lobby, watching 2 grown men come in crotch to ass.  Should have played it off..

'Da da da da da **da**, da da da da da **da**.. Oh, hey Mr Wendsworth. Glad you could make it. Tea? Coffee? Conga line?' THis reminds me of the walking dead episode This just made my day. I haven't laughed at another's misfortune in a long time. "Excuse me sir, I seem to have... ha.. ha HA HA... HAGABADLA"

*exuent omni* I had the same thing happen but it was with a girl in one of those cage-like turnstyles in the NYC subway system.  I said sorry everytime I bumped into her and tried to fully apologize when we both escaped but she took off running. &gt; as if I just shat in his cornflakes

I absolutely lost it.  Literally the funniest thing I've ever read on reddit huh, welcome to reddit newbie LET THE MAN TALK. He's saying nice things.  [deleted] Warning: Unused local variable 'Reginald' int Reginald;

Reginald=4;

Cout &lt;&lt; "Reginald was 20 something  but acted like he was " &lt;&lt; Reginald &lt;&lt;endl; Int won't compile, use int What about "Cout" that should be lowercase too right? no std, no using, no main, at some point you gotta let it be m8       #include&lt;iostream&gt;
      using namespace std;

      int main(){
         int Reginald;
         Reginald=4;
         cout&lt;&lt;"Reginald was 20 something but acted like he was " &lt;&lt;Reginald &lt;&lt;endl;
      }

Taking an intro to C++ class finally paid off. You forgot

return 0; well yeah, thats obviously not a full source code, but I was just mentioning case sensitivity as you were.     #define Cout cout That happens in most stories, I've discovered.  So I have this friend, we'll call him Guillermo, but I agree, it happens a lot.
 http://i.imgur.com/CdVicp4.jpg Most random acid flashback. Seriously, his eyes and smile... it just brought me back into that space. Not in a bad way, mind you.  What? \*rips comment into three pieces\*

Jokes aside, is this a reference I don't get or are we randomly talking about trips? I don't mind either one. Whenever someone says something I don't understand I'm just forced to assume it's a reference I don't know. My favorite is when I accidentally reference something I didn't know about. The fact he has never reported it means that everyone will think he's insane Did he ever PM you a problem? I'm still holding out  [deleted] EDIT: TIFU by making a coworker kill himself Same :( People PM you their problems? Mo' Karma, Mo' Problems. Even if he did report it, the fact he reacted the way he did will probably make everyone think he's crazy anyway.  Twist.
The guy found out 4 years ago not long after the first post-it and has been playing the longest play of revenge ever.
Having handed in his resignation last week he has waited for this moment to come. To finally troll you in perhaps the single most terrifying way he could think of. Ah, the long con. Con fartist [Ah the ol' reddit con-a-roo](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/31ybf0/the_teacher_asked_for_a_16_line_poem_this_is_what/cq6byjn?context=3)  Hold my farts, I am going in. How god damn far back does that go? Yeah, speaking of which: Isn't the guy out of a job now because of this reaction? It sounds funny on paper/TV, but in reality, that's a reason to remove someone permanently right away. He already looks crazy as it is but when he tries to explain why he did it to his supervisors, they are going to have a hard time believing him. They might believe it, but they'd ask him why he didn't report this instead of keeping it secret, piling it up inside him, and then becoming physically aggressive because of a little note. Perhaps in companies owned by cunts that dont care that we are human, and in backwards countries with shit labour laws, but in most places this would be met with concern for the employee by co-workers and managers. That first sentence describes a number of companies here in the US. So.. The whole reply?  I believe that was their point His whole post is a single sentence. First of all, great prank, simple, subtle, quick and easy.

Second, you need to flip to a random post it note and write "sorry" Not one. Do it for the next 4 years.

And buy a new monitor for Reginald. "Not one. Do it for the next 4 years."

With your own post it, not Reginald's Yeah, casually say, while others are around, "is anyone writing Fart on our post-it notes?" and hold up your own post-it pad in confusion. That's genius. Typical fart defense: imply it was someone else. It was the dog And write it on a few other coworkers. It'll be the talk for a day and then everyone will forget Whoever spelt it dealt it. 

(Yes I know that isn't how you spell it, but it rhymes better) OR

buy him a new pack of post-its... (if work supplies them, go obtain some for him) and write "sorry" on the first ten or so.  just enough that he thinks they'll all say it, but not enough so that he never bothers pulling all of the written ones off and throws the whole pack away. 

continue with the fart notes.

EDIT: fart notes. (now i'm imagining someone farting out songs.)
 "Sorry"

"Sorry"

"Sorry

"Sorry"

"Sorry"

"Sorry"

"Sorry"

"Farts" Wukong* What's wukong got to do with this? What's Wukong but a second hand emotion? Wukong clan ain't nothing to fuck with. Wukong clan ain't nothing to fart wit. Damn, i was actually really curious to see if OP named his coworker reginald because of TSM Reginald as well...  Ayyy Fun-fact: WuKong is the name of the Monkey King and means: "awakened to emptiness". Reggie? Reggie ledoux did this? Reggie fuckin ledoux did thissss!!??!!? This actually is a fairly decent solution. 


But, damn OP, word of warning you feel me? Keeping a prank up like that for so long is dangerous. Alarm bells should have been ringing. 






 Seriously, there is no joke really that should be dragged on that long without at least some positive response from the person being fucked with, or at least then knowing who is doing it so they can express their displeasure.  I don't think employees who slam computer monitors on the floor and walk out of the room get to remain employed. Unless OP is going to sneak into his house every few days. Then it might work. I wouldn't be so quick to make that assumption... "Reginald" could get HR involved if he's so inclined. If the prank bothered him to the point of a mental breakdown, that's a hostile work environment and systematic harassment that's taken place over 4 years. If he gets fired for that, he could easily raise a case for wrongful termination. It's only a problem if Reginald ever complained about it. He never did. So meetings never took place warning anyone that this continued behavior would result in a full investigation of the workplace. Reginald continued to indulge the behavior by saying nothing.

This is nothing but a silly prank. It could have discontinued if Reginald had brought it to the attention of HR but he chose not to until he exploded. That's on Reginald. &gt; It's only a problem if Reginald ever complained about it. **He never did.**

You know that for certain, then? Well if the guy wasn't reacting any differently, what should have cued OP to notice he was seriously fucking with this dudes mental stability? and on the very next post it note, write "poop" Op gambled, o.p lost. He need to be more progressive. Something like "shart". my money is on "Queef!" This is like the penny prank.

This has Jim written all over it!

Edit: [Here's the penny prank](http://en.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/17d7uy/whats_the_most_creative_way_of_driving_someone/c84fpei) *nickels I was reminded of [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDLk26MJNnw) (shitty quality warning) And sign it with a co-workers name! (you know, the other quiet one) That's how you get *two* office shooters... "Also fart." I would write one word... "Fart" I would add to it a little and write, "are you sorry?" ARE YOU FUCKING [SORRY](http://i.imgur.com/k3Saw.png)!? I feel like we need an extra word in there somewhere. For emphasis? ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?! ARE YOU FARTING SORRY? Took 4 and a half years but you managed to repeatedly annoy a man to the point of insanity. I'm kind of jealous. [deleted] It took my ex-wife 12 years. The long con She needs to step up her game A burrito sounds amazing right now. Ebola not so much... ...What!?

 Username.  I don't like it. Well... Have a burrito for free! 
 Don't you mean Ebola?  Nono.... Just a ... Burrito. ^^^^^^^^^^(May ^^^^^^^^^^contain ^^^^^^^^^^traces ^^^^^^^^^^of ^^^^^^^^^^infected ^^^^^^^^^^bushmeat) Did buffalo 1-37 get annoyed by you? Cuz I never see them anymore. Those are all my accounts i create a new one every year on my cake day to correspond with my age. I'm sorry.  not even sorry I was planning on giving the user details to him in a few days, but whatever, I guess you've ruined it.

You ruiner of stuff.  Just do it anyways. It will last a whole year. OH THE HUMANITY! 

P.s you and water_buffalo-38 must now fight to the death, Mortal Kombat style over the rights to the account. Winner also gets gold.


[FIGHT!]( http://youtu.be/BxsNnUAyfd4) Ill arrange burritos for everyone!  I feel like you and /u/Ebola_Burrito are in cahoots... At which age did you receive the most karma? That's fucking weird  Not going to lie. It is fucking weird. So, water Buffalo 39 will be Mine! He is under my protection. http://i.imgur.com/JirgdQV.gifv relevant username What up.  Nothing. You? How's Jim?  What the fuck is happening here? So, he unplugged the power first? Nah, works on batteries.  This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/retiredgif] [\[SkidMark_wahlberg\] retires monitor crashing gif](//np.reddit.com/r/retiredgif/comments/31z7fe/skidmark_wahlberg_retires_monitor_crashing_gif/)


[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote.)
^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))* [](#bot)
         Can someone explain this please? When someone uses a gif in the perfect context, it gets retired. You should definitely check it out, it's a great sub. His un even fits... So Jim, what's it like working with Dwight? You're not Jim. Jim's not Asian. I was hoping that they would've kept that actor as Jim for the whole episode, because Jim is sick at home or something I was so excited when I realized Asian Jim was cast as Kim Jung Un in *The Interview*.  Asian Jim is amazing in "Fresh off the boat" Hats off to you for not seeing race! That was my favorite Jim prank.  I love when Dwight looks at the family photo and it's Pam and their friend and 2 little half-Asian kids, and he just looks at the camera and goes "Haaaaaahhhhh..." I honestly was thinking the same thing, OP is such a jim I can see Dwight having the same reaction if he never knew it was jim pranking him.  False. Dwight always knows Jim is pranking him. He just doesn't always know how. 
 this is more like when jim got andy to punch a wall in about 20 minutes with that phone prank I'm about to lose my freaking mind! I thought its more of an Andy reaction, although I imagine Andy would explode much eariler That. Was an overreaction. More like: "so Jim, what was it like throwing Andy's phone in the ceiling?" Tweet-lee-tweety-tweet tweety-tweet-tweet :) "Maybe it's in the ceiling."

"Maybe you're in the ceiling!" Calm down, Nard Dog  Can you give a general geographic location of your office?  I want to know where the next workplace shooting is going to happen so I'm ready for the news. It's in America. Plot Twist: Reginald bought a cheap monitor at a thrift store to break,  and just turned the prank on you This prank reminds me of [this thread.](http://reddit.com/17d7uy/) That link lead me to this [ass pennies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DO1Q7F23DxM) sketch, which I had never seen before.  Like I understand doing the prank for like 3 or 4 times but doing it 4 and a half years? I would also go insane if this same message kept appearing for 4 and a half years. If I were you I would apologize and give him something in return. I'd like to think I'd have *said something* or at least NOT left the post it notepad on my desk if it bothered me that much... Reginald may have Asperger's or something similar. Just a thought. It might explain his being a bit of an oddball, but a nice one, and his exact same reaction to the postit, as well as his sudden dramatic outburst of rage. 


As I said, just an idea , not making any assumptions. In any case, it might help to buy him a gift to cheer him up - he probably wants to sink into the floor with shame at this very moment. I don't think people would think worse of you if you own up, actually. You might also consider owning up to Reginald himself, privately. He wants to know who's been playing the prank - right? ;)  It does sound a lot like the behavior of someone on the autism spectrum.  Good point.  I think that's one of the more plausible possibilities.

Another possible explanation: 
 
He might not have been all that bothered by it for most of this time and chose to ignore it for the stupid silliness it was.  Then recently, he had a really bad day/week/month, and this was the last straw in a moment of frustration with other things.  Honestly, after re-reading that last sentence, I think it makes a lot of sense.

I don't know, I didn't expect so much heated debate in this thread, it's food for thought.  I have seen - and been the target of - some pretty harsh bullying over the years.  [Ever been dragged 100 feet by your own hair?  Stomped on by eight guys in a parking lot at night?  Good times.]  So, to me, this is just... man, the world can be so much harsher.  Office pranks are one of the nicer things in life, I've gone back and forth on a few myself.  It doesn't even begin to compare to truly serious bullying from my perspective.  Yet on the flip side, after seeing so many comments from people who can easily envision suffering in this situation... maybe I don't know everything.

Anyway, I agree that he should tell Reginald privately. I read your co-workers "What!?" in Hank Hill's voice. "Hwhot!?" Aside from OP, am I the only one who genuinely feels sorry for this guy? 


 I don't think OP genuinely feels sorry for him. I'm with you. Poor guy.  This is hilarious. It's a work of fucking art. Of all the words you could've chosen to repeatedly soil his post-it notes with, it had to be fart. But not just "fart", no, that would be too simple. Instead, you scribbled "Fart!" every single time. That exclamation mark, that symbol of childish innocence and jest, over four years, drove a sane man to the point where he lost his mind. He was happy, content in life, until this absurdly insignificant string of events occurred. And maybe he would've been able to power through them, truck on throughout the onslaught that is your random words on his tiny yellow half-sticky squares, but the fact that you used the same word over and over again ruined him. It destroyed his entire life. His wife, frustrated by his lack of sexual desire and constant paranoia, left him after just two years. His kids, whom he scolded, became enraged at, every time they quipped about the tiny amounts of gas escaping from their rear ends, asked their mother to take out restraining orders on him, so that they would never see him again. His father, sickened by how quickly his son had managed to devastate his life and his father's respect for him, cut off all ties by doing the only thing he knew how to: deleting him off facebook. His mother, ashamed to even consider him her son, neglected to send him Christmas cards, and even stopped calling him on his birthday.

His entire life savings had dried up after his families abandoned him. Not spent on housing or food or life essentials, but instead on alcohol, and pinboards, as he'd spend night after night assembling post-it notes, clues scribbled across them, upon said pinboards, trying to decipher the mystery. Every night he would get one step closer, but every morning he'd wake up, hungover, depressed, and urinated on, further from the truth.

Reginald's life was over. All because of a fart.  
No, not just a fart. A *Fart!* .... ok have a karma.  &gt; His father, sickened by how quickly his son had managed to devastate his life and his father's respect for him, cut off all ties by doing the only thing he knew how to: deleting him off facebook.

Mine wouldn't ^know ^^how ^^to. Your post reminds me of something I did a long time ago:

I was in school with a few other guys after classes ended when one of us received a call from a girl who was trying to reach her boyfriend but dialled the wrong number. So this guy pretended to be her boyfriend and told her that he had been cheating on her and wanted to break up. She started crying and hung up. The guy started to panic because he didn't get the chance to tell her it was just a joke and all of his return calls were diverted to her voicemail. Naturally, the rest of us did what any boys would do - we added to his panic by telling him how she would commit suicide and we would read about it on tomorrow's news. We also told him that his phone number would be the last number on the girl's calling history and the police would take him in for questioning. 

Personally I think the only person who got tricked on that day was that guy. The girl was most likely just playing along with his lies.  That's a very odd way to terrorise someone. if you really want to apologize, you must first out yourself. sending an email to everyone in the office linking them to this page would work. do it the next day reggy is absent. so that everyone may react to the event and move on. then apologize to his face the next time you see him. then he will stab you. Link them here? You're kidding, right?  i like the ending. You'll feel better, and be better, if you own up to it in person. Just sayin' This is the same guy who made the Potato submission. It **has** to be. &gt; I want to apologize in person, but I won't, because I refuse to take responsibility. I don't want people to think negatively of me. I think I will apologize anonymously, and explain I meant no harm. I feel terrible.

I admire your honesty here. Not many people would have just enough balls to be honest with anonymous strangers but not enough to take responsibility for a simple prank.

You are a rare breed OP. You should write "Sorry!" on the next note. TYL: Playing a prank on someone for 4 years most likely isn't the best idea.
Bright side? You all made it home alive cover his WHOLE desk in post-its saying "sorry"? &gt; I refuse to take responsibility. I don't want people to think negatively of me. I think I will apologize anonymously

Well good thing you didn't create a front page post going into specifics about it on an incredibly popular website, eh? I'm not sure who is crazier... the guy who spends 4+ years on a really stupid prank, or the guy who doesn't react to said prank for 4+ years and then explodes. You are both fucking nuts. you should take responsibility and appologize in person. Shouldn't have pulled a prank on a person you like for 4 years despite knowing he is an oddball, and then be afraid that people might think less of you. owe up to your own mess. You coward! Face it like man! &gt;I have done this about *once every two weeks for the last four and a half years*. **I can't even count how many times I have done.**

* 52 weeks per year x 4 years = 208 weeks
* Plus 26 weeks (a half-year) = 234 weeks.
* 234 weeks / 2 (once every two weeks) =  117

You can now count how many times you did this, at least 117 times.

Math, it's what's for dinner.

 Maturity level = below measurable scale. 

Sorry to say OP, but you need to grow up. 

A couple of times = fine just having a little laugh

4 1/2 years = complete and total harassment.  4.5 years is a really long time OP. Not sure Reginald is the only one with issues. You gotta write the apology on the post it, its just right. Well, there is always a such thing as taking a joke too far. Perhaps that lesson is lost on you, but I doubt seriously that continuing a prank for 4 1/2 years could be considered anything other than too far.  Here's the thing  the word "fart" has nothing but negative connotations. Having it repeatedly placed in your Post-it notes for four years would make anyone feel bad. I'd wonder who didn't like me or who was trying to provoke a response from me. If you're writing "fart" on somebody's paper over and over again  do you really think you're making their day better? It's not like you were writing "Have a great day!" or  on the pad for years. Did OP see him laugh the first time he did it? No. Did he see it make him uncomfortable? Yes. And yet he spent the next four years purposefully making this man feel that way. Really not cool. I can't imagine any of the men in my life doing this to someone.  You broke him. It's like a post-it-note water torture.  You [gaslit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslighting) the poor dude. 

:( I think I might agree with you. The prank sounds harmless enough, but continuing it for 4.5 years has to cross some lines.

I also believe Reginald has his own issues, just from the way OP described him. e.g. He's an "oddball," the ritualistic way he rips up the post-its into 3 pieces and throws them away, and his violent outburst when he smashed the monitor. The prank crossed the line of "harmless" when OP choose the "oddball" at work. OP is a bully and choose the easy victim. We play pranks on friends who we know will react to it as humor. This is office bullying. Yep I can imagine this scenario and if it's true it's very mean spirited. The fact that OP won't take responsibility when this "oddball" is probably out a job now and looking at a hard time finding another one is just shameful. Some people never leave high school. "I refuse to take responsability"

That sure is a grown up thing to do.
But what can we expect from someone that thinks that writing "Fart" in a piece of paper is funny, right? Sounds like a reasonable response to being harassed on a protracted basis by way of some lightweight predatory BS. &gt;I don't want people to think negatively of me.

Then you probably shouldnt have done it... You need to grow up and apologize in person.  It's the best way to undo some of the hurt you've caused. OP, if you've been the reason behind his declining mental health and added stress to this guy's life, you at least owe it to him to apologize. You don't want people to think negatively of you? He's been stressed about it for the last four and a half years. Seriously. MAN UP. Over 4 years of this shit seems kind of douche like. I have a friend who hid pennies in weird places for me to find for years. The "penny bandit" was a running joke for a while but after more than a year it wore thin and I grew tired of suspecting everyone who sat near me and knowing they may be complicit. A prank is only a prank as long as it's funny. Beyond that it becomes psychological abuse. At that point it becomes extremely difficult for things to end well. This sort of prank is a lot like Chinese water drop torture. For those thinking of similar pranks please cut yourself off after a month while it is still funny. Doing something like this for months or years is abusive and unkind and will quickly become an unhealthy obsession for both the pranker and prankee.  Reminds me of a prank a mate and I did to a coworker. Jason's kinda quirky. Doesn't say much and, from what I could tell, has slight OCD. He kept everything on his desk in order in an almost maniacal manner. One day, my mate and I were working late and we decided to "kidnap" Jason's stapler (heh. I love office space). We then left a note on Jason's keyboard. I can't remember what the exact message was, but it was along the lines of "the stapler of destiny belongs to me!" in big bold letters. The next day, Jason went about his morning, getting himself set before starting his shift. He finds the note, immediately stands up then scans the room, not saying a word. Sitting kinda close to him, I could see him from the corner of my eyes just eyeing everyone. He did this for a few minutes then sits down and started muttering something under his breath. His typing was noticeably heavier and much louder. At this point my mates and I are dying, trying to hold in our laughter. At the end of our shift, we put back the stapler in it's proper place, and took something else from his desk instead. Again leaving a note, this time saying "catch me if you can"! We did for about six months (the length of our contracts), taking a different item and leaving a note each time. On our last day, we all went for drinks at the local. After a few drinks, we finally admitted to Jason that it was us who've been playing the prank on him. He just stared at us blankly and nursed his drink. He barely said a word the rest of the evening. I still worry that I'll be put on his list. Dude, the essence of a good prank is to give the victim a clear "out" for them to join the joke.

There needs to be the ability for it to become a back-slapping laugh, or for the victim to prank you back.

You guys never opened that door - you just teased him as a group and never gave him a reasonable chance at redemption, to become a part of the brotherhood.

Not cool.  If a person doesn't come good on having fun, go hard on him/her.  But don't deny them that chance.  Prank for fun and inclusion, not at the expense of another.

Having to explain this to adults... yeeish... So what would have been Jason's "out" in this scenario? Doing something like this for a week is funny. Doing it for six months is borderline harassment. Hence why OP is not only a coward but a sociopath. 4 1/2 years? To a shy but admittedly nice guy? And then he doesn't even have the balls to come out and say it was him? For fucking shame. No fucking kidding.

His line of "i refuse to take responsibility" makes me wish he would get punched in the face. 

Hard.

Possibly repeatedly. He's waiting for you to forget, then, he'll come around.  It just wasn't funny man. Not cool. Prank? Isnt this just being really annoying, to the point of bullying? Quirky or not, this would piss anyone off.  You thought it was a harmless prank because you lack empathy. You sustained a psychological attack on this poor person despite it being obvious that he was not enjoying the prank whatsoever. You need to own up and apologize to him personally. Anything less than that is cowardice on your part. Ignore the gleeful, faceless strangers applauding your post because it amuses them. This would be hilarious if it was fiction, but it's not: your actions caused someone significant psychological distress. Be honest and brave and own up.  It's too bad there aren't very many serious responses to this.  It's probably because redditors skew young.  There are certain milestones in the development of emotional maturity that many people don't reach until later in life.  Some don't ever reach them.  OP, if you take the time to learn from this, you will be a better person for it.

Here's a summary of what you are hopefully already realizing on your own:

- just because you're having fun doesn't mean everyone else is having fun too.

- people who are strange or different from you still have feelings just like the ones you feel.

- if you don't understand someone very well, then you need to be conservative and careful when interacting with them.

Congratulations on learning this lesson, OP.  You may never repair your relationship with this person and you may feel guilty for the rest of your life.  But if you can become a better person for it, at least there's that. I was with you until you said that OP learned a lesson.  I don't think he did because he still refuses to take responsibility and doesn't want people to think badly of him.   My guess is that OP will go back and forth on that very issue.  One minute they will want to apologize, the next minute they will be afraid to do so.  People are not black and white, simple creatures "either responsible or not responsible."  What I think is more important is the long term effects of people reflecting on their actions and how that affects their future actions.  It's clear that OP is regretting what they did and IMO that's the first step toward becoming a more sensitive person. I don't mean to be a downer, but posts like this really bug me. First off, a completely new account is always a little fishy. I understand lurkers making accounts but it still rubs me the wrong way in situations like this.

Second, this post is incredibly specific. How does OP, if he is telling the truth, not know that someone from his office won't see this and know what's up? Other than that the entire thing just seems a little unreal and if it is real it's cruel.

I'm not mad or anything. A good story is a good story. But posts like this really bring down a sub that isn't meant for TIFU fictional stories, but true and real fuck ups like that guy who ate a bowl of dog food vegetables without realizing it. 

 It's a new account because it's a throwaway created just for this post. Look at the username. 

Assuming the story is true, OP is such a spineless coward he also refuses to take responsibilty in the land of fake internet points How do you know the story is fake? The new account could be explained by the TIFUer not wanting the story on an account with personal details.  The specificity of the story won't help anyone find Mr. TIFU because people at the office already know that "someone" was pranking Regi, they just don't know who, and the story doesn't give details that would lead to the prankster.
Fart! Never heard of the Chinese water torture? a single drop of water hitting the same spot over and over would drive the victim frantic. 

You are a bad person. The difference between this and chinese water torture however is that there is no way to stop the drops from hitting you, and reginald could have stopped the farts so easily. He didnt and after 4 1/2 years he starts throwing around computer monitors. That monitor was meant for you reginald . 
"&gt;I want to apologize in person, but I won't, because I refuse to take responsibility. I don't want people to think negatively of me."

You are what is know as a pathetic coward.    -
If you're a dick and a prankster- own it.
If you're a good guy- than grow a set, take him to lunch and explain what you did.  


 Man up and apologize. And tell your human resources person that you did it. 

You're an adult, ostensibly. Act like one. And yet posters are saying the other guy is the child. Really surprised by some of the reactions here. That's because Reddit has a large population of bullies.  Or disgruntled nerds full of malice, lacking empathy.  I think it's fair to say that there are plenty of both.  That's okay, we have each other, DW. I imagined up a scenario from Reginald perspective:

Reginald had been teased for years. You see, Reginald had to do Yoga as part of his grade 9 gym class. One fateful day Reginald, a yoga pro, was doing downward dog when he let out the most massive fart the world has ever seen. This resulted in all of his peers calling him Fart for the duration of post secondary school.

This was a painful time for him, but finishing high school he soon put it behind him. That is, until the day he saw your post it note. All the years of Fart came flooding back to him all at once. He had to know which of those asshats from high school had tracked him down. Reginald spent significant portions of his shift wandering the office, peering around cubicle walls in hopes of catching the perpetrator. For four and a half years the menace eluded him, the search slowly but surely depleting what was left of his sanity. Then one day he snapped... he became Fart, just as he was always destined to.  Cool story, bro / miss. Literally. Also, I am relieved that yoga farting is a thing that other people do as well... ^it ^would ^be ^weird ^if ^it ^was ^just ^me.  AND now we know why there are office shooting rampages. I wonder how many workplace shooting sprees started with something like this. Sounds like you never developed enough of a friendship or even a rapport with this guy to determine if this is appropriate for him. 

You should contact your boss or HR and explain everything. Perspective is everything. 

Even though you did not have any ill intention, your co-worker never knew that and he never participated in this prank in a way that indicated he was amused or ready for more. (When I or my co-workers get pranked, we can recognize it, we accuse everyone, and then we promise revenge.) 

You don't know what is going on in his outside life. Your prank, which never intended harm, could have been the straw that broke the camel's back. 

You aren't an asshole, I'm sure. To be one is not your goal with that prank. 

Not doing anything after your coworker reacted like that? That will make you a really terrible person.  Sounds like your prank was silent, but deadly. 
I picture Reginald as a quiet and unattractive, much like me. I know if someone kept writing 'Fart!' on my post it, with me having no clue who it is, I would at first take it as a joke, but then it would slowly become something darker (in my mind). I would wonder why the pranker doesn't just come up to me and say "Hahah! Fart! Get it?! it's me!", and over the course of a year or so I'd take it as someone trying to make me 'snap'. After a while, I would genuinely believe whoever that is doing this is actually trying to wear me down, and as I am pretty anti-social and have low self esteem, I probably woudn't confide in anyone. When it KEEPS continuing, and everyone keeps acting normal around me, I think I would generally start doubting the mental sanity of myself, or whoever that is around me. I wouldn't feel comfortable, because I'd always be flipping between "Don't snap, that's what they want" in my head, and "There can't be a guy writing 'Fart!' on my notes for 4.5 years.... I must be going crazy" 

So yeah you're a dick. Leave us ugly quiet fuckers alone You're such a dick Jason now it's on reddit?! Sounds like you should see someone about your mental health OP - if you do something like this for 4.5 years, something seems to be wrong with you.

Growing up also means taking responsibility, so until you do that you're not even an adult to me to be plain and honest. 

 I'm sorry to say this, but you're an asshole! Tell and explain face to face, might be the only way to give him a chance to feel good again! Do you really know what you did to him? That's mobbing, in a horrible way! If he knows who did it and knows why it happened he may be forgiving, but if he doesn't find out he will never trust anyone at work again. And that's really fucked up!

You made a mess - now take responsibility! "Reginald" has wondered for 4.5 years who hates him so much that keep calling him a fart. He's been hurt, humiliated. If he is an odd person no doubt he was tortured his entire K-12 educational experience by idiots like OP who may have taunted him daily in a similar fashion. You should bd able to imagine a group of kids doing things like OP to Reginald for similar reasons, to get a reaction. Most parents always said just ignore bullies, which is stupid advice because the bullied just keep it up, just like OP. Reginald has tried to ignore it for 4.5 years and maybe he only felt a little betrayed or hurt or humiliated each time but it built up maybe even it was building since he was 5 and started school. I know the pain of being the brunt of really stupid supposedly harmless fun, i always felt attacked (because I was) i never felt a part of a group instead I felt APART. I was a nice person who wad kind and helpful and withdrawn because my soft side was seen as a weakness by those who for some reason wanted to hurt me instead of leaving me alone. I spent years in therapy and i put that stuff as well as the physical and emotional abuse I got at home behind me. The only reason I am talking about it now is because I feel some empathy and understanding for Reginald who deserved better from someone who supposedly liked him. In therapy i came to understand that some of my bullying was most likely thought of as harmless fun not really intended to hurt me. There may have been some who actually liked me and chose a poor way to try to show it. I also know that some where kids worse off than me who were angry and felt more powerful by bullying someone weaker (i know this is so because years after school one of my oppressors did apologize and explained why they were so angry and hurtful. She got "saved" so felt the need to tell me). I don't want OP to hate himself for being so shallow that he could not see how some people find such words terribly embarrassing and would create in their mind where someone hated them and wanted to humiliate them in this private terroristic way. I think he should at minimum explain his intention in a letter and tell Reginald he likes him and kept it up waiting for Reginald to  say something like an immature 9 year old. He should say too that he realizes he needs to learn from doing such a terrible thing however harmless his intentions, and say he will get counseling. Maybe OP will only need to go to counceling once Or twice but at least he could talk it through to make sure he really does understand the consequences of what he did and make a plan for moving forward. Unless OP at least sends this letter Reginald can have no understanding that he wasn't targeted out of malice and hate.  Yeap, OP is an asshole and he needs to act like an adult for once. It really makes me lose even more faith in humanity when i see comments motivating OP to keep on harassing the poor guy.   I'm not sorry to say it.  The guy is an asshole.  This could cost the 'Reginald' his job for his outburst. You could not have said it better. OP has been harassing a co-worker and thereby created a hostile work environment for him. Time to 'fess up. Oh he wrote fart on a post it. The guy would've snapped at something else if something that minor and innocent set him off.  Or maybe OP doesn't want to get murdered by a total psycho. I mean seriously, he wrote the word "fart" on a notepad for a while, and the guy goes bonkers. I sure as shit wouldn't come clean to that wacko.  A Psycho?

For a while? 4 years!!! Four fucking years!!!

This guy is broken after this long time! I wonder if you would have lasted so long!! He had the word "fart" written on his notepad, it wasn't like OP was actually causing him any distress. If he was bothered he should have asked whoever it was to knock it off and handled it like a stable person instead of going on a violent psychotic rampage.  &gt;I am mortified and full of shame.
&gt;I feel terrible.

&gt;I want to apologize in person but I won't because I refuse to take responsibility.

&gt;I don't want people to think negatively of me.


Yeah, youre not only a total fucking hyprocrite, but you're a coward and a total asshole.

So instead of owning up, you make him seem like the idiot and let people think negatively of him?

Wow...what exactly did you come here for? You're the worse kind of person.  He came for justification. And he's finding it, by the looks of the top comments of this page.  ~~worse~~

worst

 It's made up dude. Is everything ok at home?  You seem very bitter. He has nothing to gain by confessing, and a lot to lose.  Self preservation is a human's most vital instinct.  Let's be realistic: I doubt anyone in this thread calling him a coward or hypocrite would publicly confess.  Anonymously, sure -- explain it in a memo to the office and apologize.  But who benefits from knowing OP's identity?  Yeah, he should have stopped about four years ago, but once somethings been taken to far there's no going back.  OP obviously learned a lesson here and doesn't need the additional public shame to grow as a person. Except he could've gone back. He could have stopped the notes. That's all it took. 

Apologizing is important in learning from your actions. If you're desensitized to this stuff because you've never apologized for ruining people, you end up with a really shitty person.  Accurate username is accurate.

I mean, come on. It's the word "Fart!" I think most people would have just laughed it off. If he reacted neutrally every time, how was OP supposed to know? Not like they spoke super often from my understanding. Harmless pranks don't last 4 years. I wont kiss your ass, you are kinda a jerk.  You may have cost that man his job. Apologize to him in person, like an adult. He didn't cost that man anything. Reginald's irrational overreaction to a harmless and funny prank may have cost him his job. Seriously, even being a quiet person after the 3rd time this happened I'd be asking people who sit near me "hey, some idiot has been writing in my notepad.  Know who it was or have you seen anyone at my desk when I'm not around?" After about 2 months of this, my whole department would have known and tried to "crack the case" on who kept doing it.  Reginald didn't handle it like a normal person would. Alternatively, you would realize that someone is playing a prank and ignore it, quietly being impressed by the prankster's persistence. It's such a tiny tiny annoyance to get worked up over. also, you could repeat the same prank to another unsuspecting victim until everyone in the office received the same treatment. The reason the prank kept going on is because he knew he would get worked up over it. If 'Reginald' was a normal person, OP wouldn't have fucked with him in that way because it wouldn't have been entertaining. Freaking out is an overreaction, but OP was trying to get a reaction out of him, and when it finally happened, OP decided to start (sort of) using his sense of empathy.

I can understand messing with someone like that when you're a kid and don't know better, but OP really should know that what he was doing wasn't fun.

Sure, the prank was not bad, but the target was. You shouldn't be pranking someone from the shadows for years if they're not the pranking type.  Good point. OP *new* he wouldnt take it well.  Knew. Thank you. Genuine typo.  No problem. It only stood out because it was italicized. Oh for fucks sake! Some of you just don't get it  do you? Systematically being targeted as the butt of any joke has got to wear on a person. 

 Seriously, the length of the prank just doesn't make sense. How could a co-worker not notice someone going to someone's desk every two weeks for four years? If it even started getting slightly annoying, why wouldn't he just move or stop using the post it notes. Also, how could you work with someone in close proximity for so long and not recognize their handwriting?

I could totally see this happening over 4 months, but 4 years is really unbelievable for me. "Reginald didn't handle it like a normal person would." 

Give me a break. That is victim blaming at its finest. Who are you to decide how a "normal" person reacts to a seemingly subtle prank for 4.5 years? OP even said he was an oddball. Of course it couldn't be predicted how explosively he would react, but clearly this guy didn't interpret the prank the way OP intended, and OP needs to accept responsibility. That's how communication works. Your actions mean more to others than your intentions. Saying that it's Reginald's fault is completely unfair.  *ding ding ding* that should have been the first clue to stop. what was the underlying psychology behind his behavior. will this make him unwell in the future etc... [deleted] Maybe he's autistic and couldn't deal with it very well. Some proposed Aspergers. I think it's possible, with him being the "oddball" and all.  Keep in mind this is for 4 and 1/2 years, not a one time thing. It seems more like bullying than a prank. If this was me, I'd seriously be laughing every time I came across it. It's not wasting my time, energy, or money. It's not insulting or embarrassing. I'd probably try to figure out who it was, and at some point during those 4.5 years I'd probably be standing around the water cooler talking about the fact that every 2 weeks I find a post it with the word "fart" written on it. Bullying is a repeated attack on a person. If he had written "Fatso" or "Asshole" instead of "fart" I'd agree with you. But the OP didn't have any reason to suspect that the guy was so upset by the prank. I'd tell the guy to get a sense of humor.  Writing "fart" on post-it notes is bullying? Really?  I know right? I kept knocking down an autist's jenga pieces and people tried to call me out on it. It's jenga. thanks for understanding. You probably think it's funny to push people with no legs out of their wheelchair, too. Being autistic is a mental disorder not some kind of joke. exactly So after 4 and a half years why didn't the guy try to figure out who it was? Adults are responsible for their own tantrums. [deleted] He's afraid he won't be taken seriously? Collect a few of the post its and go to the supervisor. Although the supervisor is likely to look at him strangely and tell him to destroy the post its and go about his business. Also, if you self-talk is SO negative that you think a single neutral word written on a post it is someone "doing this" to you, you should probably see a counselor.  [deleted] I wasn't kidding. Why does everyone think, "you should see a counselor" is some sort of insult. Negative self-talk is a real thing that can make life really difficult. Counselors are trained professionals who can give people practical tools to change that so that they can be more effective in their personal and professional lives. If a problem *is* seriously affecting your life, you *should* contact a counselor. And many of them will work on a sliding scale for people who can't afford their services at full price. Also, many insurance companies will cover at least some portion of the cost. This man was so overwhelmed by something so trivial, and so unable to set boundaries to negate it that he very well may now have lost his job. A counselor could have helped with that. It's not an insult. It's just how things are.  You need to relax. Ugh I just wrote that to give context as to what the guy might have been feeling. Keep in mind that this guy had to deal with this for four and a half years. People get *married* after a relationship this long. If I were to stand in front of this man right now, I wouldn't be telling him what to do or tell him that his problem was trivial, and that he blew it out of proportion. I don't think that all problems should point towards getting a counsellor. Another solution could be to find a friend to let his feelings out onto.  He probably farted while fucking Meg causing himself a whole world of embarrassment. Next day he comes in the office and sees *Fart!* ...rest is history. You make me feel like such an awful writer =[ Did you not notice his ocd tendencies. ripping the papers exactly 3 times, same verbal response... each time? he could be on some spectrum of pervasive disorder or be ocd. the "tantrum" isn't a childish acting out but a symptom of something he had control over for a good number of years till the final prodding broke him.

This is a case of accidental bullying. OP didn't have an idea, or a background in medicine/psychology and it certainly wasn't his fault not picking up on this. But to fault the victim? Nonsense. The thing is, this type of thing is funny the first few times. Four and a half years? It would get old, quick.  Writing the word "fart" on a post it note hardly seems like bullying to me... Oh for fucks sake! Some of you just don't get it  do you? Systematically being targeted as the butt of any joke has got to wear on a person. 

 The term bullying has become really broad, huh? Why you gotta bully /u/aarr44 like that? Just like your Mom! The point is, the prank is harmless.  Really, truly innocuous.  If Reginald is so bothered by it he should have addressed the matter earlier on and in a professional manner.  "Hey guys, this is actually bugging me, will whoever is doing this please stop?"  Or written a little note for the perp to find to that effect.  Or *something.*  

What else is Reginald going to get so bent out of shape about?  Honestly OP unwittingly did the company a favor by pushing his buttons in a fairly safe manner.  Reginald needs help, either to help himself or to get it professionally.  OP's actions may have been childish and misguided but that hardly excuses the reaction they provoked. My mother is an introvert. She also doesn't like confrontation, she doesn't feel like she's very good with words. Repeatedly, she's been suicidal because of the accumulation of mean things people repeatedly do that impact her, whether they be pranks, or genuine carelessness. This guy clearly got super upset, but it's super unfair to say that he should have dealt with it better - some people don't possess those interpersonal or coping skills. They also thrive if you just leave them be.

Instead of harassing people for years, leave them be - you never know how your being uncaring, a jerk, etc., impacts other people's lives. Instead of you saying that he should have dealt with it better, maybe there shouldn't be someone harassing him at work, no? OP didn't do the company a 'favor', he harassed one of his colleagues till that person broke. Was he supposed to be doing that at the office? Was that kind? Was it for the benefit of the other person? No. It was selfish and mean. Reginald never got a single laugh out of this prank, but OP got four years of laughs. That's harassment. [deleted] I think it can be very easy to underestimate the effects we have on others without being either a oblivious or a dick.  Bullying? LOL. You must be shrooming. Clearly, Reginald is an iceberg of neuroses. Yup. He could have gone to HR and told them how much it was upsetting him. Or started asking around who's doing it. I don't feel bad for him if he looses his job over this. A lot of things Reginald could have done instead of letting it bother him for 4 years. At the beginning of the guys post he says he was kind of an oddball and keeps to himself.  He was probably hoping it would stop without having to do anything. Fart! WHO IS DOING THIS!?! On everything I've ever posted? Man, you mad huh? I'm lonely and bored,... and I learn so much about you this way... Fart! Ha! Go for it man, I ain't even mad.... We talk again in 4 1/2 years... (I probably stop doing this in 20 min) I don't know, from the way he describes him Reginald may be dealing with a disability such as high functioning autism. Not that OP should have known this but Reginald may not have had full control over his reaction. Bullshit. Persistently irritating a guy for four years by playing childish mind games is harassment. Him finally snapping after years of being the bigger man and finally, the day his wife left him for their meth addicted plumber, even after he agreed to an open marriage to try and salvage things, he hit his limit. I see the humor in OP's prank, but after the first year of that I would set up a camera and find out who the prankster was. After amassing plenty of good video of OP at his finest, I would come in one morning early and fire the projector up with all those video clips of him giggling like a schoolgirl and prancing off after each vandalism playing on repeat. I would irrevocably burn the memory of what a tool he is into every mind there. Know that sexy brunette you like? Too bad, she will just never see you in the same light. The boss isn't sure he can trust you around the public anymore, there goes your nice sales job "Jones, we need someone to sort all these paper records and scan them one by one into digital format. It shouldn't take more than a year or two and you get your own office in the records room in the basement! We know you are the perfect man for this job". I am a nice guy usually, so that would be my typical response. Do that childish stuff after I've warned you or on the wrong day though and I may just get wrong on you though. Seriously, too much is too much. He should learn a lesson and be glad Reginald actually is a nice well balanced guy cause Reggie might just as likely have flipped out and shot him, or found out who he was and silently pissed in his coffee for the rest of their career, or had any other of a various range of really bad responses. It is elusive to me how people think no one deserves their ass kicked for mind games and harassment anymore, or even chronic disrespect and verbal abuse. Mind games and harassment hurt a person a lot more than any beating someone could give you,  if you have driven them to the point of violence. "Push me too far and I might become violent" is basic human nature but all you bastards feel you should be able to mentally torment a person with no retaliation. That just makes a world full of bullies and bullied people seething inside with the buried anger of a coward who has never been taught to stand up for him/herself and when all the rage comes out, finally, as it must, they hurt their loved ones, their parents,  their spouse and kids, or their animals, and in some extremes they go and blow away a crowd of people. I don't condone any of that, point is it all started when those people were tormented by assholes but not allowed to lawfully confront their tormentors. Non confrontation ensures that no problem will ever really be solved in our modern culture because people won't behave in an "uncivilized" manner any more. Civilized people are under the control of the authorities, literally, that is what the word means. Civilized people are allowed only orderly feelings, ones that won't disrupt their ability to make a profit for the real masters of the world while they live in debt and penury. Just forget about all that crazy stuff though, go watch a ball game and take another pill. That'll take your mind off it....Think about it. You just blew my mind. I could actually taste the sarcasm in that comment.

Edit: Not even just actually, literally. I could LITERALLY taste the sarcasm. You may be having a stroke. Get that checked. So you have no adult rebuttal to explain why it is ok to be a passive aggressive bully in your world view, but it isn't ok to openly confront someone and kick their ass if they refuse to stop violating your human rights time and again, or to have an episode in which no person was harmed after FOUR YEARS of harassment?  I....didn't realize your *Crime &amp; Punishment*-length novel of a response was even serious.

To answer your question...yes, it's perfectly okay to confront someone if they're annoying you. Problem is, this guy never did. He never said a word other than "What?" for 4 years.

He *should* have confronted someone or said something or spoke up and said "This is actually bothering me." He didn't. That's on him. How was OP to know?

It's not harassment. It's not bullying. It's "fart" on a post-it note. Going apeshit fucking nuts over it wasn't warranted. Reggie there was taught to have good manners and be "the bigger man", and that over time people would get bored and leave him alone. What toll do you imagine years of that take on a person's mind? The point is that he was deprived of the tools to do what you are saying and people like OP need to take it seriously that what seems like a joke to them, may not be amusing at all to the victim. Some people are not able to see the joke, but rather feel like they are a joke and go home every day feeling like their coworkers are all laughing at them, or indicating they stink or something in a case like this. A healthy response would have been to pick up the pattern and start leaving funny messages in return, or in this case "not funny anymore, please leave me alone" kind of messages.  Reginald can't conceptualize that because for whatever reason he just lacks the tools. My comment wasn't even written directly to you any way, it was in response to your state of mind for everyone else that might want to hear a different point of view. A prank played for over 4 years is not harmless. A few weeks? Yup, I'll give you that. Four and half years? Nope. Definitely not harmless. If this was once or twice then it would be an overreaction. But continuing it for four years is pretty creepy That's a pretty sociopathic way of looking at it. This is at an office which means not everyone is friends. The victim of the prank didn't know the intent, and for some people that can seem hostile. This guy persisted with prank for 4 years. Its not like he had that reaction the first time it happened. 

This is completely the OPs fault, and the victim of the prank doesn't look bad at all. The OP does and so do you. During those 4 years, at what point does it become the target's responsibility to stand up and say "ha-ha, okay, real funny, so who's doing this?" Sooner or later, if it's getting him that upset, it's on him to speak up and say "Okay, this isn't funny anymore."

He went from 0 to 100 overreaction without any stops in between.

OP had every reason to believe this wasn't really bothering him and it was all fun and games.

If you feel like you're at a breaking point where you're about to snap and destroy property and get angry enough to want to kill someone over something that has gone on for 4 years, the onus is on you to deal with the problem before it gets to that boiling point. OP had no idea his harmless "fart" joke was driving a person to mass murder, nor should he have even expected that since he was never given a reason to think it was even bothering the guy.

Let's not act like he was beating him up and putting him in a locker every day or some hardcore bullying shit. He was writing "Fart" on a Post-It note every few days. That's it. 0 to 100 in four years. FOr all you know he was a having a bad day for unrelated reasons.

Also, the victim did not get in a murderous rage and destroy things. He fled the building.

And as I already said, this an office where not everyone is friends. A prank like that can seem aggressive and intimidating to some people. That's why you don't do things like the OP did. It makes you asshole. Comparing it to worse forms of bullying doesn't make this guy any less of an asshole.

You are so very wrong, and have a lot to learn about how to treat people. You've got to be really fun at parties What's that got to do with bugging someone at work who you know to be weird for 4 years?  Pretty obvious if his reaction had been anything other than a hapless, "What?", anything that would've hinted at it troubling Reginald, I have to imagine the OP stops asap.  OP already knew the guy was weird. I'd say the fact that he did it consistently IS strange. I'd say if you don't know for a fact that a person can take a joke, and they haven't done anything to piss you off, that you ought to leave them alone. People aren't there to entertain you. 

Bottom line, there's no way to justify this. You and OP are just dicks.  Thanks, I was just making a counterpoint. I think there's something to be said about you taking the supposed moral high-ground in one breath and calling people dicks in the next.  No there isn't. There's nothing wrong with calling our people for being dicks. You are really reaching. Why are you so vested in defending a guy who was bugging another guy for 4 years? You don't know what other people are going through. It's not a prank if it's anonymously done for over 4 years, it's bullying. Who knows what this guy's life is like, but it's not our place to judge his reaction to 4 years of subtle, constant harassment at his office as 'irrational'. 

Personally, I'd be really mad if someone was coming into my private workspace daily for four years and messing with my shit. I organize my stuff the way I like it, I have ocd (diagnosed, not "oh, I'm so ocd, lol") and it'd really upset me and hurt me that people would be intentionally trying to bother me. 

Leave people alone. Be kind. If you're going to 'prank' someone, do it once, and fess up. Let them in on the laugh so the joke is shared, instead of at their expense. If you don't, you're bullying. Oh for fucks sake! Some of you just don't get it  do you? Systematically being targeted as the butt of any joke has got to wear on a person. 

 And admit it to colleagues, or they will not be comfortable working with Reginald. OP should look for a new job just in case. Honestly, even with an explanation I wouldn't be comfortable working with Reginald. I mean, to have a violent reaction SO out of proportion to the prank with absolutely no warning just seems completely unwarranted and frankly a bit terrifying. 
 Sorry, but you can't speak for his reaction. You're not the one who's had this prank done to. He may have been suppressing a reaction until now or telling himself to be cool about it. But it must have suddenly dawned on him that whoever is doing this must be bat shit crazy and his reaction involuntary. It's fucked up that you judge him so easily. No he shouldn't. Whoever the fuck Reginald is should not be storming out of a room because of one sticky note every other week having fart written on it. You could do that to me every day for my entire life and I still wouldn't think it would be grounds to throw a tantrum and storm out of the room.  I would enjoy the regular Fart post it, in fact I would probably create a display of them at my desk.  I used to work at a Toyota dealership, and pranks weren't just done regularly, they were a way of life.  It made that work environment a lot more tolerable. [deleted] Lots of people are emotionally unstable. That doesn't mean it's ok to torment them for years. I think it's quite a stretch to call this *torment.* Or even to suggest this man is mentally unstable. He just got fed up. But too far. And OP couldn't have predicted this.  I think it's possible he had mild autism, definitely. Maybe Aspergers. But really, being the butt of a joke for four and a half years has got to wear on someone who already isn't the kind of person for pranks.  [deleted] He was described as an "oddball" and his reaction was a little over the top. He never said anything to anyone else for four and a half years. Do we have a guarantee? No, but we have some evidence. 

I only suggested mild autism. I didn't say he has Downs or something, sheesh. [deleted] I haven't, but I've read up on enough symptoms to get an idea for potential signs. He might be slightly repressed but if he was unstable he would've blown a lot earlier. [deleted] Hmmm. He didn't do it in a vacuum. 

I guess we might use the word 'unstable' differently; I use it to mean some one who goes off easily, or whose emotions swing wildly rather than someone who represses their emotions for years before going off like a broken boiler. I would say it would've been only his fault for reacting inadequately to such an innocent joke. He could've just laugh 4 years ago and ask jokingly "Who is doing this?". Not OP's fault. Yeah who suddenly escalates from nothing at all to smashing their computer monitor? Even if somebody's writing 'fart' on random post it notes of his (such a harmful, guaranteed to incite violence prank after all) he's still responsible for not smashing the company's property like that. People have a LOT worse shit happen to them at work, random awful shit, and they still don't get a pass to smash shit up. Unless this guy has been visibly cracking for awhile and OP knew this was coming this prank was about as harmless as it gets. Some people are unable to find pranks like this funny, as they're preceived to be a jab or an insult. Perhaps he took this prank as someone saying he smells? Can you imagine working with coworkers who treat you nicely and act like they're your friend and for *four years* someone is leaving comments like this about you? Sure, the word "fart" is harmless, but it definitely meant something more to him than simply a word. If he were to ask "who's doing this", I doubt OP would have come out about it anyways considering OP is now still only contemplating apologizing.. anonymously. Apologize for writing the word Fart on a post it note? Reginald never spoke up saying this was an issue. He's responsible for himself.  Luceateis explained it perfectly: http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/31yt8w/tifu_by_writing_the_word_fart_at_random_places_in/cq6jpau?context=3 

Four years of this can wear on a person's self esteem and mental stability. If this is how he felt about the Post-Its, I don't blame him for having a breakdown. While I do agree it may have cost this man his job, I don't know if you can respond normally to his blatant overreaction. Everyone is saying it's blatant bullying, but in 4 years he never once stood up and told anyone to stop. There wasn't an attempt to show it was anything other than a harmless prank to OP other than a "What?!" every few weeks. Stop being so high and mighty Internet warriors. 

I would anonymously apologize too. If the dude smashes his fucking monitor over post-it notes, he might try and kill me if he loses his job. The man is unstable and maybe OP should have noticed in 4 years but he didn't and that's not necessarily his fault. I'm the first person to apologize for stupid shit, but this got dangerous after that.  Hah naaaaaah, just write it on a post it note  Fuck that. That's when homeboy goes crazy on OP and kills him writing "FART!" On OPs walls with OPs blood.  Reginald made his own decisions. He has to take full responsibility for his own actions, like an adult. If that's how you react to a post it that says fart on it, then you aren't an adult.  Maybe OP should draw a picture with crayons and gift it to Reginald as a peace treaty.  That man may have cost himself his job. Adults are responsible for their own damn tantrums. We're talking about someone who has been harassed for 4.5 years. It might be out of proportion but he at least needs an apology and explanation. He should have taken it to HR after the first few times if it was getting to him so much. I agree he should admit he did it and apologize now that he realize how much effect that his prank has had, but I don't see how he could be held responsible for the guy freaking out over it. It is so painfully obvious that you are around 15 years of age and have never had a real job in the real world. I'm 30 and I've been employed for years. My reaction:

"I keep finding Fart! written on my note pad haha."
Instead of smashing things years later. Yeah. This isn't a prank. A prank is a few days, a month maybe. This is basically bullying.

And what the hell does "I refuse to take responsibility" mean? Is it actually an admission of immaturity? Or does OP actually think that's acceptable? All Reginald had to do was ask "Who's doing this?" if it was bothering him so much. His reaction was something an irrational person would do. 

Or Reginald could have gone to HR and told them about it and how it's upsetting him so much. But to take a computer and break it over something like this?  &gt;His reaction was something an irrational person would do.

We're all irrational. Are you saying that irrational people get what they deserve? This is hardly bullying. There were about a million rational actions that could be taken between quietly getting frustrated and throwing an adult temper tantrum and destroying office equipment.

1) Write a post it not to please stop.
2) See a supervisor.
3) Hide your post it notes.
4) Ask coworkers if they know anything.
5) Leave out a decoy post it book.
6) Send out an office email to ask whomever is doing it to please stop.

If some of these actions had been taken and it *still* didn't stop, then maybe it's bullying. But if we are to believe OPs story, and the guy never gave any real indication it was so upsetting to him, then it's on the co-worker for not speaking up. &gt;then it's on the co-worker for not speaking up.

That's literally victim blaming. "I did something mean, and because he didn't [X], the outcome is his fault, not mine." But he didn't even do something that most rational people would consider to be mean. 

What you're saying is that the co-worker doesn't have any responsibility for his own actions. He threw a temper tantrum by his own choice. Let's say that we're roommates, and every time you walk by my room, you put my stapler on the other side of my desk. 

You know I have my desk meticulously set, but besides once in awhile overhearing me briefly grumble to myself about it, I've never mentioned it to you. Then one day, I come home and find my stapler on the wrong place, again. Except this time, instead of grumbling, I go downstairs and throw the couch through the window on to the neighbors car. 

Would that be your fault? &gt;But he didn't even do something that most rational people would consider to be mean.

Wha? How is upsetting someone not mean? Do you mean because OP's intentions were innocent, it's not mean?

&gt;What you're saying is that the co-worker doesn't have any responsibility for his own actions.

I'm saying that OP is responsible for upsetting the co-worker, and that's true even though the co-worker suffered in silence for 4 years.

Whether the co-worker is responsible for breaking his computer is a separate issue not being discussed here.
 How is OP supposed to know his coworker is getting upset? He never said anything!

That's exactly what I said above. He needs to make clear that he is not happy with his post it notes being written on, THEN it can be bullying. As dubious as I am that this story happened at all, if we are to take OP's post at face value, then there's no reason to think anyone is upset, never mind upset enough to throw a tantrum like that. 

If this happened to me, I'd chuckle. If it kept happening and I became frustrated, I'd write a note of my own to ask whoever's doing it to stop, followed by a second, more strongly worded note. I'd say that it's at this point that it becomes workplace bullying, albeit minor. People can't read minds, and some people can't even read body language, so you need to make it clear that someone is causing you harm or making you unhappy before it becomes bullying. OP describes co-worker's confused reaction to finding the post-it note every time. NO chuckle. So your counter argument is that because I think I might chuckle and he didn't, he was obviously humiliated? Are you seriously calling this bullying? I'm putting myself in the shoes of someone who for 4 years has been at a workplace where at least one person has been anonymously writing rude messages in their post-it notes. I can very easily imagine feeling bullied. [deleted] Bullying? Seriously how precious are you? [deleted] He wrote fart on a post-it note! that really isn't bullying, I'm struggling to see why you think that is. Can you please outline why writing fart! down on post-it notes is bullying? [deleted] On and off, it's clearly got no malicious intent. I might say hi to someone for 4 1/2 years but it's not bullying because the content and intent of my actions determine what is bullying. To react by destroying his computer, after never telling anyone he was annoyed or bullied by the notes, suggests that he is at fault. [deleted] Yeah. Such a lack of empathy being shown by some people here. Seems to me like there's either a lack of education going on or some hint of a mental disorder (narcissism?). 
Normally you would assume that the average person should be able to see not only a cardboard cutout of a person but also be able to understand how one grows up, develops a personality, realise that there are gears working behind all the things we do and believe. As somebody who you could call introverted it annoys me especially. Being distanced, quiet and not showing much emotions doesn't mean that it looks like that from the inside. Hell, there's probably more going on in there since a lot of thinking can easily lead to too much thinking and self-questioning. Combine that with a 'joke' that can be taken as an insult, stretched over 4 years and you've got some fine sociopathic psychoterror that could start a mental descent going on. If this story isn't made up, that is. I think he knows he should do so. But he feels unable to as the severity of the situation would probably make it far hard than it otherwise would have been to make your officemates understand why you have been routinely and surreptitiously writing 'fart' on an unknown co-worker's post-it pad for almost half a decade.  Let's be real, Reginald cost himself his job. OP's not guilt-free but his fault in this in this is low. A reasonable person would have gone to HR if it bothered them that much. Pretty sure OP isn't responsible for how poorly that guy chose to handle a problem. ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?! Yeah, it was the guy writing "Fart!" on post it notes that cost the guy his job. Not the fact that he smashed his computer monitor on the ground. That's okay, this story never actually happened, so you don't need to worry.  I can't believe I had to scroll this far down to find this.  It kind of depresses me. The dude is fucking nuts if he reacts like that.  You can't treat him like an adult, the way he reacted makes him sound like he has some semi-severe mental issue.  He needs counseling or something to prevent that kind of stuff from happening. But OP "refuses to take responsibility" for something he bla tangly just wrote out that he's done. OP is a fuck face and not the nice kind.  This should have WAY more upvotes. This needs to be upvoted more.

Also, if Reginald is anything like me, he probably thinks some of his co-workers were telling him he smells or something. It would be embarrassing to ask people at work, because if he actually smells it would merely draw attention to that fact. Especially since nobody ever came forth and admitted to it, it probably have never occured to him that people would do this as anything other than bullying. So you complain to a superior, not have a tantrum like some 2 year old boy. The important thing is you won! Giving those little shits a dose of reality! And, in reality, giving a little dose of the shits. [Welcome to the real world jackass!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gAYL5H46QnQ&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=1m46s) Happy birthday to the ground! Turned on the lights to light the gloom
Dad jumps out and I

SHIT IN MY PANTS. Alpha as fuck When I was nine years old, my dad came in my room to say goodnight. But as he turned down the lights, rather than leave the room, he opened the door, ducked behind the bed frame at the foot of the bed, and waited. As he sat there, I waited in silence for a good five minutes. He was about to give up his charade, but then he heard me speak. I had about 15 stuffed animals on the foot of my bed, and I began to talk to them. Not only that, but I began to perform conversations between them. I had elaborate story lines and personalities for each animal. And yes, I had kept my nighttime adventures a secret. When my dad finally stood up, laughing his ass off, I was horrified. Aww, man.  I think if my kid (7 at the moment) did this, it'd probably melt my heart and then I'd try to figure out how to leave without making him feel bad.  I'd probably end up having to sit there until he fell asleep.  5 hours later. That's love That's sleep deprivation. When it comes to parenting, love and sleep deprivation are often indistinguishable from one another. So much truth in that statement. That's sweet. Do you have kids? Yah, two :)  I think mine would be more likely to have a little mini quiet Pokemon "battle". Sigh. It's OK man. Been there done that. 

Think about it, he could have mimed a voice and replied as one of your stuffed animals to freak you out. Best. Dad. Ever. That would be fucking cool and scary at the same time for him That would be insanely radical. At least he didn't respond as one of your toys, which is what I was expecting him to do. When I was 9 years old I was already starting to masturbate because I realized it felt really good down there.

Someone pretending to be a toy I have a pretend-conversation with might not have ended well if I incidentally started talking about how touching my penis feels great and I should totally do it right now and start rubbing against one of my toys.

"OH MY GOD YOU CAME ALIVE! DO YOU REMEMBER WHAT WE DID YESTERDAY? PLEASE RUB MY WEE WEE!" What the fuck It's kids like you that's the reason I'm staying childless. Oh god that was my thing back in the day (at the risk of sounding like /r/hailcorporate here) but with the legos in the tub. I built these elaborate bases for them and there were the good legos and the bad legos, but mostly the bad legos weren't so much as bad as they were motivated by profits and funny jackasses. The two teams of legos vied for control over the basin (my tub) for years. Each lego had an intricate story line and a rich detailed back-story that motivated many of their decisions. There were animal and robot legos too that had roles to play. Many of the legos had defected and switched sides. And of course there was the one truly evil lego mastermind who was just evil to his core, unlike the "bad legos" who were really just motivated by the same things as most people. There were sweet story arcs for all of the characers and everything. I had basically every stock character you can imagine crammed into this little game/roleplay I had been doing form 7 - 12. After a while my imagination just kind of died with age, however. Damn I miss those days. can you give an example of what you talked about.. was it like "hey mr. bear what do you think?" "oh mrs. rabbit agrees!" in a whispering talking voice or what? It sucks to hear about about adults laughing at or making fun of their kids' imaginative stories and play. It does and I've seen it myself, but this one doesn't seem to be one of those situations. As a parent, you often find yourself stifling laughter when your child does something really cute and funny and they're not trying to be funny or cute.  Sometimes you try to stifle and you just can't. That's what this one seemed like to me, though I could be wrong. The worst is when your kid does something that they shouldn't, but it's funny.  You don't want to encourage them by laughing, but it's so hard sometimes.  I agree, feels more like laughing mostly with, only a little at, and that bit lovingly. Too bad your parents didn't laugh at you, now you're a pussy. let's all laugh at him now, maybe it will help
 When I was six and my brother was five, my dad told us the story of the dude who escaped prison and had a hook hand and scratched on the side of some couple's car.  We were weirded out, and went to bed.

Maybe five minutes after lights out, my dad sneaked out of the house and grabbed a yard rake, and started dragging it across our fucking second story bedroom window.

My brother and I freaked the fuck out and bolted out of that room like there was no tomorrow.  I don't even remember leaving the top bunk.  Somehow I ended up in the kitchen.

I can't wait to be a dad. Am a dad, can't wait until my kids are old enough that this isn't considered a form of torture So 3? [deleted] 18 months right? [That spooky story has been ruined for me. I can't help but laugh](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/WpcOQVEOsR4/maxresdefault.jpg) [Thats not as bad as the time that hook man hands man and car hook hand stuck on car](http://i.imgur.com/0JEAFqw.png) I don't get it. It's intentionally bad. 4chan has an ironic sense of humor sometimes b-but... don't you get it? man door hand hook card door! there goes sleep tonight... I love you sweaty You ever know a guy who told a joke so bad that his delivery of the joke was hilarious. Hahaha dad are gunna be dads. My dad hid from me 25 years ago. I'm sure he'll jump out any time now. At least yours may come back. Mine plays WoW.  I'm sorry for your loss. F F FALAFEL Man, I haven't had falafel in ages. &gt; &gt;account age: 795 days

you've waited two and a half years for this moment, huh? falafel is life C'mon, man. I got kids to feed.  What, they don't like falafel? How sad. I... falafel.. for you. ^^I'll ^^see ^^myself ^^out. whats F ? In Call of Duty, there was a controversial cut scene where you witnessed a marine's death and went to their funeral. For some reason, the developers thought it'd be more interactive to make your player walk up to the coffin. Once you're in front of the coffin the game prompts you to "Hit 'F' to pay respects." thanks for clearing that up :) I swore it was Hit F to dispense a jolly rancher Fuck Jolly Ranchers. Those things are great for finding IED's and making it rain because you're enjoying life too much. Hey man. At least jolly ranchers don't pop in your mouth.  Fuck Jolly Ranchers.

They gave me Gonorrhea of the mouth. "WTF??! THERE'S NO F ON A CONTROLLER?!" &gt;WTF

**W**here's **T**he **F** It's weird that of all the things on reddit, every time someone asks this there is an accurate and complete response to it.  It's like the most well referenced meme. Actually, I'm a bot and I spend my days looking for these comments. F is for friends that do stuff together. U is for u and me N is for N-E-Where and N-E-time at all, down here in the deep blue sea. U is for uranium. .. BOMBS! F is for fire that burns down the whole town Ya need meta up It's the 6th letter in the alphabet, but that's not important right now. F is for phenomenal There's a 50 something logging trucker in my guild. One of the best dps we have, too. There is no point to this comment.  &gt;One of the best *dps* we have, too.

There's double penetration in WoW?  I knew I should have started playing a long long time ago. *Staaaaaaaaan?* That's weird, all mine play Call of Duty. Draenor has him now.....rip haha, man its great right? It took 35 years for me, but he finally came out from his really awesome hiding spot in Mexico.  Gabriel? 0 to 100 real quick Well this hit a little too close to home... I... I think you may be my brother! You've learned how to survive on your own, haven't you? You'll thank me one day.  Me and my dad split to buy a ps4, he plays it more than me... I have posted this story before, but it seems appropriate for this thread.

So there's me, a friend of mine and my little brother all complaining we're bored. My Dad got sick of the complaining, and challenged us all to a game of Murder in the Dark to shut us up. Well, Dad is a great fan of escalating things, which he achieved this time by dragging himself up the hallway, slamming doors and moaning while we hid. 

It's pitch black and he was making just terrible noises, so we were convinced we were going to die, and proceeded to scream for help. Finally, he turns the light on and it's relieved laughs all around. 

Cue four hours later when we realize none of us have seen baby brother since the game, and find him sitting in urine stained pants on a pile of shoes in the corner of his room. All he heard was bangs, moans, screams for help, and then silence.

TL;DR: Dads gonna Dad. A pile of shoes? Urine stained pants?  In the corner of his room? 4 hours? Tell your baby brother I upvoted him. Dads being dads. When I was 5 my dad hid from me and my brother (3 y.o at the time) one afternoon. 
He only came out when we started crying. But only to tell you to man the fuck up, right? You know it.  Ahh the cereal aisle punishment. It gets really old saying "Stay next to the cart." every two minutes. Just move on and let them feel that panic for a bit and they'll pay attention in the future.

Or they'll end up like my younger son when he was six and walk to the front of the store to wait by the door. Pragmatic little guy ain't he. Totally. He was sitting there cool as a cucumber the whole time I was running around the store trying to find him. He told me "I knew you weren't going to leave without me, so I went where I knew you would go before you left." You got clowned by a six-year-old dude.  That is one smart cookie. This should be something parents teach their kids on purpose. I remember feeling panicked a few times shopping with my mother when I was younger, thinking she'd leave without me and I'd be in trouble.  Takes after his mother for sure. Unless they're like my mom and start combing the entire store thinking you were looking for them as well in an eternal game of round the rosy  I got lost once. Saw my mom from across the store, ran till I was behind her. Looking at the ground as I started to follow her (I had toys in my hands but they were lower than eye level, so effectively I was looking at the ground). I made sure I was following her by looking at her shoes, making sure I was following the right shoes. We leave the store, and she starts walking the wrong way to the car. Look up to tell her...totally not my mom. Not even the same race. Man, I got scared as fuck at that point.

In the end, I found my mom near where I had lost her. Didn't let go of her hand till we got to the car haha.

Still got lost next time we went shopping lol I did the same thing when I was 5. I got lost in a giant mall, but I knew where we parked the car, so I waited by the car for a few hours.

WELL THEY GOTTA COME BACK TO PICK THE CAR UP SOMEDAY, HUH? I did the same thing. I got in so much shit for crossing the car park on my own..... Some year I once bet my dad that I could fit in his suitcase. I climbed in, he began to close it, and with some force... CLICK! I was in. He joked and said that I had to stay in there for dinner as he couldn't open it again until later, I laughed, until I realized that the latch had actually jammed and I was trapped inside this wheely hard-shelled cupboard indefinitely. Like any small child, with the thought of being 'stuck' I began to cry, my dad now faced with a crying box in the corner of his room began to panic, he grabbed his tool box and began dismantling the latch. After about 20 minutes of suitcase scarring I was free. Fuck suitcases.

TL;DR got in a suitcase and it tried to eat me  I laughed hard enough that my eyes became watery! Whenever I'm watching a horror movie or something my dad will occasionally jump out and scare me before running off singing Smooth Criminal.  He sounds awesome. Holy shit that's genius!  I love scaring the crap out of the kids. Even just watching tv I will let a random scream out of me, it never fails. I would scream too in response if someone did that, and I'm a female adult. Pure evil. There is a totally adorable series of youtube vids that features a guy doing this to his girlfriend, and she falls for it every. Single. Time.

Oh! [Found it!](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ejGXQx4NW8k) *Literally* scaring the crap out of them is considerably less fun. Unless you aren't the one who has to clean them. this made me laugh pretty hard. Haha, I don't think I could ever do this to my girl because I'd feel too guilty, but dammit sometimes I want to because she does it to her little brothers. Being the oldest she's never had that adrenaline rush you get when scared badly.
I may go do this now... Stop spoiling her and make her crap her pants (from a middle child). Oh how cute.  A younger sibling thinking the eldest was spoiled.

You get the benefit of most privileges I had to wait for, years earlier than me.

You get the easier chores because I'm older, and then they just stick because I've always done it.

I have to chauffeur you around because now I can drive.

I have to watch and babysit you.

I need to set the good example.

And I'll look down, and whisper.  "No." [deleted] Haha, how old is she? She's six and I can guarantee she would just soil herself if I did it. In terms of "fight or flight" she has inherited her mother's defense mechanism of "drop defenseless to the ground". Haha, I don't know why I find that adorable.  I can understand that. Its kind of a cute mental image.
It would be an incredibly emotional experience for her though, which is why I probably won't do it. :D 31 &gt; thhhppbbbb  

*best sound effect ever.* Is this the sound poop makes? Some times  Now she knows your tricks, just wait for her to get you back, OP.

Hope you don't shit yourself too. We were all sitting at the dinner table last week and my daughter asked for some water. My husband got up and was sneaking back to the kitchen table to reach out and tickle our daughter to scare her. Well he did, and she got so scared that she cried until she vomited on the table. I had to soothe her while holding back laughter because it really was hilarious. 

Edit: words That's the best one. Hands down.  When my dad scared me when I was a kid, I fell and chipped a tooth.  This was a week after I got three stitches in my lip for being an idiot and playing on some workout equipment.  CPS actually had to investigate my parents after they showed up at the hospital twice in the same week for major head trauma to their 3 year old kid.

Consider yourself lucky. Thanks for posting mate, added to list

# things you will not do to your child
 not to scare my 5 year old in the dark by going completely silent

*edit:* btw your writing style is cool @ /u/iakiak  , thank you /u/killeralienrobot for the right wording suggestions (you are not a bot are you?). Shouldn't 'things you will not do to your child' be the *title* of the list, and the checkmark be next to the entry 'scare my 5 year old in the dark by going completely silent'?  Actually, now that I think of it, since it's a list of things to *not* do, it shouldn't have a checkmark next to it anyway.

And yes, I'm fun at parties. What kind of parties do you go to? fun ones His own  He wears two name tags at them.  http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mesfuwxFei1rrahtt.gif Depends on how you see it.

Since it has a box next to it, it's an element of a list. Considering the context, the bigger list it's on may be 'Lists to make', and now he crossed that one when he added it to a list (which doesn't mean the same one as the checkboxed one in the comment), marking a successful list.

Meta-lists, son. http://i.imgur.com/4hXXefV.gif When I was around 8, I went to look for my mom before going to bed.  I couldn't find her in the house and thought "I'll go lie in bed till she says goodnight".  I go in my rooms and pull back the covers,  where my mom was hiding to scare me.  I cried for a solid hour.  My dad did this to me once. Except I'm virtually blind without my glasses and had already taken my contacts out for the night. So when I pulled back the blankets all I could see was a blurry smiley man in my bed. Screamed so hard. So when I was small, 5 I believe, I was a weird kid and loved the hobbit cartoon movie. My mom told me one day while my dad was at work that Gollum was my real father and I looked at her with horror then went under the bed and cried. It took me awhile to believe she was joking. She felt pretty bad about it lol. I can still make her feel bad to this day...almost 18 years later.  When I was 15 and my sister was 10, I hid under her bed for a half hour.  My parents came in and said prayers with her and stuff then turned out the lights.  I waited, then growled a little bit.

"Wh- who's there?"

I reach out with my werewolf arm costume and said, "the monster under your bed."

That's what having a brother is like, in case anyone was wondering. That's what it's like having any older sibling, haha. When I was seven or something, my sister, who was nine, waited until I was dozing (we shared a room) and crawled to the end of my bed. She must have been really fucking patient because I'm an incredibility light sleeper. I had just watched a horror movie earlier, which normally never phased me because I was a weird child. But she reached out and snatched my feet and pulled before letting go and hunkering down (that's what she told me later, I actually thought she just hit my legs). I was startled awake, and thought I dreamed it. Told myself it was because of the movie. I pulled my knees to my chest and stared blankly at the bottom of my bed for a long time. Felt like an hour to me, but it was probably only ten minutes or something. I was never one for burdening others with my problems, so I didn't call out to wake her (if it *had* been a dream, she probably would've call me a baby for needing reassurance anyway). Then she reached out and slammed her hands on my bed. To me, with a little moonlight spilling through the curtains, it looked like pale ghostly arms. I didn't scream, surprisingly. It got stuck. Instead I donkey kicked her head. Karma's a bitch.  Did something similar except I was outside the house. I made a noise to get my 6-year-old to look out the window, then popped out just inches from his face. He collapsed sobbing, and we had to tape his curtains shut for over a year. Oops. This is gold, man. [Parenting] Tales from the Crypt, haha. This, just really innocent, but hilarious, FU's, this is why I came here. Also this likely did happen. Not far fetched at all, and something that a normal person would do.  My dad did this kind of thing and I had to have a night light until I was a teenager. 20 seconds of funny, 20 years of therapy Worth it. 18 seconds of fun, 18 years of child support. If you really want to sell it, what you need to start screaming is "OMG KIDS THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE HERE IN THE DARK! IT'S GOT ME! RUN WHILE YOU STILL CAN! I'LL HOLD IT OFF! BLARGGGHLLlllllle..."

This has proven effective with children quite a bit older than 5. Oh lord I am doing this. My kids and I are always jumping out at each other for 'pranks'. This is so beautiful because it will only work on them unlike say jumping out from behind the bathroom door, which scares the fuck outta me. I have now decided to have kids.  "it's like having a dog that slowly learns to talk"
-Dr. Cox read this at her wedding. Father of the year for getting your daughter to shit herself. Ha, the shit we do to our kids. I played the *let's play dead* game with my daughter, by seeing who could keep their eyes closed the longest (this was just a ploy to get her to wind down for bed, but for her, *it was a game* so it actually kept her awake). I, being a dad, fell promptly asleep. I was awakened by shrieks of, *DADDY!!!!!!!* And crying. I rightfully got a chewing out by my now ex. The important thing is, I won (haha). My daughter preferred that I put her to bed because I invariably fell asleep next to her. Later on, same with my son. A man's gotta nap. 

Cherish those times, op. They grow up fast.  My bf falls asleep in the dog beds when he puts my dogs to bed. They end up on the bed with me, men will nap whether or not there are children. &gt; men will nap whether or not there are children.

Am a man, can confirm. 

Here's how the game is played, for those that care, and it doesn't have to have a morbid name (I think it evolved into *let's play dead*). 

You lie facing each other, then close your eyes (you have to have a nightlight to be able to see each other). Then, each randomly opens their eyes, and the one who's caught with their eyes open, "loses." At first, I'd routinely have my eyes super wide opened, and be caught, and met with giggly shrieks (which actually delayed bedtime; the window from after work to bedtime was very short, as any working parent knows). In the story I told above, well, I just fell asleep, haha. Then it became routine, and both my kids would fall asleep real quick when I put them to bed. My ex came from a real tight assed family, and sleeping with your own kids was a major prohibition. I'm reasonably sure cave people didn't have bedrooms. 

My daughter is now 21, and my son 17. My heart is aching a bit now.  Maybe when they have kids they'll get to play the game again. I don't see anything wrong with falling asleep while putting your kids to bed, they probably liked it because you added security for them. &gt; they probably liked it because you added security for them.

That was my take on things, but my ex was into "self soothing (aka letting them cry themselves to sleep)." 

I just related this story to my daughter, and she doesn't remember it, but she recalls I was an "avid napper." Great, I'll be remembered as the dad that was asleep all the time. FML.  Lol @avid napper...maybe your son remembers it differently. :P




But fuck the "self soothing" bs at bedtime. There's a not so fine line between coddling and making your kid feel insecure and vulnerable unnecessarily.  I am all for teaching them to placate themselves,  but bedtime doesn't have to be one of those imo, different strokes for different folks though.




 TBH, I think my ex was into the "self soothing" shit mainly so she wouldn't have to do anything. She started the self soothing stuff when they were newborns. "Every* study I've read on the subject of kids sleeping with the parents as infants show that those kids grow up to be more self confident, secure, and more intelligent. So, they never slept with us as infants. I just happened to fall asleep with them after story time, when they were a bit older. Don't want to be a downer here, but this is the kind of woman my ex is. When we were talking about divorce, I suggested that we speak to a child psychologist to learn how to break it to them. But no, she just marched in one day and said, " Your father and I are getting divorced. " Very matter of fact. My daughter was 12, son, 8. Boom, she just crushed the hearts of 2 innocents. Someday, I may tell the whole story to my kids regarding their mom, but the damage is done. They kinda know their mom is an alcoholic/substance abuser, but they don't know the half of it. Jeesh, this just took a dark turn... Now that your kids are adults (or very close to it) you have the luxury of being able to start to develop your relationship in a way that can become more friendly than parent and child. If the situation arises where they have questions or it is relevant, then they would probably be open to hearing a different side to something they've already lived through, and likely didn't think about.




Source: I am the adult daughter of divorced parents and my dad gives me a bit of insight from time to time.



Edit:a word In the last 2 years, I've developed a very close, and more "adult" relationship with my daughter. There's nothing we really can't talk about. I did divulge more things about her mom, which I know is very difficult for her to digest, and I can't blame her for that. She's a psyche major (read into that, what you will) and I can speak reasonably intelligently on the different areas of psyche with her. I got a tad squeamish when we discussed human sexuality, lol. We're extremely close, but I'm not aiming for "friends." I take great joy in being her "dad/protector/the one with the answers." Most gratifying, I asked her recently if she felt I had abandoned her. She said, "No, never. Not for a second." I'm going through some changes with my son, but that too, shall pass (ideally). 

In my state, custody ends at 18 (meaning the 18 year old come go wherever they want), but child support ends at 21. What really pissed me off was when my daughter said, "I have to stay with mom because she needs the help." It's not for a child to take care of the parent if they can't get their shit together. Grrrr...  With two I'm exhausted pretty much all the time. I regularly fall asleep while reading the bed time story, which results in either:
1: *slam, book in face*
2: "Hey dad! You're talking jibberish again" Worst I ever was involved in scaring a kid was Halloween. We did the whole "dress someone up as a straw dummy and leave the bowl of candy gag" 

We had the little sign that said "Please take one" and two candles to illuminate the entire yard. No one else was home so it was just me an my buddy at my house. We turned all the house lights off and everything. We were late high school age for reference. 

I hid in the shadows while my buddy did the dummy part. 

The worst reaction was this little girl. Maybe 9 years old *max*. She was with her parents but they made her venture into my yard on her own. She's dressed as like this 1950s cheerleader. Adorable costume with cute little animals sewn into the skirt and all that. Made me feel bad for what I knew was about to happen. 

She gets to my friend and the bowl of candy next to him and just *stares*. For like a good 45 seconds contemplating if this was a trap or not. She finally gets brave enough to reach for the candy. Right on cue, my friend jumps up and yells, "RAWR" 

Her reaction was unexpected and slightly heartbreaking. She simply fell to her knees, dropped her entire bag of candy and slowly crawled backwards. But she wasn't actively trying to get away. She just had this look on her face like "This is it. This is the end of my life." she was too terrified to scream and appeared to be accepting death. 

We gave her a fuckton of candy cause we felt bad.  BART, DO YOU WANT TO SEE MY NEW CHAINSAW AND HOCKEY MASK? my brother scared the shit out of his 4 year old son so bad he was unlable to run on 2 feet. Digging his little fingers into the carpet literally clawing his way out of the room faster than he could have run. Heartbreaking but funny. It was when those POP-ups first came out on the interwebs. The child would not go near a computer for 4 years. Notes had to be written to his teachers. That's sad :(  My seven year old daughter was trying to scare my two year old son.  She was as she put it "Toughening him up."  After some time of this I decided to exact revenge on his behalf, I put my jam box under her bed turned on and after she went to sleep one night I started playing "Halloween" sounds.  She ran out of her room screaming.  I think I'm pretty good at this parenting thing... Sounds like you won the battle but lost the war. I'm told the war lasts at least 18 years and involves the car being totaled at some point My brother and I shared a room and when we were probably about 12 and 10 (me older) I decided to sneak up on him while he was getting ready for bed.  We have the creakiest stairs and hallway in the world, so I was extra proud of myself for getting so close without blowing it.  I leap around the corner and yell in my loudest monster voice right as he's flicking off the light.  I must have timed it perfectly because the sticky light switch got in just the right position that the light flickered on and off several times as I yelled.  It must have felt like something out of a horror flick for him.  He screamed (impressively more manly than I was expecting) and later told me that he thought he had an actual heart attack. "I'm in the zone." This part was fucking great lol At the age of about 10, I took a keen interest in ghost-hunting type programs. One half-term, I was allowed to stay up for the *entirety* of Most Haunted Live (probably finished about 12am/1am).

We have a downstairs toilet, so I went for a pee during the break. Meanwhile, my dad crept round the back of the house, waited for me to get to the sink which is front of the window, and he knocked on it.

All I can say is that it's a good thing he waited until I was done peeing. So... how was the sleep on the couch?  I know that's where I'd be when my wife got the jist of what happened.  HA!   My 4 year old stands in front of the mirror in the bathroom after she goes to the bathroom and watches herself sing and dance.  One day I randomly jumped out and scared her to the point of hysterics.  I think the only reason she didn't wet herself was because she had just went. Reverse: 
My 7 yr old daughter knows I am scared of spiders. We are in the basement doing laundry. She has found a plastic spider of good size but not out of the scope of reality. She plays scared and points. I see it and freak the fuck out. As I am about to run back up the stairs to get her dad -The Killer of Household Bugs -  she starts laughing her ass off and tells me it's fake. She is laughing so hard and is quite pleased at herself. I had to laugh and agree she "got me".  My dad used to play tickle monster around bed time and chase us all through the house. THe bathrooms were the usual hiding place to escape from him. One day, he decided to try to trick me in to thinking that he had gone to bed. Our hallway has a square S bend in it that leads to his bedroom. I heard his door shut so i thought he gave up and decided to creep around the corner to make sure. He was right there ready to scare me. He scared me so bad that i fell over backward and blacked out immediately. I dont remember hitting the floor but there i was wondering why my dad was staring at me. Classic. My bro did something similar with a sound clip of the Toreador March music box from 5 y/o niece's fav game to watch play through videos on Youtube: Five Nights at Freddy's. Started playing it from the other room.

The screaming. Oh god the screaming.  No shitting though, so I guess you did better than him. &gt;thhhppbbbb

 My stepdad did something similar to this when I was quite young. The lights were off in my room and I just climbed into bed when I heard this freaky zombie type noise. I stare over to my wardrobe and it's starts to shake. So I climb out of bed slowly walk over there and he just jumps out and shouts "RRRAAAGGGGHHH!!". So I ran as fast as I could downstairs to my mum. He later said I moved so quick it look like I was floating. Well anyway after that night I didn't sleep without a light on in the landing or bathroom for a good few years. You told this so well through use of onomatopoeia. Lol what did your wife say, OP? I still hide in closets and jump out to scare my 22 year old son. I LOVE it! Him, not so much I lived in a split-level when I was 8. We had the den on the first floor, and the kitchen 4 stairs up from it. I went into the kitchen for a bed-time snack, but didn't turn on any lights because my dad was usually napping on the couch when it was my bed time. The fridge was right next to the stairs, and the door opened such that it blocked the view of the stairs leading down to the den. Well my dad, who was not napping, snuck up the stairs like a fucking ninja (army vet, he's good at that), crouched behind the fridge door, and grabbed my leg and yelled as I shut it. My eyes had adjusted to the fridge light, so I couldn't see that it was him.. and I punched him in the face. I can only imagine how PISSED your wife was! Not only did you emotionally scar your daughter, you killed her hard work of getting the baby to bed. I say this because I'm fairly certain my wife would have made me pay for that shit for the next week and a half, and bring it up in conversation for the next five years after that.

That being said: AWESOME!
 I can't understand why people hold shit  over your head for no reason and to remember it for so long, too. Did...... did she shit herself? &gt;TIFU by scaring the crap out of my daughter

..i don't think the title was an exaggeration.. How is that a fuck up? That's a great story for when she is older. Haha I wish I was able to have memories like that with my kids. I always remember when my dad did this to me. He turned off the lights before closing the door so I couldn't see if he was still inside or he had left. And he then scared me. And when he was leaving I waited until I was certain that he wasn't there again. Sometimes he did this three consecutive times and sometimes he didn't do this. 
Thanks for making me remember! Ima play hat wih my dad as soon as he comes back from buying lottery tickets those few years back. Awesome!  As a dad, I approve.

This only helps them cope better in the long run 
&gt;So last night I am in charge of doing my 5 year old girls

Apostrophes:

They matter

 only to those with a dirty mind :P Let's eat grandpa!

Let's eat, grandpa!

Grammar saves lives, dammit! Help Uncle Jack off the horse.  
Help uncle jack off the horse. hey I know the difference between knowing your shit and knowing you're shit. Only to those who know what apostrophes are.* waht? There, happy now. &gt;There, happy now?

FTFY As a dad of a 6-year-old, this sounds like something I could have done. Good job, dad. &gt; ghosts  
&gt; "above her pay grade"

I read Doctor McNinja too. Those feels, from that last arc. ;-; Never heard of this before, quick google and what have we got here then?
A masked man stabbing a pterodactyl. Oh hells yeah! I watched eight legged freaks when I was a tiny human...so my dad took all of the terrifying giant tarantulas we had saved for Halloween and strategically placed them at the end of the ladder to my bunk bed.... Hahaha! :-) When I was in elementary school my father let me stay up late and watch *Les Diabolique* with him. After the infamous bathtub scene, I looked back to Dad for reassurance and he'd rolled his eyes up into his head like the "dead" man in the movie.

Hope the joke was worth getting waked up by me having nightmares and wanting to sleep in my parents' room every night from 1976 to 1980, Dad! &gt;wanting to sleep in my parents' room every night from 1976 to 1980, Dad!

that was his plan all along Agreed.  Parents love those moments where they can feel like a protector for their children, despite inconvenience. (at least, most parents do) My mom tried to hide behind my bedroom door when I was seven, but she forgot that I kept Hot Wheels behind there. Stepped on one of the rolling totes when she tried to jump out and put a mom-sized hole in the wall. Dad was not happy. Your mom sounds lovely.  A hole in the wall or the door? I guess you could say you

*puts on sunglasses*

Scared the crap out of her.

Ah, shit, you already stole that one. When I read the title I was so hoping it was meant literally. I was not disappointed. Blackouts in your house are gonna be pretty messy for the next decade or so Man will always be boys no matter what age they are at. LOL Growing old is compulsory

Growing up is optional
 At least you didn't read her Mister Babadook. BBABBBBAAADOOOOOKKKK DON'TLETHIMINDON'TLETHIMIN You wanna know sheer terror.  I put this on my 4 year old brothers bed when he annoyed me once

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3b4maIQ0CyI

Yeah, 10 year old me was a dick sometimes From my perspective here on the internet, it was totally worth it.  I bet your wife was thrilled "BART-DO-YOU-WANNA-SEE-MY-NEW-CHAINSAW-AND-HOCKEY-MASK?! ........... oh yeah the Sideshow Bob thing." &gt;wet willies  
  
(   ) i dont have a dad This is one of my favorite TIFUs ever. Actually somewhat practical. Yeah, its much morse practical than the typical TIFU Yeah. No dicks stuck in toasters. No splooge anywhere, in fact. I'm still going to wait for the results of the black light test to confirm that. 

Can't be too careful.... Frank's and beans How'd you get the beans above the frank?!?! How'd you get the zipper all the way to the top? Sliced through the dick. He only screamed for a minute before he passed out. Now I gotta go dig a hole to put him in. If he just would have given me a couple of bucks, I wouldn't need to come after his family. But ya win some ya lose some. I don't know. It wasn't like it was a well thought out plan. ....link please? One fucking time and I still can't live it down. At least now I can say I'm permanently ribbed for her pleasure.  The reason I like it is the fact that the cop recognized you said help, for all he knew you could have been being held hostsge. That's awesome he pulled you over, could have been a life saving moment. i see what you did there. ... .- ... -.  And i didnt have to read a page of unnecessary  background info A tifu and a lifehack...who could guess this day would come Not *TIFU - Got Laid* so that's insta-upvote from me. learning how to break petal help could actually save lives. Seriously. gunman holding you hostage and making you drive? Signal for help without a word or motion. &gt; Signal for help without a word or motion.


&gt;  **without a word or motion.**


#without a motion.


Except repeatedly slamming the brakes 13 times at every red light til the car behind you happens to know Morse.   He's gonna get nervous and make you knock that shit off You have to make your captor turn on the radio first. Then start pointing at stuff outside his window so he looks. That's when you start your frantic tap dance.  &gt;start pointing at stuff outside his window so he looks  
    
This will totally work. *Brake

*Pedal

 The fact that the cop noticed that and responded is phenomenal.  For all the crap they get (and sometimes deserve) there's a high level of attention and actual interest in helping people that gets overlooked.  

Props to him for being so observant.

Edit:  Thank you to the cop who did a good deed and allowed me to take note and comment and thereby receive gold.

and thank you to kind gold-giving stranger! I remember seeing one of those "I survived" type shows where the person was kidnapped and put into the boot of a car. The way they survived was to break into the brake light housing to access the wiring and do Morse code for SOS.  Holy shit that's resourceful. If it had been a newer car it would've had a pull switch to open the trunk from the inside.  Not if you pull the cord and use wire cutters to snip it so that it goes back inside the latch and cant be reached.  ; ) the fact that you ended your sentence with ;) disturbs me. But he didn't. He ended it with a ; ) god, you're so stupid timurhasan!  I know right? /u/timurhasan can't even read Be careful saying that to people. In Year 8 I wrote the following about someone (let's call him Adam) on the board:

*Adam cannot read or write*

He was Asian and he was known to be quite illiterate. He was also the "bully" who didn't really do many bully-like things. He was just tough and other kids were afraid of him. That shit didn't stop quiet little me.
He kicked me square in the sack. A few weeks later I pulled a chair out from under him and he fell on his ass. Everyone else thought he just missed the chair when he went to sit down and they all laughed. Says be careful, doesn't give reason. that escalated quickly http://beetlesaregooddoctors.com/methods.html Christ why do I blindly click things I feel like I'm on a list now after that one. fuck, if you're on a list i'll go down with you. blindly clicking is a habit Yeah I have speed3_freak tagged as "Probably a murderer" now. Real murderers don't go to websites on how to murder.

They go about their day as per usual to not draw suspicion, then later they burn the body in a metal barrel, then put the ashes into a bag along with any leftover bones.  They then crush the bones, and double bag it, throw it back into the barrel and throw some gas on it, burn it again.

   By the time it's done this time, there should be very little remaining, so they put that in a "to go" bag, sometimes known as a doggie bag.    They then put ammonia in the barrel and let it sit, destroying all DNA evidence,  while it is doing that, they take the to go bag out to the middle of nowhere, dig a hole, and pour gas in the hole and set the bag in, setting that on fire will eliminate any fingerprints or DNA that could tie it back to them.   Once the fire dies out, they throw ammonia on the remainder and bury it.    

They go home, remove the ammonia and will later use the barrel to burn other objects, wood, dead grass, leaves, humans.

  At this point it has been a long day, and so Bill Clinton walks back into his office and has a secretary blow him.   This way, if people think something fishy is going on, he can pretend he was just cheating and is not a murderer.    Beginner.  Don't burn the body, it makes too much smoke and stench.  Use lye or another corrosive substance that is readily available to break down the body.  Only takes a couple of hours.  You can burn their clothes or other possessions that may not break down as easily though.

Alternatively, chop the body up and feed it to pigs.  They will eat anything. Not only did I click on it but I read the whole thing and actually took it in... Now You know what to do with all that left over yogurt! Well it was at least an interesting read. I'd have never thought to inject yogurt into the anus. Goddamn it, I wouldn't have even clicked that if you hadn't made it seem all interesting and stuff.  And now I'm on that list too and it's your fault. 

Oh well. I'm sure I'm on worse lists than this one.  Which is why they always taught us in school to break out the lights by kicking them, and putting a hand or leg out the gap.  I must have missed that class. We had sessions like that probably once a year in elementary school. Early 2000's. Did they lock you in the trunk for practical lessons? Little Jimmy failed that particular class. Some say he's still trapped in the trunk to this day. I've got mine rigged up with a water pump and a bag of cheetos I feel like this is one fact that we shouldn't actively go around sharing. It would be quite embarrassing if some serial killer learned how to do this because of reddit. &gt; It would be quite embarrassing if some serial killer learned how to do this because of reddit.

[The more things change](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Murchison_Murders) Seriously, unless you have kids, it's a useless feature and all it's doing is screwing you in the unlikely situation you need to keep someone from getting out of your trunk. Kinda hard to do if you're tied up.
(   ) I was just thinking of this possibility... OP is a murderer! &gt; i explained to him that i was just practicing my new learned skill which i guess worked

This line felt unnatural to begin with... &gt; and he never even looked for the body in the trunk

This line felt unnatural until OP removed it.

I'm sure it was just a typo; OP is on his phone. "Help in SOS, officer? Oh, no, that's just me, y'know, practising"

"Can you speak up? I can't hear you over the shouting from your trunk" If there is one useful skill I learned from Psych it's how to kick out a tail light.  That was a great show and my all time favorite show. Reminds me of the movie "The Call" Lucky SOS is so easy in Morse code. What a coincidence! That's really interesting. I wonder if OP's cop checked the boot? Does everyone know morse code...did they all watch interstellar and think, well fuck guess I should go ahead and learn this language if I ever want to communicate with my self in the future/present I loved that show! what should you do.. it had some girl that fell on a pencil cuz she was running with it and it went straight through her heart. Learned to never pull that shit out. lol *This Book Will Save Your Life* features this as well. (It's a fun read, which is why I bring it up.) No offense to the cops, that was probably the marine that noticed. Doesn't change anything. You still have to be decent to act on it. Phenomenal? More like literally unbelievable for the exact same reason. Yeah that is a good cop. OP could have been held hostage or something. You never know. As long as he didn't harass OP, good dude. Thats the kind of watchful and intelligent people we need on the force.  I came here to say this. Couldn't have said it better myself! Well thanks for contributing to the discussion!! Interesting idea.  I'll have to try that someday while being held at gunpoint. maybe a hostage situation? I suggest using your eyes. It works.  [Jeremiah Denton](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremiah_Denton) would agree with you.

Apparently he blinked [TORTURE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BgelmcOdS38) while he was being forced to give an interview to tell everyone how well he was being treated. #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Jeremiah Denton**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeremiah%20Denton): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;

&gt;__Jeremiah Andrew Denton, Jr.__ (July 15, 1924 March 28, 2014) was a [Rear Admiral](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rear_Admiral_(United_States\)) and [Naval Aviator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naval_Aviator) in the [United States Navy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Navy) and, following his retirement from naval service, was a [United States Senator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate) from the state of [Alabama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alabama).

&gt;He spent almost eight years as a [prisoner of war](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner_of_war) (POW) in [North Vietnam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vietnam) and later wrote a book that became a film about those experiences. Denton is best known from this period of his life for the 1966 televised press conference in which he was forced to participate as an American POW by his North Vietnamese captors. He used the opportunity to communicate successfully and to confirm for the first time to the U.S. [Office of Naval Intelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_of_Naval_Intelligence) and Americans that American POWs were being [tortured](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Torture) in North Vietnam. He repeatedly blinked his eyes in [Morse code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morse_code) during the interview, spelling out the word *"T-O-R-T-U-R-E"*.

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/j3P5ZSa.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:JeremiahDentonSenate.jpg)

---

^Interesting: [^United ^States ^Senate ^election ^in ^Alabama, ^1986](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate_election_in_Alabama,_1986) ^| [^United ^States ^Senate ^election ^in ^Alabama, ^1980](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate_election_in_Alabama,_1980) ^| [^United ^States ^Senate ^elections, ^1986](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Senate_elections,_1986) ^| [^Donald ^Stewart ^\(Alabama)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Stewart_\(Alabama\)) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cqpmvas) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cqpmvas)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) I still don't understand why his captors didn't clue in that he was blinking WAY too often. The only thing I can think of is either they knew he had been tortured, so odd tics/behaviors wouldn't be so...odd.

Or

He may have affected an odd eye blink while practicing his morse code eye blink prior to the "interview"  meaning they would have gotten used to him blinking weirdly over time and chalked it up to that weird American or maybe we broke him. They thought it was from camera flashes.  Maybe they did. But without the benefit of hindsight...

You've probably met people that blink too much. Is your first thought "OH SHIT THEY'RE TRYING TO SIGNAL ME SOMETHING" or "Maybe they have something in their eyes! Or maybe they're just weird!"

Easy to chalk it up to "bright lights and stage fright". That's who I was thinking of. Genius if you ask me. *Gun to head* *In morse code* Help someone has a gun to my head *Bomb has been planted!* Easier one is 

    ... --- ...
     S   O   S
 Of all the words to practice, why "help"? I assume that's one of the first words you learn? Next to SOS It's not. You don't learn "words" when learning Morse code, first you learn all the letters.

Source: Me, ham radio operator who learned Morse code. For a ham radio operator it makes sense to learn the whole thing, but for most people it would be pretty useless to learn more than S and O or H, E, L, and P. I'd agree, but the two are redundant. S and O would be all you'd need in most cases.  
I hope to learn Morse so I can use it on the radio, but that's for another day. Some day... What are done of the most common frequencies talked on? Personally, if I learned morse code, I would have all sorts of crazy situations in mind where I'd use it to surreptitiously let people know I need to be rescued or what have you, like that Navy guy blinking TORTURE.

So 'help' would be one of the first things I'd practice, because I'm a loser. Someone needs to make an LPT on this. 
Just not me because... Well, I don't know morse code, and I'm too lazy to research it.  ... --- ... is SOS, or any three sounds like three gunshots, three whistle blows is a standard call for aid.  I wouldn't recognize "help" in Morse code, but three short brake lights then three long then three short again I would, and I know no Morse. That's the point of SOS. And why everyone should know that. Also "help" could be a joke or a request for minor assistance. PSA: just because it can be used as a joke doesn't mean you should treat it as such. A call for help is a call for help and you never know when it's a dire emergency. Yep. This is why cops respond to EVERY 911 call. 

Source: called 911 from a payphone during a middle school field trip.  Cop really came.  So like... HIT HIT HIT HIIIIIIT HIIIIIIT HIIIIIT HIT HIT HIT
? Yes.  Tap, tap, tap, hold, hold, hold, tap, tap, tap.  Long pause, repeat if needed.

Harder w/a light switch, on-off, on-off, on-off, on...off-on...off-on...off, on-off, on-off, on-off. That feeling of sudden horror when you finally understand what that person was doing with their lights that night a few years ago...

well shit, I hope it went okay for them. Oh my god.  It was probably just some kids fuckin around, having just learnt Morse code.  Congrats! You let someone get murdered! :D "Rule of three" - universal help code. You just have to repeatedly do three ticks - even not in proper Morse code duration - and most people will know. This also goes with any cues; three lights, three flags, three sounds. i would imagine there are not alot of people that know morse code but my luck the one time i try it, i get pulled over Yeah my buddy and I taught our selves in highschool, to see if we could ever become proficent enough in it to cheat on exams. We never did become good enough to be able to do it super fast, but learned it none the less. Its actually pretty easy to learn, with all the online resources out there. Just comes down to memorization.  It's easy to learn if you set all the text vibrations on your phone to people's initials. At least that's what I'm doing. Ooh that's a good idea.  Several of us learned the manual alphabet. At least enough to signal answers of a multiple choice test. 

 You might as well yell it out at that point. A-A-A-A-A-CHOOOOOOO! I don't know why you answered 'O' on so many questions, the options only go up to D Awesome story by the way! Tons of us out here.  I had to pass a Morse code proficiency test to get my amateur radio license.  It wasn't that many years ago that it was dropped as a requirement for certain classes of license. Yeah, had to pass the 5 WPM for my first license. Requirement has been dropped. As useful as it may be someday, it dropped from my memory not long after the test. three short, three long, three short.
S-O-S.

easy to remember.

edit: the first morse-capable device i had didn't allow holds, only pulses, so the spacing was key. Just learn "SOS". It's gonna be more universally recognized and it's gonna be easy to remember even in a panic.

Three long, three short. Repeat. Don't even need to remember which is S and which is O since it's repeating and no one is gonna go "OSOSO? What the fuck does that mean?" No need to research,just get An app on your phone. I learned the alphabet in one night. Tricky part is doing it quickly, and even harder is hearing/ seeing it FYI SOS is probably easier for most people to remember and should work just as well in a similar situation.

... - - - ...

 In fact, iirc SOS means nothing. It's only used for it's practicality and ease of remembrance. SOS came after the morse code meaning the original signal was three short beeps, three long beeps, and three short beeps. It just happened to spell out the letters S O S. Three of anything is a signal for distress btw. If you're ever trying to signal a plane, one bonfire won't do much, but three would be reported as a distress beacon TIL Also if you're being chased by undead ice creatures, make sure you hit that horn three times. Everyone on the Watch knows that one, even if it hasn't been used in a while.  To be fair, there are only three options for numbers of horns. I would assume they know them all.  Apparently that is specific to mountain distress: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distress_signal#Mountain_distress_signals *This is Red Delta calling in. There are three fires burning on an island out here. This isn't on a mountain, so I'm sure whoever lit those is just fine.* "Wait, wait, wait. Cancel that, I guess it says 'helf'"
 [One rock short of rescue...](http://asset-7.soup.io/asset/1796/4663_7226.png) And for best effect, the fires need to be in an approximate triangle and your camp be in the center.

Also, three shots into the air in rapid succession with a firearm.

Or three flashes with a signal mirror.

Or three tones on whatever noisemaker you have. It might be a signal, but it's worth considering that's its not that well known.

Source: Ask the person next to you. Any pilot or lookout will be able to tell you that three means distress Ski patrols and mountain rescue also recognize 3 whistle blasts, and anyone who is NOLS certified should also know this.  This is one of the more interesting comment chains that I've read recently. &gt; one bonfire won't do much

Don't you understand? Can't you see we ought toought to die before we let the fire out? Five honks if you're on a boat. Signifies Danger.  TIL! I always thought it was short for "Save Our Souls" for reason. Same! I've been lied to for years :( Huh, I always thought that it stood for Save Our Ships from the navy. Don't know where I first heard it but now my whole life is a lie. That's a good mnemonic.  But the ...---... actually means nothing.

Its just quick, to the point, and easy to identify. Wait a sec. is 'M' in morse code two long beeps (- -) by any chance? because the SOS code you typed out reminded me of the famous message tone on old nokia phones: beep beep beep beeeeep beeeeep, beep beep beep. I assume it means SMS! Yeah, that's exactly how the tone came about. This is great!  What did the cop say? he was cool, had a little chuckle, checked my insurance and let me go on my way You mean he didn't even check your boot? And the person in there went to so much effort as well I have also done similar lol but it was more relevant to the light ... - --- .--. And also didn't get pulled over lol For people who don't want to look it up,       
      
Translation: "stop" That is .... --- -
 .-.. . .- .- -.--   ..-. .- -.-. . This TIFU is a breath of fresh air, it's refreshing to read about actual fuckups, rather than 17-year olds bragging about sex. But it's still not really a fuck up. What were the negative consequences?  He got held up for a few minutes when he could have been banging his 10/10 gf bro. But of course As a fellow manual driver, keep your foot on the brake anyway.

1) If you get rear-ended, you'll have some breaking power to keep you from going full-force into the car in front of you or, worse, getting pushed into cross-traffic.

2) The people coming up behind you will know you are stopped and are less likely to rear-end you. In the UK you are required to put on the hand brake whenever you at rest.  After seeing how people drive manual in NA,  I would never buy a used manual car.  Yanks and Canadians must chew up clutches at a crazy rate.  Sort of same reason why I always put the e-brake on after parking my car. Is that the same thing as what I call a handbrake?  Because I recently read a LPT to put your handbrake on even when parked flat and I didn't really understand how it was a tip as that is what everyone does automatically, where I live. e-brake, parking brake, handbrake (n.b.: some models are operated by foot to keep the center console clear) are all the same thing. That's amazing. When you get road rage, do you use morse code with your head lights to say fuck you? Haha, I bet you made his day. :D Am I the only one thinking it would be courteous if the OP kept his foot on the brakes when he's stopped so you know.... to inform those behind him. GG Cop: 

Pulls you over to see if you're ok.

Lets you go without injuring you.  OP was not black. I'm surprised that the cop would know morse code beyond SOS. He either saw someone tapping their brake lights in a strange fashion or you made this up. I give OP the benefit of the doubt, his story is no so elaborate that it seems impossible yet it's still unusual enough to not be made up. An upvote from me OP  I don't rule anything out when it comes to unverified stories on reddit. Not saying that it's true or false. Who knows. I'm prepared for either or not knowing at all. Schrodingers OP : It both happened and didn't happen simultaneously   If you saw brake lights flashing repeatedly, would you think something was weird? Because I would. OP says the cop was a former marine. I'm pretty sure a marine would know the entire alphabet in morse code. Even I do and I have no military training at all. Former Marine. Morse code is **not** taught anywhere, ever. We have shit like [SINCGARS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SINCGARS) and [BFTs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Force_Tracking). Why the fuck would we waste time on morse code? What if you were being kidnapped or something and you did that morse code for help. That officer would be a god damn hero right now. That is a smart fucking cop Just wondering, did the cop read your "help" or did he just saw unusual morse codes? Today in things that didn't happen.  
This sub is just 99% made up stories. This is so fucking fake. As you read these things, it's almost like you can see what went on in OP's head. He's sitting at a red light, bored, and thinks this sorry ass story up. Come on! Not to take a massive shit on this but I highly doubt any of this happened.  I work in Navy intelligence and one of my first jobs was morse code operator.  I can copy morse at speed that to the untrained ear sounds like one long beep.   It would be very hard to convey any message in morse using brake lights unless the person knew you were doing this to begin with.  I don't think I would pick up on it even if I was right behind you.  
 
 Also my first stop in the Navy was the base where they train both Navy and Marine personel  to do various intel jobs.  Marines don't use morse and haven't in a while.  No one really uses it anymore.  Maybe they teach Marines morse in bootcamp but then again I highly doubt it because like I said no one uses it.  Sorry to doubt you OP but I gotta say what I gotta say.
edit: look i fixed it &gt;Maybe they teach Marines morse in bootcamp 

Hell no &gt; Marines don't use morse and haven't in a while.

&gt; anyway he was a former marine

How long since the Marines stopped learning morse? Because I don't think it's that inconceivable that someone could be a cop now who used to be in the marines back when they did still learn morse. It's also possible that they learned it off of someone else whilst they were in the marines. &gt;I can copy morse at speed that to the untrained ear sounds like one long beep. 

Hahahahahaha

Yea, well I'm trained in gorilla warfare. 

Shut the fuck up, maverick.  The story is 100% bullshit quick question though, why is your comment formatted that way and how do i do that  I have no idea, I wish it wasn't Like this
`This is some fancy formatting and I shall make it really long so you have to scroll sideways and fuck shit up. P.S. - .-. .- .--. .--. . -.. / .. -. / .- / ... .-- . .- - / ... .... --- .--. / ... . -. -.. / .... . .-.. .--.`

#You can also make things big.
#####and green.
     Let me try now  
`hah`  
` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `  
``````````````  
` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `` `  
it's a road Oh yeah that's how you wrap code. I forgot. ` lol ` #####&gt;tfw greentext on reddit You put 4 or more spaces at the beginning of your paragraph.  Markdown thinks you are trying to write code.  The internet usually doesn't lend itself well to indenting paragraphs.

Edit: Also, you use two line breaks to create a new paragraph.  You can add 2 spaces to the end of your previous paragraph for a soft break but that is too much work. Nice job using his weird formatting to sidestep his complete debunking of your story, OP. Hey OP, was there also a hot female doctor in the passenger seat that you ejaculated on? No, she was in the trunk.  This is a major win...You successfully relayed "Help" in morse code while practicing and an officer of the law was aware and diligent enough to spot it and responded.  You will be ready next time, he will be ready next time EVERYBODY WILL BE R-...no...wait...nobody knows morse code.. Damn! Kudos to that cop being on the ball!! he thought you needed some justice Break pedal? Must be a Fiat. Industry leaders in breaking. Imagine, a freaking break pedal! Genius. I play drums... sometimes I have to restrain my self from using the gas and brake as kick drum pedals. I wish every cop was this cop. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying all other cops are bad, but this is just amazing. One, to have that skill is pretty awesome. Two, to be able to apply that during the regular duty day is even more amazing. This man (I assume, you said "him") is a credit to the police for and the US Marines. Wherever he is, thank you for what you do :) This is brilliant! What was the chance, eh?! There are many good police persons out there. This is one of my 5 favorite TIFU. &gt;Edit: Brake pedal not break. damn you phone i will get you one day

I suggest the toilet Good guy cop marine I don't know if this is true, but I heard if you're ever locked in a trunk you can sometimes find the break light wires and mess with them to make the lights flicker. Would've been pretty bad-ass if the officer checked the trunk because of that.  I've wondered if tapping out a morse code message would actually work. The only one I know is s.o.s. though. ...---... It's refreshing to read that a cop recognized the usage of Morse code and engaged the situation without any shots fired!  Thumbs up to Good Guy Cop!  Brake. How did the conversation turn in a way that he revealed to you he was an ex seal?  He was a marine not navy seal where did you get seal from...... O_0 the trees  good on him for catching it though. better safe than sorry :)  ..     ..-. ..- -.-. -.- .. -. --.     .... .- - .     -.-- --- ..-     -... ..- -     .-.. --- ...- .     -.-- --- ..-     -... . .- ..- - .. ..-. ..- .-.. .-.. Holy shit.

Imagine if you were held hostage in a car while driving... What a neat way to escape. http://youtu.be/1KhZKNZO8mQ I was recently the victim of a home invasion. My phone was open to reddit but I could only do a little bit of text entry with the way I was situated. It's weird but that's the way it was. I could not dial my phone, the only thing I could reach was text entry for the page where I was making a post. so I actually put in the dots and dashes for an SOS message. I sent the post but the only way I could send it was to the sub I was in. The name of that sub? /r/thathappened. Needless to say, no one took it seriously. Fortunately a random police officer knocked on my door to collect money for the police department and looked in the window and saw what was happening and called for backup and I was rescued. Holy ... .... .. _ !!! That's a good cop right there. Funny, I admit, but an object lesson.

When I learned Morse Code, I did it with "Do not mind, routine practice.". Then again I used a proepr key, not car lights. Marine here, how old was he because I don't know any of us who know Morse code. May have been in comms/fleet marine radio man. True, I'm comm as well but if he was a Vietnam era he could have learned it there it there. Yeah, my dad taught me Morse code, and then when I was about ten or so started bitching that they stopped teaching it to every boot. Was going to say that. Family friend was Nam and definitely knows morse. Fleet communications. Is it bad I expected that to be a fundamental for the army? I had a chart on my new walkie talkies back in the 90s when I was a kid. You should keep your foot on the brake if there are no cars behind you. Sometimes it's hard to tell if a car is stopped with out the brake lights. Also if you're in neutral and you get hit you'll roll into the car in front of you.  Yeah. Should always pay attention if you're fucking around. I do shit like this but watch my mirrors. If someone's coming always put your foot on the brakes like yiu should've been doing. /r/thathappened  &gt; She didn't notice that I noticed, but I noticed that I noticed, and I didn't want to notice that I noticed.

Yo dawg... I heard you like noticing I just wanted to put you on notice that I noticed you, too.  https://youtu.be/Ro7yHf_pU14?t=15 Made me lol, thanks for that! i thought this would be a fresh prince reference =/ Well, my comment was a fresh prince reference. I don't think they got it. I'm glad someone did!  And I might consider letting you be with me [So I put your notice in a notice so you can notice while you notice](http://i.imgur.com/43ClezY.jpg) Please tell me the innermost notice says, "mum's cunt".
 well I mean it's just a few pixels but if you use your imagination it can be /r/nocontext This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/nocontext] [Please tell me the innermost notice says, "mum's cunt".](//np.reddit.com/r/nocontext/comments/33ax6j/please_tell_me_the_innermost_notice_says_mums_cunt/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) Was it nice looking? Asking the important questions.  OP right now: http://i.imgur.com/vKLntas.jpg Senpai noticed me? I must make note of this notice I noticed that your username begins with N. Noticing this, I noticed that notice, noticing and noticed all begin with N. Coincidence? I think not-ice. &gt;  I think not-ice.

The pun is strong with this one. But, you didn't like noticing. ^^or ^^did ^^you? I didn't really appreciate this thread until I noticed that I noticed these comments  I noticed you noticed that noticing      notice!
    thank you for noticing this new notice.
    your noticing this notice has been noticed. 
    (and will be reported to the proper authorities) I noticed someone had written this notice on the notice board in a restaurant. It's like losing the Game. 

Oh... I just lost the Game. Damnit.  Took me three times, why you gotta do this, out of every day in the year you write the confusing sentences today. upvoted for the TL;DR Hey OP, I don't mean to be rude..but I heard your mom likes to spawn trap.  Ouch, nice one. TL;DR made up for the unnecessary similes  &gt;;D Nah man. That's a smiley. You're thinking of a Samoan  I don't normally actually laugh out loud when I type lol, but my wife is looking at me like I'm mentally insane after reading that tl;dr Upvoted the upvote of the TL:DR. Upvoted for upvote of upvote of the TL;DR plz no,no more meta. I'm

so 

meta

even

this

acronym  Suspiciously relevant XKCD
https://xkcd.com/917/ [Image](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/hofstadter.png)

**Title:** Hofstadter

**Title-text:** "This is the reference implementation of the self-referential joke."

[Comic Explanation](http://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/917#Explanation)

**Stats:** This comic has been referenced 450 times, representing 0.7420% of referenced xkcds.

---
^[xkcd.com](http://www.xkcd.com) ^| ^[xkcdsub](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/) ^| ^[Problems/Bugs?](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd_transcriber/) ^| ^[Statistics](http://xkcdref.info/statistics/) ^| ^[StopReplying](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=ignore%20me&amp;message=ignore%20me) ^| ^[Delete](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=delete&amp;message=delete%20t1_cqj5qc1) I'm sure his comment was a reference to this comic, or a reference that referenced this comic.  There really is a Law of Relevance for XKCD. Upvoted the upvote of the upvote of the upvote of the TL;DR That was amazing.  TL;DR gives a succinct summary of OP's spawn point scarring. at least you know what to get her for her birthday... something to cover up the location of your birth day...  Mom needs a [WILLY WARMER!](http://www.reddit.com/r/AmazonWTF/comments/330xva/the_willy_warmer_599/) 

...right guys?  Is that just like the Tuggie? I'm too high to click links today It's a heater for your Peter A frock for your cock.  You poor, poor bastard. That's one of those images that is burnt into your mind forever. I barely remember what my ex's boobs look like, but once I accidentally saw my sister's and I reckon the scarring mental image is that strong, I could pick them from a line-up of 100 titties. 

Edit: Grammar.  That's horrible. I am amongst your ranks now brother. I wouldn't go that far, man. I'd rather fondle my sister's boobs than see my 'spawn point.'  (   ) hey its been a while since hes got some titty action ok? Yes, but that's not the point haha.  not the spawn point at least Says who? ..... r/evenwithcontext
 /r/evenwithcontext 

You forgot a /

Edit: I forgot a w you forgot a [w](https://www.google.ca/search?q=w&amp;oq=w&amp;aqs=chrome..69i57j69i60j5j69i60l3.2439j0j7&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;es_sm=93&amp;ie=UTF-8) /r/evenwithcontext

You missed the w I'd rather fondle your sister's boobs too.  Despite the fact that I wouldn't even wish this upon my worst enemy, it was awfully good on you to keep your cool so you didn't embarrass your mom. Fucked if I know how he kept his composure. I would've become catatonic. Well done, OP.  I just... accepted my fate.  Reacting would only cause catastrophe.  Instead I did what any normal person would do and told the internet. Instinct would've kicked in and I'd have cried and gone fetal. Me right after reading your comment, "haha~~ Oh my God!"

Thank you  When I was seven, we lived on a lake, and one afternoon I caught my 10 years older and her best friend changing into swimsuits for a ski trip. That was nearly 40 years ago (holy crap!) and I still remember my sister's 1970s bush and her friend's ass cheeks.

Those mentally seared images never go away. I know what you mean. The first pair of irl boobs I saw that weren't my mum's (breastfeeding, I suppose?) were my aunty's. I still remember them vividly. It's been about 15 years.  &gt; It's been about 15 years.

That's a lot of fapping.
 This reminds me of the times when I shared a room with my brother. When we were realy little, we'd sometimes walk in on eachother changing. It didn't really matter for me, but for some reason I was really intrigued by my brother's... Eh. So I would chase him around the room until he climbed on his bunk, which I was too afraid to climb up.

When I learned what that thing was, I couldn't look at my brother for awhile without bringing up memories. (   )

 Relevant username TIFU by picturing my own spawn point after reading this FU. Why did I do that, people, WHY? Welcome to the tribe The tribe of a notice A Tribe Called 'Cest Is your tribe called quest? 
 Back in the days when I was a teenager I saw the spawn point. My mom proudly shows off her nasty Cesarean-section scars. So technically I've seen my spawn point dozens of times. Hacks OP is a fucking wall hacker TIFU after reading a comment about someone who pictured their spawn point after reading this FU which made me picture my spawn point.  I need mind bleach.  I noticed you noticed something with inspired you to notice something you wish you hadn't noticed.  Welcome to the Tribe. Freudian slip It's when you mean one thing, but you fuck your mother You camped in that very spawn zone for many months... At least he wasn't spawn killed. Or lagged out before the game even started. Holy shit man, I had to take a step back after reading that. Some philosophical shit.. No, miscarriages are all too real, friend.  /r/outside  Loading screen takes way to long. Well, that escalated quickly.  Bruh... exp gain was worth it though. You must be mistaken. Mothers and sisters are not actually naked under their clothes.
 Like a barbie doll That's not that bad. At least you didn't visualize your younger dad naked humping that which you saw today. Or the present day version.  Considering my dad passed away, thatd be horrifying. # Username acknowledged! Username ~~acknowledged~~ noticed! You have a good sense of humor,  nice op Stay positive!  No matter what. Just like HIV! 


:D

: ) 

: |

: ( Oh... Don't worry it's all aladeen  http://31.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_ls5s47wHc61qg39ewo1_500.gif He said "younger dad," but now I'm picturing the restroom rigor(ous fucking) mortis scene from Clerks. He also said present day version M'other

And best TL:DR ever. *tips fedora* [Something something intensity intensifying.](http://i.imgur.com/L206RYH.gif) something, something darkside He's going super saiyan! Give it a week and he'll be there.  What kind of car was this? Chivalry also means helping your fellow man who is conducting research with not-his-mom. A car with doors Fuck you rich people. Always bragging about your stupid doors I'd rather not brag, but I also have a pair of shoes with laces. [dear diary...](http://i.imgur.com/pvmclfj.jpg) Thank you!  Stay positive and keep on rolling, Stalin. &gt; get out like I'm about to finish

Does this mean what I think it means? If so, gross, this is already a story about your mom's vagina. Upvoted for visibility, also wondering what this means I read a tifu earlier today about the guy who lost his virginity and got his girlfriend pregnant, that's where it stems from.  Wait does that mean you infiltrated your spawn point? Wtf op Mother of god. Precisely Yeezus?  Oedipus Erectus. This thread has been linked to from another place on reddit.

- [/r/bestoftldr] [TL;DR Spawn point located](//np.reddit.com/r/bestofTLDR/comments/33aokb/tldr_spawn_point_located/)

- [/r/bestoftldr] [TL;DR: Spawn point located](//np.reddit.com/r/bestofTLDR/comments/33ad0f/tldr_spawn_point_located/)

- [/r/shitpost] [/r/tifu, fulfilling reddit's incest fantasies since 2012](//np.reddit.com/r/shitpost/comments/33b0g5/rtifu_fulfilling_reddits_incest_fantasies_since/)

- [/r/shitpost] [This text seems right out of/r/circlejerk](//np.reddit.com/r/shitpost/comments/33axmp/this_text_seems_right_out_ofrcirclejerk/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, respect the rules of reddit and don't vote.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) Wow, double shitposted and double bestoftldr'd. I think they cancel each other out.  Why was your mother even going full comm- ... So many questions, also good TL;DR. Two responses to this comment, both misspelled underwear in different ways.

I'm impressed. And the third one used the wrong spellinnf for the verb wear umm, mothers are people too. Some people just don't LIKE underware.... Hardware.
Software.
Underware. - And some people don't like tupperware. no hate. Yet another post that is worthless without pictures. [Visual approximation off all that he now sees, except without pants.](http://i.imgur.com/ktCr06k.gif) Thats accurate to the third decimal Scientific precision jokes. This guy. Appreciating science jokes.  This guy. It's not a risky click at all guys. try this [one.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-50GjySwew) What the fuck did I just watch?? Just like every post in /r/Incest (   ) Don't be sad, some old threads have pictures. Go on... http://www.reddit.com/r/incest/comments/2fmj56/g_can_we_get_a_list_going_of_all_the_posts_on/ Damn this curiosity of mine.  http://i.imgur.com/pKnRM.gif (   ) But is she a MILF? The answer to this will change my entire perspective and enjoyment of the situation. She's definitely a...mom. Is she single, son? Don't you know? About the bird #Brian don't! He posted that his dad died so most likely single! Our physiology is such that we are incapable of remembering the sight of our mother's birth canal. You got a second chance. Savor it.  
  
^savor ^her ^birth ^canal Please stop saying, "Birth canal." ... Portal (   ) When I was young, I walked in on my mom's boyfriend eating her out. He craned his head around, moving it just enough aside to see. Thanks, motherfucker. Was it nice, though? I'd rather not say it was wrinkled, but... You saw it long enough to notice that?Ehem. It's imprinted in his brain.
He will never forget. The wrinkles of his brain have reformed into an impression of his mother's vagina.  One day, a young intrepid medical examiner will be performing his autopsy; and he'll think "my golly, that looks just like a vagina!"  He'll take a selfie with it, then he'll take it into the back room and fuck it. Mesmerizing. Wow. The way you tell this story is awesome! You certainly did not fuck up the story.
 Upvoted for "my portal to this world", and "Spawn point located". Was the taco soft or crunchy? Oh...Oh God... That was the best TL;DR I've ever seen. Best TL;DR of all time.  Does she shave? Or did you arrive from the Forrest of Endor? She knows you noticed. She definitely knows you noticed. Moms know everything.  &gt; TL;DR: Spawn point located.

I coughed up spaghetti and meat sauce through my nose... Plot twist:

You were delivered via C-Section and you just saw her stomach. Well at least you didn't see a tactical insertion..... Now we only need a picture of OP's mom. LOOK! COBWEBS!!!  Troll the respawn, Jeremy.  Don't forget !!!

You've been further inside your mom than your dad has LOL This subreddit is just a never ending war of who can make the best TL:DRs. &gt; Spawn point located. 

My god. Never in my waking life have I seen something so horrifying so beautifully and eloquently described. Thank you, /u/Ninenine222 TL;DR StarGate located Hahahaha, oh my god! That's brilliant. I'm sorry for you! That must've been... scarring. At least she didnt notice you noticing. 
Still good of you to become more gentlemanly~ despite the horrifying experience.
 Gotta look at the bright side! Not the deep dark cavern side Cavern? ._.

I remember looking at my first pelvic x-ray with my mom in the room. She pointed two things out to me that day:

"Look! You have one lip bigger like me!"

and,

"What a tiny cervix. *You know what that means*." [deleted] Tight vajayjay.

RIP inbox... THIS IS WHY WE CAN'T HAVE NICE THINGS. "Spawn point located"? OMG dying. lol &gt; What I saw was my portal to this world.

Lost it right here. That must suck. Best of luck The last time my bf opened the door for me I walked into it (glass door) and ended up with lots of stitches  Snitches get stitches

_ Is your mom Jody West? Sources say possibly. Still unconfirmed. Stand by. Yo....that TL;DR. &gt;I got out like I was about to finish..

Fucking gold! She noticed that you noticed (   ) BEST...TL; DR.... EVER!!!!!!  &gt; Spawn point located

MY SIDES MADE IT TO THE GALACTIC CORE something something two broken arms.  So meta Buncha pussies ITT (   ) &gt; like a graceful gentleteen

Love that phrase I cringed Same. I unfortunately saw my own spawn point....when I stumbled upon my parents own homemade sex tape.....the scarring is still there and its been over 12 years.... 

http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2lpoyw/nsfw_tifu_by_finding_my_parents_hidden_sex_tape/

TIFU posted in the past for the full story. I'm...so sorry.... And just think how it probably rubbed on your car seat to. I didn't even consider that. Thaaaaanks. Gotta grab the Lysol or bleach or whatever you gotta do. Upvoted for chivalry! Keep being awesome my brother! You too! I don't mean to pull the whole "where I come from" thing, but pretty much everyone holds doors open for everyone where I live in Texas. I hold the door for three or four people, then the person behind me holds the door for the next couple of people, and as far as I know there's an endless chain of people holding the door once I'm gone. It seems pretty normal to me.  OP is talking about car doors.  It would be hard to get flashed with that particular view while holding a building door open for someone unless they went through the door doing cartwheels. Good point. Then again, I was responding mainly to the part where he said he never held doors open for people before. Maybe he was talking specifically about car doors when he said that, but I'm not sure. Also from Texas. This is true. Nebraska here. Same story Welcome to the club OP Worst club ever.   Did the girl of your dreams realise it was April Fool's day when she asked you? God, That is brutal. I don't get it. Last Wednesday = Day she got asked to prom = April 1st.
Girl also came out to her mom on this day, who doesnt believe her thinking its a april fool's joke. Also possibility that her getting asked out to prom by girl of her dreams was a joke as well. Hence FUCK UP op is gonna win homecoming queen and then get covered in a bucket of blood Oh fuck I sense another national tragedy coming. Pigs blood can't melt steel lesbians Steel lesbians you [say?](http://www.dragonize.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/Mecha-Streisand.png)?  Huh, not what I expected but still funny. Im afraid to ask, but what *did* you expect? Ayy lmao
 [deleted] [deleted] That series was the best Funniest goddamn thing I read all day. You must not have been on Reddit very long today.  Not REKT

 REKT

 REKTangle

 SHREKT

 REKT-it Ralph

 Total REKTall

 The Lord of the REKT

 The Usual SusREKTs

 North by NorthREKT

 REKT to the Future

 Once Upon a Time in the REKT

 Tyrannosaurus REKT

 eREKTile dysfunction

 Full mast eREKTion

 REKTum

 ResurRekt

 CorRekt

 IndiREKT I'm so confused. I haven't seen one of these in months and it was downvoted to hell. Now this is the second one I've seen within 24 hours and they both have a shit ton of upvotes... Reddit, you don't make no sense... You know how sometimes you find an amazing porno? Its got everything you like in it. Bouncing, squirting, blonde hair - alright I'm speculating but for the sake of argument let's say that's it. You use the same video for a week and suddenly...no. You can respect what makes that porno great, but you're too used to it.

You bounce around different sites for a while, as you do. A couple months pass. Then you stumble back on that one, and everything about it that's great feels great again.

A porno's just a meme with tits. Or whatever it is you're into, I'm just speculating. Hi just speculating, I'm dad. That was beautiful That... That makes a hell lot of sense. "A porn is just a meme with tits" is my new motto. Well, at least my motto about porn. 
Even though I didn't really understand the meme in question. :(   Rekt

 Really Rekt

 Tyrannosaurus Rekt

 Cash4Rekt.com

 Grapes of Rekt

 Ship Rekt

 Rekt markes the spot

 Caught rekt handed

 The Rekt Side Story

 Singin' In The Rekt

 Painting The Roses Rekt

 Rekt Van Winkle

 Parks and Rekt

 Lord of the Rekts: The Reking of the King

 Star Trekt

 The Rekt Prince of Bel-Air

 A Game of Rekt

 Rektflix

 Rekt it like it's hot

 RektBox 360

 The Rekt-men

 School Of Rekt

 I am Fire, I am Rekt

 Rekt and Roll

 Professor Rekt

 Catcher in the Rekt

 Rekt-22

 Harry Potter: The Half-Rekt Prince

 Great Rektspectations

 Paper Scissors Rekt

 RektCraft

 Grand Rekt Auto V

 Call of Rekt: Modern Reking 2

 Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina of Rekt

 Rekt It Ralph

 Left 4 Rekt

 www.rekkit.com

 Pokemon: Fire Rekt

 The Shawshank Rektemption

 The Rektfather

 The Rekt Knight

 Fiddler on the Rekt

 The Rekt Files

 The Good, the Bad, and The Rekt

 Forrekt Gump

 The Silence of the Rekts

 The Green Rekt

 Gladirekt

 Spirekted Away

 Terminator 2: Rektment Day

 The Rekt Knight Rises

 The Rekt King

 REKT-E

 Citizen Rekt

 Requiem for a Rekt

 REKT TO REKT ass to ass

 Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Rekt

 Braverekt

 Batrekt Begins

 2001: A Rekt Odyssey

 The Wolf of Rekt Street

 Rekt's Labyrinth

 12 Years a Rekt

 Gravirekt

 Finding Rekt

 The Arekters

 There Will Be Rekt

 Christopher Rektellston

 Hachi: A Rekt Tale

 The Rekt Ultimatum

 Shrekt

 Rektal Exam

 Rektium for a Dream

 Erektile Dysfunction I lost it at RektBox 360 Hope you find it again Don't worry, the doctor will find it for him during the rektal exam. I thought Great Rektspectations was clever As soon as I got to Erektile Dysfunction I had to stop reading Little too close to home? No longer eRekt Triggered.  &gt; www.rekkit.com

What the hell? Do, do, do, ONE-EIGHT-SEVEN-SEVEN-REKT-FOR-KIDS, ARE-EEE-KAY-TEE, REKT FOR KIDS! DAAAAMN XD Look on the brightside, she is obviously respectful of people of other sexual orientations and if you actually come out to her she will probably accept you. Or she's in denial, one of those "but not my daughter" types. That's my parents. "Please don't turn out to be *one of them*." Joke's on everyone, I'm asexual. A friend of mine just "came out" as ace. It was hilarious, especially since 95% of her friends and family were waiting for the other coming out announcement. I'm not out to anybody but one person in real life. I don't want to explain it over and over. Also have people say "Oh, she thinks she's such a special snowflake!" Totally fair. I'm sorry you've gotten that reaction--when my friend came out, there was a collective double-take and then a lot of support. She says it's much easier for her now, because people have stopped asking and hinting about her bringing an SO home someday. It also convinced several friends that when she asks them to go hiking, SHE MEANS HIKING. 

I wish you all the best, and hope you get the same response someday. Or not, because you don't have to tell anyone. Whatever. Be happy and stuff.  I know that feeling. When I was 13 or 14 I told my mom that I felt I could be ace and she brushed me off, said it was a phase, etc. It really hurt because she's gay and started understanding that when I was around 6 or so. Her partner got on her l, saying she needed to be more open-minded, but my mom's always been stubborn. I kept things to myself afterward. 

That was 7 or 8 years ago. The other day I brought up what she said while coming out about my gender and sexuality, and she apologized, said she felt really bad about how she reacted.

I guess what I'm trying to say is, I think the people who love you will be fine. I think sexuality is kind of hard to explain in general. I think keeping it simple works: "I'm not interested in sex or romance", "I don't care about gender when I'm dating someone", etc. This would be my response

"Mom, im asexual"

"Oh, no!...wait...*googles 'are asexuals happy'* oh, okay then honey, carry on."

My biggest fear would be having my daughters have something that torments them. If theyre happy (and also arent happy, say, murdering people) im happy. You wouldn't be proud of your child if they were a murderer?  It's lack of support from parents like you that pushes children to murder in the first place!   
Edit: a word As long as he's a well-respected murderer in high office, I would be proud of him (or her). So like, a president or something? I'll admit if my son some day comes out as gay I'll be a little disappointed. I will do nothing but support him but it I don't know maybe I am just a bigot. 

Edit: I get it I'm not a bigot. I already know that. I was just BSing around saying that I was to make it clear that I wasn't. Stop telling me.  My wife has been convinced our oldest son is gay since he was 4. He's nearly 10 now and I can just imagine her being crushed if he ever brings home a girl.  How could you even intelligently suspect someone's orientation until they hit puberty?  My son is 7. He has preferred "girl" things since he was 2. "Girl" toys, "girl" colors, "girl" clothes. He used to tell us he was a girl. At 6 he said to my husband "look at that beautiful man" about some guy walking into the gym. Every Halloween he has wanted to go as a girl character. The past 2 Halloween's  we  let him. Since he has been old enough to understand us, we continually tell him - and our other kids- that we love everything about them. He is a fantastic dancer, a wonderful young  actor, and if I want a honest opinion on my outfit, he's who I ask. My husband and I don't know if he will ultimately fall in love with a man or a woman but we have a strong suspicion. Whoever he ends up loving will most likely be as amazing as he is. So, it is possible to make a calculated assumption about a child's orientation from a young age. Especially if your kid is as fabulous as mine is.   Bless you and your total unconditional love of your child. Fashion-focused, would have killed for a my size barbie, thought princess leia was the most interesting star wars character. 

If sexuality is a spectrum (I believe it is) , I'm ALL the way over on the straight side. 

My parents never emphasized anything as "for boys" or "for girls" so I just pursued whatever was interesting to me. My interests had and have very little to do with my sexuality.  Just because a kid likes to dress up like a dinosaur doesn't usually mean that they want to fuck them.

I'm just the exception to that. Could go either way honestly. I was the exact same growing up, and I turned out to b 100% heterosexual. I probably would never have even experimented with guys if everyone around me wasn't constantly asking if I was homosexual because of these behaviors. Yeah, I know some very metrosexual guys... they foil everyone's gaydar like crazy.  That sounds more like he is trans than gay to be honest.  Yeah that's what I thought! Support him or her either way, OP! You seem like a great person! This is wonderful. [OP's son](http://funnyasduck.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/funny-fabulous-kid-babby-chicken-suit-costume-pics.jpg) Also you are an amazing parent. That last sentence actually made me laugh though. I wish every parent was like you guys.  It's more a matter of comparison. Lots of kids seem clearly attracted to members of the opposite sex from an early age. For example, it's seemed pretty clear that my four year old is very much straight because he's constantly showing off for girls, always picking young women and giving them attention. He sits in their laps and strokes their faces. He seems to have a intense fascination with the opposite sex. 

My nine year old had the same kinds of things when he was that age with boys.  &gt; stroking their faces

Smooth I like the game toddlers put up.

I have a little brother, 13 years my junior. So this is about 10 years ago, but whenever there'd be a blonde girl same age wih braided hair and a skirt, he'd put on his best moves. featuring home run swings such as 

*kicking me*

*lifting his leg up as high as possible*

*hiding behind my legs*

*the 100 yard stare*

Approaching them sadly wasn't his strong suit. But yeah, smooth. *Real smooth* My four-year-old likes to try to stick things up his butt. My daughter never tried to do that. Is it about gender or orientation? Maybe nothing, who knows.  Ain't nothin' wrong with that. Hey man, never judge a dude's kink. Mom of several boys here. Yes, it seems to be normal from my experience. My toddler likes to see if he can walk while he holds something between his butt cheeks. 
Edit typo &gt; My four-year-old likes to try to stick things up his butt

Just so we are on the same page, is sticking things in your butt not normal? All these years I thought it was like a kangaroo pouch .... Don't people usually have their first crushes pretty well before puberty? [It can be difficult](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1taC3JjIOkM). I babysat my cousin from 4 - 7 and I strongly suspected he was gay, but didn't say anything because, well, it's just a little kid. He's out now.

Maybe it's confirmation bias, but I have never guessed wrong. I have not realized it right away once or twice though. There are mannerisms that often appear in gay men that are hard to describe, and yes, they appear as early as 4 sometimes. Not necessarily. It's not an easy life, even in this day and age. As a parent, you want the best for your child. Knowing that they're facing an uphill battle is hard, regardless of how you feel about it. Not a parent, but I completely agree. The fact that gay people continue to face discrimination (although I think North America has made great progress in the past thirty or forty years) is the main reason I would never have been able to believe that "being gay is a lifestyle choice", as it used to be called, even if there had never been any other basis for refuting the argument. Who would voluntarily choose to face all the prejudice gay people encounter if it were a simple thing to just decide to be attracted to the "appropriate" gender? 

Happy prom, OP, I hope it's awesome, and please high five your mom for me! :) Also it sort of reduces the likelihood of having a biological grandchild.  Adopted grandkids are cool, and artificial insemination is possible, but expensive and uncommon.  And artificial insemination doesn't work if you're a guy. Found that out the hard way. :/ &gt;hard way

(  ) Unless either adult has a fertility problem, getting a surrogate mother/sperm donor probably isn't out of reach financially. You may be thinking of invitro fertilisation, which is used in (mostly) infertile couples or couples with fertility issues. And it's pretty damn expensive with a low success rate.  This would be my exact issue with it I wouldn't care about the relationship at all so long as it was a healthy stable one but christ the idea of my bloodline not moving on to the next generation physically would be saddening I'd make peace with it so long as if they did have a child they understood our history and carried the torch so to speak  ,,, ....

Here, I think you dropped some of these. I don't think that makes you a bigot. Your hopes that your son is straight aren't coming from a place of hatred for gay people, but rather love for your son and a desire for him to have an easy life. 

My dad was a little sad/disappointed when I came out to him, only because he knew my life would be that much harder and having a family will be that much more difficult. But he still loves and supports me, especially now that he's come to terms with it and sees that I can still have a happy and fulfilling life.  I had the same reaction from my mother when I came out. She has always been super supporting of me, being more than accommodating for all of my stupid decision in life (such as multitudes of progressively less practical major changes), but when I told her that I was gay she seemed crushed. Not hostile, but seemed dissapointed. I understand the reaction, but its still pretty disheartening to have one of your only remaining family members react so negatively after seeing nothing but support from your friends. Yeah luckily for me, my mom had suspected for years that I was gay and she was completely okay with it. Her brother was gay and I think that greatly contributed to her open-mindedness. 

My dad, on the other hand, was caught completely off-guard by my revelation. My mom really helped him to be more comfortable with it.

Your mom sounds like she will come around. Give it time.  As a Dad, I can relate.  The fact that you understand speaks very well of both of you. Thanks for the compliment. You sound like a good dad :) Something as simple as changing your phrasing could help change your perspective. Why would you be disappointed? That implies failure on your son's end. You may be 'worried' more so than disappointed. If you really do think you would be disappointed by your son coming out, you should re-evaluate what about that choice would make you disappointed.   Personally I'd be disappointed that I'd never meet his wife. I'd be disappointed I would never have blood grandchildren. I would however support him. It would be like how a father might imagine his son playing baseball but is disappointed when he doesn't like it. That kind of thing. That might be a good way to think about it. "If my son comes out as gay I'll be a little sad because I had some dreams and ideas that won't happen now. But I love him, and I'm open to seeing what other dreams and ideas WILL happen."  What disappoints you about it, particularly? One of the more common things is disappointment they won't have a natural grandchild. Surrogacy can be an option. That's one of *my* dreams, and what I answered when my mother's first reaction to me coming out was: "But I wanted grandchildren.". I want children too! TIP another girl by asking her to prom on April Fool's Day. She thought I was serious. She came out as bisexual. TIFU.  ...AMA. yes whats TIP stand for? Today I Pranked. 

It was used a lot last Wed. for pranks gone wrong.  Thanks! I was wondering why I saw it so much last week lol Yeah I didn't get it either until I saw the sticky Turn in poachers Now that's a real TIFU that deserves gold lol So did your mother finally believe you? Yeah, after OP convinced her. (   )  The whole thing smells a little fishy. You're right. We'll have to look deeper into this. _  (   ) Because April 1st can often be a normal work weekday, it doesn't always go well when the Department of Defense does background investigations on that day either.  A couple decades ago, it took the DoD investigator a couple hours to convince my college roommates and then my work study boss of his bona fides. Are they all in Guantanamo now? Seriously, why were they being investigated by DoD? Nah, if you try to work for the DoD they do a background check on you which often involves interviewing your friends or whoever else you put as references. I had to do this for a buddy once, really it is for any job with security clearance I think. One of the most disturbed, insane-looking people I ever worked with listed me  as a reference on his application to work with the DoD.  On the project I worked with him, he was fired after sending a crazy-filled message to the whole staff.  I wasn't involved with the whole thing, so when the FBI called me, I couldn't give them details.

I told them to please, please dig deeper! You are also aware that the person getting their background checked can also requests transcripts of all conversations conducted by the background checkers right? If he is truly crazy he may have done this and is coming after you for implying he did something wrong! Sounds like a good TIFU story. Do post it when you evade your attacker. IF you evade your attacker Is this true for security clearances? I know that it is true under the Fair Credit Reporting Act for most background checks, but I would think that clearances would be exempt. &gt;Do post it when you evade your attacker.

He's fucked if Shia LaBeouf is his attacker. Nobody evades Shia LaBeouf. *Nobody.* &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; Hahah nice [reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o0u4M6vppCI)

Glad I got a reference for once :D

Ninjaedit: Added better video Makes sense. Thanks.
 Presumably OP applied for some position in the DoD that required them to check out his/her background, which involves speaking to friends and colleagues. OP probably was in the process for getting his/her clearance which generally involves interviews with references, particularly for TS clearance. Seeing as how he said background checks, im guessing mcg72 wanted a job or something.  I'm not sure the April 1st designation really made that much difference. It was about 15 years ago I took a call for a friend for his background check from the DoD investigator and I totally didn't believe him for several minutes either, cracking jokes as well.

I don't think I fully believed it until I met the DoD investigator for the face to face interview. My friend got the job. I, however, probably have a file somewhere. April 1st should really be made a bank holiday, would make it so much more easy &gt; (let's call her Stephanie)

then never refers to this person again, let alone calls her Stephanie. string Stephanie;
*Variable declared but never used. Hah, that'll teach you to use an IDE. I dont know about many IDEs but for eclipse you can choose which errors to not show up.

edit: [And here it is!](http://imgur.com/x4qsilh) I think the point was not to have a name that can be later referred to, but to show that she used some girl's name to answer her mother's question. That's a good point, I've always seen it as a tool/alias to avoid the use of pronouns so the story remains clear and concise but also to keep the person's identity concealed Hey look: a short, believable, egoless story that focuses on humor.  Maybe this sub has a chance after all. I love how when a girl says the girl of her dreams asked her to prom, it's believable, but when a guy says it, all of Reddit swarms in to say how OP is full of shit. Uh, example?  I probably wasn't talking about whatever you're thinking of.  It was when I popped in here and saw the top story was about some guy having a foursome at the company holiday party and impregnating two of them.  I'm not a huge fan of the Judd Apatow script rejects that seem to float around here. While I haven't impregnated two girls in the same night, and I probably haven't impregnated any girl, I feel like a lot of stories get downvoted because people just don't believe they couldn't ever happen. 

Shit happens. Crazy things happen. There are lots of people on reddit. Lots of crazy stories are bound to be shared on here without being complete bullshit.  1) I feel you about the point that "anything is possible".  Unfortunately when people omit details or aren't 100% honest about the story it makes it seem unbelievable.  Which leads to my second point...

2)  This is TIFU.  Not, "Today I did this totally awesome thing with minor consequence."  This isn't for some humblebrag bullshit, which is what 90% of those stories are. I totally agree with you, but how do you call knocking up two out of three girls you slept with a minor consequence? It seems pretty big to me :P That was also the only story I've read on TIFU which was clearly 100% bullshit. I'm normally pretty trusting here, but after the update post, that one was just utterly ridiculous.  I read that one. It may be bullshit but it was certainly fun to read. After Jenny met up for kisses I pretty much can only roll my eyes at any sort of "saga". That's pretty hilarious ... bad timing! But I hope that conversation ended well for you :) I told a few people I was expecting on 4/1 .. but I really am lol  I picked the wrong day to stop sniffing glue.   Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit amphetamines Looks like I picked the wrong week to stop drinking.  I picked the wrong week to quit Reddit. Every week is the wrong week for that. You hear that Meg? Guys can marry other guys now. So, umm. This is awkward, but I mean, if they can do that thats pretty much it for you, isnt it? I mean you might as well pack it in, game over.

Edit: But seriously, that sucks. I wish I was asked out by an older girl in high school. That was like every lowerclassman's dream. Me too, I wish senpai would've noticed me. I almost made the mistake of coming out as trans to my parents on April Fools Day. I ended up coming out on Easter Sunday instead... completely unintentionally.

I pick the best days for coming out.  Hahahah yea you do! That's quite the situation... Take my upvote. Still better than [this](http://imgur.com/zIkJV5S) situation. i don't get it.... One of the idiots from Jersey Shore, nicknamed the Situation. IIRC, his abs are named "The Situation". HA!  I came out on April Fool's Day several  years ago as well.  I had been living 4 hours away from home and decided I couldn't wait any longer to break the news to my mom.  So I jumped in the car and when I was 5 minutes away I asked her to meet me in a parking lot.  I didn't want to tell the whole family yet.  Strangely enough, she didn't even think of April Fool's.  She thought I was going to tell her I was dying or something.  It was only later when I looked back and realized what day it was. &gt;For those wondering, yes Stephanie was serious. She wanted 'April Fool's' to be her response if I turned out to be straight.

Insanely smart. April fools aside, how do your parents feel about you coming out? Well they're obviously supportive and respect lesbians. Or they're hypocrites. I like your mum.  I know a good pizza place that won't cater your wedding if you guys get married.  I'm from Indiana.   RIP pizza place. Who has their weddings catered by a pizzeria anyway?  Stephanie had a good exit strategy.  Good for Stephanie. Sounds like your mom is pretty awesome and her response was both supportive of LGBT **and** wanted to make sure you were being a good person.  Mom win x 2 !  

So - sounds like your mom is cool with your bisexuality though?  You didn't address that.  

In any case - have a great prom!  Great post :)   You're lucky to have such an open minded mother. Somehow I read offing instead of outing and I became sad, then confused. I am glad to hear OP is still very much alive. I have three kids, and I can't even imagine not loving them just because of who they are and who they love. 

Now, if they're not grossly incandescent that's a whole other story.   you deserve every single upvote you get for that comment.  So, two? Amusingly, I also came out to about a dozen people on April 1st. Fucking TDoV being on the 31st meant I had a list of probably cool people and I am nothing if not impatient lol. I wanna understand your comment so much... http://transstudent.org/tdov Right? Who put it the day before April fucking fools? So was ahe really asking you out...we want to know Aye. In high school one of my good friends came out to me as bi on April 1st. He just blurted it out before jumping out of the car after I gave him a ride home, so there wasn't any chance to respond, he just took off.

It took a few days before I could be sure. I too am a girl taking a girl I'm interested in to prom (I'm a senior and she's a junior-) but she's very much straight, she's just going with me because she needs a senior to get in :( You shouldn't do this to yourself. I asked a girl to prom and forgot it was April fools. She was like "Ohhhh it's a joke!" and I was like "No I'm just stupid" It's so sweet and sad that she felt she had to wait until April 1st to ask you in case you rejected her :( I have a wonderful, 24 year old daughter. She is straight, likes the boys. But she taught me that no matter which direction your flag flies, you are still human. And, as such, deserve to be treated the same, no matter what. Daughter put an Equal sign on her car. Mine now has one as well. And I am proud of her. She taught an old man something new. And I try to teach the same tolerance lesson to everyone I can.

Be who you are. And be proud of who you are. You are the only one of you on this planet.  Throway 149? Geesus, how many shenanigans do you get into? &gt; (let's call her Stephanie)

*never mentions her again* I'm 26. My grandmother just found out I liked females (Married to a man)

Me: That's my wife. I will marry her

Grandma: Are you bi?

Me:Yes. Where have you been? 

Tada! Did you try 148 other throwaway account names before this one worked? Let's call her Stephanie.  And then not mention her name for the rest of the post. Wow. I'm glad this story actually has a happy morale through it. Not only did your dream girl ask you to prom but your mom seems pretty cool with your sexuality in general which is awesome. Congrats!  Ya, I don't really think this is a TIFU, but its really nice. Congrats! Lesbians? High School? Upvotes! In any event, congrats, and I hope that you enjoy [gifts as stated in the Bible](http://i.imgur.com/gZRyknW.png) Sounds like an epic win to me, even if it was on April Fool's day. "Let's call her Stephanie." Never mentions Stephanie again in the story Not so very long ago, my youngest sun (nearly 14) looking entirely nervous sat me down and said he had something important to discuss with me. Seemingly worried I sat and prepared for the worst. He then told me that he was pretty sure he was "bi". Entirely relieved, I said, "If that's it then, let's have a cup of cocoa. Who you find to have fancy britches is none of my business. I love you with all my heart and soul no matter whom you fancy." &lt;3  It sounds like you handled this well. But what in the world is "fancy britches"? So are you lesbian or bi? Or does being bi make you straight and lesbian at the same time...? She's bi.  Her mother is the one who used the word lesbian when she initially told her that she was going to prom with another girl. Think of it as a spectrum.

At one end you have wholly opposite-sex attraction, at the other end you have wholly same-sex attraction. Bi is the everything in between. Most people identify as being strongly at one end or the other, some people identify as being in the middle, but may be closer to one of the ends (not equally attracted to both same and opposite sex partners). Please be joking. Ah, hello, captain! I've never seen you outside either the /r/thelastairbender or /r/korrasami sub.

Nice day, then?

 hi \^_^

things are well :D That's good.

Always nice to spot a familiar account. yes indeed :D

&lt;3 God, this has a happy ending. Could have gone REAAaLY bad. tell your mom not to make assumptions on your or other peoples sexuality. Well, the good news is: your mom is pretty awesome. This is amazing! As someone who is gay this make my heart sing! I am so happy that you get to go to your prom with the girl of your dreams. Congrats on prom! I'm happy that this at least turned out well for you, considering that I know plenty of people who are still in the closet, so to speak. what do you mean in the closet? **in the closet**

a term used to describe a homosexual person who has not told anyone of his/her sexual orientation

http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=in+the+closet I'm more of a "let me Google that for you" guy but Urban Dictionary always works too... The metaphorical closet that you "come out" of when you tell people that you are not straight, or have left your religion, or any number of other things you might be hiding from them for fear of reprisal. That actually a Really solid tactic to ask that on April Fools. Props to Stephanie! What an amazing idea! I will now wait once a year to tell people my deepest darkest secrets. I will be ready with the fake laugh, point and wow you thought I was serious response should things go wrong. You're adooooorable

Welcome to the team &lt;3 /r/acutallesbians well if you're gonna be at this prom, my shitty pizza place refuses to cater it i read "TIFU by eating myself out on the wrong day"  theres not a chance that OP was April fooled by the girl of her dreams is there? Google YouTube "School Girl Crush."  This is basically your life right now, for added humorous effect.  I'd provide a direct URL but can't right now. Accidental april fools is accidental Your mom sounds rad!  Was the chick that asked you serious? So when is this girl going to ask me to the prom :( Even after reading it was April Fool's day, I still didn't understand what you meant by "on the wrong day". I did it multiple times and thought "I mean it worked out, sort of, it's not like you were allowed to go, how's that 'the wrong day'?".

I'm a dumb ass. This is so cute :D congratulations!!!  Wow that's a hardcore April fools prank. I am glad it turned out well though. Being a border official is a terribly hard job. I know, I played Papers Please. Don't worry, I come back. Arstotzka so great, passport not required. Right? A passport is required Sir your work permit is a fake. This says... Cobrastan.

Fuck it. I always call him out on his shit so he knows I know and then let him through. GLORY TO ARSTOTZKA Get outta my country, you filthy Kolechian. OP was clearly Jorge.  My passport is in order
------------------------------------
|                                              |
| Let this sexy man in.          |
|_______________________| Glory to Cobrastan! My family is dead everytime, this game is too hard. I usually just ditch them as soon as I get a chance, fuck them they're too demanding.  Parenting 101 alternate between turning off heat and food every day, that saves money and keeps them going.  Lifeprotips Glory to Arstotzka.  Upvoted for the laugh, did not expect that.
 LOL, reminds me of something that happened to me. 

In India, it is customary for elders to bless others by raising their right hand. 

My (American) wife and I had an Indian ceremony in India post our US wedding. Couple days later we were invited by close family friends to have lunch at their place. When were about to leave, we bend down and touched the feet of the oldest family member (way of asking for blessing), and as we got up, my wife saw the 80 something year old man holding up his hand, palm facing her. Completely unaware of the gesture, she instinctively high-fived him. 

A couple silent seconds later, we all burst out in laughter. He was pretty cool about it - laughed it off saying it was the first time, someone had high-fived him whilst giving blessing. 

 Awesome. Reminds me of when I was in South Korea and went to a church (more super-cathedral in central Seoul) there. After the service we were filing out and I was shaking hands with the priests. The main man gave a long, slow bow to show respect for me going along to this entirely Korean church as I was the only white guy there. Problem was, it was so slow and long that I thought he had kind of...blanked me, so I wandered off mid-bow not realising what he was doing. 

Bit awkward when my Korean friend explained to me what had happened. I don't understand what you thought happened. What does "blanked me" mean?  Probably British slang that doesn't translate well. To blank someone means to ignore them completely despite it being obvious that they're trying to engage with you Ignored It was entirely possible that he just fell asleep in the position. You made the smart call. This officer had a troubled childhood, and you reminded him of that when you high fived him, an experience he never had, since he had no friends. 
 What you didn't see was the officer's ensuing emotional breakdown in the bathroom stall. And the sad loneliness of life in a dimly lit, basement apartment. Or his dinner of ramen noodles from a plastic bowl in front of the TV. Or the tears of sorrow that ran down the officer's face when he looked at his phone's contact list and only had one contact, "Work."  As if "pizza" wouldn't also be a contact * Work
* Pizza
* Mom
* Dude I talked to once 3 years ago Yum! I hope you meant one of the first two. It's a bot... Let's test that:

Pizza Yum! Well, maybe that dude was the pizza delivery guy. Yum! Hey, youre a phony! -IRS collections office &gt;* Work
* Pizza
* Mom
* Dude I talked to once 3 years ago

*green card guy who tried to high five me (little do we know that he regrets pushing away the first person to show him any human affection in 25 years. That he took the guys phone number off his paperwork and now looks at it nightly wishing he had the guts to just pick up the phone. How could he ever explain that his anger and harsh actions were actually just saying "all I want is a hug"... Using each speed dial number for various pizza places in town :) After work he stops for nothing, it is straight to his parent's basement where he promptly gets naked for his lonely evening of porn and cheese doodles  and even then, "work," was code for the Suicide Hotline and even they won't take the call anymore, because he just depresses the shit out of them Welp, my mood's ruined. He was probably just mad cause his hand was limp and he missed an opportunity. 

*shit, fuck, c'mon Jerry you know better!*

*alright how can I play this off like he's in the wrong?*

"Sir, come with me." I get the impression he has no friends now due to being a cunt. your words carry a poetic sense of eloquence not present in a common reddit comment [Up top!](http://gph.is/1b9eRBa) I flew to paris with girlfriend.  I was hiding an engagement ring (on my lanyard).  We were going through security check point at lax.  I guess I looked shady trying to take the ring off and putting it in my wallet.  TSA agent gave me the stink eye, I showed him the ring.  He figured everything out and give me a fist bump.
edit: for grammer
edit 2: she said yes (this was two weeks ago) Plot twist: Thought you were hiding it from a side chick. Plot twist: he was.  If there are two twists does that mean you end up going in the same direction you started? [deleted] Sooo...did she say yes? she said yes :), so happy right now That's like the opposite of a TIFU!

Edit: TIWALL today I was a living legend. I think we need to up your standards for what constitutes a living legend haha This guy's a _genius_ I figure everyone would one up each other until the name was apt. Such is reddit. On the way to Canada for a ski trip my buddy got blacked out drunk on the bus and I actually had to slap him to wake up at the border. We got him off the bus and into the customs building and he high fived every single security guard. They thought it was hilarious. 

The US border folks were not so friendly. Really made me wonder why I was even coming back.  Its because the US guards are there to defend against "terrorism" and the Canadian guards are there to make the US guards look silly. "You think ISIS is bad? We have *Quebec*." Quebec is just a giant sleeper cell Username checks out.  We have a new Metal Gear Solid plot here.  "After the end of World War II, Canada was split into two - English and French."

-Big Boss For the Americans in the audience, there was a ... well, bombing campaign in the 70s with the FLQ, what with the martial law and the... you know what, just read it. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/October_Crisis Shit. That's impressive. And scary  As a Canadian I had US border guards be more polite and nice to me than compared to CBSA. Very true. Every experience I have had with American guards has been positive, whereas the Canadian ones have been ultra-fuckin-assholes. The last one was a customs officer that barely fit in her cubicle in TO. Barely fit into her stupid bulletproof vest. She was a fuckin cunt to me and my SO coming back into Canada on a redeye.

EDIT: Also Canadian Flirt with every guard.  If they're going to see you naked anyway, might as well make it on your terms.  This is just a personal anecdote but when I came back to Toronto after a two month trip, the guard checking passports smiled and said "welcome home" and that made my day It's almost like some people are assholes and some people are nice  I've had mixed experiences. One border guard in Newark with a thick New Jersey accent chatted to me continuously about my Irish last name and how he'd like to go to Dublin. My experiences with border guards in Chicago have been terrible however.  As an American, most cbp agents I've met are cunts.  Especially the cunts at Tamiami airport.  The ones on the El Paso border are also cunts. Well the reason El Paso agents are surly is they are actually doing work.

El Paso is one of the main first points of entry from below the 33rd parallel.  If you don't know, Part 91 and Part 135 aircraft entering the US from below that line MUST stop at one of the pre-selected ports of entry to clear customs before continuing on to the destination.  You cannot clear customs at LAX if you're coming from South America, you have to stop in San Diego or El Paso.   

El Paso is one of the busiest black market cargo sites in the US.  So these agents are ACTUALLY looking for drug smuggling, gold smuggling, human smuggling, etc.

Which is why they probably are bothered when they are spending extra time dicking around with civis who don't know customs procedures.  

It's not you, it's just that they have shit to worry about that other customs agents don't.    I flew back from Peru, and we flew through Dallas, and they gave fuck all about us at customs, looked at our passports and waved us through. We had only our backpacks, and probably looked a bit rough after spending two weeks living out of them in southern Peru.

 My SO had more trouble at the airport in Lima, she's likely on the 'lists' for flying, since she worked in Karachi for a few months in 2009. They pulled her out to check her bags, and had the flight attendants check her onto the plane and let her know that if she needed to go to the bathroom, she'd have to ask them. When I've been at the El Paso border everyone has been really nice and it's been done really quickly. I live in Alaska so I've been through more than 30 border crossings for sure because I usually travel by road and that was one of my nicest experiences. Maybe the guards are only friendly to foreigners so ~~they'll have a nice time in the country they're visiting~~ it'll fuck with our minds.  The Canadian border for me has always been a good experience. As long as you're not overly nervous or rude, it's a breeze compared to the American side. I always feel like a criminal going into the states, and a person again when i get to the Canadian border. After reading these comments, it sounds like Everyone thinks that their home country border guards are the friendliest. Makes sense. I'm American, and have crossed the border about 30 times. Most of which were as a minor with relatives, but the tension level was always highest leaving the country, and coming back was always a breeze. When I say tension level, I simply mean the adults saying "Shut the fuck up and sit still when we get to the border" That, and just the general tone in the air. As an Irish person, the Canadian border guards were friendly and smiling and did their job professionally and the American border guards were rude and massive dicks.  I dunno man the Canadian guard tore my luggage apart and was asking if I had drugs or firearms. Luckily I left them all at home but I was like 'why would i smuggle weed INTO canada?' "What does it matter if we're smuggling Dark stuff OUT? Surely you ought to be checking what we bring back IN?" Man. I had a US guy grill me for a good 10 minutes about whether I was carrying fruit back into the US from Canada.

He started listing off fruits and was like, "You're sure you didn't grab one for breakfast and stash it in your bag? An orange? A banana? Apples?"

If I was going to smuggle anything, it wouldn't be a banana that costs twice as much as it would if I wait a couple hours. He thought you might be packing a banana for scale. I don't know when I we were coming back from a fishing trip in Canada the US border guard ask us "If we had anything to declare, food,natural objects(rocks,flowers)". We of course say no, and then goes back and opens the hatch of our SUV, and out falls a box of Canadian Wheaties right onto his feet. He just laughs, walks up to car hands us our cereal and tells us "Have a wonderful breakfest.". 

(In case no one has been to Canada, their cereal and almost everything there is labeled half in English and half in French, so it was obvious it was Canadian food. ) I'm pretty sure the food they are concerned about are things like produce &amp; meat. 
 &gt; the Canadian guards are there to make the US guards look silly.

Meanwhile, others have had much worse experiences with Canadian border guards. This. This. and more THIS.

I used to hop over to Windsor quite regularly.  Every time I approached the cross into Canada, the border guard's questions would go like this:

&gt;Guard: Oh, hey!  Whatchya going to do in Canade?

&gt;Me: Heading to Voodoo, maybe even the casino.

&gt;Guard: Oh! Nice, well you make sure to win some of my money back for me while you're there!

&gt;Me - drive into Canada.

Coming back?  Apparently, part of the interview process for border guards here in the US is to be a type-A douchebag.

&gt;Guard: What's your business in the good ol' US of A?

&gt;Me: Returning home.

&gt;Guard: Where's home?

&gt;Me: 123 Main Street Anytown, MI.

&gt;Guard: How long have you lived there?

&gt;Me: All my life.

&gt;Guard: Do you have any produce, cash, or other goods I should be made aware of?  Oh, are those cigarettes?  Let me see that!  Is this marijuana? *sniff* Son, this smells like marijuana.

&gt;Me: That would be awfully inconvenient, seeing as I've never smoked marijuana in my life.

&gt;Guard: Are you trying to be cute, son?  Crossing the border is serious business!  You think this is a joke?  I'm here busting my ass keeping America safe, what have you done for your country?

&gt;Me: I'm enlisted in the USAF.

&gt;Guard: hagabadla

And on and on and on....  Seriously, would it kill these fucktards to be a little bit nice until given reason to be suspicious?  Sorry for the length; it has always bothered me how uppity, self righteous, and ineffective these guys could be.  Meanwhile, the US/Mexico border looks more like a freestyle sprinting competition. Now I have to think of an answer in case someone asks me what I've done for America "I've done my part in the carbon cycle, turning O2 into CO2." Boosted your local economy and helped drown the ever present threat of communism What if I'm a communist Tear your shirt off, revealing the hammer &amp; sickle tattoo covering your torso. The flee, flee back to there from whence you came, drawing strength and wisdom from our forefathers


P.s. is everyone on Reddit a communist wow No, just the neckbeards. Neckbeards are almighty in communist subs. Say, "I pay your salary with my tax dollars, sir." "Let me demonstrate this taser you bought" And this gun And my axe! AM I BEING DETAINED?
 'I've done my part in taking lots, and lots, of drugs off of the street.' acquiring consumer goods and services is all that is required.  Graced it with my presence.  Had a friend who was a border guard on the Arizona border and quit because he got fed up. Was told by my friend that they called Mexicans 'conks' for the sound a flashlight makes when hitting a head.  The whole border patrol is a mess.  What? That's horrible! Somewhere right at this moment the anthem of the United States of America is playing, while a large American flag waves proudly in the wind nearby. While Sam keeps time playing the conks Upvoted for "hagabadla". I feel like an idiot, but what does this mean? I can't sound it out.  http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2xb9q9/tifu_by_stalking_a_girl/

here you go.  Reminds me of the rape joke in that episode of Legit.  Upvoted for upvoted for hagadbadla Upvoted for for.  Back in Highschool we had a school trip, about 15 students, to see a play in Stratford, Canada. We were stopped in our vans at the border for an hour. When we got back in, all of the food we'd left in the vans was gone including a couple boxes of doughnuts.  Half their day and productivity is most likely the enforcement of doughnut confiscation What type of question is "what have you done for your country?" Fuck people like this. Canada they barely ask you for an I.D. to get in. Canada has advised its citizens traveling to the U.S. to avoid carrying cash. Border patrol and police have been seizing it under the guise that cash is connected to the drug trade.

I'm pretty close to agreeing with all those am I being detained or am I free to go people, if they weren't such self entitled cunts it'd be easier. That's not a question anybody's been asked. I guarantee it.  I dunno. I remember reading a story about someone who was detained based on Arabic flash cards. Because us know turrurists speak that gobbledygook  That's strange. My car was searched for an hour and they interrogated me and brought things up from my record when I was a minor. Over ten years ago stuff. On the way home I didn't even need to get out of the car. Just waved me in basically. I'm an American, but my fiance is Canadian. We have had the opposite experience. Numerous issues with the Canadian border officers, but never any problems with the US officers other than a car search one time when my fiance was alone.

Granted, we've only had issues with the Detroit border. I used to cross into Canada through Sault Ste Marie, and I never had any problems with them. Sort of opposite story, when I was a kid my family drove up to Alberta to visit family there. This was before passports were required at the border for US citizens, so my parents didn't get any for the four of us children. The Canadian border guard was miffed over that, and asked my dad how he would find us if we got lost when we didn't have ID's to identify ourselves with. My dad, being the joker, responded with, "well if anyone takes them they can keep them."

We were asked to pull over and our vehicle was searched. 

Two weeks later on the way back into the states, my dad handed over his passport and ID to the U.S. border guard, answered 3 questions, and we were waved through.  Well that's because frankly the US doesn't give a shit if you got lost in the US. You're US citizens. On the other hand, Canada does as it would be their responsibility to find you and possibly provide for you. Same would happen the opposite way.  As a canadian resident I just have to say in my experience our boarder guard can be just as humorless or worse than any American. They pick then for that reason. US Border folks are very serious about their jobs. I'm from US and went to Canada to do some solo hiking/camping, and the Canadian guards to and from were polite and kind. The American guards were grim and serious and pulled me out for extra inpsection, scanned my car, grilled me with questions for 20 minutes and still didn't find the drugs. haha. Just kidding. I didn't have anything more dangerous or illicit than a small camping knife. Whatever they used to scan my car fucked up my disposable camera film, so none of my photos turned out, which sucked, but oh well. At least I didn't wind up in Guantanamo.  Immigration attorney here. That locked room is called "secondary inspection", and it's where they send anyone whose documents, computer entry, etc., show the smallest blip of a hiccup of an error. I've had to tell clients before that they're going to wind up in secondary inspection for life because of a typo in a government database. In some cases, it means hours in a small room, guarded by gun toting federal agents. Oh and you can't use your phone or any other electronic device. I warn my clients to pee, eat, and be prepared to sit in stone cold silence for hours. WELCOME TO THE UNITED STATES!

OP: how long were you in secondary inspection? Is that the same as the room that they put me (citizen) in while they bring in an interpreter to interview my (dual citizen, low-English) son in another room every time we travel as a pair?

The last time we taken aside was when we we came for Thanksgiving for the first time and the inspector asked my son "what will you eat for thanksgiving dinner?" and he replied "uh, maybe rice?"

My son doesn't know what turkey is, fuck me, right? You've given me a new fear about my future move to Spain. Just make sure you teach your kids English and import a turkey once a year so he doesn't get tripped up on the civics quiz! Well as if you taught your son the important things like the 5 courses of Thanksgiving dinner we wouldn't have this problem! Not long. 30 mins approx. I think the main issue was that I'd put Apt #1 on my address in one document and not in another. Nobody bothers with apt numbers in my building because its small and we all know each other. I think I'd have been going there regardless of my high five but don't tell anyone else, they all think I'm hardcore! Well, welcome to the U.S., you can pick up your complimentary diabetes at your nearest McD's. And by complimentary we mean $1.99. Free food is for communists. The diabetes is free. The food you pay for. So to dial down the hype a bit I'm a customs officer. In almost all large ports of arrival immigrant visa packet holders are sent to "secondary". This doesn't mean you've done anything wrong it just means we need to do some extra paperwork and that's where that process can happen. While in secondary you are allowed to go to the bathroom, and we'll give you water (or a cup and access to a faucet) if you ask for it. We usually don't provide food unless you're there for hours (which only really happens if you're being detained for a criminal charge or are about to be expeditiously removed from the U.S.) but if your blood sugar is crashing and you let us know we'll find something or other to give you. No one wants to deal with a trip to the hospital b/c a passenger wasn't given some trail mix. 

As for the high five, it's unusual but not unheard of. That's why I never get my hand in range of the passenger. The officer probably purelled the heck out of his hands then bitched about you in the lunch room. But that's about it. You would have been escorted away with or without the high five. 

And finally welcome to the United States. Memorize your A number, it'll come in handy.  As an immigrant, I'm greatly curious why you recommend memorizing my A number. Can you expound? Just about every federal form asks for it. Its the same as memorizing your social security number.  Oh yeah!! High f...oh, shit "never leave a brother hanging?...my bad"... I like how they got a different officer because the first one was weirded out by a High five  this is regular procedure, the first officer is doing primary screening, once he said follow me, it means he referred him to secondary screen which is done by supervisors or officers with atleast 5 years experience, the first officer went back to his post, as you know this dude is not the only entering the US and they need that post occupied   He must have just watched the interview. We would never decline a green card on the grounds of stupidity, this is America. Emigrating from Kazakhstan by any chance? /me slips you a coupon to a strip club.  Very nice! Sorry that happened to you.  Absence of a sense of humour is a prerequisite for the job.  I also learned the hard way. When crossing the border you should do as directed,  be silent unless spoken to, make eye contact with the officer,  and watch your p's  and q's. Let them fuck up the next guys day.  Yeah I discovered this early. Lived in NY for about 5 years on student then OPT visas and always tried to be friendly and joke around with these guys. It's the British way by gosh! Not exactly the same thing, but when I was flying to Germany out of Chicago, one of the TSA agents was making all sorts of jokes with us. One guy asked him who writes his material. Lol.  He a TSA agent. Obviously he steals it.  What are p's and q's supposed to mean? it's an old expression.  Not sure if this is true or not but supposedly it meant mind your pints and quarts.  Which were what alcoholic beverages used to be served in.  And it was said to the staff to keep their guests drinks full.  Now it just basically means the equivalent of dot your i's and cross your t's.  Or just basically do everything as close to perfect as you possibly can. You're asking questions. That's another thing you shouldn't do. US border guards are the worst! Everytime I go across I feel like I might as well have a bomb strapped on me because thats how they make you feel. Nothing like welcoming you to their country by treating you as a terrorist! Even as  U.S. citizen I feel uncomfortable going through.  I was coming back from a year abroad and it said to write down the countries I'd traveled to (not that they would know because of Schengen...).  I wrote down a handful and then just wrote "(Europe)" and the guy gave me lip and was like "Europe is not a country... blah blah" So I just wrote down as much as I could.  Asshat.

BUT, as I went past the 'baggage check' area and the collected my landing card, they pulled me aside for a minute because of what I checked off, and the woman was really friendly and I made a comment about her being much nicer.  She seemed to be in some sort of authority position because she figured out which officer was that I had dealt with and had one of her colleagues make a note of it, haha! Haha yeah eh? Usually I only go across for hockey in Detroit for Leafs vs. Wings and we just take our transit bus across. We all go in at once, show them my passort and my ticket and we are processed quickly. Sometimes they question me for a few minutes about what I am taking in University in Canada, etc. Bitch I'm borderline drunk and want to watch some hockey let me through! 

Usually when I travel I fly out of Detroit because it is much cheaper than Canadian flights. The border usually has a hard time grasping why I am flying out of the USA or vice versa why my final destination is in the USA if I'm Canadian. Then I have to explain I live 5 minutes across the border. 

I've never been pulled in the states, but when I gave my passport in Heathrow to board my plane I was "randomly" selected for a further search. Good times!  How intense was this 'further' search?  Though traveling within the EU  to Sweden, a border guard spoke Swedish to me weed me out and scan my bags before I left the baggage claim area.  That was an awkward conversation...

"What are you doing here?"  

*Just visiting, and meeting a friend.*

"How do you know this friend?"

*Uh... from a game...on the internet...*

"Ah okay, that happens a lot.  Have a nice visit!" Ridiculous. I don't want to live in a country where you can't high five obviously high fiveable hands. *To fiiiiiive... the unfiveable haaaaand!* I got screamed at for putting my hands in my pockets while standing in line at the customs counter. My mistake was that I didn't realize I was a criminal under investigation and posed a threat to national security. I was there under my own free will to give them my photo and fingerprints for a Nexus card.  Why would America decline entry for stupidity It's like a tariff. We don't want any outside stupidity, we only want to promote our own from within. I loved your movies Mr. Bean!  Welcome to America, you'll fit right in.. You just know he's sitting in the office with his buddies right now going, "And then the m*therf*cker high fived me. I nearly peed my pants trying to not laugh." Solid fuck up. No harm done.  I think it really depends on the guard. I've had assholes going into the States and bitches coming back into Canada. Some want you to know how srsly they take their jobs and others are actually good at their jobs and know what to look for from people coming through.  My father and I were walking back across the Peace Bridge back into the US after visiting Canada.  This was back when you still only needed a birth certificate and driver's license for a land crossing.

My father hands the agent his license and copy of his hospital birth certificate which didn't even have his name but just his footprint.  They waved him right through like he was Eisenhower on D-Day. 

I go next and hand them a US Passport.  I get the third degree. What was I doing in Canada?  Was I staying somewhere locally? Who with?  Was I travelling with anyone (yes the guy you just waved through without asking any questions and has the same last name as me.)  

I seriously thought they were not going to readmit me and was like WTF! There is no way you could be too stupid to live in America. 
Source: I'm American. 
 Honestly a high-five should be enough to prove you are an American.  As someone's who's had a lot of experience with border agents, I fucking love this story. I think I would have lost it if I'd been standing behind you  Sounds like you thought the official was giving you a test to verify your Americanism, a test he himself failed. If you're declined it's because you spelled finalize with an 's'  TL;DR Englishman tried to be American, ended up out-Americanizing the border official, got in trouble.  Immigration workers are the worst jerks in US Government. &gt;TSA Never had to deal with those guys so you may be right. Anecdote about Immigration though to prove you're probably right:

I was out on a second date with the girl I'm now married to and this dude walks up to us and starts chatting her up right in front of me. He's asking her what she does etc, and she asks back. He says "whats in your drink?" like that's supposed to help us figure it out. It doesn't.

Finally he says "ICE". And were both like, uh what... and he has to explain what ICE is. He goes on to talk about all the baddies he's rounded up acting like a hotshot. 

Long story short he asked for her number and she gave him the local Pizza Hut.

If you read this ICE man, I win.  Yum! best bot ever I'm lucky enough to have traveled a lot since I was a kid. I saw St. Petersburg a few years back, which was quite impressive.

Anyways, on the way out we all had to cross customs, and I had a very stone cold looking female officer looking at me behind the plate glass. She asked me about my trip, what I did, ect. and I replied, "St. Petersburg was a great city, except for one thing!" 

She frowned and asked, "And what would that be?"

"There's not enough vodka!" 

Yeah I know, bad joke, but she actually laughed. So yep, I made a Russian border agent laugh. I'm proud if it.  I have family in both Canada and the US, so my various relatives cross the border relatively frequently. One time the border guard asked my uncle "what have you got in the trunk?" and his response was "trunk stuff." You can guess how well that went over. At least he saw the high five coming 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=k4AHHVT58NE Your life sounds like a Mr. Bean sketch. He should of been happier. It is an American custom to high five just about anyone, anywhere. He should *have* too.  I just can't understand how people get that wrong... That would be a good test to prove you're a citizen.  Getting it wrong?  I thought it was a rite of passage. It was. Welcome, fellow American! Damn, some people really can't handle a good ol' high five. What's up with the immediate escalation of the situation? This guy was not trying to be mean. I work at an airport and we are not allowed to say hi to anyone we know in the customs area because it makes it look suspicious. People have in fact been in a lot of trouble and fired because of this. He justs wants to keep his job and not get accused of anything. I would think that border guards could have a little bit of a sense of humor and still be able to protect us from terrorism.  Congrats on your marriage and your permanent residency.

Have an authorized high five. At what point does it cross your mind that a border official would ever want to high five you? Experince of never being asked ever to high five any border agent in any country should have been a bit of a sign maybe... Note to self:  The customs guy does NOT want to high five. Don't worry, stupidity does not disqualify you at all... just look at the rest of the country! LOL. Welcome to America my friend. Register to vote please. Mr. Bean Don't worry, I did the same thing in the US embassy in London. I couldn't get the door to open and I was rushing to put my belt back on, so an embassy lady opened the door for me and I ended up outside with my jeans falling down. WTF, are you Mr. Bean? &gt; Please RES tag me as the Inappropriate High Five Guy


You remind me of [Mark the Mint Man](http://i.imgur.com/lcfFP0t.png)
 Holy shit that is brilliant! I don't want to be like that guy though! I've got you tagged as "possibly too stupid for a green card"

Also. Incredible story, I love inappropriate high fives I don't see what the issue is. Your FU is the most 'merican thing I've seen in a long time. Welcome to the greatest country in the world! Hah!  I did a similar thing in the 80s when I was driving cross country by myself.  I was used to seeing weigh stations where they weigh Semi trucks on the side of the highway.  They are pull-offs that look almost like an offramp with a small shack by the side.  

It was late at night and in the desert in New Mexico.  I saw these traffic cones in the road steering me to go through a weigh station so I slowed down and pulled through.  There was an officer standing by the shed with his hand up in what like like a casual greeting.  I waved back and kept going.  A mile down the road I was pulled over by an INS Suburban and ordered out of the car at gunpoint.  I  turns out that it wasn't a weigh station, it was an INS check point that I blew through!  He wasn't waving, he was telling me to stop. 

Apologies, an inspection of my car, and an Indiana drivers license convinced them that I was just an idiot who didn't know what a checkpoint was, which in that case was a good thing. I used to cross the border at Sault Ste Marie every day. Each night, coming back, I'd always see the same asshole Canadian customs agent.

And he WAS an asshole. He'd question me, search me, search my bicycle for fuck sakes.

I'd ride the bike over and he'd be guaranteex to give me a hard time.
He even had me strip searched and my bike dismantled a few times.

Some years later, I ran into him in a bar. To my surprise, he bought me a beer.

"Listen," he said. "I know you were smuggling something all those years. I'm retired now, so I can't do anything. But I need to know: what were you smuggling?"

I laughed.

"Bicycles." you should have dismantled him in the parking lot.  No australian and new zealand customs and immigration are the worst a bannana or apple in your carry on is a $200 fine.
US are great my dad said he was ex military and they rushed him through so fast he had to wait 45 mins for his bags.
he wasnt even US military. Fresh produce is super serious in Australia/NZ though because they don't have all the same fruit parasites and bacteria as the rest of the world does. It could cripple the fruit and veg industry in both countries if one made it's way in. Those contraband beagles in Tasmania do not mess around.  I understand this. I really do but their is such a thing as overkill the hardline stance they take can be a bit ridiculous I came back to NZ  from vanuatu and told them I had half a kg of kava and they waved me through even told me not to worry about going through the xrays but a woman behind me was practically strip searched when she said she had an apple she was given on the plane. That's pretty different though, there's no native population of kava and no commercial crop similar enough to be ruined by imported stuff. Apples are everywhere, but the apple bugs and viruses that plague harvests in Europe and the US aren't in Australia/NZ. Yet. Because of quarantine :) good point however when entering a country with what is essentially a mild muscle relaxent you dont expect to be told to skip the xrays  Yep, I'm a kiwi and I get through LAX waaaay faster than my bf from USA gets through Auckland security.  He said it's the longest it's ever taken for him to get through and he's travelled through a lot of airports. 
It takes me a while getting through Auckland security too because I'm a horse rider and always have boots and gloves to be fumigated but that's not normally too much longer. Unless you fill out the forms they give you and repeatedly and explicitly tell you to fill out before you even land.  You cannot get fined if you declare the items.  You may be asked to dispose of them, but that's it. Thats a good point however it is easy to forget a piece of fruit in your carry on its not something you would usually think was a risk.I havent been fined before however was stopped when I first came to nz because my mother had a mooncake (singaporean treat) this led to quite a bit of lost time checking whether we should be fined. I dont think their wrong too just stressing if your going to either country it can be quite a gauntlet &gt; Thats a good point however it is easy to forget a piece of fruit in your carry on its not something you would usually think was a risk.

The quarantine rules for Australia are not a surprise to *anyone* travelling there.  It *is* difficult to forget a piece of  fruit in your carry on because you're asked about a thousand times whether you have fruit in your carry on.  A carry on is not a house, it is a small bag.  The documents you must fill out also *explicitly* state that you should declare anything you're not sure about.  It's not at all a difficult process. This is something that has affected thousands of travellers many of them experienced and highly intelligent individuals it may be plastered everywhere and you may be asked multiple times however if you go through the process repeatedly it eventually becomes white noise and if you are distracted mistakes happen. I am not saying Its allowable.wwhat I was originally saying was that securitys tight and you get high fines both statements are factually accurate. Complaining about getting a fine for violating quarantine laws is like complying that you got a ticket for going 90 in a 55. Fuck man, I had a little dirt on my hiking boots and they freaked out. I mean I get it, but fuckin A Depending on where you came from, soil can carry diseases such as foot and mouth, which is highly contagious and would absolutely decimate the local livestock industry. They shouldn't have freaked out, but they will definitely clean and disinfect your shoes. [deleted] He  was military. british royal navy for 26 years  I said he wasnt US military Calling bullshit on this one. I moved to the US in May of last year, buddy moved in February. Both moved from UK, both married Americans. When you land you hand immigration a large packet full of documents. They bring you into a back room where you answer a few questions and finish off the rest of the paperwork - it is not processed at the initial desk. Mine took about an hour, my buddy about half that. Then they take the photo that ends up on your green card, which comes in the mail a few weeks later, as does your social security card. 

The guy who processed mine put on some gloves, asked me to accompany him to a room down the hall. I thought I was going to get an "examination". He closed the door, paused, then said "please sit down so I can take your photo". We both laughed and I called him a bastard.

My point is you would have ended up in the room either way. I'm even skeptical about them planning on taking your fingerprints at the front desk as they do that in the room too normally. 

But hey man, I know how hard it is adjusting/how boring it is waiting for your social so you can start working, if exaggerating to make a popular TIL is getting you through the day, more power to you. Welcome to the US.

EDIT: OP admits [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/32pj1w/tifu_by_high_fiving_a_us_border_protection_officer/cqdjpqf) he was sent to secondary for a paperwork discrepancy and not for the high five, and a customs officer [pointed out here](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/32pj1w/tifu_by_high_fiving_a_us_border_protection_officer/cqdp6fl) that  "In almost all large ports of arrival immigrant visa packet holders are sent to "secondary"." You entered in New York, you were going to secondary anyway. 

**tl;dr everyone entering the US for the first time on a green card are brought into the back room - the high five has nothing to do with it, and OP has admitted it in this thread.** Both my photo and fingerprints were taken at the initial desk which I'm thinking is what happens to every person entering the US. The secondary processing was something different people have been saying and is for clerical errors mainly or if the officer is suspicious in any way. The second room you're referring to I also went to (after secondary processing) and was where they inked my finger and took a physical fingerprint and I gave the signature which will presumably end up on my green card. So... What you're saying is the high five had nothing to do with it? Yeah I thought so. Makes for a good TIFU though. No that's not what I'm saying. Why are you being an asshole? Not being an asshole at all, just pointing out that ([as you've agreed](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/32pj1w/tifu_by_high_fiving_a_us_border_protection_officer/cqdjpqf)) you were taken into the room because your paperwork had a discrepancy. Also a customs officer [pointed out here](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/32pj1w/tifu_by_high_fiving_a_us_border_protection_officer/cqdp6fl) that "In almost all large ports of arrival immigrant visa packet holders are sent to "secondary"." You entered in New York, you were going to secondary anyway. Literally nothing to do with the high five. As with all TIFUs, it's a mixture of truth and fiction (though to your credit this one has at least some amount of truth in it). Well look. I called it exactly as it happened. I high five him and he immediately took me to the room. When I wrote it I wasn't aware that secondary was common and I thought the apt # thing was just one of the many questions that he'd asked me. When that immigration attorney commented that and I agreed I just thought it was all in good humour.

What I resent is you implying that I've been trying to bull shit people. Hey if it makes you feel better I can tag you about it and bring it up in other threads so you feel like some sort of reddit celebrity, like you asked for, right?  Actually I'd be perfectly happy not to come across your miserable self ever again.  [deleted] Ha. Well the embassy and yesterdays border crossing are provable. Sadly the high five is not! It did happen though and so did the light switch. To be honest though I can hardly believe it myself! Bad Luck Brit?

New Meme? Damn, wish I was in England so I could Brit myself up and take a picture! wait you are fingerprinted to become a permanent resident? is it the same for nationalizing/becoming a citizen? Of course you get fingerprinted to become a legal permanent resident. You also get to have a medical exam, a background check and demonstrate means of supporting yourself. I'm with Finnecas, I don't understand the "of course". I can see the means of supporting yourself, even the background and medical checks, but to be finger printed? Then again, I don't think anyone should be finger printed without a conviction, yet we do it when a person is merely brought into station with a charge. its because people get denied, go back to india make fake documents and come back and try again, finger prints solve that.

PS: permanent residents have their finger prints checked every time they come in to the US to make sure its them since Nigerians are known to lend their card to their brothers that look like them to get them in. the guy was having his finger prints checked, not being finger printed which happened at the embassy.

Also crime of moral turpitude are grounds for cancelling your perm res, so they also check for those using the finger prints and haul your ass in front of a judge if a CMT is found on your record.

PSS: sorry india and Nigeria  Fwiw, in my state, you have to be fingerprinted in order to get a teaching license.  I'm not going to argue the fingerprinting for criminal reasons, that's a whole big can of worms I'm not up to date on.

But as a US citizen, I've been fingerprinted at birth, to get an ID/Drivers license, when I got a passport and at customs in every major airport I went to, including internationally and when coming back to the US. And when cashing checks without proof of a bank. But that's rare, and outdated.

Its pretty standard to supply fingerprints when entering or leaving the country. For residents/visas, it's another method of verifying its the original applicant and not transferred to another person/stolen. 

Same for my passport, anyone who looks like me can steal my passport when I'm abroad, make a plane ticket home and come into the US as me. To make sure, they check the fingerprints on file and verify that it really is me and ask me all those stupid questions. 

(Personally, I understand the questions and fingerprinting. Its the attitude that I've rarely gotten about why I was out of the states and why I am coming back, etc. Most of the time I've been lucky/Not stereotyped, but I've had a few bad goes).

It's not really criminally focused, and as far as I know it's a different database that isn't accessed by police during criminal searches. But, I'm not up to date on criminal prosecutions so maybe someone else can weigh in on that.  You also get fingerprinted by the Americans to enter the country unless your a Canadian citizen. I've crossed with multi millionaires and the U.S. border guards acts like their sneaking in hiding in a container and planning to squat.  Of course? Why doesn't every resident and citizen have to do it then? Foreigners are more likely to be criminals?

Edit: took the comment up the wrong way, what with my overreacting and such. Try to get a drivers license as a US citizen without giving your finger prints. And I wasn't complaining or accusing. I _am_ a legal permanent resident and the "of course" was with the meaning "of course there's a proper process", it's not like in the movies where you fall in love with an American and becoming a US citizen is automatic upon landing here. I was never asked to give my fingerprints to get a driver license. Their main concerns were that I am able to see well enough to drive and that I have insurance.  Ditto. Idaho, Utah, Washington. Never been fingerprinted.  I've only ever been licensed in Ohio.  I guess it's only Texas then? Oh, sorry 'bout that. Nearly everyone must have their prints on record. That's pretty extreme. No harm done. I just bristle when people show their lack of knowledge on what process legal permanent residents go through. Many times, people are surprised to hear that I pay taxes, even! Taxation without representation ;) &gt; I just bristle when people show their lack of knowledge

That's ironic considering you're telling people that everyone gets fingerprinted to get a driver's license, which is absolutely false. &gt; Try to get a drivers license as a US citizen without giving your finger prints. 

...done? I've never had my prints taken. Isn't that only for criminals? Generally a government would like to know one's criminal history prior to making a decision on whether to accept a foreigner applying for status.

On the other hand a government is stuck with it's homegrown criminals since they already have citizenship, there is no application or decision pending. Everyone born in the US is fingerprinted at birth. They already have those on record.  That's not true. If it were, there would never be a problem finding the identity of someone via fingerprints.  Nah for the marriage route, your (resident/citizen) spouse has to demonstrate means of supporting you. You don't have to do/be/earn shit :) you get your fingerprints taken every few months while you wait years and years for the process to grind on I don't want to be that guy, but in the last sentence I think you mean "convinced" not "convicted." I only bring it up because I legitimately thought they arrested you and denied your card for pushing the button until a few minutes into the comments when I had a moment. Oops. I'll correct now if my phone battery holds out! "I was *convicted* they would decline my green card on the grounds of stupidity."

Can we please assume this was meant to be "convinced" ? ..  or was this written from your cell as the "one posting" they allow you ? It was. I've corrected now. Freudian slip! At least she didn't call the cops on you.

But, that was really...something else you did there. You really can't do that for a fake ID. Only if the person assaults you over it. The store clerk could give the ID to the cops. The cops could then track him and charge him with a misdemeanor or a felony --- depending on his state. 