Gordon, how do you like your eggs? Very good question.

I have to say, scrambled.

Over a slice of sourdough bread that has been grilled, and then sort of doused with Worcestershire sauce.

Now scrambled eggs, I did a video a few years back with my youngest, Tilly, showing how to make scrambled eggs, and I think it has 10-11 million hits?

And the nice thing about scrambled eggs is that they don't have to just be breakfast - you can have them in the evening, with some nice mushrooms, some tomatoes. You can have them as a snack at midnight, or at 5 o'clock in the afternoon.  "if you wanna be a good boy, run upstairs now and give it to her in bed.


...the breakfast." Gordon Ramsay. LOL. I remember this. Good shit For the lazy (and the hungry): [Gordon Ramsay's Classic Scrambled Eggs and Smoked Salmon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yv64abAJvEA), from his official channel

and [Gordon Ramsay's Scrambled Eggs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUP7U5vTMM0) - this is the one with 10 million hits Even Ramsay burns his toast. I still have a chance. Do ALL the kids on Master Chef Junior really know the techniques off the top of their head for every challenge, or do you give them a quick overview/rundown before the challenge starts. For instance the crouqembouche challenge? That's a really good question.

So across the filming procedure, we get the chance to spend time with them, with basic culinary lessons. So they won't know *exactly* what they're doing, but we'll show them basic techniques a few weeks prior. And also, things like the croquembouche - we'll do a class in sheet pastry, but we'll do sheet pastry BUNS, as opposed to actually doing a croquembouche. 

When it comes to the more serious elimination challenges, they'll have insight 3-4 weeks out. We are halfway through shooting season 5 of Master Chef Junior, and I am staggered by the level of competition. We start taping tomorrow morning, but based on the standards of the first few seasons, the level is just amazing - they are coming in better, stronger. And for kids to have ballet lessons, soccer lessons, that's something we've grown up with. And I've never known kids like we're having now, who are having cooking lessons outside of school hours.  That's really interesting.  

For the adult Master Chef, do the contestants also get those kinds of lessons/techniques in advance?  Or is that unique to the MC Junior? Hello Gordon, I've wanted to know what is your opinion on Michelin rating systeme ? That's a very good question.

One thing we need to REALLY understand about Michelin is the stars are awarded to the restaurant.

So, you know, if there's one thing I've come to admire with the Michelin is that it's consistent. It's a guy who is judging you incognito. We have a lot of guys in this country, and Europe, who are a bit too familiar, too chummy with chefs, and they overindulge - food editors, they'll know, and tip off the chef. With a Michelin guide, you have *no* idea when they'll be in, or when they'll review you. And that's why they're the most feared and respected by chefs.

Now I'm always asked - you're a hands-on chef, you're on TV, how come you're still with these stars? Who does the cooking when you're not there? 

When I'm not there, I have trusted proper chefs - like Clare Smyth, the chef de cuisine in Chelsea - even when I'm there, she's still running the ship. She's been running it there for 10 years.

So the stars are awarded to the restaurant. And sometimes the chefs think the stars belong to the chefs, but they belong to the restaurant. The service is just as important. Michelin's had a hard time in America, because it was late coming to the table. But if there's one thing I respect, it's consistency. They manage to identify consistently, and it's all there for the customer.

So when people ask me "What do you think of Michelin?" I don't cook for the guide, I cook for *customers.*  The service is just as important.

From a Michelin star restaurant maitre, thank you

 Some of my lifetime favorite restaurants are because the food is fantastic, but the service is magic. When I start to look for my server, they are right there. Sometimes they are there a fraction of a second before I know I want them, the rest of the time they are invisible. 

That's what I pay for when I'm bringing a girl out on a first date. It's a fine art and very much appreciated. To me, it's what makes or breaks the experience when you expect the food to be johnny-on-the-spot. &gt;I don't cook for the guide, I cook for customers.

We need more chefs - and restaurants - that abide by this premise. Thank you so much for doing this AMA. The guy just fires off 10/10 at all times I don't care if people think he's rude or over the top, he speaks total truth and has total integrity in my eyes. This has probably been said a million times in this AMA, but a lot of Ramsay's "rudeness" was played up for American audiences. He comes off a lot more levelheaded in UK broadcasts. Hi Chef,
Are there any really strange food combinations that you enjoy?   I had an amazing doubled pork chop with rhubarb. Now rhubarb is something we literally eat with desserts, but this dish was incredible. It was in Spain. It was a double pork-chop that had been slow-roasted over an open pit fire with rhubarb. Absolutely delicious. This was one of my mates that was trying to show off cooking in his back garden in Spain when we were out filming for KITCHEN NIGHTMARES. I didn't think it was going to work, to be honest.

And then when I started tasting, I thought *Shit! This is delicious!*  
&gt;I thought Shit! This is delicious!

I love that that's how you respond to a good meal. What do you normally eat as an everyday meal? Chef's pick.

So I don't really sit down and do lunch. I certainly don't sit down and eat dinner.

I have a breakfast with oatmeal, that's the first thing, and that sets me up for the rest of the day.

It's very hard to sit down for a 3 course meal, and I'm very easy to please. If i go out to dinner, I'll share an appetizer, enjoy my entree, and enjoy my dessert. It's very hard for me to enjoy a full meal, because I taste every 2 minutes in the kitchen.

I'm not very good at sitting down for 3 hours to enjoy a meal. I'd be lying if I told you "I sit down 4 nights a week and have a 3 course dinner." I do nothing of the sort. 

And also, there's nothing worse than eating dinner at 5:30 and then having to get up and cook for 3 hours. So I like to keep on my toes, and eat small bits. Almost like in Hong Kong - 4 or 5 times a day, small bowls of food.  And also, it keeps that little bit of, you know, appetite there, and that keenness to perfect what you're cooking.

Someone said to me last night "Never trust a skinny chef."

And I said "That's bullshit, never trust a fat chef."

And she said "Why?"

And I said "Because they've eaten all the good bits."

Yeah! This is so far my favorite AMA of 2015 Damn, all these answers are so well done.  Have you ever literally gotten sick from a horrible hotel in Hotel Hell? Ehm - you know, sometimes it doesn't happen until 2-3 days later. No, I've never really got *sick,* but i was in a hotel last year in Vermont, and I didn't realize until I got home that I caught *nits* in the hotel.

Yeah.

And I did something really bad-  because I thought it was my daughter. I thought it was my youngest daughter, Matilda, and then it turns out it was *ME* with the nits. So I had my hair checked by my wife Tara, and I traced it back to the pillowcase in Vermont! So I apologized to Matilda. Because, you know, she's young and quite often kids get nits, and then my wife said "Listen, you're wrong. Tilly didn't give you nits." 

Ridiculous.  Translation for Americans: Nits = lice

Edit: hey you sarcastic douchebags, I know you could Google a Nit, I was just trying to lend a hand to keep your AMA experience going without a second tab. And... I love everyone of ya. Keep on being you. 

Edit Part Duex: Well, thank you anonymous redditor for the gilding and finding this as my number highest rated post of all time is calling Redditors a bunch of sarcastic d-bags will be forever cherished. I thought nits were the eggs lice laid.

Also, until you've actually done nitpicking, you can't appreciate the word... Silly bitten nitwit, Tilly didn't get nits.  Hey Gordon, what did you have for breakfast mate? *Heheh!* Everyone thinks i have a glamorous breakfast, like a full English or eggs benedict. I keep it simple, because it reminds me of my mum. So I keep it simple, porridge, which is oatmeal. But growing up in Stratford-Upon-Avon, we kept it very simple, just oatmeal with water, salt, and oatmeal, because my dad said it would "put hair on your bollocks!"

It's really weird hearing you say the word "bollocks" Victoria.

The night before, put 3-4 bananas in the oven on a pilot light. And the next day, squeeze the bananas into almond milk, bring it to a boil, then add the oatmeal and dried cranberries, and you'll have the most *amazing* oatmeal for breakfast.  We must hear Victoria say bollocks. "bahlacks" My Midwest accent has been tempered a bit since the [NAS AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/233t3x/i_am_nas_amaa/cgt4jn9).  What part of the midwest you from? Upper "Dontchaknow" Minnesota/Wisco? Or closer to Chicagoland, where "roof" becomes "ruf" and there are two types of shoes "gym shoes" and "dress shoes"
   
Or are you more from near the Lou? As a Midwestern native, I am intrigued. Milwaukee, Wiscahnsin.  Is there any food that you won't even try? Ehm - any food I won't even try? That's a good question.

I think, being a chef, the first thing that I set out to do was to make sure that I almost got to taste every ingredient anywhere in the world. I wanted to learn so much about ingredients that I'd never know what NOT to do with an ingredient.

So I'm an open book. Whether it's a beating cobra heart from a  snake in Cambodia, or a deep-fried tarantula, or a Beef Wellington, I'll eat absolutely anything.

The only thing I draw the line at, Victoria, is eating overcooked food. There is NOTHING worse than an overcooked brussels sprout. The smell is *disgusting.*  Is food overcooked as bad as [this?](http://ak-hdl.buzzfed.com/static/enhanced/webdr06/2013/7/1/10/anigif_original-grid-image-25294-1372689216-36.gif) "This pigeon is so raw, it's dropping shits all over my taste buds." I don't think I've ever read an answer where the celebrity actually says Victoria's name... Gordon seems like a great guy  A lot of the celebrities talk about Victoria - and if she's reading the questions to them, a lot even start to answer as if they are *her* questions. Wonder if she gets karma out of this. For this?  No, she gets paid by reddit for this.  It's one aspect of her job as PR Queen of Reddit.

But her own user name is /u/chooter.  I think you'll find she doesn't need a whole lot of extra karma.

:D (You're too kind) Victoria!  How are the wedding plans coming along? Not as smoothly as I would like but we're working on it. Apparently the restaurant needs to know who wants to eat what, or something (I would love to have gone with a taco truck)...  ill have the chicken  Maybe you could ask Gordon to cater your wedding :P Norm McDonald's AMA is littered with comments about Victoria. It's great that she includes them in. [Well, he and James May *did* eat bull penis and rotten shark on the F Word.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-xhfJRdwHnU) "You disappoint me, Ramsay"
James May is amazing. That was **absolute** gold. I was laughing so hard I cried a little when he said that.

"So this has probably been in a lady cow?"

"I'd like to think so." My respect for James May **INTENSIFIES**.

That was impressive. "You disappoint me Ramsay."

That would keep me up at night. I liked when he and [Clarkson cooked lobster.](https://youtu.be/VrqcmnUWBWc)

&gt; Ramsay: You see that? Never eat that. That's the shit sack.

&gt; Clarkson: I'VE EATEN THAT!

 James may is the slowest of the three because he has to lug around his gigantic balls all the time Wow. James was either exceedingly drunk already, or he's even manlier than I thought. Given his comments about Clarkson a few weeks back, I'd probably lean towards the former. Hello Gordon. I'm a big fan.

Two questions:

You obviously have a talent for witty insults. Do they come naturally or do you think about them and then say to yourself: "I'm gonna use this one next time I get angry"?

Also, after watching your show I want to try jellied eel. I'm going to London in a few days, any recommendation about where to have it?

Thanks! Heh! Witty insults? Ehm... it just happens sort of spur-of-the-moment. I see red, I get frustrated, I let it go. I'm not very good at editing myself. I have to get things off my chest. If there's one thing my mum taught me, it's speak your mind, be firm, get things off your chest. I think it's a good way to work, and quite healthy to have that attitude. Do I think about it previously? No, they just come to me in a flashpoint. And sometimes even *I* sit back and think *Did I just say that?*

And then jellied eels - you've got to go to the East End of London, and get the most amazing Malt Vinegar. They're very healthy, packed with protein, and bloody delicious. And the River Thames now, in London, is TEEMING with eels - so some of the best eels in the world now are from London! They're delicious.  &gt; And the River Thames now, in London, is TEEMING with eels 

That's oddly terrifying to hear If they're not shrieking I'm not terrified I fish a small stretch of the Thames, between Staines and Shepperton. Hundreds of eels.  Sounds like you need to get your hands on some jelly I don't think he's ready for this jelly You guys cook like old people fuck! [That was my favorite.](http://i.imgur.com/GyWrodY.gif) His face after is what makes it amazing. "..give it to her in bed..( *did i just say that* )..the breakfast." https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUP7U5vTMM0 Reference for those wondering. This video changed my scrambled eggs game.  Earlier in your career, did anyone handling the media aspect ever try to convince you to change your persona? Do you swear just as much in everyday life (please say yes)? I've never really worried about the sort of media profile, early on in my career? I'm a chef. So I, you know, we don't get taught how to handle the media properly! And as you can probably understand, chefs when they start out make some pretty big mistakes in terms of saying things in the heat of the moment that get taken out of context, but I've always said that's passion.

Do I swear? Two weeks ago, I was at a parent's meeting for my school. And my daughter said "*Daddy, please don't embarrass me."*

SO I get to the school and the first thing that happens - there's all these mums and dads there, and all the teachers are there, with the names on the table, and I see the head-mistress, and my daughter Holly was there, and it's *incredible* - I went straight up to the head-mistress and asked for a selfie! Which I thought was fucking brilliant.

My daughter dived under the table in embarrassment. But it just broke the ice. These things are just so formal.

And the head-mistress said "*Oh my LORD, I've never had a selfie before! What do we do!?!?"*

So I said "Put your head up and fucking smile!"

I tweeted it out. God bless 'er.  Fucking hilarious. Good job, dad. Anybody have a link to the twitter selfie pic? Sounds hilarious. Hi Chef, I'd like you know how you got into running and triathlons?  Good question! I got into running &amp; doing triathlons - first of all, I've run over 15 marathons and doubles (ultra-marathons) in South Africa. So I needed a bigger sort of commitment, to spend a little bit more time to myself. So - listen - I love running, but it's given me quality time to spend on my own. SO I got into triathlons about 3 years ago, and it's helped me to stay even more focused in my day to day job.  Also, I have to say in a HUUB wet-suit, I look like I've got a fucking 8 pack. Which is unique about a chef in a wet-suit. It's incredible how toned you look. 

I recommend every chef put on a wetsuit. It makes you look like Arnold Schwarzenegger.  This is a good AMA /r/shitramsaysays

But really, that's hilarious.  Hey Gordon, big fan! I'm genuinly curious: how the hell do you manage your time? You are everywhere, you have at least 200 shows, a family, restaurants etc. How do you balance all that?  I...I multi-task very well.

And I am never in one place too long.

I think now with, you know, my own production company, I'm very lucky the schedule works around my diary. I work my ass off - you know, 15, 16 hours a day. I quite enjoy the time difference when I finish, for instance, last night we were taping MASTER CHEF until 9 or 10 PM at night, I'll have a quick bite to eat, and then I'll call the UK at midnight - because come midnight LA time, West Coast time, it's 8 o'clock in the morning. I'll say good morning to the kids, I'll catch up with my business in London, and then from 2-5 o'clock, I sleep, get up, go to the gym, and then start my day again.

So that's my daily slog.

So I stand by my convictions - when I opened up the restaurant, Gordon Ramsay, back in September 1998, I decided I was going to work my ass off. My flagship restaurant in Chelsea has never been open on a Saturday and Sunday - it's never been open on a week-end, because I thought if we're going to do this, I'd like to do this properly, so my staff needs time off. So I work hard, but I give myself time off on the week-end. I cut it off, and power down for 48 hours.  Shit man. 3 hours of sleep. Explains why he's pissed off. Reminds me of my life, except the work part. and the money, respect, power, etc, etc dignity, pride, hygiene... Damn, I wouldnt be able to survive with only 3 hours of sleep and workinig so hard. I would really probably die because of exhaustion. Yeah if I go a few days with with less than 6 hours of sleep, RIP my immune system. I have so much respect for how hard you work. you can tell by how detailed his replies are How do you still have hair **A fucking gorgeous head of hair** That's truly incredible. Does your wife and children have a difficult time with you being away so much? What's your favourite Disney movie? My favorite Disney movie.

Ehm, come on? 

Seriously?

It has to be RATATOUILLE.

I was very close, last year, when we had Bradley Cooper in the kitchen cooking up a storm for his new ADAM JONES movie coming up the end of this year, and understand his level of excitement about service, being on the line - he didn't want to tiptoe, he wanted to be in there, from first light to the last plate leaving the kitchen, and it was so nice to see how he respected the team. He didn't want pampering, he wanted to roll his sleeves up and dive in there.

He said "Gordon, I just want you to teach me to put food on a plate, because it's really magical how you put food on the plate the way you do."

So I'm very excited for this movie, coming out, called ADAM JONES. It's very exciting to see an actor understand what you do, and knowing that he can't learn how to cook in a few months, but absolutely *nailing* it when it came to the level of presentation. 
 GG Gordon Ramsay promotes other people's upcoming work in his AMA.  Of course it's Ratatouille! that might be because Bradley did a tv series in 2005 based off of Anthony Bourdains book called Kitchen Confidential  Do you have any food recommendations for a college student on a budget? That's a really good question.

I would recommend that you get adventurous with pulses - chickpeas, beans, lentils. And you know, cooking these is incredible. Brown rice? Phenomenal. You don't need expensive proteins. Just make them incredible with how you cook them, or prepare them - a pressure cooker is a great way of making these foods go a long way, is to cook them deliciously. Chilis, garlic, definitely.  I've always found Mexican food to be a great cuisine in terms of getting a lot of flavor and nutrition for relatively low cost. Absolutely. Beans, rice, chilis, all cheap. You can make a good rice and bean stew for just a few dollars. this would make an interesting tv show special...  college student cuisine.   you could go to different colleges, and show students how to cook with limited budget and supplies.

EDIT:  /u/chooter  i would really like to know if GR saw this idea.  i think the college students of the world would like some inspiration in their cuisines...(META EDIT): Victora just confirmed that GR did indeed see this.

EDIT: i have gotten several people giving me hints on learning how to cook.  i know how to cook very well, and subscribe to /r/EatCheapAndHealthy and have /u/morganeisenberg (a very talented food blogger and chef) as a friend.   I love to cook, but unfortunately my 80 hour workweek does not allow me more than a day to catch up on shopping, cleaning laundry and food prep.  and yes, i cook every meal.  no fast food, no junk food.    http://imgur.com/gallery/pHUdq

Relevant INCREDIBLY...   damn, those look impressive for their simplicity. Hello, Gordon! I'm very excited you're doing an AMA!

Regarding food, what guilty pleasure do you have that most people would be shocked at? Fast food fries, frozen fish sticks, etc.

Mine is spaghetti in a can. It's repulsive and I know I shouldn't eat it, but I can't help it. Well, first of all, you need help.

***Spaghetti in a can!!?!*** That kind of shit we grew out of on our 8th birthday. I still remind my mum that she taught me how to spell with alphabetical spaghetti in a can.

You need help, big time.

My go-to sort of fast food snack... it would have to be In-N-Out Burger.

*Oh my god,* honestly, it is, when I eat Double-Doubles. I am *terrible.* And I always bring it back on the airport when I'm flying from LA to London, I'll sneak it into the first class lounge at BA! Well you can now check "getting yelled at by Gordon Ramsay" off your bucket list you lucky bastard If you wanted, just act bat shit crazy, own a shitty restaurant, and you too can have your dream of getting yelled at by Gordon. This seals the deal: In n Out has been publicly endorsed as Gordon Ramsays guilty pleasure.  Brb, gonna grab a 3x3 and a shake It's also Anthony Bourdains favourite fast food joint as well.  In N Out is a great example of the philosophy that Gordon preached at a lot of confused, bad restaurants on Kitchen Nightmares: figure out what you do well and focus on it. You don't need 50 menu items to be a good eatery. In some cases, you only need 1.  You've got a new show idea now, "Stop eating canned spaghetti you disgusting fuck." I've never seen an AMA where someone put so much effort into their replies. Thank /u/chooter Thank YOU guys.

Also, he's very, very nice.  &gt; Also, he's very, very nice.

Oh, I think someone has a semi _  _ I'm not hearing a "no". I thought the look of disapproval was like a more fully-realized "absolutely not" along with a Dame Maggie Smith-type facial expression.  /u/chooter is now an ASCII art critic. As somebody who grew up In California, I love you even more for choosing In n Out.  I can't say I disagree with you! There should be a garbage food anonymous program out there. I swear I can make a marinara from scratch. Promise!

Thank you for answering my question after I embarrassed myself. I'm looking forward to the upcoming season of Masterchef! Careful. You can become physically dependent on the double double. Even Gordon Ramsay loves In-n-Out... I really need to make a pilgrimage to one of these someday. Sometimes Iowa sucks.  OMG I worry about Victoria's ears when he sees that you eat spaghetti in a can.  Hi Gordon,

 The F Word is one of my favorite shows of all time. It taught my wife and I how to cook great food and be smart about it. We also loved all of the adventures and animal raising that happened throughout the series. Thank you for that. 

My question: outside of your own restaurants, where are some of your favorite places to eat? What dishes do you order? First of all, *The F Word* for me was a programme that taught me the importance of sources of food. The F Word tried to highlight the place of origin. How often do you go out for lunch or dinner, and you don't know where the food comes from? So the F Word tried to show the importance of that journey.

I've become a big fan of Vietnamese and Cambodian food. Because they cook with very little dairy. SO everything was tasty, but incredibly healthy at the same time. Great use of spice, broth, pork, a way of eating *well* but also JUST on the cusp of trying to stay healthy at the same time. 

So, you know, when I travel across the US, I always try to get off the sort of main "foodie" - the main, sort of high streets, and get into little foodie quarters. If it's South New Orleans, or Austin Texas, I'm going for the latest little thing that's just opened. So I'm pretty low-key like that. I like going into some sort of off the beaten track areas.  Good afternoon, Chef. Do you have a favorite cocktail? I have an amazing cocktail, which, you know, we're in Atlantic City currently, because we just launched the Gordon Ramsay Pub &amp; Grill here, which is where we're calling from now. 

It's with Tanqueray Gin, and it's called "Wake up you Donkey!" I mean, hahahahaha - it is incredible. And also, it's quite sort of spicy, and fragrant, and it's absolutely delicious.  WHAT'S IN IT According to the [bar menu](https://www.caesars.com/content/dam/cac/Dining/Upscale/Gordon%20Ramsay/Caesars-Atlantic%20City-Dining-Upscale-Gordon-Ramsay-8.pdf) on their site, Patrn Silver Tequila, Smoked Elderflower Honey, Lime &amp; Strongbow Cider. He said it has tanqueray gin though Hi Gordon! I'm a huge fan of yours, and enjoy watching all of your shows. I especially enjoyed your 'Home Cooking' series, and I want you to know that they sparked an interest in cooking for me that I'll never forget.

Anyway, on to my question:

What is the best meal you have ever had? And what about the worst?

Thanks! Wow, that's a great question.

Well, negative - the WORST meal? There's been too many of them to tell you about, because the last ten years, working on KITCHEN NIGHTMARES, I've eaten a lot of crap. I think I've drank about THREE and half litres of Pepto-Bismol! And in terms of, you know, good meals - I had an incredible meal at the Black Liquor Market in Studio City. The most amazing Scotch eggs, deviled eggs, and then these short ribs that were braised in beer.

*Incredible,* just incredible.  &gt; Black Liquor Market in Studio City

Thought you must have meant some great place in the UK and not the city three minutes away from my house. But you DID mean Studio City in Los Angeles! I'm so excited to go try this place! I love the idea that this place is gonna get ready for another night and suddenly get absolutely hammered and have no idea why. a tangible reddit hug of death! "Ah time for a nice relaxed Sunday evening... What the fuuuuuuck where did all these people come from?!" Why are they wearing fedoras? Black M'arket Liquor Bar *patronizing intensifies* I find it awesome that your talking style and cadence comes through so clearly in text. Like, really awesome. 

Edit: To those who are saying it's Victoria, yeah, of course it is. Only a jackass would think otherwise. That said, you still have you understand the way Ramsay talks or it just looks like over punctuated garbage. Therefore: his style comes through in the text. And that's cool.  I can't wait for Victoria to transcribe Christopher Walken's AMA. Well... ^thank you. *for* the question... Little girl I'm laughing so much at this. It will be the world's longest AMA, due to all the time spent formatting. Children...come closer...what did I SAY...about scooching? That comma key is gonna be worn out.  Gordon,

What are your essential must-reads for cooking or food culture in general?

Thanks for taking your time to do this!

 Have you had any contact with Amy's Baking Company since their Kitchen Nightmares episode? How do you feel about the fact that they basically became a meme? Heheheh! Are you mad? 

No! 

I haven't. I just... I dunno. I get inquiries on the daily basis, in order top pick up on some of the press, and some of the stuff they continue to do. I think it's absurd. And I'm now on the verge of actually feeling sorry for them, because it's not correct.

They're one of a kind. 

I have no desire to come back. It was the only time I ever threw the towel in - where I physically *can't* do any more.

We tried so hard for that program, you know. We left them with descriptions to get the business back successfully, and even if restaurants don't follow your recommendations, you still get blamed for it.

I'm frustrated with them. And I just wish they'd listen.

You know, them becoming sort of big online - I've seen some of the stuff they've been doing and saying, and it's quite embarrassing. It's quite embarrassing, in terms of what they're doing.

I just wish they'd put their heads down, and let their business, you know, think for itself, rather than trying to react to every little sort of negativity.

So, yeah... they seem to go out on a limb to attack people, and take great pleasure in attacking people.

It's a bit weird. They've become so successful, for being so bad...  Do you think that the restaurant was actually a cover for money laundering? I feel like that's one of the theories that'd make more sense to how they act I remember when I was a bit more interested in the story a few years ago that I found that Sami was banned from France and Germany for drug (maybe human as well) trafficking. I found it on a few sources but if it's true then it really wouldn't surprise me that he started a restaurant to launder money. I like how I can read this in your voice just perfectly. Tone, accent, pauses and all. It's all /u/chooter. Victoria's a wizard. Fun fact: [we've come full-circle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nEEqsHGuK1Y&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=17m8s).  *Squeals* it's her! That's me!  Just goes to show there's no such thing as bad press  The power of the meme is scary.  In all your Kitchen Nightmare episodes, midway through it always looked like you were going to throw the towel in. Damn, I guess this one was really bad.  Have you not seen this episode? 

It's nothing short of infuriating, it's literally hard to believe. 

Glad it's out there, though, it's what got me back into KN.  [The full episode for the interested](https://youtu.be/7uPOGxUtZvk). Summary on IMDB :

&gt;A couple finds it hard to listen to Chef Ramsay's advice. well, i have my next 43 minutes planned out

Edit: DAAAMMMNNNN [Hah...](http://i.imgur.com/CzBebhC.jpg) Yeah, but she does have [3 well adjusted children though...](http://25.media.tumblr.com/f4ff7d2b2bf3ef6ef7ff47522adcee7b/tumblr_mmwbowgxOC1ql5yr7o1_500.gif) That line was so weird to me because that's exactly the kind of thing I'd say as a joke.  "We have three children, they're just trapped in cat bodies." *big smile and acknowledging chuckle* 

When someone says something in dead seriousness that is something you would readily say in jest, it throws you off.  It would be like someone saying "I don't trust them homosexual types.  I hear they sneak around licking spoons in restaurants to infect people with their gay." and completely meaning it. Fuck, I forgot how terrifying she was. [I knew this gif would come in handy some day.](http://i.imgur.com/NMNqH.gif) Everything's in the eyes. The face still makes me scared Jesus are those guys still in business?! They're essentially living off of their negative press.  They're an internet meme that you can rather easily visit in real life and so they actually benefit from it. That and I'm convinced Samy is laundering money through the restaurant. Gordon, I would love to turn your attention to some of the top rated creations on my subreddit, /r/shittyfoodporn and ask for your expert critique. What do you say?

- [Chicken nuggets on a bed of microwaved mac n' cheese. Served with a shooting star made of ketchup and ranch sauce.](http://i.imgur.com/kXbgBNV.jpg)

- [Layered Bologna Cake with mayonnaise and mustard icing.](http://i.imgur.com/dSr82KL.jpg)

- [Cold, leftover Red Baron pizza stack. Served with greens and a ranch drizzle.](http://i.imgur.com/E8pm0QQ.jpg)

- ["Chicken Checkers". Chicken nuggets served with ketchup and a pickle flower garnish.](http://i.imgur.com/k1jAzqW.jpg)

- [I made the scrambled eggs blue because I've never seen blue scrambled eggs before and to be honest with you, I wanted to see blue scrambled eggs.](http://i.imgur.com/lJe8YVv.jpg)

- **MY PERSONAL FAVORITE:** - [No food left in the house. I present crushed ice with sriacha.](http://i.imgur.com/MKtLgUq.jpg)

As you can see, our subscribers are a highly creative bunch. Hopefully their culinary skills will skyrocket them into ranch dressing stardom. You can find these and more over at /r/shittyfoodporn.

Thanks!

Edit: Thanks for the triple gold. Too bad he didn't get to see this, maybe you guys can tweet him or something, I'm sure we'd all love to see his thoughts.

Next time.







 Oh god. Bologna cake looks painful. I literally do not think I could eat it without puking several times. Like at least 10 times. I don't think I could SMELL it without puking. That is literally the only creation on that sub that has made me shudder in disgust. This is beautiful. &lt;3 I was almost in tears when I clicked on the blue scrambled eggs.

...and then I clicked on the next link. Oh god, that was funny. the positives in your post got me to click into the sub.

the negatives are . . .

1. that bologna cake looks phenominally horrible. 
1. the blue eggs look like scrapings from a paint can that was left open. scrambled eggs don't have a uniform color. the perfect uniformity of color makes it look like it has no taste. Aha, THAT'S why those eggs are so horribly off-putting.

Thank you for identifying what has been disturbing me for ages.  I couldn't put my finger on it. Also, they're blue. Just looking at that bologna cake makes me want to vomit This is the greatest SFP creation...

https://www.reddit.com/r/shittyfoodporn/comments/2kd7v2/microwaved_winegums_with_defrosted_spinach_and/ Hello Mr. Ramsay!

My question is this: How do you feel about being a meme on the internet?  Oh, gosh.

I don't really get a chance to sort of look at the internet. D'you know what? I love that level of connection, and I try to show as much as I can, who I'm with, where I am, and giving people inspiration, so I don't really think of myself as a phenomenon on the internet.

I'm a cook. Who happens to be the luckiest cook in the world.  http://imgur.com/74YpKzV Your account name is causing me cognitive dissonance with the gif you posted. The pain... Greetings Chef Ramsay, and welcome to Reddit! I'm absolutely honored to have an opportunity to ask you a question or two. My dream is to have my own kitchen one day, and I'm trying my hardest and working my ass off as a prep cook right now. Anyways, I'm a huge fan of your cooking, and have been watching you on television since I was a child, so I'd love your input on a couple things:

1. What's the biggest piece of advice you can give a young, aspiring chef?


2. This is a harder question to ask, but I would really love your input on it if you can spare it; I've been pretty severally allergic to dairy and eggs my whole life. I've learned to cook with them at work, but obviously I don't use them at home because they would kill me. Do you feel that it's worth trying to find and fabricate milk, cream, egg, and cheese substitutes? Or do you think that those things would be impossible to truly "replicate" and that I should focus on developing recipes that are delicious without needing those elements?

Thank you, Chef!  1.) Ehm, good question. The biggest piece of advice - you know, cooking is about character. It's about different cuisines. And I think sometimes we go into it a little bit blinkered-vision. *Learn* a second vision - I thought I really knew how to cook when I worked for Marco and then when I went to France, it really opened my eyes. So learn a second language, and *travel.* It's really important to travel. That is *fundamental.* because you pick up so many different techniques, and learning a second language gives you so much more confidence in the kitchen. 

2.) Very good question. First of all, you know, you can't find a substitute for such incredible ingredients. It's very, very difficult. So, you know, a lot of difficulties in terms of trying to find substitutes, so you have to develop recipes with  great alternates. I was recently sent an amazing array of sauces, and dishes, by a company that didn't use eggs. The company was called "Just Mayo" but it was done without eggs yet it tasted ABSOLUTELY incredible. So try to figure out a recipe without eggs, because when it's that dangerous, the backlash could be *incredible.*  Thank you for the response! I've actually been using Just Mayo for awhile now, and it's the only "mayo" type product I actually enjoy eating. It's nice to know that you think it tastes great, too :)  Have you encountered Oatly cream? My wife doesn't do well with cream while I love a lot of cream based cuisine, and cooking with soy cream always sucked.

Oatly is oat based from Sweden and works *way* better. It's not perfect, but it is very, very close. Absolutely worth a shot if you can find it (it's common in Europe, but I have not seen it in NA). What are the odds of you and Anthony Bourdain getting drunk together and arguing over what the best omelette is on YouTube? I would seriously nerd-gasm if this ever happened and was televised. We NEED A Ramsay-Bourdain show!!!! Have you seen the '[Gordon Talks Dirty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIesCd4I4hU)' video? Did you like if you have. Will you please, for the love of all that is holy, record a GPS navigation voice set?
I would piss myself with joy to have my TomTom scream "Did you miss that Fucking turn on purpose, or are you simply that stupid?" Or similar encouragement. What is your opinion of Guy Fieri? Fellow cook here, although I'm a little down the road from where you are now. I have a question for you, since you have been there and done that.

I'm working in a Michelin kitchen right now, toiling away, hours after hours, days after days. My hopes and dreams are nowhere to be found as I scale and portion salmon after salmon, shelling pods after pods of broad beans.

My body is calling for maintenance nightly when I hit the sack. I need to eat more, put in a little more weight training, need a little massage to sort out the neck and the lower back. My home life, it's a fucking disaster, like all cooks. The closing thing I have to a father is the menacing figure prancing around at the pass, barking commands and bollockings when needed. He won't have the time to listen to my shit, because all the other cooks around me are in the same shit. Some have come from council houses, some are recovering addicts, one has been in jail. There's only one guy who has a still happily-married parents, and he's the Cordon Bleu-graduating white boy who helps on the larder section.

Sometimes I look out the tiny window and I can see people walking around the streets, enjoying the sunlight, while I'm here, questioning my dedication to this art as I rotate stock in the cool room, getting frost bitten, but the fear of the chef stops me from stepping outside to warm up. When a waitress walks in to clear plates, I sometimes would look up just in time to see a beautiful room full of happily-fed and merrily drunk people. They actually look happy, like, what the fuck? How can anyone be as happy as our diners are? I have a fucking deadbeat father living on the other side of the planet, calling me up for money once every six months. Friends, women, any kind of company, I can only dream about. The closest thing to feeling any kind of joy I get is those rare moments when I walk through the dining room near the end of service to get some coffee for everyone, and there will be a few diners,
left, idly sampling those little petite fours that we've painstakingly ensured are all perfectly round, identical and just plain delicious. Then, one of them will stop the conversation they're having with their company, look up from their food and say, 'thank you chef. this is delicious', and making the previous 14-hours of sweat and tears kind of worthwhile.

My question is, how did you deal with it? How the fuck did you deal with all the bullshit, Gordon? Because 'thank you chef' is nice and all. Very nice in fact, that sometimes I have to hold back the tears and let them lose in the cobweb-filled staff toilet like a fucking degenerate, crying over a compliment because it was the closing thing to being happy in months.'Thank you chef' doesn't
end my mother's misery and help her deal with my little sister's whoring ways. 'Thank you chef' doesn't make my dad grow some balls and start taking charge of his life. 'Thank you chef' didn't help your brother stop being a junky and lifted your family from poverty. It doesn't fucking help any of us in the grand scheme of things, for heaven's sake, so you tell me, Gordon. Whatever you tell me, I'll listen.

PS - Your tag says 'Actor/Entertainer'. Yeah, we're gonna need Victoria to sort that shit out mate.

Edit: Because this comment got too big, I'm afraid of Doxxing...so good bye username! That's an amazing question.

First of all, I've been in your shoes, and what you need to do is take a break.

So I came out of my training in Paris, after getting my ass kicked in some of the best restaurants in the world. I took some time off, and got aboard a boat, and was a private chef on a yacht. And those 6-9 months off allowed me to regenerate.

I'd run myself into the ground, as you described.

Cooking at this level is *so* intense. So don't give up. Be honest with yourself, and take a month out.

Now if that month out - just stepping back - if there's one thing I've taught my young chefs today it's to work hard, and not get disillusioned with the bigger picture.

That's the most important thing about cooking - you may be working down the road for me here in Atlantic City, but you could travel the world and still get a job in the kitchen, and still get time off in the same time. So that's what i would suggest, stepping back for a month, shutting everything down, and then starting up again in 4 or 5 week's time. 

Listen - if you send me your resume, I could look at putting you into one of the restaurants as a work experience, if you want to see something different, in order to make sure you don't come off the rails, to see something different, to create that level of interest.

Never give up. But don't be scared to take a break. I did it myself, traveled the world, through Sardinia, Sicily, and had the most amazing time, and what i *learned* after that experience was that I could do in 1 hour on a boat what i was doing in 14-15 hours in the professional kitchen. It confirms what you've learned, when you walk into a new establishment. It shows how strong you are.  /u/alfredo_linguini, you've got to do this. This will be the best OP's deliverance *ever.* PM me. I'll make sure they get it. 

EDIT: I have been updated that contact has been made. Fingers crossed that it all works for the best! I PM'd you Vicky, thanks darlin! Holy Fuck! Just the fact that Gordon even responded, and his advice is on point! It's such a relief to hear from an accomplished cook telling me everything will be all right.

Thank you once again, Victoria, and Gordon. Thank you. OP if Everything works out then can we expect your own ama too? ;) Man, if this shit works out we gon do all kinds of shit Fuckin' A tweety, bro. Good on ya. Did he just delete just account? doxxing prevention noooooooooooo Too many confession bears.  .....

Yup Oh, I'm so glad! I was never a Gordon Ramsey fan. I am now. Well fucking done, chef. Well fucking done.  Yes.  Thank you, Chef. Dude I'm so happy for you. Sounds like you were in deep, and you cast a fucking golden line. Right place, right time, but you can back your shit up- it's not luck. That's karma and perseverance. Best luck and *please* do an AMA sharing your story after you're on the partially through or on other side of the Work Experience!!

RemindMe! 6 months "Chef Gets Opportunity With Gordon Ramsay" No rats, Linguini :P Holy shit you better post an update in a few months! I'm going to be following your account now.

I can't wait to see what comes out of this. http://i.imgur.com/3ARF5L1.jpg This is a great AMA No kidding I wish I had the foresight to pop some popcorn for this crazy ride. popcorn? *thats* what you bring to a gordon ramsey AMA? he'd be dissapointed in you.  I'd fuck up on the risotto. Completely agree. Its so sad how many people seem to just put in the minimum amount of effort just to get whatever free publicity they can. Not at all surprised to see Gordon Ramsay be one of the few going the extra mile. He seems to put in an effort and do well on everything he touches.  GG Victoria TY Victoria, I read his initial comment before Gordon responded to it and was hoping just for a great response but this was on another planet. Ty for what you do. Mr. Ramsay, you've got to make this poor chef great! I just realized how huge of a backlash Gordon will get if he doesn't deliver...

What have you done, Gordon?  Nothing that he doesn't do in all of his shows.  Someone asks him for help, more or less sincerely, and he gives them enough rope to either hang themselves or climb out of their hole. I've never seen chef Ramsay not being sincere when it comes to food or the people. He's not mincing words but in a kitchen mincing words does not make the raw chicken taste better.

If a man of that quality takes the time out of his day to give someone a chance to make their first hesitant steps up the ladder, how much of an idiot do you have to be not to see that as an opportunity that you'll probably not get twice in a life time? you might want do delete the username in your comment. they guy deleted his /u/ for doxxing reasons. So yeah. do it, for [deleted]. [He's already worked in a Gordon Ramsay restaurant apparently](http://www.reddit.com/r/TheRedPill/comments/2r4mxm/who_was_the_first_red_pill_man_you_ever_met_irl/cnd1isv) Oh god, he's a redpiller?  
I know it's stereotyping but I immediately felt less awful for the guy. To be fair, it's much easier for someone on the low end of life to be attracted to something like the red pill. Kind of like the dark side of the force, I guess? Prey on the weak. They promise you power and control of a relationship, which it sounds like he might have been in short supply of at one point.

Not trying to excuse a bad opinion or anything. I'm just saying there's more to a person than this one terrible thing, you know? Many of us have that grandma or uncle that's just really racist, but you still love them 'cause they're your grandma and a really sweet and caring person. It's easy to dismiss that racist asshole at McDonald's as just an asshole in general and a terrible person, but it's not so easy to dismiss your grandma on the same basis, because you know more than just this one thing about her. Red Pill, and all those pick-up artist books are effectively the same thing: a way for guys to get better at taking home girls that are actively looking to be taken home.

Where they fall down is when people think the techniques that will get promiscuous people who are more on the animalistic spectrum of their sex life (no judging, to each their own) will also get them into a relationship with the girl of their dreams. Nope. A good relationship = a friendship + sexual attraction. You will never get into a good relationship if you think of your desired SO as an object, much like you will never be buddies with someone you don't respect as a human being.

It's amazing how some people never get that well into adulthood. I've told quite a few of my friends that the only sane way to approach the dating scene is to have full appreciation of the fact that, much like when you are just making friends, there is a huge percentage of people out there you just inherently will never click with. In the dating scene, you have to ignore their attractiveness, if the friendship is clearly never going to appear. Attraction does not and will never hold up a relationship.

I could tolerate Red Pill a lot more if it posited itself as a place to get better at hookups, rather than acting like the secret to all aspects of life is to be a closed-off, egotistical fuckhead. Yeah, I think people probably don't want to agree with you but it's true. A lot of lonely and sad people gravitate towards similar stuff as a saving mechanism. It's pretty obvious the guy is miserable and probably needs something to hold onto. Doesn't make it right but there's worse things people subscribe to when they're at their rock bottom. 

It's so weird seeing it on a site that frequently echos the "you don't understand depression unless you've been depressed!" mantra over and over. He's saying he's miserable, at least enough to air all his dirty laundry infront of the world, and he's obviously holding onto something to get him through.

Just seems kind of weird seeing the 'nevermind he's a redpiller' or 'he wouldn't be so lonely if he didn't spend all his free time on reddit' comments after he's been upvoted to hell and back with sympathy points.  Red Pill is pure delusion and pent up frustration, but I wouldn't hold it against the guy. Obviously Gordon is a huge role model for the guy, and the link that four20wenty provided is hardly anything incriminating for alfredo_linguini, all you can see there is the admiration he has for Gordon and that he's not some bullshit artist just looking for something. We all have our heroes, Gordon is his, all he's guilty of here really is just posting to a shitty sub. That sub doesn't even make sense

So they're saying he's successful and that to do that he checked off some magic bullet points? The paragraph he writes about women justifies your stereotyping. "A dutiful, good-looking wife" Ugh, my thoughts exactly. I was grinning like a dummy reading this whole thing play out then I got this far and just... To be relevant it's like eating the best 4-star dinner ever then chasing it down with a glass of warm piss. /r/cringe  This is a genuinely amazing gesture.  Now for the GGGordon meme.  Hey, if that's the guy's username it'd be nice of you to edit it out of your comment, as he made his comments anonymous for fear of doxxing. &gt; Listen - if you send me your resume, I could look at putting you into one of the restaurants as a work experience, if you want to see something different, in order to make sure you don't come off the rails, to see something different, to create that level of interest.

Holy shit, that just happened. [Removed] better update us with how everything turns out. 

Edit: Removed their username bc of doxxing. Best of luck and don't forget to update! Reminds me of how Gordon hired that talented young chef from the shitty restaurant in Paris, in Kitchen Nightmares. Gordon doesn't want to see talent go to waste, it seems!

(Piccolo Teatro episode of Kitchen Nightmares UK. s5e2.) A subtle point: It doesn't seem like Gordon looks for talent, but grit and hard work. Gordon knows nothing about this guy's ability to cook besides his incredible passion. Lots of people have talent. Not enough people have the determination to put it to use. That goes for lots of pursuits, not just cooking. Agreed - determined people will obtain talent, and they will always be determined.  Lazy people may be talented, but they'll always be lazy. Saying they'll always be lazy isn't true. But it definitely takes a lot of inner strength and/or discipline to overcome said laziness. My favorite shitty motivational poster quote is: "hard work beats talent when talent doesn't work hard. " Can confirm: have talent, lack determination. The president of my company always says you can teach aptitude, you can't teach attitude. You can teach technique, you can't teach passion and motivation. the young chef was India a young gal not a man ' The most important skills I look for when hiring people are a willingness to get up and show up for work, and an attitude to do their job and work hard. They can learn the rest, but you can't teach someone that kind of work ethic, and only... Maybe 10% of people in the world really have that.'

-my dad Reminds me when he offered a job to the kitchen help in the prison, just because he could chop the onions faster than him. Time is money Or how he was a prison and an inmate said, "I bet I could cut an onion faster than you." and Gordon asked when he got out. "Okay if you can cut an onion faster than me, call me when you get out and I'll give you a job." 

One,cut onion later and he got a job.  Looked her up. As of a year and a half ago, she had returned to Edinburgh and was [the head chef at a pretty cool sounding beer bar](http://www.heraldscotland.com/food-drink/opinion/bar-stool.22083853). The reviews of the food there are all really positive, so it looks like she's done really well for herself since the show aired. Despite what FOX makes Gordon out to be (the brash, angry chef) , I've always been impressed by how much he truly seems to care  (especially when you look at some of the British Kitchen Nightmares episodes) about the people he's working with. There is also that time he hired the guy he found while doing an episode in a prison. She was such a great asset to that place. What a shitty manager though. Didn't even know what they had, and then Gordon snatched her up! Yeah, the owner was mentally still a teenager. Was hard to watch how much her father helped her, e.g. finding India in the first place, but she just remained lazy and didn't give a damn. is there a link to that clip? https://youtu.be/2r5k31v7U70?t=42m35s

Here you go, it starts right after the restaurant closes down and Ramsay offers India a position in London. Seriously! My mouth literally dropped open. What an incredible opportunity.  Hopefully he gets to cook alongside a talented rat chef while trying to deal with its wacky hijinks before the manager finds out about the rat in the kitchen. He deleted his account =(. I wanted to see the updates.  Well I mean, to be fair--he is already working at a fucking Michelin restaurant, so he's got to have some talent. But having an option away from the living nightmare he's currently dealing with would be amazing I'm sure. &gt; Listen - if you send me your resume, I could look at putting you into one of the restaurants as a work experience.

HOLY FUCK! YOU FUCKING SERIOUS RIGHT NOW GORDON!?

I'll PM you my details, chef. Holy FUCK!


 I don't think I've ever been this happy for someone Someone we don't even know! I wish he didn't delete his account...I want to hear what happens! OP you need to deliver on this as much you have ever needed to deliver a plate of food to one of your hungry anxious diners. For all his temper, cursing, and insults, Ramsay is actually a really good guy. Oh that's mosly just for US TV. He's surprisingly normal on BBC.  I'd recommend sending him a DM on Twitter as well, because I don't think he's actually controlling this Reddit account. Not a chance /u/chooter forgets to let Gordon know about his response, haha!  Please don't let us down /u/chooter! chuter plz Chewtur We're home Chutplz Chutiya please Waiting for this... Awww Hey! Thats OUR word. chooter pooter You mean /u/[deleted]? RIP in peperoni /u/chooter. If that is his user name, would you mind removing it for him? It's not don't worry! Why did the cook guy delete his account though? Ok perfect, it was because of fear over attacks via doxxing What is doxxing? Who is /u/chooter and why does the username sound so familiar to me? It's Victoria's username who's victoria? She often reads out the questions to the celeb and types the responses for AMAs. What's an AMA? Where am I right now?  Why? Don't they have fingers? David Beckhams wife.  Victoria from Reddit. Jake from State Farm? Probably, in some cruel twist of fate, an NSA agent undercover. Ayy lmao I wish he hasn't deleted his account by the time I got here. I'm gonna comment off of you in the hope that he comes back and checks this. 

OP. I know a great chef at a great little restaurant in Fire Island (outside of NYC). Its seasonal work and you make a ton of money. Not sure how you're doing in the money department but if you feel like working your ass off for a summer and then taking a break I will definitely connect you with my friend. Like Gordon said: take a break. You obviously love it. So I'm here to offer a little connection if you need it. Good luck! PM me if you see this and are interested!
 I'm sure /u/chooter will take care of it.  I've already sent it up the food chain! GG Victoria  I see what you did there. Yeah, it couldn't be more obvious. You totally rock.  I really hope something comes of this.  Please tell OP to make a new account so he can keep us updated. I hope he does keep us posted! DM's require both people to be following each other I believe. Not true anymore, although you need to enable allowing DMs from non followers.  "Ohh how was your day honey" 


"Ehhh was alright, Gordon Ramsay offered me a job.... Idk, I think I'm going to take a month off instead, maybe go to London and try some jellied eel... Idk. How was your day sweetheart" you missed the part where he doesn't have a girlfriend  Twist: He was talking to a dead houseplant. I bet he was talking to his knives 

As a baker who works alone overnight, I talk to my scoring knife all the time.


I named her Needle after Arya's sword in GOT.


Edit: changed knife from night
Got my words mixed up, yo! Username checks out This made me laugh really hard &gt;Gordon Ramsay offered me a job.

Actually, he offered him "work experience."  In other words, he'll work for no money and take his educational experience for the rest of his life  as an investment in his future.

&gt;GR:  *"if you send me your resume, I could look at putting you into one of the restaurants as a work experience..."* Gordon didn't offer him a job. &gt; Gordon Ramsey said he'd "look into" getting me a job

There's a pretty big difference. Hopefully he gets it! A recommendation - if you're thinking of taking Gordon's advice on time off, and you're British (or at least EU), think about applying to be a chef at a British Antarctic station. They hire 5 or 6 a year. Every one I've worked with has been happy. They work hard, but assure me that it's way easier than their jobs back home. Plus you get to learn how to winter camp, ice climb, and do a bunch of other things you would have never dreamed!

British Antarctic Survey. Check them out! Good luck man, keep us posted... [Username Removed] (Since he's removed it, for privacy reasons)

Just in case you didn't see it, [Victoria](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/334wcy/i_am_gordon_ramsay_ama/cqhli8x) will make sure he gets it. so get on that bub! I bloody fuckin swear there's a hidden camera somewhere in this AMA. 
    
Can't wait to watch the whole story on the telly. ;) YEEEEEEEEEEEEES! CONGRATS! Jesus fuck, this is incredible! Good luck, my friend, I hope you bounce back. Burn out is a bitch, take care of yourself first, the art of cooking isn't going anywhere and it will be there when you are recovered and able to keep going. 

Please keep us posted on how this goes!! Good luck [removed]! Why did he delete his account? All that gold :( &gt;Because this comment got too big, I'm afraid of Doxxing...so good bye username! &gt;Doxing, sometimes spelled as Doxxing, refers to the practice of investigating and revealing a target subjects personally identifiable information, such as home address, workplace information and credit card numbers, without consent.

TIL You might want to consider deleting your comment with his username in it as well.  I hadn't considered that. Done. He was afraid of doxxing related to past comments. That link has been severed, it's not as much a worry, [deleted]

WTF happened here? Afraid of doxxing he was What's doxxing? finding out personal information about a person Probably [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/TheRedPill/comments/2r4mxm/who_was_the_first_red_pill_man_you_ever_met_irl/cnd1isv) , seeing as though he already worked under Gordon Ramsay and is a Red Piller. This made my morning. Please come back and update us with whatever happens! :)

RemindMe! 30 days He just deleted his account. NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO He's got the cursing right. This just made me smile :) you make sure you update us on however this turns out.

And hang in there. I want to see this guys ama in a few months At first i was like "Probably not a good idea to yell 'holy fuck' to a potential employer," but then i remembered it's Gordon muthafuckin Ramsay. You're amazing. Great advice. &gt; Listen - if you send me your resume, I could look at putting you into one of the restaurants as a work experience.

The day Gordon Ramsay won reddit. Ramsay, you magnificent bastard. This, ladies and gents, is how you human.

Bravo to everything this man is. Best AMA, ever. Gordon you're incredible, take it up! This is the Gordon Ramsay that I like. In the UK Kitchen Nightmares he would regularly be very kind and supportive of people that were genuinely trying. It's what made me a fan over everything else. When Gordon tells you to "SHUT IT DOWN!" you bloody well shut it down, if even for a month. I've always found people who thought you were an asshole for cursing but didn't look at how you would flatly give someone a job or help for an opportunity in a heartbeat is flatly amazing. 

You're the least mean person I've ever seen in every single occasion I've ever seen. Blunt, sure. Crass or prone to cursing, sure. But you're absolutely exactly the kind of person i wish was in charge of more shit. 

I fucking hate politically correct morally bankrupt people. You're one of the most morally superior examples of people I ever see, and fuck political correctness. Damn solid advice, and not just for line cooks, BTW. With all that you do, to take the time out of your busy schedule to read this man's long request and to respond so thoroughly is just really awesome. i love you Gordon. /r/bestof
 people like you and anthony bourdain really reaffirm the inherent humanity of weathered professionals like yourself. you've been down and out, you've seen and walked in the shit, and instead of letting it drag you down, you emerge wiser, more empathetic, and ready to help others claw their way into the light.

basically, you guys are inspiring and brilliant. thanks for helping those of us figuring out our shit realize what we can hope to be if we work hard enough. Ive always respected you, but this is an amazing answer.

I understand AMAs are done for promotional stuff but reading a humble and honest reply is incredible. Phenomenal advice, Ramsay.  You've had this comment saved in preparation haven't you?

Edit: I feel like I've missed an opportunity to say something like "is this comment prepared and FROZEN??" The Gordon Ramsay AMA was announced beforehand, I wouldn't blame anyone for prepping comments beforehand considering we all know how much traffic this one will get. [deleted] I have it saved up for months and months...wait you ain't Gordon, the fuck? How gutted would you be if that was Gordon's response. "You didn't even make this question fresh, it's old from the storage. YOU SERVE THIS TO AMA GUESTS?!" This /u/alfredo_linguini is so undercooked you can still find the barcode in the sauce! Better than nothing.

Edit: he answered it! &gt;Edit: he answered it!

Boy did he

 I just realized the way I wrote that comment looks the way I'd expect Gordon to write.  That was unintentional haha I apologize YOU DONKEY! "You donkey" haha I absolutely love that This donkey is RAW you SCALLOP! Don't stop, it seems like you've come so far. Your question is why i gave up on being a chef after 10 years, you described the struggles nobody gets. I hope it works out for you man. God damn, man...you sound like you're ready to undergo some Walter White-esque transformation in your life.

Have you considering ditching the fine cuisine and cooking meth instead?

In all seriousness, I hope that Gordon responds to your question, and at the very least, that life will get better for you. Chef is right. Even if he doesn't get you a job, you need to try something different. I'm a foh guy, but I've got some good friends who aren't afraid to cook in different places just for the experience. Heck, one buddy of mine just took a job on a farm. How crazy is that?

Of course, he's young and doesn't need a lot of money to live. 

The point is that anyone would get burned out cooking the same crap in the sameplace for too long. That's just my opinion.  I know you removed your name, but I'm sure you'll read this. Look at all the people cheering for you here. The genuine feeling of hope and happiness that you have the potential of winning. Everyone wants you to win. Take this feeling and remember it. Go tackle life's obstacles knowing we're behind you.  I keep rereading this, looking for the Ratatouille joke but I just can't seem to find it. Gordon,  please respond to this man.  Crap, it might go unanswered. ~~I'm out of credit, someone gild it so it gets attention~~. This man really needs some helpful advice. I'm hoping Gordon Ramsay can be the one providing him that advice. 

Scratch that. He got an excellent response and asked for his resume. Happy feelings inside.  Victoria doesn't make the tags. That is the mods job.  I'm not Gordon, but could I recommend making time for a wank?       
In all seriousness though, maybe take some time off if possible. It sounds like you're getting burnt out, if you're the type who can't stand not working but are relatively financially stable maybe inquire about having one week a month cut down to part time hours. The problems and frustrations you have, sorry mate, I've got nothing for you, but perhaps have a little time to yourself will allow you to have the energy to take control over some of the situations.          
All the best,        
-not a chef  Gordon's reply: TL;DR Say hi to Collete and Remy for me! You. Asshole. Write.

You have it. Use it. I want to read more. Went to look for good pictures of food in post history, end up finding out that you think Gordon Ramsey is a RedPiller. Reddit is fantastic.

TRP is not the way to deal with a depressing existence my friend. Sounds like you may have depression, or I may have seriously underestimated how bad a chef's life can be.  Just saw Chefs response, fucking do it. The guy recognises talent and realness when he sees/hears it. Good luck bud, and the diners do appreciate you and the food, more than you think! In the time it took me to read your comment, you went from 550 to 840 karma, got gold, and an epic response from Gordon.

Good luck. &gt; Edit: Because this comment got too big, I'm afraid of Doxxing...so good bye username!

PSA to other people out there: no one cares enough about you to actually dox you unless you do something really heinous. deleting your account is pointless in that instance. Man this gave me a whole new perspective on the people who cook my food.

I am going to make it a point from now on to meet the chef and thank him for a good meal if I enjoyed the meal, there have been many times I have had great meals and just paid my cheque and left as most people do but after reading this I will make sure to seek out the chef and thank him personally.

 this is really a fascinating insight to the dark side of a chef's life. cooking aside, and coming from a family with troubles, i'd say part of finding your happiness is to let them sort themselves out and move on with your life--find your own happiness. you can't save everyone, but you can save yourself.  What an odd time to delete your account... Couldn't have a more chef-y username.  Did you ever lose hope/ feel your fight was becoming a lost cause? How did you overcome the adversity?  I can honestly say that there were many, many days were hope was a very hard thing to come by.... In fact, I started out with a tremendous amount of hope but over time and as I continued to lose at every stage of the fight, the only thing I had left was that I was simply afraid to quit. Your perseverance has made you a hero to many, including myself. Thank you Do you think the SEC leaked your name to someone at Halliburton? I hope not but I don't know for sure.   I hope not too, but there is always that possibility and it is troubling.  You are a hero, and I am telling your story to my class of high school students in their 3rd semester of Criminal Justice so that they are aware of what can go on in corporate America and how to report issues if they realize there is wrongdoing!  Thank you.  It's great that you are using this to teach students. I think we need more example's like Tony's to help keep institutions ethical. Please do this. All we learned in business school is how great whistleblowing is and how to set up proper channels for them to speak out. 

It seems like none of what we learned is used in practice. make sure you talk about the consequences. It's worth considering. the people who encourage you to speak out aren't the ones who get to have their lives ruined It's worth nothing that virtually zero of the whistleblowers of the 'big frauds' of Enron, Worldcom etc. are working in their industries since their actions.  It's human nature to be suspicious of whistle-blowers, but this is a significant deterrent that keeps honest people such as Mr. Menendez from speaking up.  That issue needs to be addressed or we'll see more more fraud.  Guaranteed. Yeah, I think the fact that whistleblowers are unemployable is a bit telling. Like the whole industry just joined together to say "Hey, look at this honest guy! What a freak! Better not let him near our shady operations."

You'd think if there was even just one honestly-run company out there, they'd welcome whistleblowers. Actually, according to some surveys, the vast majority(84%) of previous whistleblowers say they would do it again, despite suffering what amounted to serious retaliation in some cases. 

Edit: Citation: 
Rachel Goodson, *The Adequacy of Whistleblower Protection: Is the Cost to the Individual Whistleblower Too High?*, 12 Hous. Bus. &amp; Tax L.J. 161 (2012). The SEC (and all regulatory agencies) are so littered with shills from the groups they are supposed to regulate as to render them nearly toothless. Were you afraid of physical threat at any point? I got the point that I couldt control what would happen but I didnt plan on living my life being afraid A true Patriot.  Live free or die Best state motto Yet in the state you're referring to, you can still be sent to jail for years over a joint.

&gt;Live free or ~~die~~ go to prison. Won't find an argument from me on that. I still have hope for NH.  So what was the worst you ever thought it might come to, outside of court? I heard a coworker/friend renamed you "Slugger" on their phone so that when you called, caller-ID didn't show it was you.  Which I think is pretty cool and clever so they could talk to you without catching flack.

Do you still talk to that person? I do keep in touch with James Paquette.  He is one of the best people I have ever met and I am very lucky to call him my friend. I think you should name him Packster on your phone. Just don't forward the email of you and Jan to everyone in the company. What's up, Halpert? Still queer? One time, as a joke, he banged every girl in the office. It was hilarious.  What has two thumbs and hates Todd Packer?

####*THIS GUY* PAC-MAN! Did they try to smear your reputation in any way? Most definitely.  The whole case seemed about smearing me. Can you mention of few of the ways? Anything underhanded?  He stands when he wipes.  Is that not normal?- I also stand  Proud to stand I stand in the name of freedom How has Haliburton's campaign against you impacted your career? (Aside from the legal fees, etc. ) Someone else posted that he was offered a senior management job at GM because of his integrity. Say's in the article attached that he currently works for GM in a pretty high position. Seems the person hiring saw it as a plus that he was a whistleblower which I agree Attacking credibility is a go-to tactic for corporate law, what's it like fighting some of the best of the best? Will you study for a law degree after this? Did Halliburton have a whistle blower policy prior to this incident? If so, was it violated? Do most companies have such a policy? Yes indeed Halliburton had a whistleblower policy as required under Sarbanes-Oxley ... it was required to be confidential and Halliburton's policy promised confidentiality while at the same time discouraging anonymous complaints on the basis that if you didn't provide your identity they may not be able to properly investigate your concern.  This was absolutely central to my case and I relied  on this policy but was Halliburton blatantly ignored its own policy and betrayed my trust. This is Jesse. It's worth noting that KBR, which used to be a unit of Halliburton, was just charged by the SEC with trying to write overly restrictive confidentiality agreements that could have discouraged whistleblowing:

http://www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-54.html From what i understand based on one class of employment law, companies adopt whistle-blower policies, then make them very difficult to follow for the whistle-blower. Then when the case comes to court they can say "the whistle-blower didnt even follow the internal process before releasing this damaging information!"  Will you receive any compensation from the IRS because you were the whistleblower? The UBS whistleblower received $104 million

http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10000872396390444017504577645412614237708 This information was given to the SEC prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank act.  Go on... Prior cases aren't grandfathered into Dodd-Frank, which is the act that provides financial gain for whistle-blowers. It was enacted after the Madoff cluster.  Thanks! The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection act was passed in 2010. This act included provisions for the SEC to offer rewards to whistleblowers who provide evidence of securities violations. The rewards provide for rewards in the range of 10% to 30% of the collected sanctions from an enforcement action where sanctions exceeded $1,000,000. Since the SEC promulgated the rules in 2011 they have given away approximately $50,000,000 to 16 individuals. There has been an award of $30,000,000 and also $14,700,000 which accounts for the majority of the funds distributed. SEC investigations are slow and the general consensus is that the amount frequency and amount of rewards will increase as time elapses since the creation of the Whistleblower program. The SEC might be slow, but the way they can bust your ass is creative.   Thank you! I love that you can blow the whistle on a company and get $30,000,000 but if you blow the whistle on the government you can go to jail. He asked for $1000, and court gave him $30k. 

Man is a legend that just wanted to set a precedent for other whistleblowers. From your perspective, how do you think we can improve the whistleblowing experience? 

I think you and people like you are truly patriotic, and we should do everything we can to encourage more of what you did. Any ideas on how to do that? Thank you for the kind words.
Unfortunately, it is almost impossible for a whistleblower to prevail.  There needs to be more protections and there simply needs to be a more balanced playing field. It shouldn't take 9 years and hundreds of  thousands to even have a remote chance of prevailing. I hope you can recoup legal expenses from them. Unlikely, I know, but I hope anyway. I don't see how this isn't a basic requirement of protecting whistleblowers.

Legal costs, costs of living during the ordeal, some type of whistleblower award money that should reflect how difficult it would be to hold/acquire a job during and after the ordeal... Luckily Dodd-Frank does just that.  Unluckily this ordeal occurred before Dodd-Frank. You'd think that since the case is still ongoing during these new laws that they could be applied, especially in this case. Dodd-Frank (a law unfortunately passed after Mr. Menendez blew the whistle on Halliburton) has something like that.

http://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10000872396390444017504577645412614237708

[Thanks to /u/HobieCat89 for the article link](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/33q1g3/i_am_a_halliburton_whistleblower_i_fought_them/cqnasjx). Great news is that Obama *promised* to protect whistle-blowers, so you got that going for you! But his administration also prosecuted [more whistle-blowers than all previous ones combined](http://www.politifact.com/punditfact/statements/2014/jan/10/jake-tapper/cnns-tapper-obama-has-used-espionage-act-more-all-/). maybe he meant protecting them from sunlight. As your President, it's my job to ensure that whistleblowers in our country receive the UV protection they deserve at the time they need it most: when standing outside the company they've been fired from, baking in the sun.

This isn't about Democrat or Republican; This is about skin cancer. thatsthejoke.jpg What?!? A politician lied to gain public favor? Color me surprised.  Done.
http://imgur.com/PXiICcA

 Aww yiss  you been colored son Of course you'd bring up the fact that he's colored, racist  No, that's ignorant.  You're ignorant.  Obama is just placing these whistle-blowers into protective custody.  And the best whistle-blowers get the best protective custody at the island resort of Guantanamo Bay. [That's ignorant](https://41.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lmxlul7wvW1qgfo5ao1_500.png) You have no idea how bad I wanted a picture of that. Thank you for providing.  Pretty sure that was a tongue-in-cheek response from /u/seafood10 but yeah, it's pretty frightening to see the difference in words and actions. And why is it that all these accusations say "more" but none say "and by that we mean 7 people in 7 years."  Here is the list:

* Stephen Kim, a State Department contractor, for providing information about North Korea to Fox News. 
* Jeffrey Sterling, a Central Intelligence Agency officer, for sharing information about Americas work to counter Irans nuclear program. 
* Chelsea Manning, military member, for leaking a lot of information.
* Edward Snowden, DOD contractor, for dumping a ton of data.
* Thomas Andrews Drake, an official with the National Security Agency (NSA)
* Shamai K. Leibowitz, a translator for the FBI
* John Kiriakou, former CIA officer and later Democratic staffer on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was charged under the Act with leaking information to journalists about the identity of undercover agents
 It's also the fact that they're going for much more serious sentences. See https://www.aclu.org/blog/washington-markup/leak-prosecutions-obama-takes-it-11-or-should-we-say-526 More is more.  And the fact that all of these are being prosecuted for national security reasons is actually worse. I'm suprised I haven't heard about your struggles on the news.  Wait! No I'm not,  the news is a joke and owned by the same people.  You sir are a hero! I heard about it on NPR! What strategy did you pursue in the beginning after witnessing wrong doing? What lessons could be learned from the process you had to go through? I did everything I could working within the Company at the expense of my career at Halliburton.  However, it was widely recognized that the Company was improperly accounting for its revenue under bill-and-hold.  I was told by my boss, that the Company was going to  fix the bill-and-hold problem and get back within the lines of what is appropriate.  However, the problem was too big to fix without a restatement.  I was subsequently told to simply "save it for the subpoena".  That's when I thought my only avenue was to take my concerns to the SEC. What specifically was wrong with the bill-and-hold transactions?  Was it just that the criteria under SAB 104 were not being met?  (Legitimate business reason, request initiated by the customer, etc.?) Great question. I guess that's what I don't get--this is not really that complex of an issue, so either you go back and document why rev-rec was appropriate for those transactions, or you don't, and you reverse revenue where you can't support it, and then you implement a policy and controls on bill-and-holds.  Of all the accounting manipulations I can think of, this doesn't smack of outright fraud.  It's certainly aggressive, but I couldn't glean too much from the transcripts he recorded.  Hence why I asked for specific details.  

Edit: That said, the company I work for does have pretty strict controls over bill-and-hold.  Revenue kick-off has to approved by the division controller, and over a certain threshold, by the director of technical accounting and the corporate controller.  And we document the hell out of it.  Perhaps Mr. Menendez's actions had some bearing on that.   What has been your favorite moment from the past 9 years? I would have to say, my favorite moment was receiving the ARB's Decision where for the first time, I actually felt vindicated...That was back in September 2011.   Here's a link to the decision, in case anyone's interested: http://employmentlawgroupblog.com/wp-content/Menendez1.pdf I love the SO ORDERED. It's has a "We have spoken. Fuck you." ring to it.

 I'm a ProPublica reporter and colleague of Jesse's. I used to cover Halliburton during the Iraq war. During that time, Halliburton had plenty of whistleblowers inside the company and the government that ended up paying a huge price for their actions -- USAC's Bunny Greenhouse and Halliburton's John Mancini come to mind. Do you think the company has a particularly viscious attitude toward whistleblowers? Or is it pretty typical?
 can you describe the bunny greenhouse, because it sounds wonderful Her real name is Bunnatine Greenhouse, which is even better, IMHO. She was the senior contract officer for the Army Corps of Engineers and raised many, many questions about Halliburton's so-called LOGCAP contract -- the big one for supplying food, housing, etc for soldiers. After questioning spending on the $2+ billion contract, she was put into a corner office and removed from her responsibilities That's the most "Bond girl" name I ever heard. Nobody puts Bunny in a corner! Here: http://www.americanswhotellthetruth.org/portraits/bunny-greenhouse
 [Bunny Greenhouse](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bunny_Greenhouse) is a person and a whistleblower, credited with uncovering secret no-bid contracts etc ("the most blatant and improper contract abuse I have witnessed during the course of my professional career") around  Dick Cheney Halliburton's profiteering during the Iraq War.

 Well being that its associated with Haliburton, i would imagine its a type of weaponized gas made from the remains of bunnies :( Bunny gas is invisible and smells like carrots.

 Any advice for reporters on how to work with whistleblowers to help them tell their stories? First, take them seriously and give them respect. Frankly, they are often off target. But everyone deserves to be listened to. Then it's a matter of carefully trying to confirm the things they are saying. You have to tell them it's in their own interest for the story to be accurate and fair; for that, you need to carefully get the other side, gather all the facts and not shy away from the things that may not be entirely flattering about the whistleblower. I found that journalists and newspaper outlets are reluctant to take on issues of corporate or government wrongdoing unless several of them do it at the same time. That is why Wikileaks was so successful and paid the price. Do you think that existence of Wikileaks or similar independent web depositary of leaks would make it much more effective uncovering wrongdoing? I'm not sure I agree. Information coming from Wikileaks leaks was picked up by most mainstream media outlets. The NYTimes wrote a huge number of stories about the Iraq war logs. I think Wikileaks imploded thanks to Assange's megalomania.

In general though, it's true, the mainstream media doesn't take on powerful interests -- corporate or governmental -- in substantive fashion often enough. 

But that just means more work for me and my colleagues! Corporate and governmental wrongdoing and mainstream media laziness are s good for business -- my business.   Thanks for your reply. And I agree with your assessment for the most part. Assange certainly has problems, but you can understand to some degree why -- his life was not a picnic even in comparison with the life of an average whistleblower. You cannot deny that he did a lot for Wikileaks in many ways both rise and demise. However, I think that demise came after disclosure of the diplomatic cables when US government with the corporate support came hard on Wikileaks and Assange. This happened similarly in the case of Snowden disclosure even it was done much more responsibly. NY Times, Guardian and others wrote a lot about Wikileaks and used a lot of the materials. Wkileaks was working with media outlets, but it was certainly frustrated with slow pace and absence of significant outrage in public. I agree with you that it is naive to expect quick turn around in public opinion after years of brainwashing by TV "reality" shows as well as other news outlets even including NY Times (remember Judith Miller) that look up to the corporate and government. Still, I think that organization like Wikileaks is very important because the journalists in the traditional media do not have enough freedom to take on the projects of Wikileals type and magnitude, but after information is out there they are less dependent to management resistance and pickup story much more easier. I have a question for you on this topic. As a journalist, do you redirect whistleblowers to the SEC if it is a matter that they could receive a bonus in under Dodd Frank 922? *Asadi* and *Morrison/Liu Meng-Lin* did a number on those provisions for protections, but the bounty provisions are still up in force and delivering money.

It seems that would be the best way to handle these tips, unless the SEC can require the whistblower keep silent, in which case you lose out... but it would ultimately be much better for the whistleblower.  I wouldn't, no. It's not the role of a journalist to aid the government in any regulatory, enforcement or legal action. My job is to write true stories and I mainly focus on holding some powerful entity or person accountable. So you leave the whistleblower without their legal protections then? Regardless of your obligation to help the government, under Asadi in the 5th Circuit, a person who comes to you *must* go to the SEC for protections. Them using a tipline or journalist isn't enough. 

This isn't about the regulatory body, its about the whistle blower.  Mr. Menendez, I'm an audit manager at your former firm, Ernst &amp; Young. Your secret recording transcripts were so enthralling; I felt as though I were in the room with you. Funny enough my client has a lot of bill-and-hold and thankfully reverses that revenue each quarter. 

My questions:

* Looking back, is there anything you would have done *differently?*

* How do you see the future landscape for whistleblowers?

* I saw you got your CFE; when was that? Did it play any connection with you blowing the whistle or your views in general? 

* I'm interviewing for a technical research/financial reporting position next week. Would you recommend any advice?

* PCAOB has been hammering rev rec and contractual arrangements (e.g. SAPA No. 12). Do you think this is a sign of positive change or will fall flat?

* What is the best sandwich you've ever had? Describe it. 
 shoutout to /r/accounting This is a good one, I will be awaiting answer. Auditor at a Big 4 firm here,  I find it unbeliveable that KPMG continued to issue an unqualified opinion (clean audit report)on the financials with this revenue recognition policy.  How compliant do you think the partners at KPMG were in the cover up?  

I know from experience that revenue recognition is the number one issue when it comes to any SEC company. The only thing I can think of is that the KPMG partners were pressured by Halliburton to turn a blind eye because of the leverage of the massive audit fee they get yearly.

 I believe that KPMG was involved in covering up Halliburton's bill-and-hold problem.  KPMG ignored the SECs bill-and-hold rules and equally ignored its own guidance that it published entitled Bill-and-Hold Transactions (http://www.trinity.edu/rjensen/BillandHold.pdf) in the Oilfield Services Industry which described Halliburtons transactions.   Enron took down Arthur Andersen. Why do you think KPMG is getting a "free pass" in all of this? It looks like there might be a side story there for the financial media. I think a major reason is the pervasiveness of the Enron fraud.  That scandal single handily destroyed the company and ruined the stock.  People lost billions of dollars within the company (both investors and employees). Further, Anderson was involved in other scandals around that time (see Healthsouth) and I think the culture of the firm as a whole was shady. 

The Halliburton scandal on the other hand was fraudulent, but not as pervasive and the company has been able to continue after it.  Further it does not reflect KPMG as a whole (a company that globally has roughly 200 thousand employees).  

Sadly every single national accounting firm has had scandals.  Not more than a year ago PWC, another big 4 was forced to pay 25 million dollars in fines and suspended from all consulting practices in New York for 2 years.  EY completely neglected and signed off on a virtually non existent control environment for Lehman Brothers.

Needless to say something should change to provide better services. I'll be joining one of the Big 4 in a couple months and how it's been explained to me is - they are too big to fail.

Also, Arthur Andersen is just a name that got taken down, not the employes. Everyone who worked for AA got sucked into one of Deloitte, KPMG, PWC, and EY. If what happened to AA happens to KPMG, then everyone who works for KPMG would go work for PWC, Deloitte, or EY. It sounds more like an annoyance and can't see the other 3 wanting that to happen. This has definitely become a concern from consolidation in the accounting industry. Same thing, re: EY and Lehman Brothers. Thanks for the response.  I think this is even tougher to swallow then the actions of the haliburton accoutning department.  You have an "independent" auditing firm knowingly issuing financial statements that directly contradict the SEC AND their OWN guidance.  This is all while KPMG collects 16M (figure from SEC filing) in audit and "other sevice fees".  This is a prime example of the conflict of interest issues in the public accounting industry. Terps, I put much of the explanation for fraud that occurs at Big4 firms on the role of incentives.  Namely, partner salaries and the incentives for partners to 'sell' at all costs. Partners 'own' the firm.  Everyone else is a wage slave. I feel like the book authored by the Andersen HR personnel supports this as well.  Very timely topic and the industry has avoided a public discussion. How much money did you wind up spending in legal fees ? It was a very expensive and time consuming endeveor and there is really no way for me to quantify that ... and at the sometime, its not over yet Will you be able to recoup your legal fees? If you need help, set up a kickstarter and we'll be sure so send some money your way! I would happily send a patriot like you some funds to fight the good fight. Skip the kickstarter and just mail him a check? They take such a big chunk of money. how much do they take?

edit: asked and answered. gentle on the inbox pl0x a bug chunk Two caterpillars and an ant. Between Kickstarter and their credit card processor (Stripe?), something like 8%.

https://www.kickstarter.com/help/fees That's not so bad. What a crazy good idea. Crowdfunding corporate and government whistleblowers' legal fees. Call it "Canary". Has your experience made you regret the career path you chose? Do you plan on going back into a CPA type job once everything is said and done, or do you no longer have faith in Corporate Accounting? In some ways and at many various points in time, I have regretted my career choice.... but I haven't lost hope! Is there a ELI5 explaining what this is about? What I got from it was Halliburton has to issue reports on how much money they earned and made. So if it costs 50 dollars to make a radio, and I sell it for 70 dollars, I made 70 and earned 20. The more money I earn, the more my stock goes up, the more my investors earn. So Halliburton would sell their equipment straight from the factory. Some customers paid upfront on the order, some paid half now, half later, some paid after delivery, and some would make auto loan type deals. Well, to attract more investors, Halliburton wanted to buff up their profit records, so they would count every piece of equipment built and being built as sold, even if they hadn't gotten the money yet. while your allowed to do that while keeping your records to make it easier, if the sale hasn't finalized after a quarter ends, you have to remove it so you don't lie to investors... Halliburton wasn't doing this. Once it went on the books as sold, it stayed that way, even if the deal fell through and they were stuck with equipment that had no owner(customer owned inventory, ironic name huh) . When tony found out that they were doing this, he tried to get them to stop lying to investors, cause that's kind of what happened to Enron, and that destroyed the company. But Halliburton didn't wanna stop, cause it made their stocks go up faster then telling the truth. So he told the government, and his employers internal investigation team at about the same time. The g-men showed up and was like, are you guys behaving, and everyone but tony was like oh yeah, and then the government was like alright, cool story bro, peace. Halliburton was pissed cause the gov. Could have fucked them for billions, so they treated tony badly(against the law whether the whistleblower is right or wrong as long as he honestly thought he was right). So he spent nine years in court to get Halliburton to admit they were mean to him(never mind the fucking stock inflation scandal) and he just won his second appeal How does it feel to be awesome? Oh, and were you afraid to fight?  Thanks for the kind words.  
I wasnt afraid to fight but I was afraid to quit.  I tried my best to live by my fathers words that you can fail a 1000 times, but you can only give up, once That's a fantastic (and very powerful) thought. I will try to implement that into my life. Thank you.  Will you actually gain money from this or? The short answer is "NO"... I asked for $1,000 and the Courts determined that I deserved more that that and came up with a figure of $30,000.  I have never seen one penny of that award and likely may never. You asked for $1,000? I don't know a lot about a lot of things, but... aren't you lowballing yourself here? On the [Marketplace](http://www.marketplace.org/topics/business/whistleblowers-tale-how-accountant-took-halliburton) interview, he said he just wanted to be proven right.  He was told he couldn't sue without a dollar amount sought, so he just picked $1,000.  In a twist, his plight actually landed him a senior executive level job at General Motors.  So, he was financially vindicated in a way.

&gt; I was moved by it, he explained to me. It takes a lot of courage to stand tall like that and I needed that in the work we were doing. I needed people with high integrity who would work hard who I could trust to bring problems directly to senior management.

- Nick Cypress, GMs chief accounting officer and comptroller (at the time) &gt;I needed people with high integrity who would work hard who I could trust to bring problems directly to senior management.

That's...an odd statement in a way. I like that you confront senior management with problems, let's make you senior management!  It's actually hard for upper management to find out about problems before they become critical. There's such an ingrained mindset in middle management to never be the guy who brings up a problem that upsets the boss that a lot gets swept under the rug. I rely heavily on a few key people I know will be honest and call a clusterfuck for what it is and not sugarcoat it. Kind of like with the ignition switch thing? well Mary Barra's GM has been all about getting the pre-2008 corporate mentality out of the company, fixing the problems they left open, and making great cars. So it makes sense that they're seeking out people that have souls.

source: detroiter. &gt; That's...an odd statement in a way. I like that you confront senior management with problems, let's make you senior management! 

Well, if he's actively trying to bring up any problems rather than sweeping them under the rug and is trustworthy, the more power he has the harder it is for people to sweep *him* under the rug, haha.  This situation only occurred because there wasn't anyone in a powerful enough position "on his side" and the only people capable of helping him in a major way at the company were either neutral or doing the opposite.   A low ask also removes the ability for Halliburton to smear him in the media as a money-grubber - which is the first move in any situation when a large corporation is sued for a huge sum.
 I remember the post-settlement smear campaign against the McDonald's coffee lady.  She only asked for medical bills, but they refused and the *court* judged that she be paid far more.

Even though it wasn't her that asked for such a large settlement, she was painted as "that lady who sued McDonald's for millions over spilling hot coffee on herself." Very true, and I was on that bandwagon - until I read deeper into it and saw the burns she sustained. She didn't spill coffee in her lap, the machine had a defect that made it dispense liquids far beyond the normal temp, which melted the styrofoam and gave her third degree burns all over her crotch. Yowch.

E: disease --&gt; dispense &gt; the machine had a defect

The machine wasn't defective...the reason she was orginally awarded millions (the case was appealed and they settled out of court for an unknown amount) was because there was over 700 cases like hers. The jury at the time wanted McDonald's to pay her two days worth of coffee sales so they would take it more seriously...  She was horrifically burned and deserved more money   &gt; I have never seen one penny of that award and likely may never.

How so? Surely 30k to them is pocket change, or will they wriggle out of it to spite you? As someone who has been through litigation with a major corporation I can say that spite/ego drives company decisions during the legal process more than the money.
 Now that's something I'd like to hear about but I fear for my cortisol levels. Giving it to him means they accept the ruling. I guess they're still trying to appeal. So it's a honor thing, alright. Best of luck! I would love to see you Foreclose on Haliburton. Get a writ from the courts, show up at their office with a large van and the sherriff to serve it. 

Video tape it of course. If you are allowed to say, what kind of shady auditing practices did you see that set you off? Did it have to with bribes? Because as far as I understand thats a crazy grey area when it comes to audits

If not, good for you for blowing the whistle! Hope your battle has the outcome you hope for &gt; Because as far as I understand thats a crazy grey area when it comes to audits

I'm not sure I understand this. How can bribes be a grey area?

 Payola. It might not be a straight forward bribe but "if you give us a good rating we just might slip some tickets to the Bahamas into your pocket!" happens. It's not necessarily stated explicitly either. Kind of like the way drug reps wine and dine doctors. Also "if you ever get tired of working for a regulatory agency and are looking for a job that pays a lot more, I might be able to help." Were you afraid of getting shot by Dick Cheney? I never planned to go duck hunting with the man! Quail, the most dangerous game. Wait, it was quails right? Can't seem to remember if it was a quail or man. Hmm. The Most Dangerous Game is Jai Alai. No, it's [Grizzly-Boom Tennis](http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?id=1488). No, no. It was Quayle, but that was Bush 1.  Are you making a Doug reference? &gt;Can't seem to remember if it was a quail or man.

[Why not both?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dan_Quayle) What are the after-effects of all of this on you, personally? I can't imagine going through all that you have without developing PTSD or at least some form of anxiety disorder.

I find you and your actions inspiring and a testament to the spirit of "good" in the human race. We are bombarded with so many "bad" parts of human nature that is can really make one jaded. You literally balance perspectives and prove that there are those out there that will still do the right thing, no matter what the cost. Thank you for the very kind words.  I think that I have got (self-diagnosed) PTWD... Post Traumatic Whistleblower Disorder 
Also, I can tell you that as a consequence I got way more grey hair and put on a few pounds..... 
I think I will try to blame that on my PTWD instead of getting 9 years older and a little lazier in my 40s But why male models? It seems they won in the PR arena.  9 years later you may win, but the 15 minutes of spotlight on your story are gone.  Do you plan on writing a book that will try to keep this in the news? &gt; It seems they won in the PR arena.

Yeah, that's why everyone thinks Halliburton are cool guys now. In business school, one of my management textbooks listed examples of unethical actions to do as an employee, which included things like stealing, falsifying reports, and **whistleblowing**. That absolutely shocked me. Hell, it wasn't even subtle.

In my financial accounting 101 class, the first section of the textbook and syllabus were on ethics and the importance of regulation. The prof scoffed, told us to skip it and that it wouldn't be on the exams.

This- all in a school sending 95% of it's grads to investment banks and accounting firms. It's impossible to change the current culture of the financial world. But we're dooming ourselves by not addressing this issue with the industry's future leaders.

Outside of adding more regulation (which often seems skirted), what do you think we can do to stymie rampant "questionable business practices" in the private sector? It is shocking and disturbing that a textbook would list "whistleblowing" as an unethical action.  Just because companies often react as if whistleblowing were committing a crime, it does not make it so.

I tend to believe that absent effective enforcement, most companies will gravitate to abusing the rules.  

I often liken it to the age old question... "If I tree falls in the woods and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound?"...said differently, "if a company abuses the SEC's rules, and the SEC does nothing about it, did the company even break the rules?" Actually that's my question. I worked at a company that engaged in what I considered to be unethical business practices. At quarter end we would offer deep discounts and cover shipping both ways for companies to take products even though sometimes the orders would come in noted that they were going to be returned next quarter when the customer knew what they really wanted. We would also bill consignment inventory and then credit it back the next month. Now this wasn't all the time or all the orders. Just enough to hit our sales number for the quarter. 

But it reminded me what I read about Sunbeam and Bristol Myers Squibb so I asked my supervisor and was told to drop it. I questioned my manager and was told to drop it. I asked the VP about it and was told it wasn't really happening I just thought it was and it wouldn't be material anyway even though I had printed copies of the emails. I gave copies of the emails to internal audit and SOX compliance (neither of which were CPAs) and was told they'd make sure that the sales men didn't get over paid if the stuff was returned. I gave it to our external auditor and they gave it back to internal audit who called me up 'just to check on how I was doing randomly' and to once again assure me everything was completely above board. 

I didn't know what else to do so I ended up giving a copy of everything to the SEC since we were a publicly traded company. The only thing is I only gave them things that I had physical proof of so the total dollar amount was relatively low (about a million a quarter just from my division) and they told me that it was below the dollar threshold for them to investigate right now. I've since left the company primarily because of the work environment but also because I feel did face some retaliation but I still wonder if I should have done more to report their wrong doings? What is the most atrocious act you witnessed or knew about there? Something that the average civilian would have a hard time believing.  [deleted] Yeah...some how I don't think he can talk about the specific acts yet since he's in the middle of legal proceedings. Wow Wow Wow. Just read Jesse's article, thank you for standing your ground.

How did you and your wife work through this? This had to be an incredible stressor for your marriage. 

Jesse what have you learned from Tony and his wife? Thanks, Derelyk. Glad you enjoyed the piece. First, I deeply admire Tony and Ondy. I certainly would have not have had the fortitude to have gone through this ordeal without giving up. In a way, it's a happy story and I learned that one man can prevail against a major corporation with endless resources. On the other hand, it's bittersweet since there was no accountability at Halliburton for what seems like questionable accounting and for what was indisputably retaliation.  So how corrupt is the justice system?   It seems impossible to fight sometimes.  Commenting on behalf of CPA. (Original top level comment was removed by bot, but I think it is relevant here)

I just briefly scanned the article regarding the timeline. Busy doing accounting (the proper way). There is no way any sane or ethical person or entity could claim that the accounting practice regarding revenue recognition was proper. That's why auditor rotation as well as key players in the oversights of audits are required. My sense is that this situation had so many political connections that were impossible to defeat. How do you feel about Edward Snowden? whistlebros hehe Do you think Cheney and Halliburton had premeditated motives for invading Iraq that could amount to war-racketeering? What? The dude was a CPA in a technical accounting role regarding revenue recognition. He has no more idea about this than you or I.  How do you shop for pants, considering your massive balls? " The companys accountants had been allowing the company to count the full value of the equipment right away as revenue, sometimes even before it had assembled the equipment. But the customers could walk away in the middle of the contracts. ".  

How could this be standard practice? Are there still companies which follow practices of this sort? Did anyone ever raise red flags at Halliburton before you did ? Did Dick Cheney profit from going to war in the Middle East? I typically dismiss anything remotely sounding like a conspiracy theory but there seems to be a lot of blatant clues in this case. I don't think Cheney thought "this will fatten my checkbook" but rather he thought something like "this will help the people who have helped me" meaning his friends at the company. Was it worth it?  For your mental physical well-being, wife and  children?  According to the article, your family is still on edge (the unopened bubbly) while the corporation and environs have all made out admirably.  Your story reminds me of Serpico and his  endeavor to do "what is right" which is very subjective.  Eventually, he had to leave this country due to threats and castigation from the bretheran.  Any change there?  Ask the Garners.  Thanks for reading.  This is amazing. I just wrote about you for an assignment in my Accounting Ethics class. 

One thing I noted from the article is that you went to the SEC before you went to Haliburton's Audit Committee. Although the Audit Committee failed to keep you anonymous once you did go to them (and thus justified your lawsuit), do you think it was correct to go to an external entity before exhausting all options internally? I thought it was better to go to the SEC because I was concerned about the retaliation.  As it turns out, going to Halliburton's Audit Committee was a mistake.

I did exhaust all my options internally. And the SEC was the only option I had left.  Any words of wisdom for Baker Hughes folks? What do you think the average person can do to better support corporate whistleblowers and an overall culture of corporate accountability? With your new job at GM, has their ethics/HR department brought you in to discuss how they can improve GM's whistleblower Policy?

And, the guy that hired you (sorry forgot his name), Fuck we need more people in corporate US like that. What can you tell us about how that felt, having your whistleblower status held up as a character strength, not a flaw by an interviewer. Hey Tony,
  What's your reaction now that Ahmed is working for Halliburton? I understand you guys parted amicably and based upon the ProPublica piece, he has a great respect for you. Of course he doesn't have loyalties to anyone except his own family, so I guess I'm just interested in what your thoughts might be on Halliburton hiring/retaining him?  I have a lot of respect for Joe. He took my case when no one else would.   Do you think that SEC attitude towards Halliburton was because of the fact that Dick Cheney was VP? What's your opinion on mandatory audit firm rotation?  Do you think that would clear up frauds like this and in the long run provide better services? I believe mandatory audit firm rotations would improve financial reporting. Hey! I heard you on NPR the other day and that was the first I'd heard of your situation. It was very courageous and inspiring. What motivated you to keep going with the trials, despite the risk of ruining your life? Congratulation to you. You must always remember that not many people would do what you have done because they are not brave enough (possibly includes me as well). So your fight against them may not gain as much attention as it deserves but your efforts will always be unique and you have made yourselves and your family proud. 

My question to you is.. during these struggling years who has been your inspiration and motivation to continue.. what books or videos have you seen or read that inspired you to hold your ground??

Your answer would be of help for me to get inspired to do something brilliant in my life. 

Once again congratulations.  Well, thank you for your kind words. My favorite movie of all time is BRAVEHEART. And I find the following dialogue, if not inspiring, interesting.

Robert the Bruce: A rebellion has begun.

The Leper: Under whom?

Robert the Bruce: A commoner... named William Wallace.

The Leper: We will embrace this rebellion. You will support it from our lands in the north while I gain English favor by condemning it, and ordering it opposed from our lands in the south. Sit down. Stay a while.

Robert the Bruce: This Wallace, he doesn't even have a knighthood, but he fights with passion and he inspires.
The Leper: [laughs] And you wish to charge off and fight as he did. So would I.

Robert the Bruce: Well, maybe it's time.

The Leper: It is time to survive. You're the seventeenth Robert Bruce. The sixteen before you passed you land and title because they didn't charge in. Call a meeting of the nobles.

Robert the Bruce: But they do nothing but talk.

The Leper: Rightly so. They're as rich in English titles and lands as they are in Scottish, just as we are. You admire this man, this William Wallace. Uncompromising men are easy to admire. He has courage, so does a dog. But it is exactly the ability to compromise that makes a man noble. Do you think the oil industry in general has something to hide?  I think every industry has something to hide. To localize it to the oil industry is foolish.  I'd be willing to bet my life's savings that they do.  Look at Mr. Moneybags over here with a savings account. I'd be willing to bet your life savings as well... We could make this a class action bet.  His life's savings is the $5 to keep the account open ;-) That's easy, just get in on their pension fund. While you may dislike the industry not all companies are bad You're an inspiration to pencil-pushers everywhere!

How do you blow off steam when you're not blowing whistles? Do you have another job? Do you play a musical instrument? No, I don't play a musical instrument. But I enjoy music. My favorite station is Octane on Sirius XM. And I love to do stuff with my kids, watch 'em play sports.  Did you ever deal directly with Dick Cheney?  Why did Tony only ask for 1k in damages?  To show he wasn't whistleblowing for money He says somewhere else that you cannot sue without alleging a dollar amount and that was the first thought that came to mind. He wasn't doing it for the money though. How did you go about blowing the whistle, did you consult friends, trusted colleagues, lawyer, what media did you chose and why? The only person I consulted before blowing the whistle was my wife and after blowing the whistle she is the only person I talked to about it until I was outed by Halliburton and then everyone knew and I had to get an attorney. How much was dick Cheney instrumental on getting Halliburton no bid contracts?  Thanks for your bravery, were there others who have stayed silent to this day, who could have made major contributions to your cause? Unfortunately, blowing the whistle at Halliburton was a very lonely experience.  Many who could have made a contribution stayed silent.  

I am lucky that one man, James Paquette was willing to stand up and do what was right. What did you hope to achieve by whistleblowing? And have you achieved this?  Congrats and good luck on your impending victory. What was Haliburton's retribution against you? Looking back would you do the same if you knew how long the process would take. And what would you have done differently if you had the chance ? This is a very tough question to answer.  I was definitely overly optimistic when this thing started.  I can't say for sure, what if anything, I would do differently.  Instead I would want people to know that the decision to blow the whistle could be one of the most important decisions you could ever make (so don't do it lightly). Is it possible that this company's involvement with massively funded secret projects gave them the idea they were above the law?

 Have you returned from Eve? I personally haven't been able to send anything heavier than data packets back from Eve. It just doesn't let go. I bet that the aerodynamic revamp and the ISRU capabilities are making Eve return a reasonable target now... I have a great plan in mind for my Eve tourism program when I get my new computer for KSP 1.0.

Put a big space station in orbit around Eve with lots of empty orange tanks. Get a land base on Eve where I'll mine for fuel. I'll make a small spaceplane powered by an Aerospike engine and pray that the new atmospheric model is kinder to SSTO planes than it is to SSTO rockets. Ferry stuff between the land base and the space station, and EZ profits. Don't be ridiculous. No one *returns* from Eve. Eve is where you send Kerbals and old LV-N's to die. [deleted] Ha,
https://imgur.com/a/qTTc0#0
Finished circularzing the orbit with the eva pack. A very kerbal way to complete the mission I've been meaning to get KSP but never got around to it.  For newbies, is it a game you can play casually or do you need to be able to devote a minimum number of hours in to keep up on what is happening? HarvesteR: It definitely doesnt require a steady time investment. I know what you mean, Ive got several games here I just cant really play well because they require way too many hours in a single sitting if you want to even start enjoying them. KSP is (hopefully) not like that. You can have a quick sit-down and build yourself a crazy new spaceplane or a massive rocket, and have fun for however much time you can spend, and you can always save and return later. The game is fully persistent, and being single-player, theres no worry in having to catch up to anything.

KasperVld: that really depends on your goals. If you wish to make crazy rockets and see how high they will go then youre good to go from the beginning. Start a sandbox game and have at it! If, on the other hand, you wish to recreate real space missions or even go further than the current state of the real life space programs youll need to invest some time learning rocket design and orbital mechanics. There are many guides out there to help you achieve this though!

Arsonide: Kerbal Space Program is a game that scales very well with player skill. You can get super into it, to the point of doing asteroid redirections and grand tours, or perhaps you just like blowing up the launchpad and watching the fireworks. Either way you will be having fun!
 1) What happened to the Delta-V readouts that were planned? This was one 1.0 feature I was looking forward to the most.
2) How long do you predict the team will keep working on KSP with future updates and whatnot? 1) The dV readouts were actually part of a much larger feature to expand on the skills for engineer and scientist kerbals. After many revisions and work on them, we decided to hold them for a little longer, as they were simply not up to standard. 

2) We're really encouraged by the love from our fans and their support, so we don't see ourselves stopping anytime soon. I don't have a precise number, but we still have plenty of stuff to make. Multiplayer, for example...

On a personal note, thanks for your art, y0rsh. It's amazing. Ah I see! If the skills are expanded a lot then that's understandable. :) Can't wait for when it gets implemented!

Also, I can't wait for multiplayer! It'll be interesting to see how time warp is handled.

(Also.....omg......thank you!!!!! I'm freaking out right now! :D) &gt; It'll be interesting to see how time warp is handled.

Does anyone have a solution for this?   I still can't wrap my head around how this would work.   

Now if by multiplayer it was simply 2 or 3 people you could work out time warp schedules together (still would be difficult) but what I am wondering if 'multiplayer' allows for large 20+ people servers that everyone can jump in and out of.  At that point I assume everything would simply run in real time which makes missions beyond the moon sort of ridiculous. Already been solved - it sounds complicated but it's not too bad...

So you imagine a single timeline. Any time you want to 'fast forward' in time, you get to. However, everyone else will proceed at standard time, and will be 'left behind' in time. So you have one person far ahead in time by themselves, and everyone else behind.

The only time players 'see' one another is when they're within view distance, and at the same synchronized time.

So anyone in the past always has the option to 'sync to furthest' which immediately calculates all the time in between.

Basically you'll only ever want to sync when you're in the same relative location and are stable (parked, or orbiting).

Hopefully that makes sense. DarkMultiPlayer is a KSP multiplayer mod that uses this exact solution. Works great!!!

Edit: [Here's a British Guy talking about it](https://youtu.be/OE6pfT99Xk4?t=1m35s) Until stock delta-v readouts are added you can calculate it by using **(Specific Impulse * 9.81) * ln(Full Mass / Empty Mass)** or by installing something like [Kerbal Engineer](http://www.curse.com/ksp-mods/kerbal/222685-kerbal-engineer-redux-v1-0). I personally feel pencil/papering these readouts is a lot more fun than instrumentation telling me.  It makes it feel more "Kerbal" to me, AKA hobbled together with no forethought but PLENTY of hindsight.   &gt; No forethought but plenty of hindsight

This needs to be a KSP poster. Haha, that would make a pretty nice poster.  I picture Bill and Bob slowly climbing out of the wreckage of failed rocket that crash landed while Jeb is valiantly standing with the KSP flag in his hand with a giant grin.   Any plans for launching from planetoids other than Kerbin? I love that functionality in SimpleRockets and I'd love to see it in KSP, at least in Sandbox.

Also, I painted this for the /r/kerbalspaceprogram art contest, and I thought maybe you guys would get a kick out of it!

http://i.imgur.com/sO0Co6W.png

Thanks! That art is phenomenal and hilarious! Solid kerbal attitude right there. As far as launching from other places go, no current plans for anything like that, as Kerbals would need quite the infrastructure to manage such feats. Any plans for letting us build further infrastructure then? :P

Or hire a [boat](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_spaceport_drone_ship)? You're looking for Extraplanetary Launchpads. Nah, I can already get EPL, what I want is for Elon Kerman to sell me a boat. How long will active development go after 1.0? (2.0, DLCs) We have plans to continue updates for the forseeable future. We won't do DLC, if we ever ask you for even a penny again, it has to be something huge and that adds a lot of gameplay to the game. We like expansions like Morrowind and Age of Empires II had, not DLC.  It's statements like this that keep me *violently* recommending the game to friends. /u/WazWaz to his friends: YOU ARE GOING TO SPACE, AND YOU'RE GONNA LIKE IT! STRAP YOURSELF TO THIS BOOSTER, YOU WILL BE FINE. IT'S NOT ROCKET SCIENCE. IT'S JUST ROCKET DRIVING. ADD MORE STRUTS.
 YOU MUST CONSTRUCT ADDITIONAL PYLONS. &gt; YOU ARE GOING TO EXPLODE ON THE LAUNCH PAD UNTIL YOU DISCOVER MOAR STRUTS AND YOU'RE GONNA LIKE IT!

FTFY "Hey man, you should get Kerbal Space Program"

"Meh, I'm not really into those sorts of games"

"THAT WASN'T A SUGGESTION, GET IT NOW!!!"

"lol dude, I think you ne"

*Holy shit, were you waiting outside my window? Hey, hey, hey, what's with the bat man?! Argh*

**Kerbal Space Program 1.0 has been successfully installed.** Shit, the guy brought Batman along? He must be serious. [RECOMMENDING INTENSIFIES] Hi Maxmaps and Squad! Thanks for releasing 1.0 right before my last exam. I'm sure my grades won't suffer...

But really, thank you for making such an awesome game and for being so nice to your fans!

Here are my questions:

1) Is interstellar exploration within the scope of the game beyond 1.0? (Is it even possible?)

2) What's the most you've slept in the past week?

3) What's your favorite band? Exams are important! Study! 1.0 will be there when you're done!

1) We currently see Interstellar as outside of scope.

2) I managed 5 hours on Friday. It was great.

3) Currently, The Heavy Thank you for your amazing level of engagement with the community and your spectacular release notes with every new release.  The game stands on its own but it's a lot of fun to know that you're all here on reddit and involved with the discussions and the fun.

NASA lent their logo and some SLS and asteroid (and kerbalnaut!) recovery parts to 0.23.5, and now ESA has licensed their logo for 1.0.  How did you approach these space agencies and how receptive or enthusiastic were they about licensing their logos for in-game flag use?  Were there any conditions or concerns that they needed to be addressed in-game? That's been a doozy every time. Each agency has their unique requirements we are more than happy to comply with. We even had to send a fax once. A fax. Don't give the RemoteTech guys any more evil ideas. Hopefully they won't hear that SSTV signal from Chatterer and realize that you should be able to see your satellite *only* through slow-scan pictures with speed-of-light delay...

...wait, did I say that out loud? btttchhhhhhhKKWWWWWWWWWWWWeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeEEEEEEEEEEWWWWWWEEEEEEEWWWWWWEEEEEEEEEEEWWWWWWWWWWewewewewewewewwewewewewewewewewewew

Oh, look, SAS is on &gt; a fax once. A fax.

You poor bastards. You'd be amazed how much Japanese companies rely on fax machines. It's ridiculous. I used to work at one of the largest e-commerce/social mobile gaming companies in Japan and they were hesitant to scan a contract for signing by a company in the US. They wanted to fax it. Actually, at first they wanted to mail it. Yeah, Japan is very antiquated when it comes to document sharing. It's because the law is antiquated. Unless there's been some changes since I left law school fax machines are still the only legal way to electronically sign and send contracts. I think for small-time contracts people don't care and just do whatever but iirc that's the case and it's why sports teams still use faxes. &gt;Unless there's been some changes since I left law school

You mean the ESIGN act 15 years ago? Which is part of normal 1L contracts? Where the hell did you find a fax machine? And please tell me there's a story behind that.  We don't have one at HQ. Turns out just by luck a friend's dad had one still connected and functioning at his office simply because over the years no one thought to uninstall it. Ever heard of a website called faxzero? It's a godsend for faxing needs. Also like every UPS store in the world has one. Faxzero is free though, and online. All those conveniently located UPS offices....

**I Live in China** :/ But about 80% of my UPS packages come *from* China! You should totally get them faxed instead. Way faster. A fax? Does this mean we can expect a North Korean space agency update? North Korean space agency update: 1000% science boost for water landings Japan's JAXA likely still works with fax. Anyone who's worked in Japan will know why I say that. Will I ever be able to launch a kerbal in a command chair?

* Also, Max, can you talk about how your training in PR prepared you to be KSP's producer?  While the external command seats function in a very different way to regular crewing of vessels, we have plans to add this functionality. It's just never been too high priority. Besides, it's always been fun trying to figure out how to get crew into your command chair-helmed monstrosity. What are your plans for expanding the system? Do you have any plans for making any new planets? Also, what are your plans beyond KSP? Are you going to develop more games in the future or stay with KSP or both? Finally, what are your thoughts on the paid modding system in steam workshop? Thanks for reading, and you guys are the best! Love KSP! There's no short term plans to expand the solar system. As far as plans beyond KSP... nothing we can share just yet. There's still a lot we can do with KSP, though. The community deserves it. May I ask why you don't want to expand the solar system? It seems like one of the most requested features. Just integrating [the fantastic Outer Planets Mod](https://kerbalstuff.com/mod/437/Outer%20Planets%20Mod) would add massive amounts of gameplay to KSP. My guess is three things. First, the current suite of planets covers most of the bases in terms of characteristics and many, many people can't get farther than Mun or Minmus (so further content would be somewhat niche). Second, the modding community has somewhat satisfied the desire for more planets at the moment. If you want them you can have them. Third, they have a ton of other features that need working on. 

On a separate note, Squad probably wants to either finish the 64-bit Windows version (which is waiting on a new version of Unity as per their announcement) or rework their memory management before they put a huge ton of extra texture work into the game. &gt; First, the current suite of planets covers most of the bases in terms of characteristics

I want a ringed planet! What is the most unexpected thing to come up during playtesting? KasperVld: back when I was testing an update in the 0.19 era I crashed a simple ship into the ground, after which the game slingshotted me into deep space at several times the speed of light. It was perfectly reproducable and I then spent two hours flying further and further into space, just to see how far the altimeter would keep counting. In the end I gave up, the altimeter won.

Ted: While we knew the new aerodynamics were going to be pretty accurate and intuitive to play with. The most unexpected thing that came up in playtesting for me was just how accurate, intuitive and enjoyable the aerodynamics system has become. I previously loved my satellite, Mun and Duna missions, I now thoroughly enjoy making planes and flying about with them. Haha. If you guys ever introduce explosion physics into the game, with permanent scarring of planets and such, I'd love to see what a ship traveling at relativistic velocities would do. One of my favorite kerbal space program related things ever was Harv's old [development history](http://kerbalspace.tumblr.com/page/11) blogposts on the old ksp tumblr. Any chance of those being completed sometime in the future? It's a longshot but they were really interesting.

Good luck on 1.0 and all the updates to come! Unsure, as those take a decent chunk of time, but we'll see! Do you ever plan to improve the water, similar to the Better Buoyancy mod? There were some improvements to it in 1.0!  What is the bug that you've found that made you laugh the most? Arsonide: While implementing part recoveries, I was given a contract to recover a solid rocket booster in orbit that ignited and took off on its own when I got within a few hundred meters. I havent laughed so hard at another bug.

RoverDude:  One time during testing, I ran across a bug that spawned multiple Valentinas, making each one a new zombie flagged as debris I once had about a dozen on the launchpad while debugging it and testing a repro case...

KasperVld: The mohole is technically a bug but has taken on a life of its own. People spend large amounts of time getting specialised spacecraft to Mohos north pole to descend into what is basically a very deep hole.

Ted: Hmm, there are a myriad of bugs that have made me chuckle or crack a smile. One of my favourite was a bug with Valentina and vessel switching where her face would go relaxed and due to a texturing artefact she would have little fangs. Another good one is when we were refining and balancing aerodynamics there was a short while where our planes would rip themselves apart going about 1000m/s at seal level.

HarvesteR: I think my all-time favorite was infiniglide, in which given enough control surfaces, you could generate potentially infinite thrust just by flapping your wings. The ways people would abuse that was always new and entertaining.  I am very glad the Mohole was left in, it is the biggest tourist attraction of Moho, and those sort of terrain oddities are fun to explore This would be a great place for a tourism contract!  Wealthy Kerbal (who just passed) wants his remains interred in the Mohole. :D &gt; seal level

Considering seal level is the ocean, I'm not surprised they ripped themselves apart doing 1000m/s! What will be the fate of Roverdude and Porkjet? Will they stay on the dev team and continue to polish up the game post-1.0, or are they going to become 'mere modders' once more? There's no such thing as a mere modder. Modders are vital and a big part of the reason why KSP is where it is. There's plenty of stuff for them to do still! Plus Porkjet, Arsonide and RoverDude are amazing to work with. Glad someone remembers the excellent contributions of Arsonide. Parts may have flash, but Arsonide's made career what it is today (and will be tomorrow). :) Has Elon musk ever called you and said. "Why isnt my rocket landing in real life? it landed in the game like a hundred time!" He plays in ultrahard mode, and he already has the best people possible helping him. Let me start by saying you guys made an absolutely awesome game. I wanted to know if you guys decided to spend some time studying physics to make the game, or does somebody on the team have a background in physics?  Arsonide: In the process of implementing the satellite contracts, I had to learn a few new things, but the great thing is that now, the contracts can convey those things to a new player visually. You dont have to know how to calculate the semi-major axis of a stationary orbit to place something into a stationary orbit, and I actually did my first stationary orbit while testing the contract. That visual learning process is something that surprised me, and is something very unique in this medium.

RoverDude:  While not physics, I spent a ton of time reading white papers on NASA ISRU plans, asteroids, and watching Armageddon ;)

Ted: For the aerodynamics and thermal overhaul I had to learn what felt like a hell of a lot about that topic. I should think Mike, who implemented the overhauls, had to learn a significant amount more. &gt;  While not physics, I spent a ton of time reading white papers on NASA ISRU plans, asteroids, and watching Armageddon ;)

When watching Armageddon, did you drink every time you saw a scientific inaccuracy?  Please don't suggest this, I want them to survive so they can keep working on the game. ;_; Squad - what are your honest-to-goodness intentions/plans for post 1.0 KSP regarding the following?

- Unity 5

- 64-bit on Windows

- extra content

- mods

- patched conics

- The LV-N

- Your own jobs at Squad

Thank you and have a nice day. * We'll upgrade the game to it.
* Goes hand in hand with the previous question.
* We will continue to make it.
* Are amazing.
* We polished the system in 1.0
* It doesn't use oxydizer anymore
* We will carry on making stuff. LV-N doesn't use oxidizer anymore. I can't wait to see this! During finals week? Really? Mwahahahahahaha Is there a reason why Jeb in particular isn't afraid of anything? And also why is he the best Kerbin? Arsonide: Jebediah. Kerman.

Porkjet: I think Kerbal is a pretty cool guy, eh kicks space krakens and doesnt afraid of anything.

HarvesteR: Way back in the day, before Kerbals knew about the Mun and the far side of the planet was a minefield to all who dared tread its surface, there was Jebediah. And Bill and Bob too, but this is Jebs story. Jebediah was awesome back then, just as he is now. Not necessarily because of anything particularly interesting back then, the whole universe was in a very placeholdery state at the time. But when Kerbals came to be, they had to be given names, and when names had to be picked, I picked the first ones that came to my head from the early days of playing with fireworks (dont). Of these newly created victims brave intrepid explorers, one was chosen to be in the pilots seat of the placeholder pod. That was Jebediah, and he was henceforth awesome.
 Will the Magic Boulder return? It's currently on vacation, unsure if it will. If you made it an asteroid, that (with a huge effort) could be returned to Kerbin for huge science and funds rewards, that would be crazy. I have seen your game all over reddit, but I've never played it. How can you pitch it to me to accuratly describe it and make sure I'll buy your game? 
P.S. it looks awesome and I'm going to buy it even if your sales pitch sucks. Lego rockets with realistic physics crewed by fearless, hyperenthusiastic green people. Explosions everywhere and we'll sneakily teach you orbital mechanics to boot. &gt; we'll sneakily teach you orbital mechanics to boot.

This one right here. It's incredible how a visual representation of space helps with understanding orbital mechanics. I always knew that you had to go sideways to make orbit, but just seeing it for myself and having to actually do the maneuvers really nailed it in. And doing a transfer to a different body? I would never have been able to imagine that on my own.

What I'm trying to say is; thank you for this incredible game! What is the most unexpected thing  you've seen people use your game for? It keeps popping up on news shows as a simulation of real life launches and spacecraft! Sorry if asked before, but now 1.0 is out, will you guys consider bringing more life to kerbin? Maybe add some little towns with roads leading to the space center? Right now it feels pretty barren.  Yeah it really feels more like Kerbin is the first planet that Kerbals have colonized, rather than it being their home planet. Honestly that's the way I like to imagine it at the moment. It helps explain why we are still gaining science from just driving/flying an exploration vehicle around on the surface and why the only Kerbal-made structure is an inter-connected space center.  Kerbals are actually mostly aquatic. All their major cities are underwater. At least that's what I pretend. All of their major cities must be underground (or underwater) because of the real danger of falling space debris. With all of the controversy surrounding Steam and modding, I was wondering what your thoughts were about the modding communities surrounding Kerbal?  HarvesteR: I think we are blessed with such a fantastically active modding community with KSP. I started out as a modder myself (wow, that was over 10 years ago I feel old), and for KSP, I knew we just had to have as much modding support as possible. I never could have imagined though, the extent to which it would have grown. Its just mind-boggling these days to look at not just the sheer quantity, but the really impressive quality of the mods people are coming up with.

KasperVld: the modding community is absolutely amazing. Weve developed a game for everyone, and then the modding community came along and made a game for every single person. I hope that makes sense, what I mean is that there are so many different preferences: life support, huge rocket parts, outer planets, laser weapons. I sometimes think that no two players have the exact same collection of mods installed. The mods allow everyone to customize the game to their personal preference, something that I think we could never achieve.

RoverDude:  As a modder myself, Ive found the entire KSP modding community to be pretty incredible, both in terms of just being helpful, and also in the level of collaboration Ive seen and been fortunate enough to participate in.  My favorite example being Karbonite, where it went from an idea I had to a launched product in less than two weeks, with half a dozen modelers (including some fantastic models from Nertea, nli2work, and others) swarming to make something really amazing for the community.  I continue to be amazed by the stuff the other modders crank out - it really adds a lot to the game, and why Im happy I was able to do my bit to help giving them more extensible tools when we made the resource system.

Porkjet: The modding community in KSP is the friendliest, most helpful, and most encouraging Internet community Ive ever seen. The level of ingenuity and hard work they are putting into their mods is mind blowing. I am very happy and thankful for all the help and inspiration I got from other modders over the years!

Arsonide: The great thing about the modding community is that it pushes the boundaries of the game ever further. It really fosters a very strong community around the game, because it gives it even more longevity. Each modder brings something unique to the table, whether that is a set of new planets, or new contracts, or a giant banana. Someone out there will be interested, and it will make their gameplay experience more enjoyable for them. I think that is pretty awesome, and it has done great things for the game as a whole. Thanks for the answers! I agree, the modding community in regards to KSP is brilliant. How comfortable are you with career mode balance? Do you think you'll do a lot of further tweaking of balance and progression in future versions? Arsonide: Balance is always a moving target, but I'm very comfortable with where we have ended up. The contracts all have rewards proportional to the effort required to do them, science is more focused on doing experiments, the strategies all have different purposes, and the pacing of the facility upgrades has been flattened out a bit. All in all, it feels much more cohesive.


Ted: Balance is primarily reactive, with only the initial changes being decidedly proactive. So while in 1.0 weve made many balance changes and significant revisions, well still be making changes for some time from community feedback and further playtesting with 1.0. What are some features that did not make it for 1.0 but you are excited for in the future? The improvement to Kerbal skills to make scientists and engineers even more useful is one I'm crazy excited for. I really hope engineers will be able to place struts on EVA. Now that aerodynamics suck less, orbital construction is very important for large interplanetary vessels. Unfortunately docking ports are not the strongest things in the world, but EVA strut placement would keep even the wobbliest ships stable. In the meantime, Kerbal Attachment System (KAS) has EVA placeable struts, among other shiny things.  KAS (and/or KIS) should totally be integrated into stock. It makes both off-world colonies and orbital work much more fun than it already is! What are your plans for expanding and improving the Solar System in KSP? I really yearn for multiple stars and solar systems ... God I can't even reach Eeloo, how the fuck am I going to make it across lightyears? Serious answer, Bring enough extra fuel to the moon, then launch from there. You can use the extra speed from the moons orbit to launch way farther. 

Source: I've never played this game and have no idea what I'm talking about. sounds legit though
 You laugh, but that's pretty much how I play KSP. 

"Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ............. GOOD ENOUGH LAUNCH IT!" I would love for lagrange points to be added in. Unfortunately I doubt n-body physics will be a thing until KSP 2. Do you ever plan to add propellers for aircraft? This isn't something we have short term plans on, but it may change. Are there plans to be able to see the heat load on your vessel? At least one streamer so far has had to deal with mysterious exploding fuel tanks (due to overheating), and reentry seems to be more of a 'pray the heat tolerances are high enough' affair. 

Does the debug menu contain such an implementation, and will it be put into the main game in the future? Could you tell me about the Dres-teroids? RoverDude: Well now that the cat is out of the proverbial bag, the Dres asteroid ring was an idea we had during development.  It served a couple of purposes - first, Dres was one sad and lonely place, so it needed some love.  Also, I liked the idea of having a static asteroid ring where players could do some pretty epic asteroid mining operations.  Side note - looks like you folks absolutely destroyed my two month bet on how soon you would discover Dres had a procedural asteroid ring ;) If you didn't know, [it was mentioned here](https://youtu.be/iqLFt-bgHhQ?t=118) :)

Also sounds pretty exiting! Can I ask a follow-up question? Yup, the community is on total hype overdose; someone would spot an easter egg even if it was the size of one pixel. Holy fucking shit. I haven't played since 0.25. I haven't played 0.90 at all. How much of this is available in 0.90? I am officially fully on board the hype train again! I'd say wait until 1.0 drops. I bought the game over Christmas, started playing, and stopped when they announced 1.0. I didn't want to spend time learning how to make aerodynamics work when the system was going to supposedly change very severely come 1.0. Are you 100% sure that KSP never ever gets some kind of life support? Not even the version thats developed by roverdude right now? We're not 100% sure on that anymore, we've been listening and we can't say anything for sure, but it's certainly back on the table. What are the plans for beyond 1.0? Is there a list of some kind available so we can see what features the team would like to implement, not necessarily confirmation of those features, just ones you'd like to add?

Aimed at MaxMaps specifically:
When do you expect to return to your glorious modelling career? I heard a rumor you were in talks with Calvin Klein and Armani? Any lists like that are super dangerous, as if it turns out something we came up with isn't really doable/not fun, then we've effectively broken a promise.

Also dude, have you seen me? I think you have the wrong Maxmaps. Oh god it's been two hours, but whatever, here goes.

I just want to say you've produced possibly one of the finest games ever made and have inspired an interest in space in multiple generations of people. 

You've planted a seed in me and have inspired my intellectual interests as well as my gaming interests.

Thank you, so, so much. KSP is frickin' amazing.

Oh, fuck it also I've literally just jumped into the thread but if no one else has asked: 

What are update plans with regards to in-game music? 

Thank you once again. Thank you for your kind comments, they really do mean a lot to us in the team. We might be able to do more stuff musicwise, we always talk about each planet having a theme, but from a creative standpoint that is a surprisingly large ordeal. /u/jfcomposer is working on writing a [classical piece of music for every planet](https://soundcloud.com/jfranklincomposer/sets/symphony-of-the-kerbals), you might want to get into contact with him. What is your favorite community mod and why? KasperVld: Of the ones I currently have installed Id have to pick between AntennaRange and Tweakscale. Both are great mods for very different reasons. One mod I should really try some time is Kerbal Attachment System.

Max: HotRockets. I just love the way the engine exhaust looks with it.

Porkjet: Kerbal Engineer - I love the absolute control it provides over building and fine tuning crafts to perfection as well as the many flight informations.

Arsonide: Chatterer! It is the first thing I install after a new version. Thanks for the reply! I'm more of a B9 guy myself but i intend on going stock for a while after the release of 1.0. best of luck to you guys going forward! Whats your favourite feature added in any update?

God, this game has progressed so much since 0.13, remember Kerbalkon, 0.18 update crashed the servers? Good times KasperVld: Probably docking: Im a space station nut and what little time I have left to play the game these days is almost always spent ferrying up a new science lab, truss section or habitation module to a space station.


HarvesteR: My all-time favorite is still the EVAs. Every time I get to work on them theres always a smile on my face. Theres something very hilarious about mistreating Kerbals in a test scene and throwing rigidbodies at them. A close second, even though its a much smaller feature, the crewmember name generator. I still find some new combos sometimes that make me crack up.

Max: The science system. I just love going to the wildest reaches of the solar system and bringing back samples.

Arsonide: Mine has to be when the planets were made round, and multiple destinations were added. It completely changed the dynamic of the game.

Ted: Quite probably EVAs from a player-perspective. Being able to take these little green explorers out of their protective shells to float and scrabble around in the vast emptiness of the games small Kerbin, Mun and Minmus system was just game-changing for me. It magnified the amount I looked forward to getting to the destination.
 Hey Kasper, we'd love to see your space station designs :) What's something you thought would be a good feature but didn't add, and for what reason? We originally designed the basic version of kerbal skills to give % increases to performance. We listened to our community and decided against it. And we are eternally grateful! Will there be a 1.0.1 to fix issues found during the stream? There already was! We've been watching the streams and fixing up whatever breaks live. For example, the bug that /u/illectro ran into when dropping something from a cargo bay was fixed about 10 minutes after he showed it.

Video proof of glitches is amazing for fixing stuff, so shoutout to Danny2462.  Um, he didn't just drop something from the cargo bay. He *flew a surf board out of the cargo bay, then landed it back in the bay.* As far as I'm concerned, that's a fuckin *feature.* Can we get stock radiators? RoverDude:  In 1.0 we actually tweaked solar panels to also act as basic passive radiators.  But I can definitely see the case for some more interesting things around heat mechanics and ISS-style thermal control systems.   1) Will RAM consumption problems be addressed? If so, will it be through [DXT Compression](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/59005) or [Just in time loading](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/73236-WIP-Loading-textures-only-as-required) or something else?    
2) Are you planning to focus on the eye candy in future or just the gaming aspects (offloading glitter to modders)? If so, maybe you could point which one would be worked on? Eg. (Voxel) [clouds](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/55905-0-24-7-4-Sep-9-2014-EnvironmentalVisualEnhancements), [atmosphere scatter](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/115408-WIP-Scatterer-atmospheric-scattering-mod-%28v0-014_Experimental-26-04-2015%29), Ambient Occlusion, new shaders [(Reflection maps](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/70089-Reflection-Plugin-Continued-0-24-2)) or something even better?     1) It's addressed in 1.0
2) We threw in a bunch of eye candy in 1.0, we're trying to add more cool stuff, though. Can mined ore be recovered for funds or can it only be converted into fuel? If it can be recovered, does it have a high recovery value like the precious metals that will be mined from real asteroids? RoverDude: Ore is dirt cheap ;)  so its really not the most profitable thing to recover.  You could probably get more funds out of converting it to LiquidFuel (and become Kerbal Refinery Program).  But I expect that some enterprising modders will quickly make a mod for this.  Again, one of the best parts (IMO) of the resource system is that its a framework for the modders out there to make us some really awesome stuff, with all of the heavy lifting already done. Fantastic. Need a mod that makes kerbals wear hard hats. Can we expect multiple star systems in the future? Multiple star systems fall out of the scope of the game for now, but there's no telling what the future holds!

In the meantime, I suggest trying the Interstellar mod. It's really great. To all the individual devs: which feature that you added to the game (not just 1.0) have you been most proud of? Arsonide: I feel proud of all of my additions, but I swell with pride when I see the satellite contracts. The animated orbits really help turn a very complicated concept into something that is easily digestible.

RoverDude:  Like Arsonide, Im incredibly happy with all of the pieces I have had the chance to add in, but of all of the sub-systems, Im incredibly happy with how the entire resource discovery and scanning experience and thermal management turned out, and its been amazing watching the reaction of the folks observing the various twitch streams today. 

HarvesteR: Hm, good question. There have been very difficult features that werent really that enjoyable to add, and other very small features that I feel inordinately proud of If I had to pick one I felt most proud of though, it would probably be the planetarium / patched conics solver. For a guy who consistently flunked math class from 7th grade onwards, and only finished high-school through an equivalency course, that piece of code required some serious maths. At first I was going mostly by trial and error, but as it all came together, I realized just how much I had learned in the process, and that using math and logic alone, we were literally building a little universe. I still get a little grin at times when I cross SOIs. Will the price increase when it is launched? Do you have plans for a new project? Kerbal Space Program is our main focus and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future, there's no telling what may come afterwards, though. May I suggest:

* Kerbal Train Program

* Kerbal Mechwarrior Program

* Kerbal Ski Program
 All of your ideas are already games:

* [Kerbal Space Program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YRXgFu3RpYk)
* [Kerbal Space Program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XymQnd0Vc7w)
* [Kerbal Space Program](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVMGQNj04l4) That third video is impressive as FUCK. Kerbal Submarine Program!

Seriously, going full-DSV would be awesome; there's as much to explore below the surface as there is above it!

(And then combine the two! Imagine mining some needed resource on Minmus and then delivering it to a Laythe underwater habitat for processing!) What is squad's stance on paid mods? It's a can of worms we're not in the position to dare to peek into. Our current policy doesn't allow charging for mods, but we encourage people to donate to their favorite mod authors.  Will you ever reintroduce the storyline that was in the earlier versions? the one with the magic rock, Kraken, etc.? We've found that adding to the storyline and background actually limits the player's ability to just make their own, it's one of those odd less is more things. In 1.0 (or even in 1.x) will be possible to do clamsheel like fairings? If not why the current system is limited to "confetti" fairings explosion?  We'll add the option to divide them in two panels after release. Since they produce debris that is not actually persistent, we are okay with leaving the very flashy, rather kerbal method alone for now. Will the post 1.0 schedule be the same as the pre 1.0 schedule IE: 3 or 4 content updates a year? No plans to change the schedule. Hey guys! 

Love the game. I've been meaning to spend a lot more time with it to really learn how it all works. Maybe with school ending soon I'll finally get a chance to sink my teeth into it. :P

Now, for my question. Do you think KSP is a genre-defining type of game? When I was looking into Besieged (which I also recommend), it was described as "the KSP of medieval warfare..." Do you think it deserves to be the metric against all other physics sandbox games are measured against? Or does it do something so different that you guys are surprised to see this trend in the first place?  That feels too big for us. It is downright humbling. Were Kerbals harmed at making this game? KasperVld: So. Many. But thats a big part of the spirit of the game.


HarvesteR: Oh yes, very many. Its ok though, they dont seem to mind, and there seems to be an undepletable population of them.


Arsonide: Yes, but its all for science.

Ted: Im a bit of the scrub when testing and revert where I can - bonus is that revert is a goldmine for persistence-based issues. So very few Kerbals die where I can prevent it, though testing the overhauled aerodynamics significantly increased it! We don't mind. At least we won't be running short on Mystery Goo any time soon. Holy crap. Mystery Goo^TM is Kerbals?! Have you never wondered what that "green substance" you find "traces of" on the launchpad was, and what happened with it afterwards?

Also, those smily faces on the Goo container... Do you have an exact time that 1.0 will be released tomorrow?  Roughly seconds after we hit the giant red button at the office labeled 'release 1.0'. We will try to make sure its up as early as possible, but we have to make sure everything is perfect before we do. I don't care how expensive it is, you guys NEED to get an actual red button to release 1.0. Have you guys ever considered teaming up with the guy who made dwarf fortress to make the most obfuscating game known to man?  Kerbal Fortress. Oh god. What are the current hurdles with KSP Multiplayer? What is the expected timeframe of completion from today? (1 year, 5 years?) It will still take a couple updates. There are very specific hurdles, such as the fact that we give the players control over time itself, or some broader ones like the regulation of player interaction that is needed. We'll get to all of them, though. I see a future where space agencies of fifty players patrol their rocket launches in fighter jets so that others don't shoot them down. At what point did you realise that KSP was going to be something big? I don't think we're done realizing it. Stuff like working with NASA, or being mentioned by Elon Musk keeps happening and our already blown minds explode again and again.  What do you think was the greatest and silliest thing to implement over the years?
 My vote would be persistence for the greatest, kerbal expressions for the silliest. Does it at all feel weird to you guys that you're finally coming out of early access? HarvesteR: It certainly feels different. Technically, this release is no different from the 25 previous ones, but there is something about going for 1.0 that definitely feels special. I have to say though, Im very pleased with the features we managed to get into the game for this release. Theres always more stuff we want to add to the game, but it really feels like the game has reached a definite state of completion now.

Kasper: Early Access has been fantastic to the game, it gave us the opportunity to develop the game with the community, and now were ready to present the game to the world. In terms of development it may feel natural, since the developers have fulfilled their design goals, but coming out of early access is a big mental step.

Ted: The somewhat undiscussed nature of Early Access from a developers point-of-view is that youre always going and always developing, testing and designing significant changes and features. Moving to reach a final realised vision of the game you want. Of course, the game you have in your head and the game that those that play it get in theirs is not always the same. So in Early Access, there becomes this sort of gap between the features players see being part of the final game and the features that will be. Leaving Early Access means that KSP will be finally realised and people will play it for the game that it is and not the game that it will be. The clear and present dividend of this is that we can continue working on the game, improving, refining and balancing to really polish KSP 1.0 and beyond.
 When will you add a delta V readout in VAB/SPH? Once we have an enhanced system for engineers and scientists we are happy with.  So engineers are going to be able to give in-flight delta-V info, and we'll have it in the VAB/SPH to boot? You guys are awesome.

Now add transfer window information so I don't need to install Kerbal Engineer Redux anymore. :P He replied somewhere else that this would come sometime after 1.0 Doubt you'll see this but I figured I'd put it out there.

I'm an old orbiter "player" that got pulled into KSP right near the start. I absolutely love what your game has done to shape perceptions and knowledge of spaceflight. Anymore it seems like I run into so many people that understand fundamentals of things like orbital mechanics and space exploration thanks to KSP. Before KSP this just didn't seem to be the case. You're helping to make spaceflight exciting again.

Anyhow what I'm trying to say is your game is awesome and you guys are awesome for making it. Keep up the amazing work.

As an aside if you do see this did you guys ever picture or at least hope that your game would get quite this popular? Also what was the moment that made you think "damn this thing is getting bigger than we expected..."? I want to start by saying thanks for you kind comments, and it's actually the same kind of thing that makes us realize we've made it big. When someone shows you a video of a 10 year old boy using terms like retrograde you know you're having an impact. Then NASA tweets at you and you pretty much have a heart attack. You have not only made an awesomely fun game, but that game has inspired scientific literacy and excitement across generations. Your company has made the world a better place~ I still miss the gravity model from Orbiter (when playing KSP) ... :'(

 Do you have an unpaid intern in charge of finding all the delightful names of our Kerbals ? I would really like to know who comes up with them. HarvesteR: Now I wish we had thought of that first. The names are put together by an algorithm that combines syllables. Some of these actually make up real names like Al-bert or Pat-rick. Other combos are more Kerbal like Lem-frod or Sig-top. For the girls, its much the same, but they have their own sets of syllables, like Clau-beth or Ber-dolin, or Stel-la or Tri-celle. Apart from those, we also have a pool of unique names, which we use to add names that wouldnt be possible with syllable combos, or that are references to people we want to reference in the game. 

 I still miss Dil-do :( You made me smile Smart. And thanks for hours of fun. In Jeb we trust. Still trying to find Elon, so I can launch him in a Dragon. It seems you're in luck! The [release notes state](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/threads/116772-The-KSP-1-0-Grand-Discussion-Thread-Conquering-Space-Was-Never-This-Easy!?p=1868317#post1868317): 
&gt; Elon Kerman added to name pool.  Any plans to add a Jezebel, Roberta, and Willamette Kerbin?  Are you all actually ducks crammed into Human suits? Quack. More like a bunch of kerbals standing on eachothers shoulders With this update a lot of the mods in the community have been adopted/integrated into the stock game. How do you think this will affect the modding community moving forward? RoverDude:  One thing Im pretty happy we were able to do do with 1.0, both in resources and to an extent aero, is either provide great frameworks for modders to work off of (like the ability to add new resources, including atmospheric and oceanic), and in the case of Aero, the ability to allow mods to completely override that functionality.  As a modder myself, I made resources in the way I would have wanted from a modders perspective.  So if anything, I see some of these newer systems serving as springboards for the modders out there to make even more amazing things. How do you feel about the abuse of millions of Kerbals for the sake of science? KasperVld: pretty good!

Ted: *ahem alleged abuse* I think you meant to write. 

Arsonide: It is a necessary but unfortunate evil.

HarvesteR: Ive never heard any of them complain.

Max: A little sorry? &gt; HarvesteR: Ive never heard any of them complain.

Does screaming in terror count as a complaint? Of course not!

Silly humans. &gt; Ive never heard any of them complain

Because in space, nobody can hear you scream. Of course.

Anyway, I don't think they mind until a half-second before impact, as they realise that the manic that built their lander mis-staged it and jettisoned the landing capsule away from the braking rocket. The aerodynamics and wind shadow mechanics look very impressive on KSPTV! Did the existence of community aerodynamics mods assist with that work or did you design and write it all from scratch? We were flooded by offers from aerospace engineers from some of the most prestigious sources on the planet. We took some advice, but also went through literal months of playtesting to make sure that the new system while being far more accurate than the previous one, was also intuitive and fun. How would you rank FAR, NEAR, and the new aerodynamics in realism? If I remember:

FAR is the most realistic. 

New Stock Aero is next, as it's simpler

NEAR because no Mach effects and no RUD (rapid unplanned disassembly)

Errodynamics (0.0 to 0.90 stock) is last.  Jellodynamics As one of those engineers (more avionics though) from one of those sources, I tell my colleagues about KSP whenever something comes up that reminds me about it. I love KSP. I have a short attention span to games anymore but I always come back and put significant amounts of time into KSP. My stint between weeks of playthrough is usually 2 months max. I absolutely love the game. I love the community, though I'm a lurker and I love the mods.

KSP's community are as much to do with KSP's success as the game itself and it is probably the best combination I've ever had the pleasure of being a (very small) part of. Did you record the parameters you had for any ultra realistic aerodynamics model?  Maybe you could release a mod for the nerds? IIRC, /u/ferram4 wasn't consulted about aerodynamics. /u/ferram4 was not consulted as far as I know - he was not in the devnotes at any time.

However, he's said that he will be keeping FAR alive for us, so kudos to him! He better name the continuation "Wherever You Are". How would you recommend learning how to play such a complex game?  Arsonide: I recommend Scott Manleys introductory videos on Youtube. He is able to break down complex subject matter very well. Have you ever talked with Scott personally? just don't google "Scott Manley". Why not? Only relevant links pop up for me. twitch.tv/dasvaldez   On saturdays he usually does "Kerbal Space Academy" and teaches people how to get into orbit, etc. Plus hes fun to watch. twitch.tv/ksptv is also the 'official' ksp stream that features a bunch of dedicated community members playing around in the game I would say start a science mode save. You start with few enough parts that there isn't much choice until you're ready for it, and you only have to design and fly the ships, not fund them. I know I have to ask a question, but I really just want to say congratulations.  Kerbal is a great game and you guys are a great bunch.  Thanks for everything.

I'm told it has quite the following at places like NASA, SpaceX, and so on... How does it feel knowing that so many people in the space and aeronautics industry have given Kerbal such an enthusiastic reception?  It's downright unreal. When NASA first contacted us, we were pretty sure it was an elaborate prank. Have you ever thought of opening a Los Pollos Hermanos? Believe it or not... there is talk of a Pollos Hermanos becoming a *real* restaurant. This is not an idea that I generated personally. But it's one that's been presented to me, through the good folks at Sony, and the idea came to them from a businessman who has an interest in doing just that.

Speaking for myself, I'd love to see that happen! Every store should have a Gus Fring look-a-like and ask random customers if their food is to their satisfaction. Also a guy that looks like Walter White sitting alone eating.  A set of mute twins in silver suits staring into space in the corner. By the sounds of it there wouldn't be any spare seats for the customers. Also every purchase of a combo meal comes with a free GPS tracker installed under your car by a serial killer. And sell ice cream covered with blue pop rocks. If Onion Frings aren't on the menu then what the fuck.  They come free with every Heisenburger. "What's in the Hiesenburger?"

"That's uncertain." Well they have *Bubba Gump Shrimp* as a real chain and it's pretty great, so that seems entirely in the realm of possibility.
Edit: I don't give a shit if you don't like Bubba Gump. How many kinds of shrimp do they have on the menu? None, they only serve coffee and irony. That's just the Portland location, all the other ones have shrimp. Anyway, like I was sayin', shrimp is the fruit of the sea. You can barbecue it, boil it, broil it, bake it, saute it. Dey's uh, shrimp-kabobs, shrimp creole, shrimp gumbo. Pan fried, deep fried, stir-fried. There's pineapple shrimp, lemon shrimp, coconut shrimp, pepper shrimp, shrimp soup, shrimp stew, shrimp salad, shrimp and potatoes, shrimp burger, shrimp sandwich. That- that's about it. But wouldn't the "Hey you're not cooking meth back there right?" jokes get old too quickly to justify it? If places closed from terrible overused jokes there wouldn't be any retail places left. "I just printed these $100 bills this morning!"

Every. Single. Time. Can't find sku, or it rings up wrong... "Guess that means it's free!" The goddamn worst. In casting for Breaking Bad, how close or far was Aaron Paul to your initial vision of Jesse? Aaron Paul very much fit the bill of my interpretation of Jesse Pinkman from the get-go. Otherwise we wouldn't have hired him. But having said that, a great deal of Aaron's personality and goodness then became a part of the character of Jesse Pinkman as the show progressed. In other words - we the writers were inspired by Aaron's specific qualities as a human being, and we incorporated many of those qualities into the character of Jesse Pinkman. And we did this with all of the other actors as well - from Bryan Cranston on down.  It's a wonderful thing about television - that you can do that. You're telling one story for so long that you have the time to adjust the story, over many episodes and many seasons, as you learn more about your actors. No other medium allows for that. For instance, when you're writing a movie, the script has to be completely finished before production starts, and there's no chance to make those changes as the shooting continues.   So if you incoporated Aaron Paul's goodness into his character towards the end (assuming you mean Jesse tried to become good), AND you're saying you did the same with Cranston, YOU'RE REALLY SAYING BRYAN CRANSTON IS A HORRIBLE HUMAN BEING AW MAN No denial...  I like to think Brian is really like Hal.   What parts of Bryan Cranston's personality changed the character of Walter White? There's a story about how Bryan was the force behind the "dead caterpillar" style mustache he had at the start of the series, to make Walter look even more pathetic. That's basically the story. He also suggested that Walter's clothes should blend with his surroundings, representing a man who has given up and just wants to fade into the background of life. Oh god English teachers are loving this The drug dealer parts. The underwear parts  that much is probably true. Bryan said in interviews he insisted on tightey whiteys because he thought they were the most embarrassing.  He thought it would fit the character best.

He said Vince kept telling him boxers were ok when they were in the desert but he insisted on the tightey whiteys. Did you ever anticipate that the pizza throwing scene would be copied as much as it was?  No, I never anticipated that the pizza-throwing scene would be one of the non-submergible" moments of Breaking Bad.  None of us did.  It seemed like a fun thing to include in the episode at the time, but none of the writers of the series thought it would take on a life of its own.  Thank you for asking that question, because it once again gives me the opportunity to say:  for any of the folks who wanted to throw pizza on the roof of the White house, its very unfair to the sweet lady that lives there.  Please, please do NOT do it.  If you want the photo of a pizza on the White house roof:  Photoshop it!!!  Thats the way to do it in this day in age.  You can have any size pizza, and it wont risk this very sweet lady breaking her back getting her ladder out and climbing up to clean pizza off her roof. The old lady should put a fake pizza on her roof so no one would throw a second one up there. Someone should invent solar panels that look like pizzas. Science, bitch! but that kinda defeats the purpose of, you know... *not* having a pizza in her roof at all times. What sort of idiot throws away perfectly good pizza any way? (Apart from Walter White) And *definitely* do not try to throw a pizza on the roof of the White House. dont worry. we can't throw pizza like Mr. White did.

http://i.imgur.com/RtbZmoR.gif How many times do you think they had to do that?

EDIT: Apparently once. Believe it or not, that was the first take. Nailed it on the first try: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RkTDilC-860

Further proof that Bryan Cranston is the greatest actor of his generation. It is commonly said that the true measure of an actor is how well he throws pizza. I believe that's how Shakespeare did auditions.  This is, in fact, where the word "pizzazz" comes from. It originally meant how fancy your stage pizza throw was.  /r/todayibullshitted &gt;  for any of the folks who wanted to throw pizza on the roof of the White house, its very unfair to the sweet lady that lives there.

Please don't do that to poor Michelle Obama.  Is Huell okay?     /-.-\ If you haven't seen it, you have to watch this great sketch: [Huells Rules](http://youtu.be/8domW4NwpBQ) That is hilarious!!!  I was not aware of that sketch. Thanks for letting me know about it.  Yes, I believe Huell is just fine.
 &gt; I believe Huell is just fine.

Just reasonably fine.
 confirmed canon  Well then you should definitely check out [/r/breakingbadcomics.](https://www.reddit.com/r/breakingbadcomics/top?t=all) &gt; baby, they cut off the electricity

the lamp is still on. Huell's Rules.  Heeuuuwww's Reeewwwws Reasonably [Reasonably](http://ih3.redbubble.net/image.14648012.0952/fc,550x550,white.u1.jpg)

 [Love Huell](http://media4.giphy.com/media/EdULvHpOEMEbS/giphy.gif) Hi Vince,

Im a big fan thanks for doing this AMA!  I have three questions:

Out of all the characters that were killed in Breaking Bad which ones death affected you the most?

George RR Martin commented that he thought "Walter White is a bigger monster than anyone in Westeros", which Martin also said has influenced him to make an even worse character in future books to "fix this"  what do you think about this comment?  Would you look forward to seeing such a character in Game of Thrones?

Finally  your favorite movie?  Thanks Vince!

 I have to say the death of Walter White affected me the most, because what it represented was the end of the story and the completion of this seven year journey we had taken together -- the cast, crew, writers and directors of Breaking Bad.  That was the most affecting death to write.  I actually teared up when I wrote it.  I think a close second was the death of Mike Ehrmantraut. 

I take George RR Martins comment as high praise indeed.  I suppose the grass is always greener, because I would put young King Joffrey up against Walter White as far as pure unadulterated evil goes, because he was pretty intense -- but Im glad a writer as talented as George RR Martin is thinking about Breaking Bad in any shape or form! &gt; I think a close second was the death of Mike Ehrmantraut.

Especially when Walt was like, "Oh! I just realized this was completely unnecessary!" After everything Mike had been through and survived he essentially got killed for nothing :( "Shut the fuck up and let me die in peace" It's kind of sad watching Better Call Saul and knowing his ultimate fate? Yes it is? I'm Ron Burgundy? ..but Ramsay!

edit: took out the last name since reddit is being reddit. No shit. He's the sickest fuck in Westeros.  That's Ramsay *BOLTON* to you &gt;George RR Martin commented that he thought "Walter White is a bigger monster than anyone in Westeros"

I'm a big fan of both Breaking Bad and GRRM's work, but am I alone in finding this assessment ridiculous? Multiple ASOIAF characters are pretty close to pure evil, with few if any redeeming qualities. Gregor Clegane, Joffrey, and Ramsay Bolton come to mind. Walter White, at his worst, is more akin to Tywin Lannister (i.e. pursuing power with little regard for who might get hurt in the process, willing to kill those he perceives as a threat to himself or his family). He never really approaches the pointless cruelty of the three listed above. I forget, did Walter White ever flay and castrate anyone? Uhh no, but if you want to get technical about it

* Poisoned Emilio with phosphene gas
* Strangled Krazy 8 with a bike lock
* Watched Jane asphyxiate herself and did nothing (which eventually led to the mid air collision)
* Ran over 2 rival dealers and shot one in the head
* Ordered Jesse to kill Gale
* Blew up Tio, Tyrus, and Gus
* Poisoned Brock and lied about it
* Shot/killed 2 of Gus' guards
* Shot/killed Mike
* Ordered the deaths of 9 prisoners and 1 lawyer by stabbing, choking, beating, bludgeoning, and setting one on fire
* Led Hank and Gomez to their deaths
* Sold out Jesse
* Killed the entire white supremacist gang with an M60 (but who cares about them)
* Poisoned Lydia 

All in all responsible directly/indirectly responsible for around 200 deaths according to this [wiki](http://breakingbad.wikia.com/wiki/List_of_deaths_on_Breaking_Bad) &gt; Poisoned Brock and lied about it

I think that was the point that I began to look at Walt very differently... It almost surprised me as I felt I was so in tune with the character.  It felt like a betrayal.  But so many of those characters were villains in their own right. Right, which is the beauty of the writing in this work:   they actually get you as the viewer to empathize with the main character to a degree where you don't see them as the villain, you see them as the hero, and go beyond that and try to rationalize and *justify* mass-murder by the character as somehow being "okay".       did you ever read /r/breakingbad's theories during the show, for example the use of the colors in the show or walt picking up his victim's habits? Ive never actually been on reddit before -- not as a consumer, at least.  Not because I dont find reddit interesting; I just dont look up anything Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul, or Vince Gilligan-related.  That said, I have heard throughout the years that people find our use of color interesting, which Im happy to hear, because a great deal of thought went into that between the writers and the costume designers. "Marie is the sort of person who likes purple. We should make everything she owns purple." What's really deep is she actually said that was Hank's favorite color. So she bought everything in that color just for him. Actually he said his favourite thing in the world was purple minerals like amethyst, and she only took notice of the first part. Well it's not like she can go around wearing rocks now can she? jesus christ midnightrambler_1... You joke, but my favorite color is green and pretty much everything I own is green.  Do you feel like your work gets over-interpreted? Thats a good question!  The short answer is no.  Thats because I view people interpreting Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul very closely as the highest form of flattery. However, I will admit that a great many of the interpretations that people have of both shows involve details and conclusions which -- frankly -- I never had in mind.  But my opinion is that these shows, once on the air, belong to you the fans as much as they belong to me and those who act and work on the shows, so your reactions are just as valid as mine.  What do you think of [this](http://i.imgur.com/deB6yl6.jpg) Not enough interpreting  &gt;Represents how much I want to suck on them titties

Wat [deleted] Uhh, did you mean NSFW? I'm sure I would have remembered this if it was from the show

EDIT: He posted [this NSFW pic](http://i.imgur.com/efzwwYa.jpg) I spoiled what her boobs look like.  Now you can no longer imagine. \\\_()_/ Lmao  Spotted two misspellings of Skyler...

Is this OC, /u/jstrydor? /r/breakingbad summed up in one picture...  Who was the biggest prankster on the set of Breaking Bad? Probably Bryan Cranston.  He loved to tease Aaron Paul mercilessly. This came about after I told Aaron Paul early in the series that I had planned to kill off his character.  From then on, every time a new script came out, Bryan would hurry to read it first so he could put on a sorrowful face and say to Aaron, Gee buddy, Im so sorry. Youre going out with a bang, at least.  And Aaron, God bless him, seemed to fall for it every time.  I hope Aaron turned this around on him during the last episode. I'm fairly sure they read it together at the same time.  Ah yes, wasn't that taped and aired after the finale? Yep, [here it is](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTKQKq4lFsI) Anybody else expecting this to be a TIL in the near future? It'll be on the front page tomorrow. LOL! This is pure GOLD! :-) "Aw gee Aaron, when Walter says he hopes Jesse ends up in a barrel in Mexico, I didn't realize it was foreshadowing... :("  Never, ever, chicken dance in Mexico.  co coCO coCO coCOOOHHH! What other characters from *Breaking Bad* might we see in *Better Call Saul*?
 Anybody and everybody.  The skys the limit!  Thats the beauty of this format. The story takes place six years in the past, where all the Breaking Bad characters are alive and well, but thats not to promise that youll see every character that we introduced in Breaking Bad. Were still feeling our way through Jimmy McGills format, discovering how and why he becomes Saul Goodman -- and in the process, there's any number of directions our story can take.  So I couldnt really tell you even if I wanted to who will show up, or when.  Better Call Saul is still very much a work in progress. &gt;Anybody and everybody. The skys the limit! 


Anybody, sky's the limit. 

Anybody, Skyler's the limit. 

Anybody except Skyler confirmed! 

 Why not Skyler? Can you imagine a brief romance between Chuck and Skyler?

&gt; I fucked Chuck.

The internet would go insane. Better Fuck Chuck. Vince, Why did you pick Saul for a spinoff?  (Will there be others?)  I would thought that spinoff with gustavo and how he became a respected business man and how he came to know gale, etc would have been fascinating too (Could you answer those questions in Better Call Saul!!? that would be awesome!)

Thanks! I have to admit, a spin-off series about Gus Fring would be a good idea.  Theres no perfect answer to that question, other than to say that creating a spin-off series related to Saul Goodman was an idea that we batted around pretty much since the creation of the character.  We always loved writing for Saul Goodman throughout the run of Breaking Bad.  Now we find writing for Jimmy McGill, hes so good with words that writing his dialogue is great fun, too.  But youre right,  Gus could carry his own story.  I wish there were more hours in the day, so that wed be able to do ALL these shows! *Better order chicken* confirmed!
 Or a series about Gus and Hector Salamanca and their hatred for each other. 

*Better Ding Fring*

Edit: GOLD, Jerry! GOLD!  Never fuss Gus? *Is Your Order Satisfactory*, Sundays at 8. VERY looking forward to *Pollo Empire* once Better Call Saul finishes it's sixth season! If you have too much Gus, you lose the mythical element of the character. He's most intriguing because of what you don't know about him.  Exactly.  The mystery behind his past in Chile is best left unexplained. And he's a dead fish behaviorally, so not as dynamic as Saul, even though he of course has motivations and goals. Hi Vince! Why do you think Breaking Bad connected so closely with viewers, to the point where they wished Walter White would have lived?  I wish I knew!  Although, Im certainly glad viewers did connect with Walter White.  In the early days of the series -- when I was at my most foolish -- I deliberately tried to make Walter White so unlikeable that his behavior would shed viewers.  In hindsight, I think that was extraordinarily dumb of me, but I have to admit that by the end of the series, I myself did not have a whole lot of sympathy for Walter White.  For me, he had gotten too dark to empathize with, which is not to say viewers should all feel the same way I do.  Im glad viewers still rooted for him up till the end and wanted him to live.  Hell, even my mom did!  And if you knew her, youd be pretty shocked she would root for a guy like that.  I think Walter White was smart, active, willful -- and thats what we look for in our heroes. The fact that he was engaged in some pretty heinous criminal behavior might have been a bit beside the point.  He nonetheless had many other qualities that we deem heroic in fiction.  Maybe thats why people stuck with him.   Certainly people stuck with Walter White because he was played by the astoundingly talented Bryan Cranston, who remains constantly watchable no matter what character he is playing.  Thanks so much for responding! You truly did create a masterpiece :) &gt; I wish I knew!

Because in the beginning he was living the dream. Life fucked him, so he fucked life back and did what he wanted. He took shit from nobody, did exactly what he wanted to do, told his boss to fuck off, etc. I still liked him up the minute he died.

There also has to be some redemption found in his act of saving Jessie from a slow death of a caged animal. What were your greatest fears in producing a spin-off for Breaking Bad? How did you overcome them? Without a doubt, my greatest fear was abject failure -- and that is still my greatest fear.  Seriously:  I was afraid that the show would go on the air and people wouldnt like it, and -- worse than that -- people would say it sullied their memory of Breaking Bad.  But fear is never a reason not to try something.  Thats what I told myself throughout the months of production and pre-production on Season 1, and thats what I tell myself now.  Fear is a good thing -- its the fire in the boiler that drives your locomotive, so to speak.  I try to temper the fear with hopefulness, and I try to use it to keep me going, but its always there no matter how much success I experience.  I always feel like the next time around -- for instance the next season of Better Call Saul -- could be the one when people finally say This guy sucks.   Heres hoping that wont happen.  I can tell you for a fact that that fear drives me and Peter Gould to make sure that Season 2 will be every bit as good as Season 1. Better Call Saul was so mature and interesting.  You obliterated the old AfterMASH idea that TV sequels can't work.     I think Frasier did that but this was a fantastic example of re-obliteration! The best compliment you can make about Frasier is that SO many people don't even remember/realize that it's a spinoff Same for Laverne and Shirley I do believe...which sometimes starred Michael McKean.  Full circle! Something from Wikipedia I found interesting: 

&gt; "The set of Frasier itself was built over the set of Cheers on the same stage after it had finished filming. The producers of Frasier made certain there were no stools in the coffee shop in order to distance it visually from the Cheers bar" Yep.  I expected *Frasier* to suck.  I tuned in to the first episode expecting it to crash and burn and... I laughed my ass off.  And it kept me laughing for years.

I'm glad that *Better Call Saul* has turned out so well.  I wasn't ready for *Breaking Bad* to be over after five seasons, I wanted more.  *Better Call Saul* is doing a great job of filling that need. Season 1 was fantastic. Fuck Chuck. /r/FuckChuck  I wasn't sure that Saul could be a leading character, in fact I don't think a lot of people did.

But damn, is he a solid lead character for BCS. I don't even remember what my apprehensions were for now that I've seen the first season. And every other member of cast has been perfect, from Rhea Seahorn to Julianne Emory (or however you spell her name...Betsy Kettleman was a dreamboat, for a number of reasons).

Seeing Michael McKean playing such a dramatic role and do it *so fucking well* was a bit of a surprise as well.

If the rest of the series is to be like season one then they had better got ahead and start handing out the emmy's. I thought almost the exact same about Breaking Bad when I started it.

"Lol, that's Hal. I can't take Malcolm in the Middle's dad serious in this..."

Now I forget that they were both the same actor. From the Aztec to the Volvo in the final episodes, everything about vehicle selection in Breaking Bad seems spot on. How much thought went into these choices, and what were some other ideas? A lot of thought went into choosing the automobiles for Breaking Bad and for Better Call Saul. We writers have a lot of help from our transportation captain, Dennis Milliken.  As our head teamster, Dennis takes great pride in finding us interesting vehicles for use in both shows.  As writers, we spend a lot of time thinking about what kind of car best represents a particular character.
 So how the heck did Marie end up with a BLUE VW Bug? She stole it. What has been your best/funniest/weirdest encounter with a fan? For me, the story that springs to mind is when someone told me -- this was probably about four years ago -- that he and his wife (who was pregnant) had been binge-watching Breaking Bad.  His wife went into labor, but none-the-less sat there until they got to the end of the episode. That was a pretty unbelievable story. 
 "ARGHHH- it hurts so much, but... I... need to know... what happened to.... Mike!!" "I need to know if they get that fucking fly!" Hi Vince! What was your favorite "X-Files" episode that you wrote and will you be writing more for the reboot? I had so many favorite X-Files episodes, it's hard to narrow it down to just one.

If you held my feet to the fire, I'd probably say "Bad Blood."  But really, as an experience, my favorite writing moment on The X-Files was probably writing "Je Souhaite" episode.  That's the one with the genie.

That's because that's the first episode I got to direct as well as write. And it was really a wonderful turning point in my career and it was a great deal of fun to boot.

Unfortunately I won't be writing for the reboot, because my work on Better Call Saul will keep me from doing that. I'm very sad to miss out, because I would love to have a hand in The X-Files reboot. The X-Files was my second favorite job ever, a close second to Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul, and I'd love to be a part of it.  Rest assured, I will be watching it as a fan. I can't wait to see it.  [Gillian Anderson is also fond of "Bad Blood"](http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/2fzxsf/my_favorite_xfiles_episode_formula/ckejt21) &gt; Unfortunately I won't be writing for the reboot, because my work on BETTER CALL SAUL will keep me from doing that. 

As someone greatly looking forward to the new X-Files, this is sad to hear - but thanks for confirming. Best of luck to you with BCS Season 2! Chuck McGill's arc was brilliant. How did you come up with the idea for the resolution? The lack of a main villain, then turning out to have been a good guy in such a subtle, painful, and awful way was really brilliant.
 Thank you.  Believe it or not, the idea of Chuck being the bad guy was a late addition to Season 1.  We were probably working on episode 7 when the idea dawned on us that Chuck had been the reason Jimmy had never moved forward at HHM.  When that idea dawned on Peter Gould and I, along with our writers, we got very excited.  But back to an earlier answer, this points out one of the things I love most about writing for TV.  There are enough episodes and enough lead time (if youre lucky) for writers to change the direction of a story midstream. We took advantage of that in Season 1 of Better Call Saul, and in the past for Breaking Bad. Its a great creative opportunity to have at ones disposal.  It's really crazy that you weren't planning Chuck as the "bad guy" from the get go. Re-watching the season makes it seem like it was meticulously planned. His reaction when Jimmy passes the bar! As well as Hamlin not doing anything incredibly rude aside taking some undeserved cake.

EDIT: I get it people, that scene was in a later episode. It's still impressive. Well, Chuck finds out that Jimmy passed the bar in episode 8, so they have already decided Chuck's motives by the time they filmed that scene.  Plus in TV, you don't write an episode, film it, write an episode, film it, write an episode, film it. The writing process starts long before filming begins (9+ months in some cases) so you could easily be working on the script for episode 7 while episode 1 or 2 is filming, and have time to tweak performances, add/remove lines, etc to suit. Well even if it *was* in an earlier episode, I'm pretty sure they don't write one, film one, write one, film one. If they decided when writing episode 7 they could still make changes to the earlier episodes. Hi Vince thanks for doing this AMA! 

Breaking Bad is my all-time favourite TV series and Id like to thank you for it. 

What inspired you to come up with the idea for the show?
 I was on a phone call with my best friend, Tom Schnauz, whose name you may recognize as a producer, writer and director on Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul.  This was about 10 years ago -- he and I had been writers on The X-Files and we were both looking for writing jobs that were as good as that job, as we were both out of work at the time.  He made the joke that we should put a meth lab in the back of an RV and travel America -- he was making a joke, but that really  stuck with me.  The idea of doing a show about a character that would do that seemed fun to explore -- and that was the inspiration, as it were. &gt; might be kind of interesting

&gt; seemed fun to explore

WHICH IS IT VINCE!? &gt;Vance

FTFY Bob Vance, Vance Refrigeration  So what line of work are you in Bob? [deleted] I asked this question to both Bryan and Aaron during their AMAs and enjoyed the responses; I would love to get your take as well Vince.

I live in Albuquerque and love to see our city showcased as such a main character on monumental shows like Breaking Bad and now Better Call Saul. Im curious how you feel about our city overall? Also what were some of your favorite places to frequent while in town? Thanks for the AMA. I love Albuquerque.  The first time I ever visited was on my way to Los Angeles for my X-Files job in 1995.  Then, I got to tour Kirtland Air Force Base on a fact-finding trip.  This was in about 1998.  I loved that experience -- and years later when it became apparent that it was the best place to shoot Breaking Bad, I was very pleased to return. There are so many things I loved.  I love taking the cable car up to the peak of the Sandias.  I loved The Savoy and Zinc and Jennifer James 101 -- among many other great restaurants.  I love the people.  I love the natural beauty that surrounds it.  I love the endless dramatic skies.  I think the skies are one of the things that make it really stand out on film.  Im happy to shoot Better Call Saul there now, because I really missed it during the interim between the two shows.  &gt;I think the skies are one of the things that make it really stand out on film.Haven't watched BCS, yet, but this sentiment really stands out when I watched Breaking Bad. The sky is a major focal point in a lot of scenes, especially when they are out in the desert. One of the reasons, I loved Breaking Bad, so much was the creativity in the shots.  Vince, thanks for doing this AMA  I heard you don't usually use the internet all that much.

1.) Why was Nacho used so sparingly in Season 1 of *Better Call Saul?* A lot of fans thought he'd be more of a major player. Love the show.

2.) Breaking Bad is wonderful TV, but if you could go back and do one thing differently in it, what would it be? We thought Nacho would be more present in Season 1 as well.  We did not shy away from using Nacho as a character -- and we love Michael Mando, who plays him.  This is a great example of how -- like it or not -- a television story takes on a life of its own.  As a writer, you have to follow the thread of the story youre writing, even if that means spending less time with certain characters.  In other words -- to put it succinctly -- there was so much more story to tell relating to Jimmy and his brother Chuck that we writers found it hard to fit in more great moments from Nacho -- but dont despair, youll be seeing much more of Nacho in Season 2.  You heard it here first!  What about Steven Ogg? If you weren't working in this industry, what else do you think you'd be doing right now instead?  I think Id like to be a helicopter pilot.  I think Id enjoy that.  I dont know how good Id be at it, in terms of having it as a career, but I think flying around in a helicopter all day would be pretty satisfying to me. You should have Bill Burr (Kuby) teach ya.  He just got his license not to long ago.   And bring him on the new show. Only if he also gets to do a SHEEEERIs BEEEEERIES commercial in the middle of every episode 
Hi Vince,


Big fan.  I heard that Saul Goodman's Office at the Shopping Center
location is now a Bar in real life and can't be used as a set anymore.
At the end of Breaking Bad you had to shoot scenes at weird camera
angles where it looked as though they were outside Saul's office with
the inflatable Statue of Liberty in the background.  What will you use
as a new location when Saul establishes himself?  What other problems
do you run into when a whole town is part of your story?  (Also is
Kaylee a toddler vampire?)
 Thats an excellent question -- where we will put his new office, or where we should put his old office, so to speak.  The exterior of his old office is now a country-western bar, complete with a mechanical bull that you can ride.  Its in an L-shaped strip mall, and luckily there are a LOT of L-shaped strip malls in Albuquerque and in the US.  When the time comes, I think we can find something that matches the old one well -- and the interior we can match on the sound stage!

Kaylee is NOT a toddler vampire, to the best of my knowledge. Kaylee (as portrayed on Breaking Bad) is about twelve years old, and six years earlier shes played by an actress who is about five, so her age is played out correctly to my knowledge.
 Kaylee has congenital growth problem that causes her to age very quickly between the age 5 to 8, then slows down between 8 to 12. The medical fees for treatment are astronomical, hence Mike's need to do shady work on the side to pay for it.

Vince, if you need any more retconning, I'm available to hire for season two. On top of making one of the most compelling shows ever created, you seem like a cool, laid back, genuinely nice, friendly guy. It's too much. There must be a dark side to you, so what is it? Thank you, for that.  I hate to say it, but Im probably not nearly as nice as I seem.  Most people who think Im nice are fans that interact with me at Breaking Bad events or who happen to say hi to me on the street somewhere.  In those moments, its impossible for me not to smile and say hi and pose for a picture with someone who loves my work so much.  Its so flattering for me when people tell me they love my work, but like anyone else I certainly do have my less attractive moments when I am angry or impatient or just plain tired.  Im glad people dont see those moments as often, but believe me:  they do exist.  &gt; There must be a dark side to you, so what is it?

You saw what he did to Jesse's girlfriend, right? Both of them. How do we know you're not Gordon Freeman? Sadly, my knowledge of video games pretty much ends with Super Mario Brothers. I thought you were going to say I either look like Mario or Luigi!  Actually, now the folks here are showing me a photo of Gordon Freeman from Google -- and yeah, I do see the resemblance.  Although, this guy looks way more badass than me.  So thanks for a compliment!! I get more of a Petyr Baelish vibe tbh What was the last album you listened to and liked? I would have to say the Breaking Bad soundtrack album created by our extraordinary composer Dave Porter.  Its available on vinyl -- can you believe it?! Thats the first time Ive heard of an album in vinyl in more years I can count.  The final episode of Breaking Bad is called "Felina" somone had a theory that this was done on purpose because the word was composed of Fe (Iron) Li (Lithium) Na (Sodium) and could be interpreted as "Blood, Meth and Tears"

Any truth to that? Or just plain looking so hard you see something that isn't there. If it was not intentional and you hadn't heard about it before, how does that make you feel now that it's brought up? 

Edit: YES I KNOW ABOUT THE STUPID SONG. I DIDN'T ASK BECAUSE I ALREADY KNEW. I ASKED ABOUT WHAT I DIDN'T. Fucks sake people.  It's also an anagram for Finale. B
R
A
Vince
O Any chance that "Pile of Bullets" may still take off? Mayo or Ketchup?  This is America, why are you trying to make me choose?!  I want both! You're goddamn right. Is there anything that inspired you as a kid or an adult that made you create hit shows like Breaking Bad? Ive always been inspired by good storytelling -- reading it and watching it;  in novels, movies and TV series.  Ive always been an avid consumer of good storytelling in all its different forms, so I think that held me in good stead when it came time for me to work in TV as a career.  A stroke of good luck that I had when I got to write on The X-Files was that the job the taught me how to do THIS job.  It was a wonderful seven year-long education in TV writing, directing, and producing -- I wouldnt be here talking to you folks if it hadnt been for The X-Files.  I wouldnt have had the skills necessary to create my own show if it hadnt been for that film school. Dear Vince, my name is Leonardo and I'm a huge fan of Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul!!! I'm from Brazil, so my chances to meet you or any of BB or BCS cast members are really, really, really small. So, I hope that you see this message and say hello to me (obviously) and all your Brazil fans! :) Have you ever been to Brazil or do you have plans to come here?? I have been invited to Brazil, and unfortunately I havent had the time to partake of that very kind offer.  But the beauty of this Omaze fundraiser is that anyone, anywhere in the world can win it. And if you win it, youll be flown here to Los Angeles to have lunch with me.  Heres the link: omaze.com/vince
So Ive got my fingers crossed for you.  Best of luck, pandapoderoso! I really, really, really, hope /u/pandapoderoso wins now.  Hi Vince, HUGE fan of yours and the team you've assembled, especially the writers. I have a couple of questions. 

**Breaking Bad spoilers below!**

In your opinion, **not as the head writer** but as the first fan of the show: 

1. In "Half-measures," I'm ambivalent between the theories that: a) Walt killed Gus's men as a last resort to save Jesse and b) Walt went there specifically to kill them, in the same spirit as Jesse, but barely beat Jesse to the punch. Which do you think, based on the final edit? 

2. In "Full Measure," was Walt's offer (to give up Jesse) genuine when he made it? It broke my heart to hear it. Obviously, he enacted another plan. Was it always subterfuge, or did it transform into subterfuge when given the opportunity (moments later)? 

3. Did Gus have children or was it an act to win over Walt? His kids' things disappeared when Jesse came over for dinner. Those are really great questions.  Good questions without answers (I hope); the fact that both are possible is what makes the situations so compelling. Hi Vince!

Just wondering what made you pick Brian Cranston to play Walter White in Breaking Bad?  
Before BB all I could picture him as was Hal from Malcolm in the Middle.  
It was amazing how he was able to portray someone as complex as Walter after playing someone as goofy as Hal. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=paeojvY6gjQ
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drive_%28The_X-Files%29
here is your answer  Hello Mr. Gilligan!

So hoping this gets noticed I just want to thank you for one of the best viewing experiences on television Ive ever had and for one of my favorite TV shows! Breaking Bad is what showed me the potential of story telling through television.

So now the question! My whole life I have wanted to tell stories as a career. When I was younger and had difficulty making friends I would get through these moments by making stories. In fact telling stories helped me conquer a good part of my crippling social anxiety by using my story to do stand up comedy. When I got to college I knew I wanted to make a career in writing film or and TV, with dreams of making something amazing one day. As of now, that career seems like more of a fantasy.

Ive been rejected from every single internship or job Ive applied to and my writing feels more and more worthless. I have the fear of finishing any of my projects which I put months of work into since I have no idea what it feels like to be successful and at some points I just want to give in and not write. I hate writing that down because the only real career I see myself being very happy with in writing!

I know in order to succeed I need to keep pressing through the disappointment but I ask you, how did you do that? How did you handle the negative reactions? Breaking Bad originally got rejected from several networks for being something to ambitious until AMC gave you a chance. How did you keep pressing forward?
 A great question -- and always a tough one to answer -- but you were right, Geoff, in realizing that its necessary to press on.  I find that anything in life thats worth pursuing comes with a lot of rejection along the way.  The TV business is full of emotional ups and downs, to be sure.  Im not a big sports guy, but I always think about the fact that in the MLB you can make $20 million for only hitting the ball once out of every three at-bats.  I think of the TV business that way.  Most shows and movie scripts that you pitch will be rejected, its just the nature of the business -- and its not fun at all, let me tell you -- but you just have to stick with it, and you have to believe in yourself and you have to keep reminding yourself that if it were easy, everyone would be doing it.  It takes talent and luck and equal measure, but most of all:  it takes persistence.  As Winston Churchill once said, Never, never, never, give up - Good luck.  Great response, Vince.  You've motivated a lot of people just there.  Thank you.  Thank you very much Mr. Gilligan!  Winston Churchill confirmed for season 2 of Better Call Saul. You were expecting a Gordon Ramsey like answer weren't you Squidward? Ha that was my first thought as well. Almost reads like a template of the Ramsay comment. Unfortunately, it didn't work... He totally was, expecting some job offer or connection to happen magically but ***DENIED*** bitch. "How'd you like to come work on Better Call Saul along side me, bud?"
 A man's gotta eat, Mr. Lahey! Even shit hawks gotta eat Bobandy, even shit hawks... I really hope this doesn't become a thing. Expect this every AMA from here on out.   You bolded the wrong word

&gt;He totally was, expecting some job offer or connection to happen magically but, denied **BITCH**. yea that was embarrassing, Can I get some sauce on this Gordon Ramsey answer everyone is speaking of? http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/334wcy/i_am_gordon_ramsay_ama/cqhj98c In Ramsey's AMA some person posted about working long hours in a kitchen and being depressed and Ramsey offered them advice and a job basically.  Yeah, right. Like /u/geofflechef has ever heard of Gordon Ramsay! Totally.   Oh yeah he's even a chef, also.  Another perspective here: it sounds like you're into filmmaking already. My friends are as well (I'm also a writer). Here's my advice.

Move to Los Angeles. Volunteer for indie projects. Network. Give up gaming for reading screenplays. Collaborate. Produce something. Keep producing.

The friends I have that are in guilds spend nearly every waking hour living and breathing movies, and they don't make much money at all. They do have hobbies (such as comics), but they fall by the wayside. Their hobbies seem to become watching movies. Making movies has become their hobby. If you can't give up gaming, then you're probably not that serious about it. Remember, you can always come back to your hobbies if things don't work out.

Like you said, Breaking Bad was rejected by several networks, and Vince was an established writer. There really aren't that many screen writers in Hollywood, so it's a tough proposition. Vince gave the best advice I can think of; you need persistence, but you also need talent and luck. Hone your craft, write a large stack of screenplays, and then decide if its for you.
 Cheers Geoff!

 What amazing advice from Vince! AND he addressed you by name! (Assuming Geoff is your name...and, if it's not your name, it is now!) Hey Vince, I'm a huge fan of Breaking Bad and X-files.
My question is, what is Gus Frings' story when he was still in Chile? How did he become involved with the cartel? You guys have told us you were going to kill of Jesse (Aaron Paul) after the first season of breaking bad, how were you going to kill him off? Vince: Huge fan of X-Files, Breaking Bad and BCS.

I was wondering what it is you saw in Bryan Cranston from your time in X-Files that made you convinced he'd make a good Walter White, and what's your reaction to how iconic the character has become?

Thanks!! He's said in the past that it was Bryan Cranston's ability to portray a villain sympathetically in "Drive" that was a big factor.  That episode fucking ruled. Fuckin a I'm guessing he's not going to answer this but from what I've seen, most of the characters that ended up on Breaking Bad had bit parts on X Files over the years. And yes, Vince did take mental notes when working with an actor while directing or producing for the time he would ultimately be writing his own series. 

So based on interviews, I believe he did specifically get exposed to Cranston's talent (again, as well as many of the other actors from BB) via X Files. Hi Vince - huge fan here. Thanks a lot for doing this!

Around the time the Breaking Bad finale aired, you said in a couple different places that your biggest fear was waking up in the middle of the night sometime in the future and suddenly realizing how the series *"shouldve"* ended. Has that moment happened yet, and if not, are you still worried that it will someday? Have you ever taken psychedelics ? Hey Chris!

I always enjoyed Andy Dwyer on Parks and have been so happy to see you become so successful. I know there is a behind the scenes video from the set of Parks and Rec of you pretending to get a call from Steven Spielberg asking you to be in the next Jurassic Park. Did you ever believe that would actually become true and what has it been like getting these amazing roles? Thank you. I never believed I would work with Steven Spielberg on a Jurassic Park sequel. It was a joke at the time both literally and figuratively. It's been a dream to get to play these roles and work on the projects that I have.   [Jurassic Parks and Rec](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pyuGyq22Ris) http://i.imgur.com/X2VQMD6.jpg http://youtu.be/X4mVIJ5eTBY How cool would it be to have a Velociraptor as a pet? Duh shiiiiit [I dunno...]( http://www.pbfcomics.com/archive_b/PBF231-Baby.jpg) &gt;I know there is a behind the scenes video from the set of Parks and Rec of you pretending to get a call from Steven Spielberg asking you to be in the next Jurassic Park.

[This is that video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X4mVIJ5eTBY).

Edit: Shameless self plug, come visit us over in /r/JurassicPark Yeah, 0% I'm going to visit Jurassic Park with the safety record they have.  I bet they get it right in this next movie and nothing goes wrong. It's just a 2 hour long tour through a facility with proper safety standards and no accidents. Bonus content. 2 hour movie just visiting Jurassic Park, eating sea bass, and going to sleep in a nice hotel room. I was recently bitten by a radioactive Chris Pratt.  What is about to happen to me? Oh no. You're probably gonna get fat and then skinny.  So you bit Oprah sometime in the past? Jonah Hill. Common to mistake the two. Nah. Jonah Hill was bitten by Kirstie Alley. *Chris Pratt man*


*Chris Pratt man*


*Does whatever a Chris Pratt can* *I'm Prattman* *Is he high?*

*Listen blood--*

*He's got radioactive bud.* &gt; Oh no. You're probably gonna get fat and then ripped.

ftfy Hey Chris, what would Andy Dwyer/Johnny Karate/Bert Macklin be doing right now? Here's something you might not have known about those characters. They smoked a lot of weed. they'd probably be doing that right now. Does that mean that Andy planted the carrots in the community garden? Andy planted the bone-thugs-n-harmiums. Those Ludacrises are coming in great The Souljaboytellums are almost in season.  Pretty sure it was revealed at some point in the show that the former Parks director Michael was the perpetrator.  Actually this reminds me of my favourite Andy Dwyer moment - when someone bins a big ol' bag of weed and the camera catches a brief glimpse of April and Andy clearly plotting to retrieve it later. 

That was a fantastic moment in those characters' development. Kudos if it was improvised.  My favorite has always been when the Gryzzl guy's 4:20 alarm goes off and he says they have a meeting, and while they're leaving Andy says that he, also has a meeting. But he actually leaves to trash that CEO's house, so he did have a "meeting" I didn't catch this, do you know what episode?  

EDIT: /u/_quickdrawmcgraw_ posted this further down so you can watch it.:  http://www.hulu.com/watch/459246  

Click the preview button and you'll see the scene in question.  Very subtle and awesome detail. "Leslie and Ben come back from their honeymoon to jamaica or something with a bag of 'tea'. Leslie comically realizes its weed and after she throws it in the trash April and Andy are seen furtively eying the bin.

EDIT: a word" 

There it is. So I think it might be the episode after their wedding. Credit to /u/Morroe, I saw it further down.  Leslie and Ben come back from their honeymoon to jamaica or something with a bag of 'tea'. Leslie comically realizes its weed and after she throws it in the trash April and Andy are seen furtively eying the bin.

EDIT: a word I know that it is just a role, but are there any similarities between you and Peter Quill? What about Andy Dwyer? Quill and I are basically the same person. We were born in the same year. We loved the same movies. The same music. If I were kidnapped at 10, taken to space and based my ideology on the pop culture of 1979-1989 I would be Peter Quill. &gt; The same music

We all loved that soundtrack, man. [I'm listening to it right now.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLKeZukedZo) 
 Seriously, the movie was great, but what made it an instant classic was the music.

It's the only movie in the past decade that I saw 3 times in theaters. I feel like by omission you're implying you're nothing like Andy Dwyer, which makes me a little sad.  Did you read the above reply about the mouse trap? He's *just* like Andy.

And honestly? I like to think that of Peter Quill hadn't been abducted by aliens at the age of 10, he would have turned out just like Andy too. They're like the same people from different timelines. One is the epic hero we all need more of in our life. The other is the leader of a group of world saving antiheroes  There was an article written by Amy Poehler talking about Chris recently, Chris' personality is so Andy Dwyer. I believe Andy was just meant to be a secondary character in the first few episodes but he ended up being a central character, and I feel it's totally because of Chris' personality and charm. He added so much to the show. Thank you guys for the questions. I have to go. I am doing Jimmy Fallon in a minute. I am so thankful for all the support, it truly means a lot. You guys have been really nice and cool. And I mean that. I have very few haters (not to brag) and that is nice because I am a people pleaser and I will do anything to make you like me. Absolutely anything. I mean it. I'll tell you to hit me up with all your strange sexual and non-sexual requests... wait, no... I'm hearing this is over now. Oh well. I love you. Go see Jurassic World if you please and here's a link to a clip. Take care. God bless. See you at the movies! wear protection I wish they'd post these AMA's an hour beforehand so people can start asking questions and up-voting the best ones and to give it a chance to rise to the front page. By the time I see any of them they're already over :/ Within the first three minutes there were already 400 questions. He answered 20, and they were all posted in those first 3 minutes. 

Very sad for me since mine was in there too, must've been posted seconds after the last question he answered. [deleted] Except for contest mode. I'd love to see the mods implement a 20-minute contest mode at the start of every AMA so that everyone has a chance to have their question seen.

EDIT: for those of you who don't know, contest mode randomizes all the top-level responses so every comment has equal visibility. What's your favourite dinosaur? Not just saying this but probably the velociraptor. They are pack hunters and super cool. But also I love the Mosasaur. That's the water dinosaur thing from the trailer that is SO FUCKING BADASS! Funny story, before I got Jurassic Park I gave James Gunn a wrap gift of an authentic Mosasaur Jawbone Fossil. So basically I can control the future. Now I'm picturing you trying to play it cool when you got the call to go audition for Jurassic World:

"Yo, Chris, go read for this Jurassic World movie."

"Oh, is that like a sequel to Jurassic Park or something?"

"Yeah, totally."

"So, what's the character I'm reading for?"

"Well, he's a dinosaur trainer."

"Ok, ok, cool, that sounds cool. Uh, just asking, no particular reason here, but which dinosaurs does he train? Does he have like a speciality or something?"

"Well, he trains like all of them, but he has a special bond with the Velociraptors and it's a big plot point."

"... ... Uh huh. Ok. ... Uh, that sounds cool I guess. Yeah, I mean, whatever, no big deal. I guess I'll read for that." [After hanging up...](http://mtv.com/news/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/andy-rose-petals-1421188886.gif) Listening to Guardians Soundtrack and O-O-H Child hits the crescendo right at the moment i open this gif. Brain exploded, still picking grey-matter off the screen.  &gt;Velociraptor  
  
Favorite non-pornographic magazine to masturbate to?  GOOD HOUSEKEEPING What is your favorite movie and why? That is such a hard question. Probably something i saw as a kid simply for the sentimentality of it all. So Like Goonies or Bloodsport or something like that. Or maybe Rambo First Blood or the last Rambo where he outruns that dog, that shit was fucking crazy, or maybe City of God because that movie is awesome or Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon or Across the Universe because I love the Beatles so much, or Country Strong, because just kidding, but that movie is actually really good but not my favorite of all time. Maybe the Neverending Story although I'm sure it doesn't hold up but I'll never know cause i'll never watch it again cause i hate when movies that i loved as a kid don't hold up for instance tango and cash just terrible. &gt; Like Goonies or Bloodsport or something like that

I didn't ever think I would see these two movies lumped together, but here we are and I think I might be ok with this. I can't believe you mentioned Country Strong.  Lol Neverending Story still holds up!

Source: 32 years old.  Falcor like a motherfucker.   I love Across the Universe, don't hear enough about that movie.  Who would win in a fight, you or Nick Offerman? Trick question. We would never fight. Unless it was us against anybody else in which case we would win. You guys against the new dinosaur they cooked in that lab in the new Jurassic Park movie... Well he can't give away the end of the movie The after credits scene is just Nick Offerman silently barbecuing the I-Rex.. Takes a big sniff and nods to himself in approval.  This needs to happen. Somewhere a director is furious he didn't think of that.  Hey Chris, did Eminem ever give his thoughts on [your awesome performance of Forgot About Dre](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LAoZDKlbzTc)? No. but i met Dr. Dre last night!!!! Holy shit bro! that was crazy. I wanna see that Straight Outta Compton movie so bad. Looks great.  WHAT WAS MEETING DR DRE LIKE He probably already forgot about Dre.

edit: obligatory thanks for the gold, stranger dange. Annnnd that explains the half-drunk.  The other half is stoned. "Crazy mother fucka named STAR LORD!" Hey Chris! I heard you met your wife, Anna Faris, on set during a movie. You're both great, I've loved her since the first Scary Movie but Chris you've stolen my heart since Parks and Rec. When I first discovered you two were married I was blown away because I thought you guys are perfect for each other, all while I tried to smother my intense jealousy. My questions for you are what drew you two together? Is there some cute story in which you guys fell in love? Is Anna a great wife/mom? Anna and I are meant to be together. Our relationship has made me believe in divine intervention and destiny, just as much as my crazy career and the way I fell into this life.  She and I grew up 20 minutes away from each other but never met until we met in LA. We both got our start in horror spoofs. We both did an animated movie for Phil Lord and Chris Miller.  We both made our careers playing guileless nitwits for laughs. We both have parents that have suffered with MS. The similarities go on and on. Anna is a great wife. Very patient and understanding. Very supportive. So kind and genuine always. And she gave me a wonderful son and family of in laws that I truly love.  Wow. That's the way I want to be able to describe my future spouse. Mine would be "exists". user name checks out.  I really thought Chris's comment on his wife was lovely, but I didn't think he would use Reddit Gold, so I'm giving it to the sweet comment below it. Beautiful man

*"We both made our careers playing guileless nitwits for laughs"*

I love the fact that you could play such a jerk in Wanted and just a few years later be one of the most likeable movie stars in the world Chris!

Weve had the pleasure of hosting Nick Offerman a couple times, and when asked about you, he brought up phrases including but not limited to magnificent beast, and most beautiful creation. Do you have a response that can go on record? Nick is a best selling author.  He is a very rare breed. He is the epitome of integrity. He's wildly intelligent. He shakes your hand, looks you in the eye and remembers your name. He is thoughtful and kind and absolutely devoted to his craft, his wife and his friends. He takes magnificent craps and sends them to me sometimes. And I like that very much. It's almost like he's from another time, a better time, when people were more real. Although they didn't have texts back then so I guess it's a wash with the crap pics. &gt;He takes magnificent craps and sends them to me sometimes.

I really hope you meant pictures of them...

But I also hope you meant he literally gives you shit. In a hand crafted box made out of white poplar, sanded down to a satiny finish, and engraved with his initials.  &gt; He takes magnificent craps and sends them to me sometimes.


So that's where Cards Against Humanity got the idea.  Clearly you've never worked in an office. "Shitsies" (shit selfies) have been around since the invention of the camera phone. I've got Poloroids of poop from my old roommate when I moved across the country... Poolaroids? Also known as shatchat What brand of tequila were you having? How you holding up?  I was drinking Patron. But then Hornitos, bad call. I'm holding up well. I'm on a juice fast thing so the tequila juice fit right in! haha! actually doing surprisingly well. I must be a pro!
 My landlord says you used to rent the same house as me back when you were filming Everwood. Is this true? (The house in question, Salt Lake City, Utah http://imgur.com/opWPtqA) We've also gotten some junk mail addressed to "Chris P. Pratt", but p isn't your middle initial. Anyways we've been having a longstanding debate between the 4 roommates about which room you would have picked. Please settle this once and for all. Oh and we'll be hanging a picture of you, your choice, in your room to pay respects to those who went before us. Oh and have any good stories from living here? Yes I did! Cool man. I had the upstairs. The back bedroom was my beat laboratory and the other room was my bedroom. You'll notice the baseboards in the kitchen might be all fucked up cause I made a mouse trap out of bungee cords and screws and nails and stuff, with a little trip wire, no joke, there was a lot of thought that went into this, and pot too, and i whacked the mouse good but never killed him but did definitely do a lot of damage to the baseboards. anyhow. I love that place. And i hate mice. you still get mice? but... mouse rat Ok /u/rubberboy who shares Chris' room!? We have to know. It's my roommate's, Keely. I'm sure she'll be paddling the pink canoe to that idea tonight. So she's an outdoors person? Like to sail the big lakes? I have never heard that euphemism but I love it. &gt; paddling the pink canoe

http://i.imgur.com/oKdUJ7O.gif lol "beat laboratory"  Sounds better than masturbatorium O_O I thought that's where he made music... lmao! What does the "P" stand for in the middle name, Chris! We must know! Is it not obvious!?

Chris P. Pratt

Crispy Pratt If he got gay married to Kevin Bacon, he could legally change his name to "Chris P. Bacon" and he would have the greatest name in the world. He could legally change his name without getting married, too. Yeah but we want some Bacon babies. Crunch E. Bacon and Yum E. Bacon Wow, I'm in my 40's my name is Chris, middle name starts with a P
and I have NEVER thought of this my whole life. I feel like I just went through a wormhole. Pot Oh you're not the only to play real life mouse at the house. I'm sure the great potato fight of 2011 isn't helping the situation. Whole potatoes lost to the house. Well if you're ever in town and want to smoke a bowl, you know where to go. Here's some of the Alma mater of the house http://m.imgur.com/rZdUgqa. Next time we need a pic with you in it. Who lived downstairs?  If you're not the dude with the white coat, you need to get on his level What else would I wear to first introduce myself to Pratt? https://i.imgur.com/lWPdJ.png Dude in the middle with white fur coat looks baller as fuck!  I did not expect the answer to this question to be yes. That's awesome. I'm really interested in this mouse trap contraption now. You mean [this one?](http://img.allw.mn/content/www/2010/12/7-fun-board-games-to-play/mouse-trap_7-fun-board-games-to-play.jpg) But he said his worked. He said some things broke that weren't mice.  That's exactly how mouse trap worked. ME TOO! I'm envisioning some sort of tensioned weight with a trigger designed to obliterate the mouse against the baseboard. "Build a better mousetrap, and the world will beat a path to your door."

Fortunately, /u/ChrisPrattOfficial *didn't* build a better mousetrap, and got to be Starlord, instead. Disney owns Marvel man. Can't go around smoking weed and killing mice yo. You can't stop him, he's STarlord! Who? Mike jooones I fucking love everything about this AMA. Imagine all the hotties Mr. Pratt has had sex with in your room. That's pretty baller. That would be my room actually. And I'm assuming I currently shower in the same shower as he did! It's a great place to live! So Chris, would you like us to forward your mail? ;) Clearly OP wants to forward you some "junk" mail, Chris. Hey Chris loved you in guardians of the galaxy and I'm stoked for Jurassic world. I have two questions. 

1) what's it feel like going from living in a van at 19 to now being a movie star and being able to afford basically anything you want?

2) what advice would you give someone like me who wants to be an actor? 

Thanks for doing this!   Hey buddy, thanks!
Advice for being an actor is this: figure out whether or not you believe in yourself, and if you don't, find a way to. Because even more than you want it, you must believe it. And learn about yourself. The rhythm of one's spirit is just as important as what you look like or what you sound like. Who are you? What's your voice? What are you dying to contribute?  If you could change a word from the title of any films or television show you've starred in, what would the new title be?

Example, "Sharks and Rec" Zero Dark Thirsty?
 Just in case you guys want to drink like Chris Pratt, Trimtab Brewing in Birmingham, AL makes a beer called Zero Dark Thirsty.  And it ain't bad, actually.

https://untappd.com/b/trimtab-brewing-company-zero-dark-thirsty/987067 Jurassic Parks &amp; Rec http://imgur.com/Vod0Jve.jpg Hi Chris,

Im a big fan, thanks for doing this AMA!  I have three questions:

How did you and Chris Evans become friends?

Are you a fan of the HBO series Game of Thrones and if so whos your favorite character?

Finally, your favorite pizza toppings?

Thanks Chris!
 Hey there! Thanks.
Chris and  I met on my wife's movie "What's Your Number."
I am a huge Game of Thrones fan. I love Arya Stark the most.
I like meat on pizza and cheese. and sauce? I pretty much like all pizza. anchovies too. Could you imagine Chris Pratt on Game of Thrones?  Lord Macklin.  Macklin, you son of a wench... Lord Macklin of FBIgarden Starklord

Damn im late to this ama He dressed in a buttoned tunic of boiled wool affixed with the sigil of his house, three yellow letters atop a field of blue. He smoked a pipe containing rare herbs from his homeland and snacked liberally upon a specially prepared dish he referred to as the 'meat tornado', speaking primarily of the law and his desire to enforce it - a calling he had been enamored of ever since he was a man grown. He would be the Lord of Starfall. TEAM ARYA Valar morghulis. Valar Dohaeris. Hodor. http://i.imgur.com/0e9eR8f.jpg Chris...I read the book of Jurassic Park before I saw the movie and I have to say while I thought the movie was great and well-made, it lacked of lot of the grittiness and intense moments the books captured. Can we expect a reboot more towards the books in this movie?


Also...are you yourself a Lego master builder? If so, what set(s) are your favorite sets? Classic, modern, themed,etc? Movies have a hard time of capturing the grittiness of a novel. Whereas novels have a hard time being done in an hour and a half. This is not a reboot. It plays as a sequel 21 years after the events of the first movie. And it deals with society's relationship with science and how much it has changed over the past couple decades. We are no longer impressed by magical and wonderful things. Imagine if dinosaurs were back, and had been around for 21 years, would anyone think they're cool anymore? &gt; Imagine if dinosaurs were back, and had been around for 21 years, would anyone think they're cool anymore?

Yes. The answer is hell yes. You joke, but I think there's some truth to this. There are amazing animals in the world today that nobody is phased by anymore because we've seen them at the zoo, for example, time and time again. For a few years we'd marvel at dinosaurs.. and then, like Jurassic World is playing with.. we'd demand MORE.

Edit: Unfazed by my phased fuck-up. People stopped giving a shit about the moon landings after all and then we stopped going. 40 years ago :( We stopped going to the moon with people because the public got bored with it. 

Never underestimate the public's appetite for novelty.  How much of Ben Wyatt is just Adam Scott being Adam Scott? Going by his appearances on Comedy Band Name and UTU2TM, I'm going to assume the answer is "most of it." That's a good, uh, answer How can I convince my friends that Jurassic World is gonna be great?  Tell them they don't want to be the only people on the planet not to see this movie!!! Tell them that life, uh... finds a way... Hi Chris!

Less than a month ago [I made an April Fools Day post on the r/movies subreddit](http://np.reddit.com/r/movies/comments/311bwj/chris_pratt_has_just_said_to_the_mods_if_you_get/) saying that: you told us that you would do an AMA if we got a picture of your abs to the top of reddit.  
I April Foolsed a bunch of people and it get to the top of reddit with 1.5 million views. A week later your AMA was officially announced.

**My question is did this post have anything to do you with deciding to do an AMA?** ^^Pls ^^say ^^yes.  

edit: [mfw I realise that Pratt made me an April Fool](http://imgur.com/xoHcqaz) Absolutely. I heard about it on twitter and have always wanted to do one of these. I was thrilled to hear so many people were interested in me doing it. So I called Allison my publicist and said, "Hey, I know your job is to typically babysit me and make sure I don't do anything too stupid or say anything to ruin my career, but, i want to do an AMA and you can't stop me I'm STarlord!" [Holy shit! It's confirmed!](http://i.imgur.com/7cC8MAJ.gif) 

Thanks, glad to know you did it out of pure interest too and not just to market something :) Dani is this your finest moment? MY MAGNUM OPUS. "THIS MIGHT JUST BE MY MASTERPIECE!!" You are now the dashing young prince of reddit. For one brief, shining moment, /u/Dani_Californication was their king.  He held their awe and gratitude.  Reddit collectively smiled upon his accomplishment.

And then they saw a cat picture, and went back to arguing among themselves about pizza. Technically, /u/ChrisPrattOfficial ruined your April Fools'  Day joke ;) Hahaha "you can't stop me I'm STarlord!" should be your answer for everything! [Here are those beautiful, beautiful abs. For the curious among us.](https://i.imgur.com/UB4sODF.jpg) This day is  /u/Dani_Californication's day. #YOU'RE WELCOME, /R/MOVIES! [/r/movies upon reading this AMA](http://i.imgur.com/qhYnE.gif) Hey Chris, welcome to Reddit! Super excited that youre here with us today.

Two questions for you:

* What would be in your perfect sandwich?

* Are there any fictional characters from literature that you would like to portray?

That's all! Thanks again for doing this AMA! :) Great questions. Perfect sandwich? two slices of white bread, mustard, mayo and a platinum american express card.
fictional characters from literature? Call or Gus from Lonesome Dove.  Oh man, Lonesome Dove... Chris, did you really shit yourself during that Parks and Rec outtake? The answer is obviously yes. Not like a whole turd, but... enough. The only question that truly needs answering. And the one which has gone suspiciously unanswered.

AKA he shat himself. Would you rather fight 1 Lil Sebastian-sized duck or 100 duck-sized Lil Sebastians? Most definitely 100 duck sized LIl' Sebastians. Because I could kill most of them easily, but the remainder I would capture and breed as glamour pets. We could make literally hundreds of dollars. Leading to the the epic single "500,000 Candles in the Wind" BYE, BYE LIL SEBASTIAN :'( &gt;SEBASTIAN(s) INB4 Chris Traeger literally reference *lit-trally* a Traeger reference. That is LITERALLY... the greatest plan I've ever heard It's bad enough that we had to say goodbye to 1 Lil' Sebastian - now we have to say goodbye to *100 of them?!* When is Mouserat going on tour? Dear Chris Pratt:

As a fan if I saw you in public and wanted to approach you and compliment you on your work, what would be the most respectful way to do it? Since this probably won't ever happen let me take this moment to say you did a great job in Guardians and best of luck to you.  Hey Chris! Im a huge fan of Parks and Rec and I have to say, [your blooper/gag reel is one of my favorite things ever](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VSNuZEdYrH0). In your opinion, what are some under appreciated moments from the show? Are there any jokes/moments that didn't make either final cut or the gag reel that you can share?

Also, tomorrow is my birthday. Is there anyway you could wish me a happy birthday? It would be the greatest present ever!

Edit **WORST BIRTHDAY EVER :'(** I'm not Chris Pratt but Happy Birthday Lutz! You make /r/NFL so much fun. From one anonymous internet guy to another, I appreciate your modding there and all your contributions to the sub. 

Praise be to Belichick I'll take it, thanks! Hey, you do a great job at /r/NFL! [Happy Birthday!!](http://i0.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/016/212/manning.png) Hey Chris, 

Thanks for being awesome. 

Some people say I look like you. What do you think?

[http://imgur.com/hoHddjb,k2n2jVe#1]

If you need a cheap stunt double. I'm always down to do some crazy shit. As long as I get to live to tell about it. 
 Seriously, you do look a lot like him. Thanks! You look strikingly similar to the lovable husky version of Pratt. If you did some intense personal training for 6 months you could be swimming in  pussy as action-star Pratt. I feel off the gym wagon a couple months ago. Pratt and I have similar builds. I currently reflect the same shape as him in his second season of Parks and Rec. 

.....so there's still and chance.  Wow, you really do look like him! Hey Chris!

Can you give me some advice on [being suave](http://i.imgur.com/LPxVXJu.gif) please?

Thanks. Step 1: Be attractive Step 2: ?????

Step 3: Profit

Edit: downvoted for the South Park reference?  Step 2. Don't be unattractive. Standard. Probably downvoted for being Captain Obvious. The steps 2 and 3 were implied. What is that he's stood inside of? Hey Chris, huge fan of both you and Anna. 

How weird is it to go from a small role of the loser boyfriend in season 1 of Parks and Rec to the leading dude in things like Guardians of the Galaxy and Jurassic Park? Do you feel super lucky or is it more like you are finally being recognized for your awesome talent?

Also, as someone in IT, I love your line about "Network connectivity issues." Had me going for about 5 minutes while my wife just shook her head in disbelief. Hi Chris!

You were so great in Parks and Rec, The Lego Movie and Guardians of the Galaxy, and I was wondering - how do you feel about the Indiana Jones rumors? Is he a character you would be interested in playing? To add onto that, how do you feel in general about remakes and performing a role that someone else has done? I don't think he would be a good Indiana Jones. He would make a good Indiana Jones sidekick. I don't know if there is a Harrison Ford-like actor out there right now. He has a cynical grumpiness to him that is key to the character. No one needs to be Indiana Jones until the exact perfect fit comes along. Yup I'd volunteer! Although Bradley Cooper could do well.  Chris Pratt is the Harrison Ford of this generation. absolutely not. name me one clumsy goofy family-lovable character that Harrison Ford played You downvote for disagreeing with  opinions on lighthearted topics? You're the worst kind of redditor.  It's light hearted, true, but you seem out of touch with the work of Harrison Ford. It's like saying Neil Patrick Harris is the next Peter O' Toole. i downvote/upvote all kinds of shit. whether I agree or not. Why would that matter anyway? Hi Chris Pratt! Can't wait for Jurassic World!

You, Chris Evans, and Chris Hemsworth. Who's the best looking Chris in Marvel?
 Chris. My boyfriend loves to say "All these Chris guys... they're nice, handsome, and blond."  (his name his Chris, he's blond) I'm also Chris and blond! There are literally dozens of us.  Me too. Master race unite!  Hey Chris. I live in Edmonds, Wa - as you know a pretty cool place. What are some of the places you miss most about growing up here?  I'm from Kingston. Yaaaayyyyyyy ferries! Aaaay I'm in Edmonds too! Ayyy! lmao  Mr Pratt!

Thank you so much for doing this AMAas Ive been a fan of yours since Everwood and the OC!  Bright was a great character who just seemed like a walking teddy bear.  Bright was the quintessential character that I was in love with when I was in high school!

Ive just got 2 questions for you:

Everwood was quite the serious show at times, were there any behind the scenes pranks?

What would be a great alcoholic refreshment youd recommend for me try?
 If you could describe it in only one word, what was it like filming Jurassic World? Dinosaurs  die no dee enn aye Greenscreen  I wish I was a raptor so Chris Pratt could train me.  Chris, whats your current gym and exercise routine? How often do you work out now and during the time you were losing weight and getting fit, who were your fitness icons (Arnold, Sly, other)?
 Talks about getting in shape etc in September issue of Esquire magazine 2014.  (http://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/interviews/a32814/chris-pratt-interview-0914/) don't know how to link. Good read. I like Chris a hell lot more now.  Good read. The getting in shape stuff is at the end. Here it is:

&gt; You have to eat protein. You can't have hashbrowns, or burgers, or anything fried. You can't have carbs. You have to work out five times a week. I liked the part where he said when he was overweight he wanted instant gratification.  Once he was losing consistently, he understood slow progress leads to results and could use Crest white strips nightly and reach his teeth whitening goal.  (He said it better though, haha.  Been awhile since i read the article). Damn, this would have been a good one... Chris,
Back in 93, I went to the opening night of Jurassic Park with a girl in my grade that I had a massive crush on.  And in the first row, I had my first kiss.  Ever since, that movie has been special to me.
Now, 22 years later, with the release of Jurassic World, I think lighting might strike again and I will finally know the sweet embrace of a woman.
So my question is this:
Any advice? Less tongue. More tongue. Use lip balm. Don't bring a grade school girl. don't fuck up I know you're a big Seahawks fan, so...Marshawn Lynch or Kam Chancellor, who would win in a fight? I am the proud owner of you (http://i.imgur.com/B4rPrmC.jpg), how does that make you feel? Why did they make an Ashton Kutcher Starlord figure? They wanted 50 more because of the bad Euro and i wasnt having it. Man i was so happy to get the GotG. Maybe the second movie or aftermarket will be better to acquire these. A thought, buy one for your son! Is that your real voice? Or you developed it because it gets you more characters? This voice is the real deal. Trust me. Ive never heard someone properly imitate it. You are one of a kind. I think Tara Strong (the voice actor of a lot of squeaky Nickelodeon characters) could do it Well yeah, but she has Ursula's voice changey shell or something prolly Read this in your voice. Can confirm real deal. I loved you in Flight of the Conchords! Did you enjoy working with Brett and Jemaine? Any funny anecdotes you'd like to share from that show? I hope you guys team up again sometime in the future!  I LOVED working with Bret and Jemaine, and I miss them! If you ever get a chance to go out dancing with them DO IT! They tear up a dance floor! Unless there's too many dicks on it. Then they just end up singing. If you were the last woman on earth, who would you like the last man to be? 
P.s. You can't say your husband.  FINE! Neil DeGrasse Tyson. You know your crowd She's a true professional.  WADDLES!!!! BLACK SCIENCE MAN! Ahem. Astrophysics black guy.  http://i.imgur.com/SOOod2m.jpg http://i.imgur.com/28ZCfrc.jpg [Also](http://weknowmemes.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/people-dont-think-the-universe-be-like-it-is.jpg) Does your own opinion of stickers more closely align with that of Louise Belcher, or that of Mabel Pines? Definitely with Mabel! You made the right choice. You have chosen... Wisely Big fan of your comedy and acting career here!

1) Just wanted to know do you ever feel like you're type cast or do you accept roles you find entertaining?

2) Is Jon Stewart as big of a Gravity Falls nerd as I think he is?

3) If you could have any super power which would you want? 1)I definitely feel type cast most of the time! But I love Carol!
2)Jon Stewart is a GIANT Gravity Falls fan. This is true. And he is into Last Man on Earth as well. But he was tickled to meet Alex Hirsch, and he has a dog named Dipper. (I've said too much!)
3)The power to stop Violence! What's under Louise's bunny ears? That's something you'll have to wait till the final episode of the series finale to discover.  I'm guessing the same scalp as Bob. I never considered that and now I cannot think of any other universe where this isn't true. [That hat is like a turban, she has hair down to her ankles.](http://imgur.com/gallery/UD9U0bU) Plus, I can't see her letting anybody touching her hair. What a twist I imagine there's lot's of wires and machinery like under the first layer of Darth Vader's helmet. If we're drawing for other shows, mine would be a clear dome underneath which lives a small mouse pulling various levers to move her around.  Dandruff Marge Simpson hair?

Since there was the plan Marge's hair might be revealed to hide bunny ears it only seems fair.  Its gotta be devil horns I have a theory that she wears them to hide the fact that she looks just like [her mother.](http://37.media.tumblr.com/86ccbf6fe1a37c1caf70584f1df8dad5/tumblr_n551txfp2u1tzt4wuo1_500.jpg)
 Mind....blown. Cause she's definitely more Bob, personality-wise. I dunno.  She has her dad's temper but her mom's crazy. And her veeeery own quick wit. In this economy?  Whoa. Mind blown here. We already know her farts smell like Lindo's farts. 

Edit: lol.  I Spit my water out my nose when I realized autocorrect changed it to Lindo. Ha! What the hell is a Lindo autocorrect?  Lindo is my favorite character  Lindo Calzonian What would The Daily Show be like if they hired you to host it? I need to think about it. Right now I'm seeing a lot of me looking into the camera yelling: "You gotta be kidding me!" Would watch. I read that in Louise's voice.

Louise hosting the daily show.  This must happen. I just want the Bob's Burgers animators to fully animate that. Is the rumor you accidentally hit George Clooney in the balls so hard he puked true? It can't be I have never come close enough to Clooney to hurt his balls. . . . yet. The prophecy must be fulfilled! Can we get a kickstarter going? Or a startkicker? What show would you really like to guest on? VA or otherwise. Oh so many! VEEP? Better Call Saul? Game Of Thrones? So many! OMG I would *love* to see you on VEEP. omg, would LOVE to see on GOT *Fargo*  
You would be absolutely *amazing* in Fargo

 Have you ever had any fans like Mel?  Any strange tales to tell about them? No, thank goodness! She's sweet, but she needed more than one hobby. Is Jack McBrayer as optimistic and bubbly in real life as he was as Kenneth on 30 Rock? He's got a lot of layers. And if you're lucky you'll catch him when his claws are out! People, she means this literally. He has actual claws! Hes such a cheerful abomination. "Cheerful Abomination" /r/bandnames Dude is immortal.  It was inevitable that he'd have claws. Well...his parents were technically brothers. Well, Jack = god... Saw him do improv- he honestly seemed like Kenneth a lot that night What was the inspiration for Carol's (awesome) wardrobe in Last Man On Earth? That was coming from the mind of Beth Morgan. I think it was color and a little bitt of kooky and crafty. Hey, Kristen! I'm a huge fan of your standup comedy (especially that Comedy Central special you did), and I don't think it gets enough love.

I was wondering: who do you consider your main influences as a comedian? Absolutely Andy Kaufman. Number 1! And then Steve Martin. Then the Muppets. This is the best / most awesome answer in here. Thank you /u/Kristen_Schaal! It all makes sense now. Hey Kristen! Huge fan you are amazing. What was it like working with Weird Al on Tacky?  It was dreamy! He is over the top nice, and the filming was tightly run and very professional. I had a ball! Sounds like he would be a great person to work with. Thanks for Responding :) Have you heard anything concrete about a Concords movie? I have a lot of concrete movie ideas in my head, but nothing that exists in reality, unfortunately. Do your ideas involve Brett and Jermaine and yourself and  a hot tub full of oil?

But seriously, thank you SO much for being the best female stalker ever on TV. I believe it was a stream of margarine  Hahaha, yeah, some margarine  Wait, wasn't there a rumor of a Conchords movie? Yeah a few years back there were rumors. But HBO shut it all down I think. NETFLIX PLS Jemaine said he and Bret were working on something together unrelated to the Conchords, though Oh crap, I gotta go! This was SO MUCH FUN! I think some of the new questions I answered already earlier. Thanks for AMAing me! And for watching my shows, you're all the best! Oh! Last Man On Earth, new show this Sunday 9:30 FOX! I'll miss you. Stay true.  Why are you so goddamn adorable? It's my only survival skill. I love that I'm reading this entire AMA in your voice. I just laughed out loud after reading this- I didn't realize it until you said it but I was doing the same thing.  I absolutely LOVED the "Women's Correspondent" pieces that you did on The Daily Show. With all the turnaround going on, is there any chance we will see you again there? Or if not, is there any chance you might be doing some of those same types of bits? I'm hoping that I will be back at least a couple more times to talk about all the women issues. They'll probably be piling up! Will Forte seems like a interesting dude. What's it like working with him? It's a lot of fun. He's very committed and hilarious, and probably my favorite actor. Besides Christian Bale. Hi Kristen! As a huge fan of Bob's Burgers and Gravity Falls, what were your favorite scenes to record from those shows? Hard to pick. But maybe the boy band scenes for both! "Yo, you'd really do that for us, beef?"


"You can count on me!...I'm sorry, did you just call me "beef"? Hey Kristen! I'm a big fan of your voice-acting works, especially in Gravity Falls, and I've been refreshing this site for about half an hour to catch the AMA as soon as possible.  So, here are my questions!

1) What's the funniest line you've recorded for Mabel?  
2) What's the most Mabel-esque thing you've done in real life?  
3) How does Mabel know about Dipper's internet history?  

And here's a question I'm asking for a friend, who is sadly offline as the AMA occurs. Was there anything that surprised you while voicing Mabel? Some line or plot that you weren't expecting? 1)I Love them all! Maybe Bleventeen?
2)Crushed on some trolls!
3)Twin powers

I was surprised with how far south things went with Gideon! Oh my god, thanks for replying :D Hi Kristen, my girlfriend and I love you! From The Conchords to Bob's Burgers to Last Man on Earth. I even got her the Sexy Book of Sexy Sex!

I haven't seen your recent stand up special that got all that attention. Should I check it out? I'm assuming everything happened as intended as an Andy Kaufman-esque type of experience, right? Thank you, especially for buying the book! That makes you rare and special! Please check out my special. It is super weird and very Andy Kaufman, and not for everybody, and that makes it even better! Hey Kristen! Two questions:

1). Was Louise planned to be the Bart Simpson-esque character of the show or did she grow into that role along the way during production? 

2). What would be your "Burger of the Day" at Bob's Burgers?

 The Child Molester. It comes with candy.  He looks like a child molester... Louise, don't serve him. Let Gene bring it. That same guy is also Bob's first fare in Sheesh Cab Bob. He pukes in Bob's taxi.  This is great Bob's Burgers trivia, and should have more upvotes. Or, I should be less enthused by cartoon minutia.  You voice pretty much my favorite characters from two of my current favorite shows, Mabel on Gravity Falls, and Louise on Bob's Burgers. What I've found so interesting about your playing those characters is just how different they are, Mabel embracing things that are considered to be more "girly" while Louise pushes them away with extreme prejudice. In many ways, Mabel seems like one of the girls that Louise would have wanted to kick out of her house in the slumber party episode of Bob's Burgers. Do you find either role more rewarding, or connect to one better?

Also, preferred fictional boy band, Boyz 4 Now or Several Timez?  Boyz 4 Now for obvious reasons. I love both roles, and I do believe that Mabel has too much charisma for Louise to walk away from. I think they'd be buds.  Does Alex allow you into the Illuminati meetings every Friday? I heard they have fun dip in there. Don't you mean Smile Dip? Hi Kristen!

I'm a big fan, going way back. What's next up for you? Also, any chance you could talk about the genesis of [Kristen Schaal is a Horse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lvd6MBsiDBo)? 'Cause that thing is all kinds of awesome. Next up: Season 2 of Last Man! Yay! Kristen Schaal is a horse happened after Kurt Braunohler and I sat through a REALLY boring movie. When we got out I was so excited to be out of there I started dancing down the street. It reminded Kurt of a horse and he made up that song on the spot. LOVE that bit even still. That's a hilarious, ballsy bit. Thanks for your reply, and best wishes for Season 2 of Last Man on Earth -- genuinely one of my favorite shows on TV these days. Go git 'em! I remember hearing about that bit on Radiolab ages ago, I forgot it was Kristen Schaal. Apparently they did it for ten minutes once. Yeah, it was just alternating periods of laughter and super awkward silence.  Do you enjoy physically acting like on Last Man or voiceover work, like on Bob's Burgers more?  I love them both. I won't pick!!! That's the line of an employed woman right there! We've seen suave, super-spy Sterling Archer in the world of Bob's Burgers. What would Louise do in Archer's universe? Oh hello, thing I never knew I wanted... Read that in Tina's voice Are we seriously not doing Phrasing anymore?! Seriously, we should talk about getting phrasing back in the rotation You know both her and the actor who voices Gene were on Archer, right? In Sea Tunt parts 1 and 2, the last 2 episodes of season 4, in case people were curious. Eugene Merman. Yea, but they were playing Cheryl/Carol/Cherlene's brother and his girlfriend. Not their BB characters. I think an episode where Louise unwaveringly aids Archer without hesitation. Where she's constantly doing small badass things that save his ass, but being Louise this is second nature to her- just how she operates. Would be cool! Eugene Mirman  Do you really eat raisin balls on the show or are those stunt balls? Are you tired of piles of owls constantly blocking your driveway? WELL THEN YA GOTTA GET OWL TROWEL IT WORKS FOR PIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIGGS [Only 2.00](http://farm4.staticflickr.com/3367/3539988515_e5d8e390e1_z.jpg?zz=1) How well do you think Phil Jupitus and Noel Fielding would transition into the world of Gravity Falls? Also, what's your opinion on either of them? Love them BOTH! Think they'd be perfect! How often does Pete Holmes talk to you about Mad Men? Zero. Uh-oh. We need to have a friendship check! Thank you for doing this AMA, Im so happy youll be answering our questions. I love watching your roles in shows like Gravity Falls, which I watch with six of my siblings, and your reports on The Daily Show, as your words in favor of womens rights have been really inspirational to me. I just wanted to thank you for being both an entertainer and a role model.

My question is, of all of the roles you have played (both regular and voice acting), which has been the most difficult for you?
 Oh thank you, so much! I think that the most difficult at first would have to have been the Daily Show. It was hard to learn the tone and also to read a teleprompter. But so much fun, and also, very thankful to get to be a part of such an important show. O great goddessof destruction,what is your next target to destroy? Your funny bone, friend! hey Kristen! big fan of Gravity Falls! I heard that Alex's sister Ariel is the inspiration for Mabel. Have you used Ariel for inspiration for the character?  I have only met her a couple times, and she was delightful. I soaked up as much of her as I could for Mabel! Why do I find you so attractive? Why would you question it? It's so obvious. \**Sploosh** It's clearly the eyes, the  1920s hair style,  and the voice. 

 A lot of it is just in the energy she has, crazy quirkily sexy energy.  Because she's fucking adorable. Hey, Kristen. Thanks for doing this AMA. I am a massive FotC fan, so Mel has brought me much joy and laughter over the years. 


My question is: as a stand-up, has there ever been a bit you couldn't get into your own voice? Or, has there ever been a joke you liked yourself a lot that never worked? Oh so many jokes that I liked that I couldn't sell. One was doing a whole stand-up set for crickets, I tried to put it in my hour special, it's just for me I guess. The most surreal bits at the end of the day might just be for me. Hi Kristen!

I had the pleasure of meeting you at the Paley Center last year. I admitted my appreciation  (and huge crush) to you, we embraced, tried to take a photo but my phone died. Fortunately, I did get a really nice photo of us! 

http://imgur.com/LivtrNm

It was a great moment, but I never got to ask to a question. What do consider to be your best performance? 

Either way, keep up the fantastic work! I'll also be sure to see you the next time you do a show in New York. :D I love this pic! You have great taste! Ha ha! I think I have yet to do my BEST performance, still have a lot to learn. But I've been pretty proud of most of it so far. Thanks! OP I officially hate you. No hover-handing. OP confirmed G. I'm an avid watcher of Gravity Falls and The Last Man on Earth, and I find it somewhat concerning that Carol's character is basically defined by her general unattractiveness and obnoxiousness.  What's it like playing a live-action "unattractive" character, especially in contrast to someone lovable like Mabel? In the beginning I was worried about this too actually, but as we get to know more about carol I think her "unattractiveness" kind of becomes more like quirkiness. Like things just have to be a certain way for her all the time. Idk I actually like her as a character. Hi Kristen!
I love your work!

I have to ask, how often do you get recognized in public and what character do they know you as most commonly?

Also what advice would you give to an aspiring Voice Actor? I do occasionally. Mostly for Flight of the Conchords. I would tell aspiring voice actors to collect a great peer group who like to make cartoons and then you'll probably be in one 15 years later! Hello there! I'm foreign fan. I love your play as Carol (and your voice as Mabel too, btw)! 
So, uh, the question.

I was wondering if that's you have drawn those lovely 'photos' like their marriage w/ Phil? : Or is it there any SPECIAL ARTIST FOR CAROL'S 'PHOTO' DRAWINGS? I did those drawings! And the one of Melissa by the car. I had so much fun doing them. I hope I get to make more in Season 2. Sheila Waldron, our script supervisor, did all the Carol animal paintings. Hey Kristen, I've been loving your VA stuff lately, especially in Gravity Falls! I've been wondering, how did you end up doing a bit for Mc Frontalot's Solved album? He came to the Hot Tub shows in NYC! Any chance at a renewed run for you as Mel in Flight of the Conchords? I would love that, but I would say probably not. On behalf of my children and I, you're amazing! My 4 year old loooooves Gravity Falls (Thank you for entertaining him so I can get some work done). Of all the characters you voice, do you have a favorite? Do you have any suggestions for someone who would like to get into writing? I love all the voices. I don't know what type of writing you want to get into, but the biggest tip is to sit down and do it. It's what'll separate you from non-writers! Then you'll have a piece that you can hit the pavement and start submitting to people. Hi Kristen, just wondering, of all of Mabel's sweaters, which one would you want to own for yourself? Hard to pick, but maybe the dachshund? What character you portray do you most associate with? I really am a lot like Mabel. But heck, I got Louise in me too. I'm a split of both. Kristen, would you befriend Carol? More importantly, marry her if YOU were the last man on Earth?? Yes, she would be my friend. And I would SO MARRY HER! Are you kidding? She is the bomb. I have read conflicting things from voice actors, pretty much split down the middle: keep it natural, just like regular acting vs. it's so much harder - you have to convey a whole performance in just a voice.   
  What's your take?  What's the best way to create a sympathetic/endearing character through voice? If the script is well written then the lines and actions should guide the character's voice. I think the closer the voice is to your own the easier it is to harness emotions. If you're straining your voice to sound more charactery you might not be able to express everything. Some people can though! But not very many. 100 Waddles-sized horses or one horse-sized Waddles? 100 Waddle-sized horses! More to enjoy! Clearly the correct answer is 100 Waddles-sized Waddles. Because Waddles is the most adorable animal ever. [With Mabel they are unstoppable.](http://img4.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20120712043656/gravityfalls/images/d/de/Opening_mabel_pig.gif) Hi Kristen! Would you ever want to play the leading lady in a serious drama? You would be fantastic! Thanks! Sure I would do that! Bring on the drama! Do you ship Phil and Carol on The Last Man On Earth? :^) I think I do! Are you allowed to tell us anything about what remains of season two of Gravity Falls?

If so, what? NEVER! http://i.imgur.com/7q9ZHmE.jpg Kristen, I became a big fan of yours via The Daily Show.

On that front, have you had a chance to work with Trevor Noah yet? Your thoughts on the future of the show? Haven't worked with him. But had dinner last night with my Irish comedian friend David O'Doherty who plays football (soccer?) with him, and he said he's a straight up LOVELY guy. So I believe it! I think the future show is going to be great. Hey Kristen, me and my wife (even our just turned 1 year old) have enjoyed The last man on earth more than any other show I can think of. I even had to let her listen to your recent nerdist interview, which we both enjoyed.  

How much of your personality do you put into Carol? Is it a lot of improv or is she written to the T on the script? 

Thanks for answering questions and we are really happy you guys got picked up for a second season.  Thanks! There's some of me in Carol for sure, mainly how much she cares about everything. The script is pretty tight, but they do let me go at it, and it is a lot of fun. Steenburgen is super quick! Hey Kristen,

You were fantastic on The Last Man On Earth.  I also loved you in The Hotwives of Orlando..so funny.  I could not stop laughing.  Anyway, will you be coming back for the second season of Hotwives?  And what was your favorite moment from the show? Thanks! I just spent a day filming with the Hotwives of Las Vegas (Season 2!) yesterday. My favorite moment of the show is anytime that Phe Phe talks. She gets me, big time! Is it weird or awesome to you that you are my celebrity crush? Why would it be weird? Again, people, it's SO OBVIOUSLY awesome! Hello Kristen! What was your first acting class like? I think it was in high school and I just remember doing a lot of stretches for some reason! Hi Kristen.  Big fan of your work.  Do you have any memories from the Edinburgh Fringe worth sharing? Edinburgh was memorable every year. I loved doing the show with Kurt, I hated busting up my knee. I guess I don't! But I'm thinking of the cobblestone streets and the castle right now! What's the weirdest encounter you have ever had with a fan? You're just setting yourself up to outdo her previous weirdest encounter, aren't you? My son (2 1/2 years old) is addicted to Gravity Falls. My dear, I offer you a heartfelt thank you. He spent about six months only wanting incredibly stupid, slit my wrists cartoons. Day or night, he only wanted toilet scrapings. Then I found Gravity Falls. It's like coming home and finding out your wife went grocery shopping while you were gone and all your favorite snacks are there. 

I owe you a part of my soul. 

Quick note: I, umm, I totally only watch it with him to keep him company. And umm, what exactly did the three journals open? The wife deleted the last episode so I'm dying to, uhh, I mean my *son* is dying to find out.  What do you think of your role on Bojack Horseman, did you have fun doing it?  I had a lot of fun doing it. She is a delicious hot mess! So you're in the camp that thinks Louise is the best Bob's Burgers character, right? Because the entire internet seems to think it's Tina, and while Tina is awesome for all the reasons people say, she's nothing compared to the sickeningly green beacon of light that is Louise Belcher!!! &gt;:( (Also Mabel and Carol are pretty great too.) Hello Kristen! I'm asking one question for my friend Ashe who couldn't be here today due to work. They would like to know, "Which of your characters do you feel you have the most fun with?"

I also have a question, although if you can only answer one, please answer Ashe's. My question is: What was the funniest blooper, or funniest story or experience working on Gravity Falls?

Thank you so much, keep up the great work! &lt;3 I had fun with ALL my characters. But right now, playing Carol on Last Man is the most fun. It's the biggest part I've ever played and I get to do SO MANY awesome things! 

Alex Hirsch probably has more fun bloopers to share than me! I think just voicing all of Mabel's goofy adventures is my funnest story! Thank you very kindly! What's the your favorite part of LMoE that's been filmed so far? I can't pick! But it was very special in the first couple episodes to be in scenes with only Forte. That's just such a unique thing that I will cherish! What did you think of the ending of Wilfred? Was Wilfred real, or was it all just in Ryan's head? Loved you on that by the way, one of the funniest characters on the show. :D What is your favorite flavor of ice cream? I'm a fen of Peppermint Stick! Yum! You are amazing, and awesome, and gorgeous and smart and wonderfully feminist. I love your performance on Last man on Earth, thought you were fabulous on the Daily Show, and adore your performance as Louise. I am a lady scientist bringin' the good fight to cancer, schizophrenia and other diseases. If we were trapped on a desert island with a magical fountain of alcoholic beverages that could provide your drink of choice, what would you choose to have while we wait for rescue ships and watch the tortoises swim past?  How did you first meet Alex Hirsch? And do you have any funny stories about him?

I remember reading something where he said that he had already planned Mabel's voice to be your's, and if you didn't voice Mabel the show wouldn't have happened!  I'd have to agree it wouldn't be near as amazing.  Great job on adding a significant amount of charm to the show.   What's it like of a day in the life of Kristen? Everyday is different! But you'll almost always catch me eating Special K cereal and drinking coffee in the morning while I look at the internet. And then drinking a glass of wine while I look at the TV at night. Those are my bookends usually. &gt;Eating cereal while I look at the internet. 

My exact morning, I also enjoy late night television as well. I love Bob's Burgers. I go to sleep with it on every night. Of course it's funny -- spectacularly so -- but my favorite moments are when Louise admits she wants to take over the restaurant and when she "takes on for the team" to let Tina enjoy the bat mitzvah. She can veer into absurdity at times, but she's somehow the most well-rounded character on the show (and really one of the very best depictions of childhood in TV history). Do you like getting to play to her kindness and love for her family?   Thanks! I LOVE those moments, when Louise eeks out just a taste of the vulnerability and warmth that are stewing under those brains. It's so satisfying, because the writers mine those moments like gold. So when they come-they are well earned. Can you tell us something about yourself that we may find surprising? *Um... hmm.*

That my comfort zone is to be more of a fly-on-the-wall than the outgoing, party-animal type of characters that I've played. Even though I can enjoy a party just as much as the next guy. 

 [Reddit understands you, Seann.](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2refsv/til_that_seann_william_scott_who_played_stifler/)  he's like our spirit animal Where on earth did you come up with the litany of insults in the American Pie movies? You're like the Michaelangelo of swearing... ***hehehe!***

Holy shit. 

That may be the best compliment of all time.

I gotta say... I grew up with a SUPER-funny family.

And really funny friends. And I think a really bizarre - I have a pretty bizarre, fucked-up imagination sometimes.  And we swear a lot in Minnesota.  Yea MN!!! What part are you from? He's from cottage grove. I worked with his cousins for a bit.  Nice family Goodfellas or The Godfather? **HOLY SHIT THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.**

I don't even think i can answer that! It depends on the day.

And you have to think GODFATHER 2. It's a toss-up between GODFATHER 1 or GODFATHER 2. And GOODFELLAS. I don't know if I could choose which movie I like more. 

Maybe DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? 

I often have people compare DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR? to the GODFATHER. 

And I have heard several people say recently that i was robbed for "best actor in the world awards," the Academy Awards, they were going to make an award for my performance in that film.

But they didn't have that in their budget. Which I think is B.S.  That tense, dramatic scene where you and Kutcher have to choose who to give the continuum transfuctioner to is one of the best cinematic scenes in existence. How could you not get an award? Dude, where's my Oscar? Who was the biggest prankster on set of the American Pie films?
 JASON BIGGS WITHOUT A DOUBT.

BIGGS IS BY FAR CLOSER TO STIFLER THAN ANY OF US.  I knew it! That dirty pie fucker... I'm not dirty.  You've posted so scarcely... But always stay in character. Playing the long con I suppose. I support you. Redditor for four years and this is your third comment.

I... don't even know if that checks out. It's an older account sir, but it checks out Who would've guessed!? Just wanted to say Evolution was a greatly under appreciated film, thanks for making it. What is David Duchovny like IRL? First of all, THANK YOU SO MUCH for digging the film.

I really liked it too.

David Duchovny is like one of my favorite people of ALL TIME. He's one of the funniest dudes.

One of the *COOLEST* dudes. And I just couldn't believe, the whole time I was working with him, like *Holy shit! I'm fucking working with David Duchovny! And Julianne Moore!*

But Duchovny's just straight up badass. He's SUPER-funny. Super cool. He just exudes being cool.  Evolution is easily the movie I've seen with the biggest disparity between general reception and how much I enjoyed it.  I had a particular friend growing up and we just loved to watch it together.  We watched it regularly when we would get together since we were around 12 years old, we easily have watched it over 50 times together. I was reminiscing about this roughly two weeks ago and watched it again, still holds up.

You have made me laugh so many damn times man, thanks! I'm gonna go ahead and say this here.

"Are you gonna eat that?"

"Yeah...I ordered it."

This short bit of dialogue has haunted me for years.  I used to watch Evolution all the time.  It's up there as one of my favorite movies of all time.  There went a span of about 3 years where I didn't watch it and wiped it from my memory, all except for this line.

I scoured the internet searching for who said it.  I went on /r/tipofmytongue and no luck.  I'd say it all the time and I felt like a crazy person.

Finally about two weeks ago, I found my old Evolution DVD and popped it in.  The part came on when they were in the dinner and Sean said this line.

I FREAKED out!  It was like an itch that got scratch after 3 years of hell.

I love Evolution.  I love Country Mac.  I love Sean William Scott. Tookie! Tookie! I think we've established that cacaw cacaw and tookie tookie don't work Shit, Orlando "7UP Yours" Jones was the man. 

"Rub some funk on it." caw! caw caw!

i'm 33 and the movie is fucking gold.  #*There's always time for lubricant* I met you and Duchovny in Page Arizona when I was in high school and you guys couldn't have been nicer. It was pretty fun having you take over the town for a while, I had a few friends who's houses were "destroyed" in the movie.  Evolution - I forget how funny it is then absolutely peng it eeeeevery time I watch it. THANKS FOR THAT ONE *CACAWWWW CACAWWWW, TOOKIE TOOKIE*

I do this with my family in public in case I lost one of the herd. Holy shit so does my family. I never told them where it came from. They think I'm a sage. But I thought we'd established that cacaw  and tookie tookie don't work? I tell people to rub a little funk on it all the time, but no one has gotten it yet COUNTRY MAC!!!! How was working with those always sunny guys!!? It was a blast.

The guys are SUPER-cool. Funny as shit.

I was just making sure that i didn't ruin the episode, because those guys are so funny. It was like a little teaser. I only got to stay a couple days, before my work was done. But just a bunch of really cool guys (and girl). Just really funny.  Did you do any of your own stunts in that episode? You think there is anything fake about Project Badass? It's post effect. Why does everybody think I jump? Nobody jumps. Evel Knievel didn't jump. Johnny Knoxville doesn't jump. Country Mac was the best!!!! I thought that was one of the funniest episodes of all time. Who is a better kisser Jason Biggs or Ashton Kutcher? Will Ferrell. OLD SCHOOL. I gave him mouth-to-mouth. He's got the lips of an angel.  I like you, but you're crazy man. You got a fuckin dart in your neck That's awesome! Haha. WHAT?  "YES! That's awesome!" "You just took a dart to the jugular!" He makes it hard to stay faithful. How much did the el gato sell for? ***Hehehehe!***

It's a priceless artifact.

*You know what's bizarre? Is that I'm remembering my dialogue from past films.*

I think that's literally the line from THE RUNDOWN. 

I don't know, but The Rock sold the Gato to... shit, now i forgot. 

It's a priceless artifact. But my guess is $10.5 million.  The dynamic between you and the Rock is one of my all time favorite cinema pairings. It's like wine and cheese. Or thunder and lightning. How many times during the Dukes of Hazard filming did you look at Jessica Simpson's ass?  One million and four.  Liar No.

It's pretty specific, so it checks out. He probably got to a million looks and was like "That's it! One million looks! I did it. Now to make sure I don't look. Ever again."

And then Jessica Simpson walked by. It was near the end of shooting, maybe even at the film's premiere. And it's almost slow motion as he does a quadruple-take on her ass.
 Her buns are the best. peak jessica simpson. little higher and turn around Did you do any special training for the film "Goon"? Also, is it still your time? Heh! Well, I did a bit of fight training for GOON. For GOON 2, I've been fight-training for the past month, and next month in May I start working with an MMA fighter, and then some skating (obviously, a lot of skating). We start shooting GOON 2 in mid-June, and if everybody does their jobs and we execute the amazing script that Jay and his co-writer wrote, the fucking movie would be *wicked.*

And OH SHIT! DUKES OF HAZZARD! I just got the "my time" reference! 

It's **definitely** my time.  HOLY ISH! GOON 2!



Goon caught me off guard. So hilarious. Thanks for being such a legendary comedic actor.  Seann, I know you're long gone by now but - Goon was awesome. AND - the song playing when the Highlanders skated onto the ice at the end was MY BAND. :) No shit.

Seriously, my Canadian buddies and I sat in the theatre and when the song started we stood up and cheered.

If you want another one for Goon 2, hit me up!
__________________

edit: Thanks for all the nice props everyone! I'm a huge hockey fan and it was a thrill to contribute some small piece to a great hockey movie. If you want to hear the song, [here it is on Soundcloud](https://soundcloud.com/enterthehaggis/01-lancaster-gate).

And if you come up to me (Brian) after a show and tell me you heard about us on Reddit, I will give you the BIGGEST of all the high-fives. :) Honestly, if someone stood up in a theater and shouted "I wrote that song!" I wouldn't even be mad. This is exactly why I hate going to movies with Danny Elfman.  TIL there will be a Goon 2 My knuckles are ready. Thanks for the answer! You made my day. do you have any fuckin' percocets, man? You pinko communist Bolshevik ass-eaters!  How did you and Bruce Willis managed Tracy Morgan's craziness in Cop Out? Was Bruce Willis mean to Kevin Smith because of this?
 Oh, **I LOVED** working with Bruce Willis! I mean, he's a fucking legend! It was out of control. It took a while for me to be able to focus, because i was like **HOLY FUCK MAN! I'm STANDING NEXT TO BRUCE WILLIS!** and Tracy Morgan is just *outrageously* funny. But the good thing is the scenes I had with Tracy and Bruce, I was really trying to fuck with them and make THEM laugh on-set. So I was the guy who was the motormouth, trying to make THEM laugh, because Tracy is just so insanely funny that i don't think I could've kept a straight face if I hadn't been driving the dialogue. And I fucking love Kevin. I worked with him on JAY &amp; SILENT BOB. He's one of the most effortlessly funny dudes on the *PLANET.* He'd throw out amazing jokes. I just LOVE him. So I didn't know about anything going onset where I worked. Everybody just had a ball, because it was just fun shit.  Hey there mr science guy ....please don't spray that aerosol in my eye....I dint...I don't wanna die....I'm a noble rabbit THIS GUY AIN'T ONE OF US HE SAID HE'D FUCK A SHEEP! What happened to Ronnie from "Role models? HAHAHA!

I don't know!

That kid is so funny. I miss seeing him in movies. I mean, maybe he's got like 20 movies coming out?

But all I know: it was really fun to try to tell him to say as many inappropriate things in the movie as possible.  He's in that new movie "Me and Earl and the Dying Girl" *Fuck you Miss Daisy*

Role Models was just perfect. "You white, you Ben Affleck." Easily [my favorite Ronnie part](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFMD6-O2CMM) from Role Models.  We are the buttsuck chipmunk ass butt. No greater set of words have ever been spoken, I think it's a Shakespeare quote. You white, you Ben Affleck.  Favourite book? Or what are you currently reading? Or both?  I just finished the Kurt Wallander series. I just finished the last book of the series, and I'm depressed, because I fucking loved it ***so much.*** I love Scandinavian crime thrillers. So Jo Nesb is one of my favorites. J. M. Coetzee is one of my favorites. Arguably one of my favorite books would be "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly." 

I love to read.  I'm catching up for not reading much in school.  it makes me SOOO happy that you like Jo Nesb, he's absolutely fantastic &gt;Jo Nesb  

Victoria is really precise with the Scandinavian spelling there. What are your top five favourite movies of all time? ***OHhhhhhh.***

It's almost - write this - I am - I became an actor because I *love, love, LOVE* movies.

I'm a cinephile to the *core* of my being.

And so it's SO HARD for me to pick my top 5 favorite movies.

I could almost say top 20. But top 5, they're interchangeable. But I'll give you 5 of my favorite films.

I would have to say...

* THE INHERITANCE, by Per Fly.
* TALK TO HER, by Almodvar
* BETTY BLUE
* OPEN HEARTS by Susanne Bier
* CHOPPER. It's one of my favorite movies, actually!

But all of these are interchangeable! I could think of 5 other ones! But these 5 are the ones that are on top of my head right now, of my top 25.  Chopper is to eric bana what stiffler is to you
 Bana will always be Poida to me. Or Ray Martin. Bloody Neville Bartos. Chopper? As in the Australian movie? That's good to hear mate :)  Seann, what's your favourite cheese?  My favorite cheese?!

Ooooh.

My favorite cheese.

Oh boy.

This is serious.

This is probably the most serious question I've been asked in my *life.*

Hold on a second, let me think, let me do some cheese research here.

I know this.

Here we go! 

**MANCHEGO.**

I love Manchego. I also love Manchego. Because I'm going to name my first child "Manchego." Harrison Ford said the same thing, you're in excellent company. DUDE, WHAT DOES MINE SAY!? SWEET!

What does mine say?  Dude! What does mine say? Ray fucked me! Unexpected and awesome I....uh..taught my 4 year old son to do this with me and it's hilarious every time.

He'll say "Dude" out of nowhere sometimes and if I'm not paying attention I'll respond "Dude" and he'll get mad and ask why I didn't say "Sweet"

So, thanks for that :) You just made this guys life.  Hi Seann! How did the role of Stifler influence your life?
 Well, it changed **EVERYTHING.**

It changed my whole life, and my family's lives... if I had never gotten that part, there's probably a good chance that I wouldn't have gotten ANY parts, knowing how competitive the movie business is.

So the fact that I got Stifler in AMERICAN PIE, and that movie did so well, it was just a dream come true. You know?

To be in films... to try to make people laugh... to try to give people a chance within an hour and a half to just laugh and have fun and not stress out and kinda get away from the real world of reality... it's just a complete dream come true.  I am going to watch all the American Pie movies again now Yeah all 4. The ONLY 4 american pie films. Good thing they didn't ruin it with some shitty spin offs. EUGENE LEVY! Will do any movie offered to him.  Not that I wouldn't do the same thing.  Favorite bands? That's a tough one.

Rolling Stones - clearly, without a doubt, favorite band.

And geesh - Radiohead. I like Ryan Adams, with an R.

That's a tough one too. But i have so many. I listen to quite a bit. I'd say even Edith Piaf is one of my favorite musicians. 

Nobody thinks that the guy that made out with Ashton Kutcher would have a classic French singer as one of their favorite musicians! You had to learn french kissing somewhere  Hey Seann!

As someone in their mid thirties, and I'm sure I speak every guy around our age, thanks for all the laughs and making Steve Stifler the most legendary role of our generation.

Of all of your films what is your personal favorite, and why? Well, first, *thank you* so much for the sweet words. 

It means a helluva lot to me.

I would say - as opposed to favorite movie - again, I *reallyreally* loved the experience and final product for JUST BEFORE I GO, but in addition to that, AMERICAN WEDDING, GOON, THE RUNDOWN and ROLE MODELS would be my four other favorites. 

It's tough to pick just one favorite.  Role Models is one of my favorite movies ever. It's so quotable from start to end. My favorite scene is when both of you are seeing Jane Lynch in her office. The whole conversation was just comedy gold. 

Edit: [Here's the scene.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLUwDRGIZBM)

Edit: A couple more scenes

[A Venti](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SSk0B0dVq4g)

[Prison](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8cEtYBsvRY)

[Minotaur](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_K2887z990)

[Pedophile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5HMMWTffcc) Seriously Role Models is my go-to movie when I'm with friends that haven't seen it. It's comedy gold, from start to end.  If it isn't Mr. Bullshit andDr.I'm-full-of-shit. Which one of us has the PhD? I fucking loved THE RUNDOWN I always see Goon on Netflix and think, "MORE PEOPLE NEED TO APPRECIATE THIS FILM!".  I always suggest it to friends who are looking for something and complain that "nothing is on Netflix".  

Awesome movie, and this new one looks great too!  Definitely will be seeing it.  Thanks for doing this! One of the best lines in that movie:

"Why are you crying? Did you just watch Rudy?" I got two rules: Don't touch my fuckin' percocets, and do ya have any fuckin' percocets? Your momma's pussy is so tight no way baby came from there man, you're adopted When I can't find anything on Netflix I always rewatch GOON. Watched it Sunday night at work.  I'm on a movie binge, tonight. Never watched but now I will. I agree! Goon is a amazing movie! the rundown is super underrated IMO, it was a pretty effective comedy with a good payoff at the end Hey Seann!

What's it been like working on the American Pie films? And would you be up for a follow up to American Reunion?  It's IMPOSSIBLE to describe how much fun, and it was such a dream come true to not only just *be* in a film, but to have a career because of a certain franchise - those films for me... just the chance to have gone back four times in the four AMERICAN PIE movies, to shoot a movie and spend time with the guys I started my career with is too special to find words to do justice. But i just fucking LOVE that character. He's so fun, so funny, and to be able to build that character from where you don't really know him that much in the first movie, and then you realize that during the franchise, he's a big sweetheart - he gets things wrong, but ultimately, he's a pretty good guy- the movies were *too* much fun.

I think AMERICAN REUNION was the perfect bookend for the franchise - especially for Stifler, he got the biggest revenge hooking up with Finch's mom, I almost feel like he should walk away like Keyser Sze in USUAL SUSPECTS. Like *that*. He's gone.

But if it made sense, and there was an awesome script, and people wanted to see that - I'd play that part. I think Stifler's funnier, the older he gets.  American Funeral? American Family. What's your favorite cereal? Cookie Crisp. With milk.  Cookies? For breakfast?! CoooOOOOkie Crisp? Oh man! Mr. Scott!

I remember in highschool my buddies and I watched a film you were in, *Southland Tales*, it was very different but awesome. Any good experiences/stories from filming? Well, first of all, THANK YOU so much for watching it and liking it and letting me know!

I would just say that movie was wicked. Because it was just a weird one. The same director &amp; writer as DONNIE DARKO. And every day, there's tons of cool different actors, lots of comedians playing these kind of bizarre parts. I'd say one of my favorite parts was working with The Rock again. We worked on THE RUNDOWN together, and we got to team up again on a completely different movie, so that was one of the highlights for me.  I remember thinking that was the stupidest movie and wondering why I was watching it but then by the end I did a total 180 and understood how fucking awesome of a movie it was!!! Such a trip, and one to never forget. Great job man. Has there been a role you've turned down and regretted? No.

Nope. 

I would say... I've always had to fight for parts.

So I've never really been *offered tons?* I've had to make the best of the opportunities I've been given. There's never been a part that was offered to me that I turned down that I regretted. 

Wait, I know one. You know, they offered me Superman before they went to Henry Cavill. And I kinda regret that I didn't play Superman.

And then they offered me Batman. And I regret that I didn't take it.

And then they offered me Spider-Man. And THEN they offered me Captain America. And then they offered me Iron-Man...


**I'M JOKING!!** I'm joking. 

I'm joking. 

If you don't know that I'm joking, the joke's on you.  The joke's on me :'( &gt; If you don't know that I'm joking, the joke's on you.

Coolest line I've heard in a long time. I can keep a secret. What'd you do on 4/20? SHIT! I didn't get to celebrate it, I'll tell you that much! I was doing press!

*Had* I celebrated, you would have seen me at the premiere for JUST BEFORE I GO, last night, and you would have known, by looking at the photos, if I had celebrated.

Hint: red eyes.  http://si.wsj.net/public/resources/images/NY-CZ001_NYCOX_P_20140425185929.jpg

Enhance! holy shit is that courtney cox? Yeah.  She's had a lotttt of work done.  Ohhhhhhh, gotcha Hey, Seann. Big fan here. Really looking forward to Goon 2. So I'm curious, who's your pick for the Stanley Cup? And, out of all your characters, who do you think would win in a brawl? Thanks!  Heh! Oh, I don't know about who's going to win the Stanley Cup. I'm going to hold off on that. And DEFINITELY Doug Glatt, for sure. He could beat the shit out of most people.  Hey, Seann! My name is Sean. How many fucked up ways have people pronounced your first name throughout your life? I've heard it pronounced "Seen" more times than I can count. Yep! I've heard... "See-Anne." I've gotten "See-Anne" a few times, and I just went with it.  Just going to put this out here:

Sean bean. See Anne Bee Anne is a fine actor. &gt; "See-Anne"   
   
I have heard that one, too. I got marked absent once in high school when a substitute was calling roll and said "See-Anne". I sat in silence and didn't raise my hand. Worth it. That dumb bitch. Where is A-Aron right now? A-A Ron get yo ass to Oh Shag Hennesy's office.  How did you come to the role of Crash in Ice Age?
 That was a movie that they offered to me. I think they were like *Wait, that jackass from AMERICAN PIE, I could hear his voice being a possum!*

And it was as easy as that, pretty much! And little do all the little kids know, that the actor's voice they are watching ICE AGE played a character who drank a beer with semen in it in his first movie...  Hey Seann.  Thanks for doing this AMA.

When you first sat down to read *The Promotion* how hard did you laugh?  How did you land the role of Doug Stauber?  Would you work on any Steve Conrad-related material again if the opportunity arises? **GREAT** question. I've actually been developing a project with Steve Conrad for the past year that will hopefully be announced in maybe a month. I love him. I love his writing. I find it SO fresh, so original. It's a combination of - he's got such a *completely different* voice in his films, especially in his scripts, if you can get ahold of the scripts he's written, whether it's original like THE WEATHER MAN, or WALTER MITTY, he's got such an incredible imagination and voice. But THE PROMOTION I loved right off the bat. And I was lucky Steve's brother really liked me in AMERICAN PIE, and spoke very highly of me. So when I met with Steve, he had an open mind, and gave me a chance to play a character that was a bit different than what I'd done in the past. And then he just committed to it.  What's the weirdest job you ever had? You know... it's funny you bring up the State Fair, Wisconsin girl, that's awesome.

The weirdest job I ever had... I worked at Scientific Revolution, at Universal City Walk, wearing a lab coat, and selling boomerangs and glow-in-the-dark stars, and Bill Nye the Science Guy puzzles.

I think it *would've* been a sweet job, but I just felt like an asshole. Because everybody kept asking me serious science questions, and I was like "*DUDE,* if i was a serious scientist, do you think I'd be selling glow-in-the-dark stars?!?" &gt; You know... it's funny you bring up the State Fair, Wisconsin girl, that's awesome.

OK, what is this? He's talking to Victoria.  He talks, she types. OK, why did she type something without any context? We may never know. /u/chooter is the only one that can explain that mystery. I'm from Wisconsin. We started talking about being from the Midwest originally. I asked him this question about "the weirdest job he's ever had," and he was like "What?" and I was like "You know, like working at the State Fair making funnel cakes" - hence "Wisconsin girl." And this is why she's awesome.  Great job today. *high five*

Thanks! Of all the roles that you have had, which is your favorite? Hmmmmm.

That's a tough one.

I would say... I really loved the part in JUST BEFORE I GO... but my *favorite* is obviously Stifler. The thing about that character is that you can just get away with so much. You can do so many things with that part. Love it.  Does that mean Stiffler was mostly improvised? Hi Seann. What is your favourite videogame? Oooh, I'm going to lose some people here.

I haven't played a video game in years. It's just I'm so out of the loop. I keep hearing about all these awesome games. And I don't know how to operate an app on my iPhone. I'm just that much of an idiot when it comes to technology. So I'm going to hold a controller for a video game and try to answer it like my phone. I don't know if I have the skill.  Dude do you know where your car is? I have to find the continuum transfunctioner first, before I do find it.  ZOLTAN! And then.... NO AND THEN!!! Thanks for doing this AMA.  I am a big fan (maybe the only one) of Southland Tales.  My question is, what was your experience like working on the film?  What is your take on the final result given all the cuts and production hiccups along the way?   Well, thank you for watching it and liking it.

I personally *really really* responded to the final product.

I thought it was weird... and beautiful... and bizarre... and I loved Richard Kelly (the director). And i love that he committed to the story he wanted to tell. He had a vision, and whether or not people responded to it, he was going to make the movie he wanted to make. And I found, since that movie came out, that over the years, the people that I'll meet doing interviews, the serious movie people *really really* respond to that movie. As time's gone on, they've kinda dug that movie. And if you watch that movie NOW, it actually has WAY MORE that's relevant -the California water, the drought, this was before the Patriot Act - so you watch how the government was able to tap into the phones - I'm pretty sure that it was before we *really* started to understand the Patriot Act, understanding all these things. So I really quite like the movie. And my character becomes the Messiah at the end, so how can you hate that?  What's your best pick-up line that always work?

For funsies, what line always gets you slapped? Over the years, I've been able to figure out which lines to avoid getting slapped with.

So...this is a line that *always* gets the ladies. I go up to them and say "It must be raining outside, because you OBVIOUSLY stepped into a big puddle of *gorgeous.*"

 &gt; "It must be raining outside, because you OBVIOUSLY stepped into a big puddle of gorgeous."

https://i.imgur.com/LTfLK.gif
 /u/chooter, did you swoon at this one? We need a reliable gauge. Did not swoon. (*However, he's really funny and nice) Not quite Goldblum, but close? He's very charming.  I know that it is just a role, but are there any similarities between you and Stifler? *Hmmm.*

I would say the only REAL similarity - other than trying to make my friends laugh - is that I am a HUGE instigator of trouble. But the majority of that character I took from the friends i went to high school with. So in a way, I think a *LOT* of guys are like Stifler. I mean, not all of that character, but there's a little bit of Stifler in most boys (and girls) I think.  Did you hear that boys and girls? Stiflers inside all of us and there's nothing we can do about it. And since Stifler was, at one time, in Stifler's mom...then by the transitive property, WE'VE ALL BEEN IN STIFLER'S MOM!

MILF! MILF! MILF! What is your favourite Stifler line in American Pie? There's a couple.

One would have to be "I'm going to hang out with my wang out, I'm going to rock out with my cock out."  Dude where's my sequel? Dude, where's my car? But seriously, what was it like working with the crew on It's Always Sunny? They seem like good people in real life despite their characters. EXACTLY IT.

The guys are just... they're friends, you know? You can get a sense of them all being close, and like, really genuine, good friends? But they're serious guys too. They write the show. They know that they want the quality of the show to be great, and consistent. So it was fun to watch them, you know, work. But they're just *really* great, great guys. Down to earth. I came away from the experience feeling like that would be a lot of fun, to find an amazing project like that, where you can work with the same group of people that you like for so long. I kinda did that with AMERICAN PIE, but it's not the same, just with the number of episodes and working with the guys for so long.  How much fun was it to work with Paul Rudd for Role Models? That movie is hilarious, take it out every few months for a run-through! We've all heard the stories about your American Pie co-star Tara Reid. What is she really like? Tara's one of the sweetest, just most down to earth girls you could know.

I don't know anything other about Tara, other than her just being a really great girl. I really adore her. She's a really sweet, sweet girl.  political answer nah, it's called being a nice guy, no need to talk shit about people if you don't need to. I haven't heard them :( What are the big stories about Tara Reid? Jw.  Hi Seann,

Im a big fan thanks for doing this AMA!  My questions are:

While filming Goon in Winnipeg, Manitoba what are your favorite memories while filming in Winnipeg?

I heard you were really shy around women  my question is why?  I mean women mustve been throwing themselves at you to be with The Stifmeister.

Finally  are you a fan of the HBO series Game of Thrones and if so whos your favorite character?

Thanks Seann!
 Aww... No one likes Winnipeg.  Not even Winnipeg likes Winnipeg. ive always liked the name. but yeah, ive never even considered actually visiting Winnipeg. now that ive considered it, i have decided that i will not be visiting Winnipeg in the foreseeable future.  [I hate Winnipeg.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xLlsjEP7L-k) I'll answer this for him. Winnipeg has great hidden magic but you've got to want to find it.

You've got to want to see what's down the cellar at the toad in Osborne, you've got to be intrigued with the unique cuisine in Corydon.

You've gotta hit up the student union at the U of M on the right night at the right event. You've got to go places just In case. 

You've got to go places on your own because there's people everywhere waiting to make your night.

Winnipeg can be the greatest place on earth for you if you let it be and don't let the ridiculous climate get you down. 

Once you're in a warm room, all those layers come off and everyone's ready to party those snow covered blues away.

I miss it and I'm sure there's moments where Seann does too. If you were another sheep. Would you fuck a sheep if you were another sheep? I expected this to be the top comment.  http://youtu.be/1jJh-B4KWxU How hard are you going with Goon 2?

Gay porn hard? We should sign his dick. The line forms behind me, gentlemen.    It's not gay if you're brothers. If you're brothers, it gay with a dash of something else. Everyone sign his dick I've been playing hockey my whole life, I never fuckin signed no one's dick man. Underground greek gay porn hard!!!! They're all adonises. Back Door Sluts 9 hard? Sorry people are downvoting you but not explaining that he was [quoting a line](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WJOL4xoamoQ) from the first Goon movie. Oh I see, I haven't seen it but it's on my watch list as a result of this AMA, along with Role Models. Thanks for explaining. You are in for a treat with both of those movies. Two of my favorite comedies. How many times in a week does someone ask you where their car might be? Huge fan, love Stark Raving Mad and Bulletproof Monk!  What was your favorite movie to work on? If you could play a character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, who would you want to be? Cat or dog person?

Ps. I used to have the biggest crush on you when I was 14 Still have but used to too Hey settle down guy.

 A fellow Minnesotan here! Love your movies. Will make sure to check out Before You Go as well. 

Any word on the next American Pie? 

And what is probably the hardest part of doing the Pie movies? Do you feel sometimes that you may have gotten typecast a bit because of how well you play Stifler? 

And can you name one thing you'd like to change, even slightly, with the Stifler character for the next movie? 



 What was the deal with the Digital Entertainment Network sex scandal and your role in Chad's World? http://www.buzzfeed.com/hunterschwarz/the-tv-pilot-with-eerie-similarities-to-the-bryan-singer-sex#.goqnwJqzw Goon 2? Yes Is there any chance we'll be seeing a collaboration between you and Ryan Reynolds for a super cheesy action comedy in the near future? That would just be epic. Just wanted to say that I absolutely loved Role Models, easily one of my favourite movies. What was it like working with Paul Rudd, as well as the younger actors? if you had to own a farm of animals what animal would you choose? [I'm guessing sheep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jJh-B4KWxU) Sheep.  What's your personal opinion on Southland Tales?

I saw it, and while I couldn't quite figure out what I was seeing, I thoroughly enjoyed it. The reviews don't seen to be as kind. Have you said YES to the dress yet?

Real question: What is next for you? **ahahaha!**

I have NOT said yes to the dress. Not sure if I'll EVER say yes to any dress.

I might say "Okay" to a cool pair of pants someday.

And *Batman Unlimited* on May 12th. And tonight - premiere of a new episode of Marvel's *Avengers Assemble* on Disney XD at 8:30 PM ET.  Let's compromise.  

Say 'perhaps' to a skirt. Utility kilt. What did utility kill?  Style?  Can't fit style over these gigantic balls. Do you ever pause to reflect on the fact that you were the goddamn Batman? ***HAHAHA!***

I do, every day, when I do something stupid.

I just think *That's something the real Batman never would have done.* *Drops breakfast all over the floor*

"Shake it off, you're batman."

 &gt;*Drops breakfast all over the floor*

&gt;"Shake it off, you're batman."

It was the breakfast Batman deserved, but not the breakfast he needed on that particular morning.
 Batman would caught it BATMAN WOULD HAVE CHANGE FOR A TWENTY. [Batman doesnt use cash]( http://happyfingersproductions.com/wp-content/uploads/bat-credit-card1.jpg) Does he use Batcoin? *shudder* This cereal. It tastes LIKE BATMAN
 WOW, FUGGIN BATMAN MUCH?! NNNGH This has batman written all over it. THIS JUST IN! THIS IS FUGGIN BATMAN STYLE! Hi I'm not Bruce Wayne. But you might know me from my crime fighting alias, Batman. With his Bat-breakfastgrabber!  Read in Adam West's voice.  Yes, because Batman is all about letting things go /s.  "Kevin Conroy wouldn't have forgotten the neighbor's name" But Robin would, though.  You need to contact Kevin Conroy and the rest of the other batmen actors to see if they will do a version for batman of Tim Daly's league of supermen but legion of batmen https://youtu.be/Fbq1fRbkOAE Is there any sort of voice actors guild? Do you all have secrets to the craft that you pass along like Freemasons? ***Hehahahaha.***

One will never know.  I could hear the evilness while reading that. Uncanny. VAG? I guess men don't like it when they get along with the Screen Actors Guild.  But they like the Film Actors Guild just fine. MATT DAMON While not officially a guild they seem to be a pretty close knit group.

I would highly recommend John DiMaggio's 'I Know That Voice' which I believe you can find on Netflix.

I throughly enjoyed it. I didn't see it on Nutlix but I did see that documentary (almost certain) and it was quite bomb. I love learning about the world of voice acting. Fascinating profession and culture. &gt; Nutlix

Um.
 &gt;Yum

FTFY I know a few voice actors and can confirm that they are probably the coolest and most down-to-earth overall group of actors in general. Have you ever tried to smash a boulder like the almighty Chris Redfield? I tried it once.

That's all.  It did not go well.  The boulder was killed. http://imgur.com/eMgv3an More like *The Pebble*. \* DesynchronisedFTFY How much about dresses did you learn about from narrating Say Yes to the Dress and if Ezio were to get a wedding dress what type of dress would it be?  *HAHAHAHAAAA!*

What a great question.

I don't think I've actually *learned* anything. Because as a guy, I might know the *names*, but I don't know if I've learned ANYTHING as a narrator.

However, I'd have to say that Ezio would very likely go with an A-frame dress - A for "Assassin."

Wakka-wakka! &gt; Wakka-wakka!

I read that in Ezio's voice. He doesn't sound excited.
 -hidden blade kill- *Wakka-wakka en pace*

 *A-line 
:) You've narrated two of my favorite characters in two of my favorite video game series. Batman and Ezio. So first off, I wanted to say thank you for doing a fantastic job. Now my two questions:

1) How did you master the Italian accent? 

2) Will you be back for Arkham Knight?  1.) Haha! One would argue that I did not 'Master' it at all. In fact, if you ask a few Italians out there, they might roll their eyes at my accent. However, I owe a debt of gratitude to Ida, and Peter, my dialect coaches on the Assassin's Creed games, for helping me butcher the Italian language in the way that I did.

2.) No, that's Kevin Conroy in ARKHAM KNIGHT.  Did you kill a lot of people to prepare for the role of Ezio? Thank you for answering! And I also wanted to thank you for not Christian Bale-ing the voice of Batman. 

1) I think it was great! You're always going to have critics. 

2) :( KevinConroy4Life [here he sings "Am I Blue?" And it's amazing](http://youtu.be/ncj-wpBhr5E) Every time I see/hear that, I think of [this...](https://youtu.be/Vp6wLXj4-5A) At 1:33 the piano player has no legs Nah hes just doing a split on the bench &gt;2) :(

How dare you. Roger craig Smith's great, but Kevin Conroy beats anyone as Batman any day. And here I thought you had found a "WANTED: Italian actor with terrible English accent for voice acting in a videogame". The sign would probably say: "Dead people of alive" (I'm translating from Italian what the wanted signs in assassin creed say) This might be a strange question, but why didn't they just get someone who already had an Italian accent? What is one thing people always ask you to say in a certain voice?  Huh.

It's a toss-up between *Sonic Speed!* or *Requiescat in Pace.*  Rodge, I wont lie, you have met some goddamn casual Sonic fans. 

The real answer should be "YOU'RE TOO SLOW" That was actually the 4Kids guy that said that infamous line, not Mr. Smith. Who's the casual now /u/tacdeho ....I must return to my Sega Genesis for further study.  What about the infinitely more infamous "IT'S NO USE!"? That's a different character And from a game RCS wasn't in. We don't talk about that game What? No "GOTTA GO FAST"?! Requiescat in pesto, e quattro formaggi.   Hey Roger,

Big fan, thanks for doing this AMA!

1. For the Assassin's Creed series, how much interaction did you have with the other voice actors while recording? If I recall correctly, there was no motion capture for the first four games. 

2. How fun was it to record the [Abstergo researcher stuff](https://youtu.be/arbKt4oacj4?t=2m51s) for Assassin's Creed IV and pronouncing Ezio's name wrong?

3. While typing your answers here, which voice do you use in your head?

4. Would you rather fight one Batman-sized Sonic or ten Sonic-sized Batmans? (Tough one, take your time).
Thank you. 1.) We had very little interaction between 2 and Brotherhood. And then we did do some light ensemble recording for Revelations. However, we were wearing motion-capture helmets, which made it kind of funky and awkward.

2.) Oh. THAT was an absolute blast. Darby (the writer on that project) wanted to give the fans a little easter egg, and brought me into record those lines, and I intentionally screwed up everyone's names as badly as I could. We had a lot of fun messing around with that.

3.) Kermit the Frog! Hahaha! No... gosh! That's really weird. *God,* I wouldn't know. I'm like a lot of people in that I hate the sound of my own voice, so let's play it safe and say I hear Mark Hamill's voice.

4.) One Batman-sized Sonic. Hahaha! INSTANTLY. Not a tough one at all.  You're the man. Answer 4 makes [one of the hidden images in Sonic CD](http://info.sonicretro.org/images/2/24/SonicCDHiddenPictures.PNG) especially relevant. ...huh. He is saying that the fastest DJ is MC Sonic. Duhh... Creepily relevant. It's like they knew he'd voice Batman many years later Hiya! I was wondering...

1. Is it weird when you play Sonic games and hear your own voice?

2. What's your favourite voice to do?

3. How much interaction did/do you have for the Sonic series and Sonic Boom TV show?

4. Did you prefer voicing Sonic in the TV show or in the games? 1.) Sort of. It never gets OLD to hear your own voice in a video game though.

2.) One of my favorites is Frank Smith, who is Margaret's dad on REGULAR SHOW.

3.) Not sure if you mean "influence" or not? And being a part of *any* production - be in animation, or video game, is a MASSIVE, collaborative effort. So I'd argue - very little.

4.) It doesn't matter to me. Being the blue blur is a blast in any medium.  Argh, my tired brain broke my third question (sorry!) I meant to ask:

How much interaction did you have with the other VAs for the series &amp; show?

(Thanks for answering! :D) Oh! We recorded almost every episode of SONIC BOOM as an ensemble cast. So we had a *ton* of fun getting to work together - we're all good friends outside of the show as well. They're some of my favorite people.  Thanks! It sounds like a lot of fun to work with them :) Hey Roger! I'm a big Assassin's Creed fan and I loved your work as Ezio. Here are my questions:

1. In AC4: Black Flag, you had a couple appearances. One was [a familiar-sounding Italian diplomat](https://youtu.be/gRZy06o2t_c?t=2m40s) and the other was the voice behind [the market analysis videos.](http://youtu.be/VgSjOEmA6JE) How did these roles come up?

2. In AC Chronicles: China, Ezio has a different voice and apparently you were not asked to perform the role. What are your thoughts on this situation?

3. There's a theory in the AC community that [Ezio was actually a bloodthirsty zealot.](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/assassinscreed/comments/2zohlx/ezio_auditore_was_a_bloodthirsty_zealot_major/) Do you have any thoughts on this idea? 1.) Again, that was Darby - basically giving an homage to the fans of Ezio, by having me sort of "spoof" a very drunk-sounding Ezio as the Italian Diplomat. Again, that was Darby having fun with the lore of the Assassin's Creed Universe, and letting me appear as an easter egg.

2.) I had issued a statement through Kotaku that I have no bad vibes towards Ubisoft. This is strictly a production situation where I found out at the same time as everybody else, there was no me being rejected for a role or anything like that. I chalk it up to a production decision that we all found out about together. It's not like my feelings are hurt, or anything like that.

3.) Um... wow. Let's see. Hehehe! No comment, hahaha!  &gt; It's not like my feelings are hurt, or anything like that.

It's ok, just let it out. Wish David Hayter would... David Hayter's made it pretty god damn clear he's upset.  I think he's trying to locate a flight to Zanzibar as we speak. Baka I really wished you had returned, though. The new Ezio voice just isn't the same :( Who is your favorite Sonic Boom writer, and why is it Alan Denton? Feel free to cite specific examples. Hahahaha! I'd have to go with Alan Denton. And just rugged good looks.  And a sharp wit! Alan Denton's aight, I guess. I heard his writing partner, Greg Hahn, is the real talent of the team. SOURCE: Alan's writing partner Hi Roger, thank you for doing this AMA!

- If you could become any of the characters that you have voiced, who would you choose and why?

- What inspired you to become a voice actor?

Thanks again! Huh.

I'd go with Ripslinger, from Disney's PLANES, just to be able to fly. I feel like most people would want to be Batman, but Batman lost his parents. I don't know that I would want to be Batman in that regard. It's true, he has all the toys, I like that, but I'd rather not have a utility belt and still have my parents. 

That's honestly how it happens for a lot of people - you keep hearing - for me in stand-up comedy, I would do characters and voices in my act, and a lot of people would say "Hey, you have a great speaking voice, have you thought about voiceover?" So I stumbled into it, and fell in love with it.  &gt; I'd go with Ripslinger, from Disney's PLANES, just to be able to fly.

THAT's where I know your name from. Okay, how creepy is it that my son has toys with your voice in them? If I hear you say FARM BOY one more time I'm gonna fucking lose it.  What was your best joke from your stand-up days?  Oh *man.*

I don't know if I even had a "best joke."

Golly. I can remember creating an alter-ego known as "Rogelio."

Who was the Latin Lover alter-ego when I had a couple beers in me. That seemed to land well with the audience, but the irony is that it sort of became who Ezio is (or was).  This might be the most magnificent thing I read all week. Rogelio Auditore da Firenze Hi, loved your AC work, but here's to the question:

What accent or voice do you think you really can't get right? Is there any you don't like doing? Oh, there's a TON of accents that I can't get right. Some would argue even Italian!

And there's a lot of accents i can't even do. An Australian accent is very difficult for me. Even doing an accurate British accent, to the point of having someone from England compliment you on it, is *NOT* an easy thing.

Most of the accents I'm comfortable doing are the more "broad" approaches to those accents. Because to do an accent legitimately, and to do it well, is a skill (one I don't claim to have).  I've noticed a lot of Americans struggle with the Aussie accent. For starters, they insist on pronouncing "Aussie" as "ossy" whereas it should be "ozzy". But really, it's just because you guy love your consonants, and we are not big on them. Dropped consonants everywhere. R - gone. T - gone. D - barely there. Arguably, the T is dropped for us as well, but our D love is strong. Heh. ;) D barely there... there's a joke here, I can almost feel it! Have you ever played any Sonic games before you became the current voice for Sonic? I go all the back to the Sega Genesis Sonic.  Hi Roger Craig Smith! I'm a huge fan of your work as both Ezio and Sonic the Hedgehog. A friend of mine has a hat you signed at a Sonic convention in New York City :P 

I'm an aspiring voice actor, and I would love to know what advice you may have for young people who want to break into that business, and what your experience was going into the industry. Are there any steps I can take now, as a sophomore in high school, to work towards that goal? When I become an adult, what can I do to pursue voice acting as a career?  Holy cow! That's a multi-part question.

You know what? Acting is acting. So whether it be voice, or onstage, or on camera, pursue acting first &amp; foremost.

In terms of advice? I've started telling people plain &amp; simple: you will never have my career. And what I mean by that is - I will never have *YOUR* career. Everyone's journey on how to get here is completely unique. The advice is just - never be ashamed of where you're at. And never lose sight of the next goal you place for yourself. And keep falling forward, knowing you'll make mistakes, and it's no big deal, just keep at it. 

And try not to get overly concerned with where "everyone else" is at.  Thanks so much for the response! Fantastic advice. Very well put.  Just wanted to say that I love your work, with my first introduction to you being Ezio from Assassin's Creed 2. I was just wondering if have kept up with the series, and if so what do you think of the direction the games have taken? And who has been your favorite character throughout the entire series?
 You know, I think the entire franchise is in really good hands with Ubisoft. And really and truly, it doesn't matter what my opinion is - as long as fans are happy with it, then I know we're headed in the right direction. And apparently it's Ezio.  Blink twice if Ubisoft is behind you.
 He admitted to not paying any C games after the Ezio Trilogy, so the poor guy just doesn't know how they managed to ruin it. Have you been doing voices your whole life? At what point did you realize you could make it a career?  You know, I guess, in a way I *have* been doing voices my whole life? I was real big into mimicry and being a goofy kid when I was younger. I don't think I ever thought it was going to be a career. Doing voices in my stand-up was just to have the audience laugh at me as the character, but I didn't think "*I'm going to do these voices to impress someone so they'll give me a job as a voiceover actor."* What are game scripts actually like?
 They're *massive.*

And they can be complicated to voice-act, depending upon the production stye. If you record in a linear fashion it might be easier to tackle, but 9 times out of 10, you don't get to record a game script in a linear fashion, so they can be a challenge, and very taxing on the voice.  Hey Roger, what one piece of advice would you give to an acting school graduate looking to get into voice acting?  Well, you've already obviously studied acting if you're an acting school graduate. Maybe take a very basic class in commercial voice acting. And go from there. But a class is helpful.  Hey Roger! I know it's been heard that when you're a voice actor, it's impossible to pick a favourite character, because they're all like your children. But amid all the Sonics and the Chris Redfields and the Ezios, I was curious if there were ever a few characters or other such gigs you had a personal soft spot for that didn't quite reach the same amount of mainstream attention? And also, how over the moon were you when you got to voice Sonic for Wreck-It Ralph?

(While we're on the subject, I have to say your most underrated role in my mind was as Wonder Blue in The Wonderful 101! Great, underappreciated game, and you really helped bring all of its OTT-ness to life and create a truly lovable and memorable character.) First off, thank you for the compliments on The Wonderful 101.

You know, as far as favorite characters go... you know, getting to play Forge in Wolverine &amp; The X-Men, quite a few years ago, was a lot of fun. I liked that character. He was a smaller part, but I quite liked that character.

And WRECK-IT RALPH - that was a *COMPLETE* and *TOTAL* shock. When my agent said "Disney wants to bring you in for some Sonic the Hedgehog" I thought *They've got the wrong guy!* And Rich Moore - getting to meet him, and see how excited and passionate he was about the gaming world, made it that much more exciting.  It was funny to have a guy like that say "I can't believe we got SONIC THE HEDGEHOG!" and I was like "Dude, I'm happy to be *in* here!" Do you think the Apple of Eden would taste good? Hahaha! Ironically, I feel like it might taste like bacon. 

And that would be awesome. 

*Mmm, mmm, bacon!* *This man knows how reddit works* What are some go-to lines  you have memorized for when you want to slip into different accents?  Oh, how funny!

Go-to lines for Ezio are...

"*Requiescat in Pace."*

"Keep your eye out for Baldy McNoseHair" for Sonic.

"Wesker" for Chris Redfield.

And "Impossible is *what we do."* for Captain America.

OH! And "***Alfred."*** for Batman.  be honest In your opinion whats been the intriguing voice over story you've done.? In terms of intriguing narrative, I'd have to go with the Assassin's Creed franchise, just in terms of the sheer SIZE of the story they were covering.  &gt;the story they were covering

I know you probably just used past tense because you don't work on the franchise anymore, but it's totally true that even though the series is still going full speed ahead with major releases every year, they've pretty much dropped all of the elements that made the story large and intriguing. Damn.  Hi-ho Mr. Roger Craig Smith! I got one little question for you! 

How does it feel to be part of multiple different franchises and communties, especially the famous Ezio Auditore? Exciting? God-awful? "I-guess-I'm-fine-with-it"? Hahaha! It's a huge honor.

It's something that you kinda sorta have to pinch yourself with.

Every gig I take, I assume it's going to be my last gig. But the reality - when it turns into something that goes on for more than a couple iterations - is very humbling, and it's an honor to be a part of it.

(*Someday they're going to figure out I have no idea of what I'm doing, and it will all come to an end)* Your secret is save with us.

Just kidding. I think it's remarkable that we see the entire lifespan of a character being voiced by the same person. Your dedication is very much appriciated by the Assassin's Creed community! &gt; (Someday they're going to figure out I have no idea of what I'm doing, and it will all come to an end)

Guys we know the truth now. Get the media! We did it! ^(I'm kidding we love youuu)
 &gt;especially ezio

dude, he's the batman! I know! It was pretty wicked! He was very brooding and menacing when he was Batman, and that's what made it so awesome! Hey, Roger.

Any characters that you miss doing voice-acting for? I miss doing voiceover for Ezio. Getting to portray a character through so many different times in his life, and such a well-written character, was a dream come true for a voice actor.  How did it feel when you were recording the lines in the ending in Revelations, when he's speaking through the nexus to the future? My mind was blown at that moment, the games have no been able to top a moment like that for me. That's it! Im playing all the Ezio games again! Thanks for doing this AMA! I'd like to ask what was the best part of doing arkham origins? Are you gonna do anymore batman related stuff in the future?  Well, we've got *Batman Unlimited: Animal Instincts* coming out on May 12th, so I've been able to visit the voice of ***the Bat-Man*** yet again. Beyond that, I have no idea. I still can't believe I got to do it again. And would obviously jump at the chance to vocally portray the Caped Crusader if anybody ever gave me another shot at it.  Hi Huge Fan, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is my favorite Video-Game and you were incredible in it. Can I ask: What is the best thing a director can do for you? For me, I rely very heavily on my directors, so they basically give me the confidence to keep going in a particular direction if it's one that they've started me off in. Since it's such a collaborative process, there aren't really situations where I make a choice, and that simply is accepted as what the character will *be.* So I rely on my directors to work with me on satisfying the sort of "collective creative outlook" of the entire team.  Roger, aside acting what are your hobbies like? I enjoy mountain biking. I enjoy playing the drums, to kind of just zone out. And I enjoy... playing video games when I have the time. And home repair, hahaha! It's something I geek out on.  Roger, have you played the AC games after Revelations? If so what did you think? I actually have not gotten - I own Black Flag, and am excited to play Black Flag, but I have not fired it up yet! And I *briefly* started AC3, but again, work has made my gaming life a little difficult to participate in! I feel like I need to turn in my "gamer card." well there is a new AC every year... So you're excused.

BTW if you only have time to play 1 go with Black flag! Did you enjoy getting to butcher your own character's name as the Abstergo Market Analyst in Assassin's Creed 4? *Abso-lutely.* That was something that Darby and I had a blast doing. And I was able to tell him it should be pronounced as "En-zio" because so many people assume it's "Enzo" or "En-zio" when they say the name back to me. They always go "*Oh, you're Enzo!"* because they've heard of Enzo Ferrari, or they say "Ezo" - like "EZ-Cheese." It's pretty funny. They don't know what "Ezio" is all about.  [deleted] Like any new endeavor, you're nervous as all get-out on your first try, so yeah - I had trouble mastering timing of ADR when it came to anime. It was a little tricky at first. And eventually I got better at it. In NO way am I a natural at any of this! 

There are so many fun stories from recording sessions that there is not enough time in the day to recite even one of them here. 

Cheers back'atcha.  Hey Roger, without kissing too much ass i'd like to say that im a big fan of your work, especially with Sonic the Hedgehog. 

anyway, my question is, how has voicing sonic been as an overall experience? and do you enjoy voicing sonic and being part of the franchise?  Voicing Sonic is again, a HUGE honor. Any character of that profile - one as popular as Sonic - is an absolute honor to get to portray. And I've had a blast being a part of this franchise, and being a part of the fanbase, and experiencing all that comes with being a part of the Sonic Universe. So it's a ton of fun.  Hey, I was a big fan of your work as Chris Redfield in 
Resident Evil 5 &amp; 6.  Any ideas if there will ever be a reboot and will you voice him again? 