I'm confused why Jay-Z and associates didn't pull their music and make it TIDAL exclusive. I'm not saying that would be the right decision (especially from a consumer perspective), but obviously not even the artists were confident in TIDAL.  They pulled some. I know his debut album, *Reasonable Doubt*, is no longer on Spotify.  It's still on Beats Music though, actually listened to it last night.  Maybe he forgot about Dre. Funny thing is he ghost wrote the song "Still Dre" Ghost Writer?

Like the PBS show? Dope!

He's a Ghost, that writes to us! Ghost Writer!  I loved that show so much growing up.  I haven't looked it up on YouTube because I don't want the fantasy of it being so good to die We should touch each other at night. Not with a name like that we won't. Best [90s theme/intro](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cS_lD9_Ur3g) ever.. well, except [Hey Dude](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9AaiQVAG0gQ).   How can one be sure of who ghost wrote a song? Isn't anonymity the point? Yeah he didn't "ghost-write" it. He just wrote it. 

The credits for the song are "A. Young (Dr. Dre), M. Bradford (Mel-Man), S. Carter (Jay-Z), S. Storch (Scott Storch, who helped produce the riff)" S. Storch lost all his money on crack cocaine. Whatever happened. He had so Much potential. And his beats where actually simple and good. 
So he no longer produces?  Its probably because Beats doesn't have free tier, while Spotify does. And I think that's one of the things most artists/companies want to get rid of, which is the free tier. Which I don't understand. The free tier has ads. Don't the still make money from ads? Why do they care? Spotify makes about $15/year from a free user (ad revenue) vs $120/year from a paid user.  Its not that cut and dry. It may only be $15/year for a free user, but that's $15 they wouldn't have gotten otherwise from people like me. Also, I'm more likely to refer people to spotify because its free, and people are more likely to check out my referral because its free. If only a certain percentage of people end up buying premium, the increased unique traffic that a free tier generates helps increase overall premium subscriptions imo. I gladly pay $120 to not have ads. Ads are the scourge of the earth! Considering someone who listens to, at very minimum, 2 hours or more every single day it's an absolute bargain. Plus my friends and I have weekly collaborative themed playlists to keep it fresh and interesting for us. They make the same payout whether it's ad supported or customer paid. It's the implication that their music is being given away for free, which would make sense if you know radio hadnt existed the last 100 years.  Spotify generates significantly less revenue from advertising to a user than they do from a subscription. The free-tier persists as a marketing tool to drive subscriptions They hate the word "free" they wake up in their giant beds under piles of hookers and cash screaming "freeeeeeeee! sweet Jesus Jones no!!!"

Now never mind the fact that we live in a world where for the last 75 years or so anyone who wanted free music could get it, they're in denial about that. 

They're also in denial of the fact that Netfix and Spotify are the future of media distribution and a lot of middle men who made money being gatekeepers are on their way out. 

Spotify (or other streaming service) right now has an artist who is going to be the next big thing, they only have a few followers but their quality will shine and they will blow up without the permission of some A&amp;R weasel. 

Soon it will be the artist showing their art to the consumer and the consumer deciding if it's worth listening too. 

This is what Jayz is fighting against.  &gt;sweet Jesus Jones

Which is also available, right here, right now, on Spotify. Welp, I'm paying for spotify now. The paid app: there is no one place I'd rather be. That would probably just piss people off and wouldn't convince anyone to move over.

Even if you're a Jay Z fan, are you *really* going to ditch spotify because he decided to leave? As others have said, it's partly due to them not having faith in the service, but there's tonnes of good reasons not to. 


* They'll be throwing away their guaranteed revenue stream on a gamble

* It's almost impossible for Tidal to pay them the going rate for exclusivity

* Studios own most of their music, so they don't even have their own rights to make the decision

* Even where they do own their own rights, they're locked into contracts that wouldn't let them just pull their music off other services  This is the first I've even heard about TIDAL. I'd say he should have marketed better
 There was one little blip like a month ago, "lol super rich super celebrities want more money" it vanished from existence after that though. I don't think they fully understood how stupid they looked until it was mocked by everyone, so they quietly shut up.  Yeah, there really was *only* backlash, no praise.

A humbling experience I hope. They released a video like they were saving the world or some shit and it made no fucking sense. They didn't say what they were doing, or what was being offered. It was just a black and white video of artists sitting at tables and looking like they are trying to learn and listen. I watched the launch video, it was fucking horrible. People talked, came up, signed a paper which took 10 minutes while having some fucking distorted shitty music playing in the back and getting louder every second. It was the type of music that would play in a movie when the main character gets drunk or high as fuck and is down in the dumps. For being so rich and able to promote anything well, they really fucked it all up. If they wanted to sell Tidal, have Beyonce or Rihanna have some "Hacked" risque pictures with Tidal being used. The Beyonce pictures would be top of reddit and news sources because everyone has seen Rihanna naked already. Like, how the fuck can you release something with a video that gives no fucking clue about what was going on. They could have had me eating a bowl of fucking cereal and it would pan around my house to other cereal enthusiasts and the ending would just be fading out to the word "Spaceships" and you then find out its about fucking monster truck rallies. [HAHAHA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYYGdcLbFkw) God, what the *fuck* were they thinking?  This is pretentious and self-aggrandizing to an excruciating degree, not to mention just fucking weird and nonsensical.  The whole idea is supposed to be that the service is fair to artists, so you get a bunch of multimillionaires to sit around and talk about how successful they already are?  Did no one think about getting some *actual struggling musicians* in there somewhere?  You know, the sort of people I might be inclined to give a shit about when it comes to the terms of their streaming royalties?  No, just Jay-Z felating himself and Madonna rambling incoherently about "art"?   Uh, okay...

Everyone on that marketing team should find a new line of work.   "I just thought about how crazy this is... how this is the beginning of the new world" 

"This is a historic day"

"We'll change the course of history forever"

"The final frontier"

"Townhall for creativity"

"I'm inspired"

"Every great movement started with a group of people getting together to make a stand"

The best one: **"This collaboration feels so egoless" - Beyonce**
AHAHAHAHAHAAHAHA

And this is only 30 seconds into the video, by the way. 

 Sounds like Kayne having a conversation with himself.  I don't have enough faces or palms for these kind of statements, especially from a woman who only uses Titanium straws, for real. Looks like they're trying to negotiate world peace or something. Pathetic. What a bunch of self-entitled cunts...  &gt;"Every movement really started with a group of people who got together, and... really make a stand."

Too deep.  Now that this thread came up, I remember a YouTube video with a bunch of music superstars at some mansion talking about how they're going to change everything and revolutionize... blah blah blah. I remember walking away from that video not knowing what the hell they were talking about, but I guess this is it. My thoughts exactly. This is the first ive heard of tidal. The commercial didnt even say what they were trying to sell. Very poorly marketed. Oh shit, is that what this is? All I remember thinking about that commercial was that it was one of the most pretentious pieces of shit I'd ever seen. 

I'm glad they're failing.  He will sell TIDAL to Jason Kidd.  [deleted] Pretty sure it's a Brooklyn Nets joke. yea but does jason kidd own any of the nets? pretty sure he's just the coach the organization hired He gave up any ownership when he left to the Bucks Jay Z didn't get to where he was by putting all his eggs in one basket. He isn't going to bite the hand that feeds. Now making a Tidal exclusive album wouldn't be a bad plan. &gt; Spotify surged back into the iPad Top 40 download chart on March 31st, right when Tidals anti-Spotify invective hit fever peak in American media (...) It looks like Tidals attacks on Spotify and Pandora actually managed to increase public awareness of the services

It's the juicest part of this article, a total fiasco. Wasn't that the day spotify released on Playstation 4 in place of Sony's old music service?  Horrible timing for them. Yup, I actually start paying for Spotify again once it was incorporated into the PS4.  Does it allow you to play stream music in the background while playing a game? Yeah. The app itself is designed pretty poorly, but you can control the music from your computer or your phone which is a lot easier. Yeah, I was going to "pro tip" here about just that. Once it's going, just use your phone to control Spotify and it's perfect. Also hold PS button then R1 or L1 to go to next or previous track &gt;Does it allow you to play stream music in the background while playing a game?

On the PS4? Yes. On the PS3? No. Yes it does. I love it Can you listen to it while in-game? About to buy next-gen and this could be a game-changer, no pun intended. Yup, that's why I started paying for it again, it's an amazing feature. I love not having to listen to the damn Pharrell soundtrack in NBA2K, shit got so annoying.  I hate all the songs in nba2k15 also in Wwe 2k15. My God the songs are horrible. After Spotifys release on the Playstation I was instantly sold into a premium account - - knowing that I will never have to hear Flo rida ever again in a wrestling game.  Would you say that's...how you feel? I think I'm going to download spot iffy on all my devices just to spite Jayz. LONG LIVE SPOTIFY!

By the way, everyone should get the premium version. So worth it not having to listen to ads. But how will I hear the O'Reilly Auto Parts ads??? I've had the premium subscription for over a year without hearing that ad and reading your comment made it play in my head.  Damn you.   The worst is when it hits the end of a track in an album you love, and in your head you're all excited for the opening of the next song.  Then... "OH-OH-OH-OH-RYE-LEEEES"

_ Truth is..  I didn't even know what Spotify was until this shit. I owe Jay-Z for letting me know about Spotify.. Thanks Jigga [deleted] Exactly.  The combined net worth of the artists on stage during the launch event was something ridiculous like $2billion USD. Complaining about not getting a fair share was just so incredibly disconnected from reality it was unbelievable.

I'm only too happy to see artists get a larger share of the revenue - even the rich ones - because I believe they genuinely deserve it.  But take it from the record companies who are contributing less and less to most artists these days while also fighting all attempts to evolve and grow the industry - not the consumer/fan. And they kept saying how their love for music made this possible. That other providers were just tech-companies that didn't know anything about music nor cared. But they were representing the true musical love and enthusiasm. 

So they decided to charge double a month. Seeing your comment about charging double I thought that couldn't be true. 

I mean taking on the established service of Spotify by charging double is insane. 

But no,  that's exactly what they've done  It's easily 2 billion. Just Madonna, Beyonc, and Jay-z alone have a combined net worth of $1,810,000,000. &gt; Complaining about not getting a fair share was just so incredibly disconnected from reality it was unbelievable.

They obviously hoped to leverage the fame of the spokespeople for success rather than considering how people would perceive their message....."Every teenager loves Beyonce and Nicki! Here, say this into the camera! They'll eat this shit up!" Do teenagers actually pay for streaming music services? Yea, because unlike Tidal, services like Spotify actually make it very reasonable for teenagers. I'm a college student and I (not my parents) pay $4.99/mo for premium. The fuck? I pay $9.99 for premium and I signed up for it the second it came out to avoid those horrible Trojan ads.

EDIT: I think I signed up well over 3 years ago before it was affiliated to FB. Those bastards owe me monies.

EDIT 2: You're on the Student discount, I get it now. That's cool of them. All hail Spotify.  The only good thing about being in college: student discounts  Their parents probably do, at least. I'd guess that a majority of teenagers just listen to the free versions of things and let the ads generate revenue. Music services, hulu, etc. Or YouTube playlists with AdBlock+ turned on. I knew I was still down with the kids! Seems like it would have made a lot more sense to put the focus on the smaller, up and coming musicians who they claim are getting screwed by steaming services.

I love Spotify, and I get that smaller artists don't make much from streams. If Tidal came out with a solid business plan which would ensure that up and coming artists would make a fair amount from my subscription, I would have been all about signing up. I didn't see a single thing in their marketing that said that. Nothing about their business model that I saw seemed to resolve the issue that the service was supposedly started up to fix. Right, but that's not what this is. They can't put a small artist on stage and say that they're getting a good cut because simply put, they aren't. The service is charging more money and giving the same cut to the artists, the only 'artists' making more are the ones who own the company who basically think they're now Apple.  "for only $20 a month, little Jay Z and Beyonce can afford that Gulf Stream 4 instead of the Gulf Stream 3." "Finally a new music service"
- no one ever in 2015 Honestly, its just hard to watch millionaires complain about needing more money. "I lost 30 mil so I spent another 30, cause unlike Hammer a 30 million can't hurt me" -Jay Z "What's 50 grand to a motherfucker like me? Can someone please remind me?"  "A lot, that is a life changing amount of money to normal people." Good Watsky reference. His remix of Niggas in Paris is really good. Listen A-holes, do you know how difficult it it to fly with my family on first class?  That and I have to take my camera crew, security team, and the rest of my entourage.  I need you to start subscribing to Tidal so I can earn enough for a Gulf Stream 6.  I can't have 5, it isn't big enough for me, boo, and crew.  So hit up and subscribe muthaf*cka! I got six kids!

Do you know how many Air Jordans six black kids need?! actin' a ratchet with Daffy Duck and smackin' a RABBIT STEW! Yabba dabba doo! I gotta lick my lips What are you guys talking about? I feel left out :( [Watsky - Ninjas in Paris](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKLRGJYna-8) "More than my annual salary."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nFg7-4vBPWM Mos Def is the man dude. "I'm about a dollar, what the fuck is 50 cents?"- Jay-Z  "Fuck Jay-Z!"- Tupac "Straight cash homie." K, Here's your itemized monthly bill for Amazon Cloudfront and Content Delivery Network services. "Look what that shit did to tyson. 30 mil for one night. All that money in one fight." 30 million for dedicating your entire existence to boxing. And sacrificing a lot of brain. A boxer like Tyson actually would not have taken a lot of head shots prior to the Twilight of his career. He was too busy being the dominant fighter on the planet to take a ton of big punches to the face.

Edit: it's sick that twilight autocorrects to the capitalization of it.  "It's your money and I want it now!" Call JayZ Wentworth, 877-CASHNOW

EDIT: GOLD! It would appear that this comment is more successful than Tidal.... Thank you based Anonymous gilder. ^^^^877-CASHNOW^^^^^^877-CASHNOW 877-CASHNOW If you have Long term payments and you neeeed caaaash nooow... &gt; JayZ Wentworth 

My sides.... Well,


guess I am going through the rest of the day with that song in my head now. Read it in the voices and everything I would definitely support any music distribution or streaming service owned by true independent artists who actually need the money, but Tidal is owned by major-label-supported mega artists who don't need any more money.
 It wouldn't even need to be owned by independent artists, just do something to prove you're actually about the talent other than say you are. Give higher rates to people, especially to artists without record deals in place already. 

Oh, but that would eat into Jay Z and Madonna's cut. Won't somebody please think of the millionaires.  What's even worse is that Jay-Z and Beyonce combined are almost billionaires. The reason I can't get behind Tidal is price. 

I'll happily pay for Spotify premium at half the price. Spotify has hit a niche (for me at least) of a price I'm prepared to pay so I don't pirate anymore. Tidal is just too expensive, so I'd rather the artist get paid something than nothing.

The added 'features' of higher bitrate and video streaming just aren't needed when I almost exclusively use Spotify on my phone so don't want to use up my data cap and I don't notice the quality difference on my headphones. You hit the nail on the head.

The goal of streaming services like Spotify or Tidal is not to replace CDs. It's to provide a legal alternative to pirating.

You provide that alternative by being cheap (pirating is free. 20$/month is far from free), have choice and be more convenient than pirating.

I use Spotify and pay for premium because it's more convenient than keeping up with releases, going to a torrent site, downloading the album, correcting the tags, ...  
I just launch Spotify, am alerted of a new album being released and hit play.

I want video ? I go to YouTube. It's free.
If I want high bitrate, I don't stream. I either buy CDs and rip them or download FLACs directly. [deleted] I remember spending 20 bucks on one cd =/
 But you own that copy, if you don't have 20$ next month, that CD is still around to listen to. while streaming, you pay monthly but end with nothing if you dont pay the monthly fee. im not against paying for streaming but the free ones make more sense to me. 

if i like an artist ill still end up buying or bootlegging.  [deleted] No. They have a $9.99 tier that is a direct competitor to Spotify. They ALSO have a $19.99 tier which allows lossless streaming for audiophiles. Even better if you're a university student with a .edu email you can get spotify premium for $5.  What?  I've been paying full price this whole time because I used my gmail, not my .edu?  Fuck. It's definitely not something they push on adverts etc. I also found through word of mouth from friends. [spotify student](https://www.spotify.com/student/)   Bingo. 

I went from being a massive pirate, I mean I was one of the original Napster-Metallica kids, to someone who probably couldn't (enjoyably) live without Spotify. 

I go to my fair share of shows, and buy some vinyl, of artists I support - but when it comes to music service, I won't fuck around in my support for Spotify.

And I tell them (Spotify) that too.

**Edit:** for those of you who criticize Spotify for lack of artists such as The Beatles, I'll leave you with this. My conception of music, the artists I listen to, the music I considered *good*, grew exponentially when exposed to the vastness and simplicity of Spotify and its web of artists. While I love The Beatles as much as the next, I wouldn't trade what I've gained from Spotify for any one artist that I love(d). 

**And Jigga, that means you too.**

*Drops the mic.*

**Edit 2: ** Holy cow did this pick up traction. Hi, if you work for Spotify you can totally PM me some codes for free service! Also, that [Gramafon](https://gramofon.com/) you sent me is the knees of bees. Though I wish it had optical pass-through instead of a headphone jack. Im the exact same, I use to be a massive pirate, then I got All Access, and since then I don't think I've downloaded any music I haven't been able to just add to my library and stream. I also guarantee that Spotify crunched the numbers and came up with the most you could live with paying without forcing you back to piracy.  Tidal wanted to charge double for a clean conscience and did not back up why their service was actually better for artists or the music industry as a whole. Dude, rest assured. I sat one day listening to Spotify vs Tidal on a pair of Audeze LCD-2's with a Schiit Lyr amp and an expensive DAC and there was ZERO audible difference. It just ain't there. Hell in most conditions I don't think people could hear the difference between Spotify's 160 or Google's 192 and 320. If you're just bopping down the street or jamming in your car that extra bitrate is doing ZERO for you.  Google Play All Day What Do You Say Jay? $7.99 for a months unlimited play is just fine sir!
 I honestly don't understand what they were thinking with the release.

The app itself was clearly not ready and is uglier and has less functionality than Spotify. It needed way more time in development to get closer to a competitive level. The only selling point is the increased quality, which to the average listener is not worth an extra $10 a month.

The opening press conference was also tone-deaf, and it was baffling why they didn't think to bring out any artists who were actually struggling and needed better streaming income. In the promo for Jay Zs last album he was saying how the Internet now is like the wild west and any person can promote their own music and become successful. He was saying he didn't like that and that they needed to be the ones controlling the flow of who is and isn't successful. This is obviously so he can have his hand in everyone's pocket like a typical greedy fuck. I'm glad his music service flopped because control is exactly what he was trying to do with it. 

edit: "I'm not a businessman, I'm a business, man." Here's one promo from Samsung, this guy is 45 years old and his networth is 560 million. He's a corporate machine https://youtu.be/ZNlciK_2qCA?t=58s &gt;The opening press conference was also tone-deaf, and it was baffling why they didn't think to bring out any artists who were actually struggling and needed better streaming income.

Probably because artist compensation is more complex than "I'm poor because I don't get paid enough when I get Spotify plays" and they just wanted to use sympathy as a marketing tactic. It's pretty telling when even all of their artsy "we get it guys see we have taste" choices were pretty well off themselves.  Their director competitor has a free option.

It's really hard to beat free. Even their free trial requires a credit card to sign up. Pretty hard to beat free unless you have some major value adds. Lossless Fidelity Audio is not enough to overcome Free. Considering I'm 99% listening to it on some shit earbuds...no, no it's not. That's the key they overlooked... Most people who listen to spotify are doing so thru shitty apple headphones, or even shittier laptop speakers. 

Audiophiles were finding ways to find lossless compressed music files before... and it wasn't spotify. If you want to takeover spotify marketshare you have to appeal to that user base. Jay-z to his accountant: "i thought you promised me this would be lossless"


 I tried Tidal out and to my surprise it didn't have a dedicated desktop application. That and the inability to download music for offline listening on the PC killed it for me.

I would definitely give higher quality music a shot if those simple problems were fixed. One of the biggest problems with Tidal is the fact that it was created by millionaires, to make certain content exclusive.  They took the common man for an idiot.  I'm not paying for your service to listen to *insert artist here*.  I get the point.  But I'm not too dumb to realize this is just padding your pockets.

Jay-Z underestimated the intelligence of people without money. This isn't at all what Tidal was there for, actually. The initial stated goal of Tidal before Jay-Z showed up was lossless streaming.  No one seems to understand that Tidal was created long before Jay Z came around. And it was actually very well received at first. I think the whole thing was a PR flop, but it's not a bad service and they don't have a bad mission. 

I also can't understand why people are complaining about the more expensive price tier. This was created as a lossless streaming platform. If you are using your computer speakers, iPhone earbuds, or just generally don't spend hundreds of dollars on audio equipment, this isn't even slightly for you.  Sure, but that's 95% of the music listening public. If that's how they wanted to market it, as a niche service for audiophiles, they should have. Instead they created the biggest Pr spectacle nightmare by talking about respecting artistry and whining how the insanely wealthy people didn't make enough money. No one knows anything about their lossless platform except it's twice as expensive as spotify but sounds the same on the headphones that came with my iPhone.  &gt; Jay-Z underestimated the intelligence of people without money.

Considering his clothing line and his albums and his work with Budweiser, while this might be true, he's certainly been really good at selling things to people without money in the past. 

Edit: Those bringing up his drug dealing past and how he doesn't forget either, I agree, and I'm sorry you're getting downvoted. It's one of the few ways he has continually attempted to relate himself to the ghetto, and he's going to keep reminding people he used to 'sling' because it's good for his bottom line. Kinda sickening considering songs like *Dopeman* where he's trying to brand himself a 'ghetto spokesman'. I'm honestly surprised he hasn't seen the Son-of-Sam law come down on him (which is intended to prevent a criminal from profiting from the publicity of their crimes). 

Don't get me wrong; I obviously know and enjoy Jay Z's music. But he's a mogul, not a thug. All the black NY caps in the world won't change that.  You underestimate the need for beer. Poor people still manage to get beer regardless. He might be good at making music and clothes, but not so much at a streaming music service. The big players like Pandora, Spotify, Beats Music, iTunes Radio, pirating, all offer a WAY better experience. And that's for free or cheaper than Tidal.

I guess he thought celebrity endorsements could make up for that.

 So Tidal is better for the artist, but what about the people who use the app? I signed up for the premium trial for a month (it's only $2 for the first one). It's basically the same thing as Spotify, although it does have some differences.

Tidal doesn't have a separate app on desktop. It's a web app directly on your browser; I don't like it as much as Spotify's stand-alone app, since you can't just set it to open when you log in or open it with a single click, but have to go to the url on a browser window.

Queue management is a little easier on Spotify. I don't like that in tidal if you shuffle play your music library it doesn't just play it, it adds every song shuffled to the one master queue. That means that if you add a song to your queue, it will be added to the end of every shuffled song currently on the list. You can set it to play next, but if you do that to multiple songs, you're basically going to hear your songs in the REVERSE order that you want to hear them (because they are being added from top to bottom.

Tidal does have video content (some, if not all exclusive), but I don't really use music apps to watch videos, so I don't really care about it much and haven't really explored it at all.

And finally, the two most important differences: Tidal has a lossless stream quality option  you can stream at 1411 kb/s, as opposed to Spotify's 320 kb/s.

Tidal is $20/month. It does offer a version of the service (without the lossless streaming option) for the same price as Spotify, but if you're gonna do that you may as well go with Spotify, as it has a larger catalog of music.

And that's about it... I don't know how much of that whole "Better for the Artist" nonsense matters, because Spotify doesn't pay the Artists directly. Spotify pays a large percentage (~70%) of their revenue to Music Publishers, who then pay the Artists the percentage they are contractually required to receive. If the artists want more money, then need to take that shit up with their publishing company. Spotify isn't exactly in the black at the moment either.

All that being said, if they were both the same price (or close), I'd go with Tidal in a heartbeat. Lossless is very nice. Although I'll add that you really, REALLY need to have the hardware to appreciate it (HiFi system or at least some nice headphones). &gt;And that's about it... I don't know how much of that whole "Better for the Artist" nonsense matters, because Spotify doesn't pay the Artists directly. Spotify pays a large percentage (~70%) of their revenue to Music Publishers, who then pay the Artists the percentage they are contractually required to receive. If the artists want more money, then need to take that shit up with their publishing company

Finally someone points this out. There's no way for Spotify to magically pay artists more if their contracts don't let them get paid more, and copyright royalties have been funneled through so many things for decades already.

For anybody that thinks the answer is as simple as "make Spotify pay more" go take a music industry class if you have one at your college or do some Googling; you obviously won't get the full picture but at least you'll have a very basic idea of how income has been divied up between artists and everyone associated with them in the past. Spotify should go the same route as Netflix....get in talks with some big named band/artist who is about to be done with their label contract and start making exclusive content. Heck, put it behind their paywall, available only to members that way subscription dollars can offset the cost of producing an online only album, which without production and distribution costs would be significantly cheaper. IIRC, Adele offered to put up her *21* album if it was only accessible to paying subscribers. Spotify refused because they didn't want to split up their catalog for different tiers. I give Spotify props for that opinion and choice. Any user is the same as any other and should be treated that way. [deleted] Am I the only person who still uses browser bookmarks? This is the first indication I've had that people don't. No, you are [not](http://i.imgur.com/HDMflmt.jpg). Why anyone wouldn't use this very convenient feature is a mystery.  Is it better for the artists? I haven't heard any specific numbers showing better compensation than spotify? The only artists I've heard saying that artists get compensated better are the ones that have a stake in the company.  Honestly someone must have just been ripping these guys off. This isn't even a semi legitimate business plan. Everyone involved on the actual working of this knew it would never work, only the idealized suckers funding it did. They missed on just about every point possible. The price is way too high, the UI is a mess, content is lacking, seriously where did they expect to find market share?  "If we just get enough famous people to endorse it and change their twitter icons, it will go viral.  Once something goes viral, it doesn't matter what it is, it *has* to make money." Worked with Beats. Yeah but beats are basically a fashion statement, I doubt anyone's going to show off their tidal subscription.  This is a really good point. People show off their beats. They tell the world by walking around that they are passionate about their music. 

Tidal has no strong message - you support the artists? Well nobody is going to know unless you talk about it which is socially taboo (think humblebrag), and you don't really care about the artists, because there were no artists to care about being advertised. The world collectively has not been made to feel strongly about the music artist's plight. They timed this really really poorly in so many ways, with all the wrong people. Not surprising. They acted like an elitist bunch of assholes at the launch, expecting people to bow down to them. Not to mention how they acted on Twitter, like they were announcing the end of world hunger and a cure for cancer.
That's what bothered me more than the line up of sadness at the press conference.  I don't know if I have been internet blind or what, but this is the first time I've even heard of this app. I think everyone involved in this and especially Jay-Z have surrounded themselves with nothing but "yes" men and have lost all touch with reality. That video they released was the most ridiculous shit ever and made the Lars vs Napster fiasco look reasonable. Especially them popping champagne and toasting to the prospects of getting more money from consumers because they view the public as morons who would buy a track of Jay-z farting on a snare drum because it has his name on it. To me, the problem with the Tidal launch was they focused too much on the big names launching it. It felt like it was the Illuminati saying, "give us more money". If you approached it differently with more emphasis on artist-owned and curated service like, "Jay Z, Jack White, Kanye West etc create service highlighting under-appreciated artists and music they want people to hear along with their own latest releases", it would be much more attractive to me. It would seem more like an artists collective than just a shallow money grab. For good or ill, the entertainment industry has embraced the internet, and the key to profitability in the modern age is now all about "going viral."  It doesn't matter what you sell, as long as you can somehow dupe the general population into doing your marketing for you by viral social networking, you can't fail to make profit (or at least the theory goes.)  

Tidal is a great example of the fact that "going viral" is a two part process.  The first part (which Tidal neglected) is having a stellar product.  The second part (which Tidal focused 100% of their attention on) is getting the product enough attention to gain critical social media mass.  The lesson here is that no matter how many twitter followers you reach, if the core product isn't good enough, *nothing* can make it "go viral."  On the other hand, as long as your core product is good enough, one tweet is enough to set the world on fire.

Yet again, the entertainment industry has stubbornly refused to accept the fact that quality sells itself, and remains fixated on attempting to use star power and media campaigns to spin shit into gold.  I wouldn't say I agree that the entertainment industry has embraced the internet. Some companies and products have popped up to fill the gaps where the industry has utterly failed like Spotify, iTunes, Netflix, etc, but the industry as a whole still seems like they're pushing back against the internet.

As to your second point, I think if you're trying to enter the game in 2015 with JUST a streaming service, you've arrived way too late to the party. However, you could be just in time to ride the next wave in consumer services - curated content. There's more content out there than any one consumer could possibly experience, so it's important to know what deserves your attention and what you can let go. That's where you can get artists like Kanye and Jack White to curate lists for this kind of service. You could listen to what *they* listen to. You could hear what they think should get more attention. It's a much deeper way to interact with these artists than other platforms like twitter and instagram because you're getting a look at their state of mind and source of inspiration. A service with big names doing THAT would be very interesting and something I might consider paying a subscription for. I'll never forget my friend describing this situation to me a few years back.  Jay-Z and Kanye were in Chicago on tour for the Watch The Throne tour, of which tickets were $200+ per person.  My friend is huge on music and going to shows, but didn't seem one bit interested in going.  

I asked him, "why don't you want to go?  You love them both, it seems odd".  

"Because I'm not going to pay $200 to hear two guys rap about how rich they are"

Sums up the Tidal argument: Sure we're rich, but we could be richer.  Why don't you pay good money to hear us talk about how much richer we are than you in your poor pathetic life.
 &gt; "Because I'm not going to pay $200 to hear two guys rap about how rich they are"

This is a much more elaborate version of the scam where some guy writes a book how to make a million dollars, and when you read it, it tells you to write a book about how to make a million dollars. I remember something on /r/Showerthoughts about no one got rich reading a book about getting rich.  Nail on the head, you hit it. Whats funny to me is that Tyler the Creators new app, Golf Media had more downloads the first day than Tidal! So much for everyone always bashing him. #GolfWang Tyler is very successful at projecting the "I don't give a shit, I do what I want" image. Jay Z is the opposite of that. He's very much Jay Z Inc, the Walmart of hip hop. Everything is a PR statement. "I'm not a businessman, I'm a business, man....." You're trying to tell me [this](http://www.billboard.com/files/styles/flasbox_image/public/media/beyonce-jay-z-cuba-anniversary-990-410.jpg) picture of him in Cuba was staged? When did Bruce Willis get tattoos ? It helps that Golf Media seems like a pretty cool deal. Like even if it sucks, whatever, I lost five dollars. I'm not going to regret that for more than a few seconds at most. That's because he's cultivated an enormous dedicated fanbase that love his aesthetic. This reminds me, how's ol' Neil Young's PonoPlayer doing? You mean that one thing that has already been done before and has cheaper alternatives? [priceless in a bad way](http://i.imgur.com/d2CciUP.png) Hey, some people just don't have country.price.2 to throw around every month, you know.
 I'll stay with my service that costs country.price.1 because of that What a waste of 30 million country.currency Now he'll have to live a terrible life of semi-luxury... he'll never get those islands he wanted, and the gold statue of his nose will never be completed. Thank God. 

Some "artists" that were behind this program are some of the biggest sell outs in the industry. I hated how they acted like this was a big movement and something that will make history. 

TIDAL: Making the rich richer. Did anyone expect any different?  Discounting the "feel bad for poor rich musicians" advertising...they were stepping into a crowded market:

* spotify
* pandora
* google music
* itunes
* beats audio (basically itunes)
* digitally imported

I'm sure there's some I'm forgetting too. You're forgetting Youtube.  And you're forgetting pirating the music.   He's got 99 problems and Tidal is all of them. Problems with Tidal:

1.  Cost - It cost twice as much as competitors like Spotify and definitely doesn't deliver twice the content or quality

2.  Ideology - A company made by Jay-Z, a billionaire rapper to decry making record execs rich doesn't make sense, especially since it seems they just shifted the obscene profits from execs to already rich artists.  Everyone else around the bottom or middle still gets a hard shaft. *Insert 99 problems joke here* I've got 99 subscribers, and that's a problem...

&lt;hit me!&gt; I've got 99 downloads and Beyonce's one? http://i.imgur.com/kncuY.jpg "The numbers don't lie" - doesn't mention any numbers about users or streams ... just app rank. Turn that 62 to 125, 125 to a 250, 250 to a 56 million, ain't nothin' coming out of it

It's the dream team meets the economy, and that Spotify free only means one thing

You ain't paying out my clique You don't say.

Maybe they should have built a product that didn't rely solely on celebrity endorsements and actually provided a decent service. All of these artists make songs bragging about how much they have, how great their lives are and then launch a service based around the fact that they should be compensated even more?  It's so awesome to watch millionaires complain about needing extra money because they can pay their bills and what not. I make like 29000 a friggen year and am married and have to kids. Boo hoo I can't go to Fiji this year and ride my gold dolphin with a diamond encrusted blow whole in my own ocean made of champagne and land on my personal island made of black truffles and gold flakes. Have to kids what? C'mon man you can't leave us hanging.  Lol i meant two kids  hey be sorry, the poor man wasnt able to buy a 75m dig in LA, so he must rent now ... I don't listen to a single one of those artists. If anything this is just encouraging people to pirate their music by charging a premium of $20 a month when their biggest competitors do it for half the price or  free. This was the worst marketed music app of the century and the fact that Jay-Z and the other idiots couldn't see that is utterly shocking. Ok so you are wrong, they charge 20 dollars for flac and 10 dollars for 320 kbps just like Spotify.  but the 10 dollars you pay for the same quality as spotify is a ripoff because tidal doesnt have as much music or as nice of an app.  Yes,  I know but a competition doest hurt? Bute they don't even have a pc app,  that's just crazy.  Am I wrong for the failure of this service bringing a smile to my face?  Their press event made them look like some of the most self-important entertainers ever.   Downright embarrassing. Couldn't believe Jack White was up there. The rest of them, I wasn't surprised, but Jack White. I thought he knew better. Jack White has his own label and record store that sell primarily vinyl. I'm not at all surprised to see him pushing a lossless platform. Yes, I live here in Nashville and enjoy Third Man alot. For those who haven't been, it is great to visit and tour. It is not the support for a lossless platform that surprises me about his involvement with this, but his support for this particular scheme. He seemed to me more savvy than to go this route, when he knows better. He knows how to bond with his fans in mutual respect. My experience is that Third Man is about both profitability for its investors including Jack, and about the relationship with the fan of quality music. Tidal was never about the relationship with the fan, and that's why I'm surprised Jack made this misstep.  jack white's in the money making business too. bout 40 million to his name. We're gonna change the course of history! It's a revolution. 100 Problems. I'm going to get crucified for this but I have never enjoyed a single jay-z song... I like Jay-Z, but I'll give you an upvote for being honest. Not a huge fan, but he has a handful of songs I really enjoy Why did you get downvoted for having a valid and neutral opinion? Because people are idiots and this whole comment section is a complete waste of time [deleted] If you think that's true, you haven't listened to anyone other than Biggie, Jay Z and Puffy. You can say you don't like a lot of rappers, but Biggie was *not* the only one with talent. "You're crazy for this one Jay" - Aziz Ansari I love it. Jayzone is annoying AF. Professional sports teams are learning to shy away from players that he signs to his agency as the they all are 'look at me' types and that is not how you win championships. Just stick to the one thing you are good at Jay..making music Tidal comes in, Tidal goes out...  Can't explain it! From what I saw, their whole marketing campaign was about how the artists were taking back what was theirs.  Why should I give a fuck?  If ANYBODY switches away from an already established streaming service, they're going to do it because the experience is better and/or it's cheaper, not because the artists are getting a bigger cut.

This just shows how out of touch the biggest musicians are from their fanbase. i disagree. i would pay more if i knew independent artists that i like were making more money. i would be happy to support them. it's just the big artists that i don't give a fuck about. Is it unreasonable for me to go through my spotify playlists and remove these artists from those playlists?  Something about rich people trying to get more rich off my dime. K: Psst JayZ is there a giant mouse behind me

JZ: huh nigga what are yo- OH SHIT

K: Don't look, don't look! Tidal Fail
Holy Grail Coming to Broadway, Jay-Z's Oliver Twist.  Starring Jay-Z as Oliver and the consumer as Mr. Bumble.

Scene: Oliver dressed head to toe in gold bling and dollars falling out of his pockets approaches Mr. Bumble for more money.

Oliver: "Please sir, can I have some more?"

Mr. Bumble: "MOOOORRREEEE!!" "Fuck jay-z" - nas, Ether (2001) good, fuck Tidal.  I don't know why Jay-Z and whoever backed them felt the need to make even more money.  I just went on tidals website and that shit is literally a spotify clone.   I love how these articles are always about Spotify, but I think Google Play Music is quietly the best service of the bunch.

Spotify is pretty, but being able to upload my own collection to fill in the gaps in the catalog, and have those uploads treated as first-class citizens, is just a killer feature. Google Play lacks a lot of content. Don't get me wrong they have plenty of music but not to the level of iTunes and Beats Every streaming service is missing something. Only with Google, I can easily fill in the missing gaps with my own stuff, and create a single, seamless whole.

Other services have similar uploading, but it's almost always a separate, second-class citizen. Google is the only one (that I've seen) that gets this exactly right. My own uploads are indistinguishable from the catalog content. I wish there was a standalone desktop program, but the mobile app is on point. Definitely prefer Google Play Music over Spotify. On the Mac, I use [Radiant Player](http://www.sajidanwar.me/radiant-player-mac/) for a standalone app. Which is basically a wrapper around Safari and the web app, but still makes for a decent desktop app all the same. I just downloaded Tidal and took advantage of their free HiFi trial, the sound quality is actually a lot better than Spotify premium on the extreme setting. I'm only using a pair of UE900, not those crazy expensive custom IEMs but you can really tell the difference.

But I will nonetheless cancel my subscription before the free trial is over, because fuck paying $20 a month. LOL. You can view your Grooveshark library by doing this:

- Go to grooveshark.com (on a computer that you were logged in on)
- Open your browser's developer console:    
   
| Browser | OS | Keys |
|---|---|---|
| Chrome | Windows | Control+shift+J |
| Chrome | OS X | Command+Option+J in OSX |
| Chrome | Linux | Control+shift+J |
| Firefox | Windows | Control+shift+K |
| Firefox | OS X | Command+Option+K |

&amp;nbsp;

----

&amp;nbsp;

Paste this into your developer console, and it'll render your library as text in the browser:

    var libraryKey = Object.keys(localStorage).filter(function(key) { return key.match(/library\d/) });

    var lib = JSON.parse(localStorage[libraryKey]).songs
    var $body = $('body');
    var $list = $('&lt;ul&gt;');

    $body.empty();
    $body.append($list);

    Object.keys(lib).forEach(function(key) {
        var song = lib[key];
        $li = $('&lt;li&gt;');
        $li.text(song.D + " - " + song.B + " - " + song.J);

        $list.append($li);
    });
  
  
---
  
&amp;nbsp;

If you get a DOM query selector error, /u/abramsa posted a simpler version here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/34goss/meta_grooveshark_shut_down_forever_today/cquq34g

&amp;nbsp;

---

&amp;nbsp;
 
And the super low budget version is:
    
    JSON.stringify(localStorage);

&amp;nbsp;    
If that displays nothing, your data is gone. I kept getting the following error.

&gt; "Uncaught DOMException: Failed to execute 'querySelector' on 'Document': '&lt;ul&gt;' is not a valid selector."

So I changed the code a little bit:

    var libraryKey = Object.keys(localStorage).filter(function(key) { return key.match(/library\d/) });
    var lib = JSON.parse(localStorage[libraryKey]).songs
    var songs = []
    for (var i in lib) {
      var song = lib[i]
      songs.push(song.D + " - " + song.B + " - " + song.J)
    }
    songs.join("\n") Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you

I was so scared I lost 5 years of music. 5 years. Never again will I be so sloppy. Never again. Thank you. This worked for me, thanks! another solution is to try to use google's cache:

1) search for: user name site:grooveshark.com 

2) find your playlist's url

~~3) click arrow pointing down next to the green link~~

~~4) click cache. You will be sent to the cached page but it only last for a few moments before it redirects to google.com (at least for me). In those few moments try to click 'text version' which is in the right side of the top toolbar.~~

Edit: after you find the link to your playlist, go to http://www.viewcached.com/ paste the link, and use "Google (text only)" Whelp, there goes 5 years worth of playlists :/

 Guys, try your luck: **http://groovebackup.com/**

I got a few songs out of it.

**EDIT: Guys try link again.** Seems like someone fixed it, so you should be able to get whole playlist.

Also thanks for gold guys :D Who would have thought my googling skills will be awarded :)

**EDIT2:** Not working anymore. It redirects you to grooveshark.com **This worked for me using Chrome:** 
Grooveshark was HTML5 website, so it stored data in the browser's "Local Storage". So if you *haven't cleared your cache* since you last logged into grooveshark, you can probably retrieve it.    

1.  Go to grooveshark.com in chrome (haven't tried in other browsers)  
2.  Open "Developer Tools" (CTRL+SHIFT+I)  
3.  Click on "Resources" Tab  
4.  Expand "Local Storage" tree  
5.  Click on "http://grooveshark.com"  
6.  Find the key that looks something like "Library32467954" (some 7+ digit number)  
7.  Look at its "value" (it's a JSON string).  You should see something like this "{"lastModified":.....blah blah some artist name...  
8.  Right-Click on that cell, click "Edit Value", then hit CTRL+C (Copy)  
9.  Paste the contents of your clipboard into the window @ https://json-csv.com/  
10. Download the resulting .CSV file, then open the file in Open Office or Excel  


Sorry guys, I should have mentioned I got the basic "local storage" idea from this guy:   https://twitter.com/kingkool68/status/593971652125466624 (I think /u/kingkool68 is the same dude too)

Wow! Thanks for the Gold! Thanks dude, you just saved me from having to remember ever band I discovered over the past 4 years. It worked for me on Firefox too. If you use a browser that doesn't let you access the localStorage, just run this in the console :

    for (var i = 0, k; k = window.localStorage.key(i); i++) {
        document.body.innerHTML += '&lt;div&gt;' + k + '&lt;br/&gt;' + window.localStorage.getItem(k) + '&lt;/div&gt;';
    }    

If you want to format it in a more readable way, copy-paste it in [jsbeautifier.org](http://jsbeautifier.org) **^^ninja ^^edit:** ^^not ^^my ^^work, ^^just ^^reformatting ^^/u/akahomerjay42 ^^'s ^^post.
^^

&gt; This worked for me using Chrome: Grooveshark was HTML5 website, so it stored data in the browser "Local Storage". So if you haven't cleared your cache since you last logged into grooveshark, you can probably retrieve it.
&gt; 
&gt; 1. Go to grooveshark.com in chrome (haven't tried in other browsers) 
&gt; 1. Open "Developer Tools" (CTRL+SHIFT+I) 
&gt; 1. Click on "Resources" Tab 
&gt; 1. Expand "Local Storage" tree 
&gt; 1. Click on "http://grooveshark.com[1] " 
&gt; 1. Find the key that looks something like "Library32467954" (some 7+ digit number) 
&gt; 1. Look at its "value" (it's a JSON string). You should see something like this "{"lastModified":.....blah blah some artist name... 
&gt; 1. Right-Click on that cell, click "Edit Value", then hit CTRL+C (Copy) 
&gt; 1. Paste the contents of your clipboard into the window @ https://json-csv.com/[2] 
&gt; 1. Download the resulting .CSV file in Open Office or Excel

 Thank god I still have *Darude - Sandstorm* I wish people would be considerate and actually link it, it's such a hassle to copy paste every time I get triggered into listening to it [lazy bastard](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6120QOlsfU) was expecting a rick roll. Was pleasantly surprised! My thoughts exactly.

"Am I going to meet my old friend Rick Astley again? Is he going to serenade me and tell me he's never gonna give me up?"

He should subtly edit it and Rick Roll people. https://youtu.be/SQoA_wjmE9w That might be the greatest fucking thing  Holy shit Every time i watch this I can't get over how the guy runs with floppy arms. So many things to be weirded out by:

The runners using every single step at the beginning; 
The floppy arms; 
The dog's bark being dubbed in; 
The slow-mo for jumping a four foot fence; 
The refusal of the chaser to use his gun; 
The blue sunglasses

It's the 90s and confusion filmed with a yellow filter, and it's glorious.   [*Darude - Sandstorm*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esMnme69t2M#t=0m11s) ddudndundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dund
dododododododododododododododododododododododododododododoodo Worked for me (well, mostly, 1/2 playlist had missing data) - had to use my email address, my username didn't work. Thanks for the link! I tried my SSN, no luck. I think you have to put it in a comment here. With your credit card number(s) expiration date(s) and pesky code(s) on the back. Don't forget your billing zip. hunter2 If u pm me that we can talk about ur Nigerian inheritance I been waiting 2 share with u . grrr. Its says not found. . Its Gone,Really. . Wow, good call, thanks, yes, I could get a few playlists back with that!!! I got a couple of songs, thanks, among them ironically "Don't Let the Man Get You Down" - Fatboy Slim Try to log in again, got my playlist after a second try :) &gt;Missing data for playlist

don't work for me at all. i got a list of all playlists but but non of the songs in each of those playlists. 
 worked for me, at least I got a snapshot of my playlists. thanks! I had set grooveshark to scrobble with last.fm, and I'd requested an archive from there, but this looks easier.   
edit: aaaand missing data. Oh well.    
Still, though. thanks for the link.  Same. So many songs and playlists saved in there...recreating everything is going to take a long time.

There were also a few songs on Grooveshark I couldn't find elsewhere, so this really sucks. :/ Yeah since it was basically like Kazaa on a website, there were so many rare and obscure songs. Grooveshark could be hit with up to $736 million in copyright infringement damages
http://www.extremetech.com/internet/204234-grooveshark-could-be-hit-with-up-to-736-million-in-copyright-infringement-damages

Damn, and thats only for &gt;5000 songs at $150,000 each Ludicrous bullshit, and such a shame that our legal system plays along with it. I say this as a musician. Such a horribly fucked up state of affairs.  I get copyright protection but I think the idea of inflating the cost of damages to set a tone of "DO NOT COPY THIS" is shitty. It's like when I was a kid and saw the FBI warning at the beginning of VHS tapes that said something like "$250,000" in fines for illegal copy and distribution. Like lets say the average VHS profit for a company is $10, I would have to sell 2500 copies in order to justify that amount for the fine. I don't think the penalty should purely be face value but maybe 2x's? Shit even 10x's isn't terrible. But to tell me a $.99 song cost someone $150,000 in damages is ludicrous.

Edit: yes I didn't do the math.. if I did it would say 25000 copies which even makes it more ridiculous that the fine is that much. I think it's all artists, not just Ludacris I had to spell check myself cause that came to mind. It feels like there's a midget hanging from my necklace.  Damage the environment? Fine 1% of the money made. Share some music, fine 100000% the money made. Makes perfect sense... /s [deleted] And to make it worse, when it comes to theft like that, described in the law, there's a depravation of property. You're not taking their property and selling it, depriving them of it. You're making an identical copy, and giving it to someone. Very different. &gt; But if you download 1 fucking song, it's $150,000 fine? 

Just a minor correction, it's if you *upload* 1 song. IIRC downloading alone isn't illegal, it's the person you downloaded from that's breaking the law (eg. Grooveshark serving music was illegal, listening to music on Grooveshark wasn't). However as filesharing systems like torrent are simultaneous download-upload you end up automatically uploading by downloading something. Please say it ain't so - I had dozens and dozens of playlists that I didn't have the foresight to save elsewhere. I imagine this would be pretty devastating for many... You can try http://groovebackup.com and hope that it saved yours!

My playlists, unfortunately, were not so lucky. :( thats the biggest thing. I *think* I could eventually get Spotify where I want it, but I had more than a few playlists that are going to be an absolute bitch to redo.   
edit: Hmm. My Grooveshark everywhere sub was paid yesterday. I'd better get that back.   
edit edit: ~~It occurs to me that I think the 29th of the month was the norm for everyone's payments. Nice job, upending everything the day *after*. :|~~ whoops. Didn't know they were back in the courtroom yesterday.   
edit edit: if you tried the groovebackup last night with no/little success, TRY IT AGAIN. All of mine are there now.  They went to trial yesterday again, I'm assuming it was some kind of settlement. I've emailed them about a refund.  ah. didn't know the trial date had come up. Still, though. I emailed them as well and cancelled the recurring thing on my end through pay pal.  Damn, yeah.  Wish I had got an advance notice or something.

I've listened to some of my playlists for so long I've forgotten what most of the songs were even named. Advanced notice? They've been under legal stress for years. They may have been under legal stress, but the record companies are the ones that forced immediate shutdown as part of the settlement. If you want to look at the party that is preventing the export of your playlists, the record labels are the ones doing that. Well, now I don't know what songs to buy from them On a computer that you have logged into grooveshark recently: go to grooveshark.com, open the developer tools, select the resources tab &gt; Local Storage &gt; http://grooveshark.com/ copy all of the key value pairs. I am going to work on a tool to parse this data. I still had it open in a tab :( http://i.imgur.com/XZfLyL2.png Never close it. I loved the new UI, too. Damn, went to listen to some music, was met with their farwell message. I knew they were in deep shit. Thought we would get notice. 

Fuck, I discovered more music through grooveshark than any other service I've ever used. I feel like I'm starting from square one now.

Rip I loved grooveshark mostly because the music that I generally listen to is only available on grooveshark. There was a really short notice scary notice:
"Grooveshark is going down..." It was just a quick pop up though, I guessed it was just a maintenance. I was wrong. That was probably the saddest thing i've ever read in my life, and i didn't even know what it meant at the time, thought it was just a maintenance. &gt; saddest thing i've ever read in my life

Your life must be pretty good then Maybe he just recently learned how to read? Or maybe didn't read the bad things that have happened in their life?  Fuck this was the first best online music streaming service. Was like having an entire library of free unlimited music to stream commercial free.

Felt so fucking wrong but so so so fucking awesome. Shoulda became more mainstream. wait a minute. I have my own music (that I created) hosted on their site. I couldn't re-DL off their site recently. Who has my music now??? You don't have copies of your own music? I have copies of his music... for a price  You should make a website and put /u/narcimusic 's stuff there, and we could **all** come listen to it.  Maybe include other popular performers as well.  With Grooveshark out of the picture, [a site like that could become really big!](http://img.pandawhale.com/post-30824-Jack-Nicholson-Creepy-Nodding-t5bI.gif) I propose the name "Rhythm Dolphin" I would sign up for "Rhythm Dolphin" tomorrow... btw: this happens a lot more often than one might think.

of course, we're not talking "huge" bands. but I know several people that played in smaller punk/hardcore bands that years later had to try to buy their own stuff on ebay because they somehow lost it/didn't own a copy anymore.

 Damn, I really feel for you if you didn't have copies backed up somewhere else. You could always try to get the file names from http://groovebackup.com/ and then scour the web for any other ups.  If you lost it, that's awful. If so, if it makes you feel any better, Xanga scrapped my entire journal of several years as a teenager when they upgraded to the new version or whatever... only premium users got to keep their logs. It feels like losing part of my childhood, God knows my memory forgot all the good stuff. I never really considered myself a music person before grooveshark. But it let me listen to a lot of bands that I would not have been otherwise exposed to. It helped me find what particular kind of music I enjoyed. It is such a shame that it is gone. Does this mean we have to fade our flairs? :(


Grooveshark had so many different applications too! I loved that at a friend's house/party I could just log into grooveshark and throw on a list or get input from everyone to add to the queue, without having to deal with the hassle of youtube etc. fuck. Such a bummer FAAAAADE EM Wow, crazy.

I was listening to Grooveshark at work, walked home, booted it up on my home computer, and it was gone.

What a shame, they just launched their snazzy new portal. I really liked it. I listened to it when I was doing a paper earlier this afternoon, then I got a text from a friend say "rip grooveshark :(", my heart sank. What about us here in Asia huh? We can't use spotify or last.fm, it's blocked. Grooveshark was all I had. this is so sad. :( Man, this is a HUGE bummer.  
Not only do we all lose our playlists, but as others have said, non-English music is so rare to come by online (at least on English-catered sites). 

More than that, though, I really enjoyed some of the broadcast communities.  
Now I may never get to speak to these people again, and that's what bums me out the most.  The broadcasting is what I will miss the most. I survived last summer spending my days on there talking to some very entertaining people and finding some great music. RIP - Groove on Grooveshark. that programming electro channel - I don't remember the name ... :( I had many a laugh in that channel. Yep I only listen to japanese music and touhou and all that shit. GG the only good place to find it. WHERE WILL I FIND MY JAPANESE INDIE ELECTRONIC NOW!?

GODDAMN IT.  Ugh. Now where do I go for video game soundtracks. Spotify doesn't nearly have the library that Grooveshark did. 

Edit: I was just venting. Some great suggestions. For clarification I like the chiptunes and PS1 days. My favorite soundtrack of all times Xenogears.  &gt; Spotify doesn't nearly have the library that Grooveshark did.

Agreed. I loved Grooveshark because of all the obscure stuff I would have no way to find otherwise, and Spotify doesn't have it at all. Youtube often has them in playlists, easily download them from YT to mp3 or just stream them online. If there is no playlists, you can look of the track listings and make your own playlist on youtube or just download them. You could check out OCRemix.org or possible InternetArchive.org. RIP

Does anyone have any alternatives? Grooveshark was really one of a kind :( Feel free to try **[Streamus](https://streamus.com/)** if you use Google Chrome! :) It's developed by... me! 

I pour my heart and soul into this software and promise you an awesome experience. 100% free, [100% open-source](https://github.com/MeoMix/StreamusChromeExtension), I don't track your data at all, [all the permission requests are explained in detail](https://streamus.com/frequently-asked-questions/general-permissions), and you've already got an account built right into your browser - no signup required!

And, if you're still worried my music player might not be right for you, [here's how Reddit felt about Streamus last time I talked about it.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/2sypcn/seven_months_ago_i_showed_rmusic_my_software/)

You can also come over to [r/streamus](http://www.reddit.com/r/streamus) if you have other questions, comments, or just want to tell me something. I'm on Reddit all day every day! 

**EDIT:** Yo, I appreciate the kind words and all the messages. Trying to keep up with them. Also, I checked out the grooveshark backup tool and it's pretty easy to work with. I can get a script out tonight to help people import their stuff into Streamus, but it'll take me a bit and I'm still answering messages. It won't be perfect, but it'll be something.

**Update 2:** Beer acquired. It's a peanut butter stout, if you're curious. With a shot of whiskey.  Oh, and I'm working on your Grooveshark importer thing: http://i.imgur.com/wjUNpOW.png. It'll be done relatively soon.

**Update 3:** Hi! **I have your Grooveshark to Streamus import scripts.** Lets go through a quick Screencast of how to use it and then I'll give you the codes, ok? OK!

* Screencast HERE: https://streamus.com/grooveshark.swf
* Scripts 1 and 2 HERE: https://gist.github.com/MeoMix/b8e5e4a38802aff2c11e

TL;DR:

* Go to http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:groovebackup.com (groovebackup just redirects to grooveshark now? but cache works OK)
* Login
* Open developer tools, console, copy/paste first script, press enter.
* Copy array of data when it says its done and replace null at the top of second script with array of data.
* Go to chrome://extensions/
* Click 'developer mode'
* Open Streamus' background.html
* copy/paste the second script *which you have modified with your data from script 1*
* press enter, run it. Give it a while -- it's artificially slowed down to not wreck my server and time you out.

Presto, data. 

Goodluck importing. I'll try and do a **SMALL** amount of troubleshooting in the morning, but it is not my intent to support this at all. 
 Seriously if you can write a script that imports the data from www.groovebackup.com into a Streamus playlist you are going to see a massive increase in users. Perhaps someone can help you do it. I think it's worth looking into. 

 If someone has a username or e-mail address I can test importing with I'd give it a shot tonight. I generally have stayed far away from Grooveshark because of crap like this: http://pastebin.com/KfLMsWWf

They actually approached me about a year ago wanting to integrate with Streamus, but I couldn't bring myself to explore it further due to all their bad press.

Anyway, no promises! It's the end of the season on Hearthstone and I was hoping to get some games in, but it could be a fun little exercise. :) I've been using your service, and it's great, but what I really need is something I can use on my phone. Well if I can get Streamus enough attention to get some investments then I can hire some people to help make that a reality. I've already been doing this for free, every day, for ~3 years :( No more resources to expend making it on mobile atm. If you want I might be able to work on something for android.  :D Feel free to e-mail me, admin@streamus.com :) No promises, but I can at least outline a lot of the problems you'll encounter in trying. I've done a lot of thinking on it.  I'll email you sometime tomorrow.  Thanks for being awesome, man! &gt; Streamus

You got a new user. :D Awesome to hear! If you encounter any bugs just give me a shout, but I doubt you will!  I actually did find one. When I click the search bar the player starts expanding and contracting on its own
 Oh, I know that one!

You're on a non-stable version of Google Chrome and Chrome v43 changed the interpretation of Flexbox.

I've already fixed it on my local machine and closed the bug report here: https://github.com/MeoMix/StreamusChromeExtension/issues/477

The patch will be live within a week, but I'd suggest switching back to Chrome v42 in the mean time! Sorry about that! &lt;3 That would explain it, but apparently I am on v44  Yep! Sorry! It'll be fixed soon though :)  And another. Thanks very for this! **Edit**: I like what I'm hearing/seeing very much at this point. Have recommended it to my social circles. [Awesome!! :D](http://media3.giphy.com/media/I5qb3xAA9lNyo/giphy.gif) Thank you for giving it a shot! So it's like playing youtube videos but without those annoying ads my adblock only seems to kill half the time and I can make easy playlists?   Hey,

At the moment, yes. Streamus prevents ads. At some point YouTube will presumably ask me to stop, but I've had meetings with them in the past and they have yet to bring it up.

Which AdBlock are you using to prevent YouTube ads? I'd suggest checking out uBlock Origin, https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm?hl=en. It's the hip, new AdBlocker that doesn't leave as big of a memory footprint as the old AdBlock / AdBlockPlus.

Regarding easy playlists... yep. Searching, building sharing -- all without needing to have a tab open. Here's some music I like to listen to:

* https://streamus.com/share/playlist/1f9edabfdeb8/tropical_house

Lemme know if you have more questions! \^_^ Wow. I just installed it and gave it a try. Was a bit apprehensive, but incredibly surprised. I love it. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. You're welcome!! :D Thank you for using it!! Looks great but Youtube songs are really lacking!! And some are editted to avoid the copy right. Fair enough!

... there's always Tidal if you want lossless? :D heh. even in the grooveshark takedown, I'll shit on tidal happily. no joke im so lost in life now, especially since grooveshark is gone its the only thing that ever worked flawlessly for me, i just tried out your extension and its a pretty great concept, immediately when i went to search for a jimi hendrix song i found an amazing rhcp cover of it. im high and rambling and what i say doesnt matter but i appreciate your hard work because   because... because WHY?! I MUST KNOW!!!!

&lt;3 Enjoy the toke and music man. Glad you like the software. Google music all access! Best monthly subscription I have! They have almost everything and the stations are great!  Seconding the *hell* out of GPM All-Access! It has almost everything. I've only stumped it once. Taylor Swift - 1989  

i share your pains Easily the best streaming service out there.  Their UI was fantastic and I never had streaming interruptions like on some of the other sites mentioned. But my favorite thing was you, as a fan, could make your own radio station for others to listen to. RIP grooveshark :( They were also available in nearly all countries.

I can't access Spotify, deezer, play music or anything here in India.

...

I'm really surprised how fast this happened. They had updated their UI *just* a few months ago. Indian here, any idea about a replacement? 

Fuck having to set up a vpn just for Spotify.

Edit: Rdio works. Give it a try. Fucking pirate it. If they're not going to make it easy for you to enjoy their music, fuckem. It's less about piracy and more about discovery, really. You could listen to someone's radio, or you could have your own radio built from the songs in your queue. 

Sure, there might be other services that do this, but..they don't work here.

Edit: People are naming many streaming sites. I don't want to sign up for so many though. Rdio + 8tracks seems nice. Thanks,  everyone.  That msg feels like it was written at gunpoint Extremely forced... I went to the AMA link and noticed a lot of hate. Some of those accounts deleted, and some made 2 years ago with only one comment. That comment was on the AMA. Could be coincidence but kinda gets you thinking!  Damn that's really sad... Don't remember how old was my account but i spent so much time on grooveshark. RIP my something like 700 titles (i've tried groovebackup gave up nothing since I haven't made any playlist and just had a big collection).

In case the owners pass by, just wanted to thank you for that many years of awesome service you gave us. And I hope everything gonna be okay for you. Fuck! That was the only place to listen to an album from an obscure artist I loved.

I think the only way I'm ever going to find that music again is to email the creator directly and hope that he changed his stance on that album. (Wanted to promote his newer stuff, so he deleted his old bandcamp)

It's called Rewrite the Ending by Too Small the Limelight. If anyone has that album or knows where to find it, I'll give you reddit gold and all of my gratitude.

Edit: Two incredibly generous people have solved my problem! Thank you both so very much and expect some reddit gold tomorrow! Fly the internet flags at half mast today, people. *Salute http://i.imgur.com/LOicMJA.gif [It's been a privilege using Grooveshark](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RcVzevWX4U) I laughed my ass off when I tried opening the video and it is blocked in my country. Copyrights, man. and people wonder why we do illegal shit to just listen to some damn fucking music without being bothered. That's a real tear jerker.  well, this fucking sucks. My friend showed first showed me groveshark back in like '07 and I have used it ever since. I don't think over that time I downloaded more than like 3 albums, Grooveshark is where I got all of my music. Hell, I even paid so I could have the android app. I found out about so many bands through Grooveshark, and rediscovered countless others. I have gone out of my way to support bands that I listened to and got into though grooveshark, buying merch and albums for no other reason than to support the band. This site really helped me expand what music I listened to, it was a huge part I used it throughout high school and college, right up until today. It feels really strange now that it's gone, kind of like I've lost a friend, or maybe a part of me. I'm kind of at a loss for words, I don't know what else to say other than that Grooveshark was a huge part of my life and if anyone who works there ends up reading this (long shot I know) please know that I fucking loved your service and that your site probably helped make me into the person I am today in many ways. I really don't know here I would be if I had never used grooveshark, I am going to miss it dearly. Fuck, this sucks. 
  Does anybody have any alternatives for Grooveshark now? Well, if you use Google Chrome -- maybe try checking out the music player I develop? It's called [Streamus](https://streamus.com/)! I've spent 3+ years working on it. It's free, open source, and [Reddit really likes it](http://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/2sypcn/seven_months_ago_i_showed_rmusic_my_software/).

Lemme know if you have any questions or need help getting started! Hey man, I just spent half an hour setting myself up on that and all I can say is thank you!  
I always dipped in and out of using Grooveshark and usually just went back to Youtube but this is absolutely perfect. It cuts out the garbage UI of Youtube and keeps the library, I can't think of a single improvement.  

Thank you so much! :) Boom :D Glad to hear it and happy you got set up relatively painlessly. I've tried Rdio, Grooveshark, Google Play Music, and Spotify. I use Google Play Music everyday, I really like it. It's not free, though. I feel like it's good value. It let's you upload your own Mp3's if you have them.

As a free alternative, you can make play lists on YouTube and listen to music that way. Seems to work pretty well. Google Play Music is free if you download/upload your own music. As a radio service though, it's not. I use Pandora (free) if I want radio, but then use Play on random for the music I have. WTF? Some warning would've been great.

My workplace playlist that I organized and maintained anally for years is gone forever.

 &gt;I organized and maintained anally for years 

Dude... just use your hands next time! Try this if you didn't already 
http://groovebackup.com/
 You are a hero! Worked for my playlists, but I was retarded and often just queued my Favorites- and they are now gone forever ;_;... So many songs I'd be listening to from streams etc and just click the heart. Don't even know their names.... Same... T_T I had the android app and my favourites were cached on there. No easy automated way to import them afaict though.

EDIT: Also found some list of tracks cached in the grooveshark window's localStorage. I opened the chrome console and used this snippet from https://bgrins.github.io/devtools-snippets/#console-save:

    (function(console){
    
        console.save = function(data, filename){
    
            if(!data) {
                console.error('Console.save: No data')
                return;
            }
    
            if(!filename) filename = 'console.json'
    
            if(typeof data === "object"){
                data = JSON.stringify(data, undefined, 4)
            }
    
            var blob = new Blob([data], {type: 'text/json'}),
                e    = document.createEvent('MouseEvents'),
                a    = document.createElement('a')
    
            a.download = filename
            a.href = window.URL.createObjectURL(blob)
            a.dataset.downloadurl =  ['text/json', a.download, a.href].join(':')
            e.initMouseEvent('click', true, false, window, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, false, false, false, false, 0, null)
            a.dispatchEvent(e)
        }
    })(console);
    
    console.save(window.localStorage);

This seems to contain an encoding of a few of my favorites. That sounds challenging, but I'm intrigued. Pic? I want to support artists, not record labels This fall would  have been my second year on the site, and I have discovered so many new songs and artists... Now all my saved songs are lost forever.... It would have been nice if they  had given a bigger warning, so that I could at least screenshot my collection.... At least we still have Youtube.... In the end it has nothing to do with the creative forces behind the music and its art and everything to do with the record executives not getting their 98% of the profits. It really is a shame that in the US we have let a conglomeration of extortionists run our entertainment industries, but in the end and given enough time the greediest will win. That farewell letter reads like a confession on Aljazeera. I actually feel like crying now. Grooveshark was there when nobody was. RIP. Such a shame, Just went on their page and found out about it.

If anyone from grooveshark reads this I just want to say thank you for the service over the years. Seriously, Spotify play is blocked at work and grooveshark had the best chiptune music. Mother fuck.  Grooveshark helped me through some very tough times. I'll always be grateful for having had their services. I shed a tear for you Grooveshark. You will be missed. I discovered so many good songs and bands... Now I have to do it all again :( Somewhere a group of fat businessmen in expensive suits are rubbing their hands together and trying to decide how many diamond studded Ferraris to buy. For anybody who wants to export or save the playlists they had at Grooveshark, see here.

http://groovebackup.com/ Fuck. Really? .....fucking fuck..... REALLY?  
Well doesn't that just bite the big one...I had the most epic playlist... The epic omnibus playlist of super ultra badassery, in fact. It was something like 1100 songs. No clue what most of them were. Shitballs... Good luck? http://groovebackup.com/ SHIT I had my entire college music experience on there.   That sucks! I know a few people at the company. One said things were looking up, just last week. **Got the Android app? I may have a way to get your song list**

* Use a root explorer to find a file called *gshark.db*. For me it was at /data/data/com.grooveshark.android.v1/databases/gshark.db

* Copy gshark.db to your sdcard and rename to gshark.sql 

* install an app called SQLite manager and run it. 

* click the magnifying glass, navigate to gshark.sql from earlier.

* now you can see database lists from your account. Click songs database to see lists of all songs you ever saved in grooveshark (even if you didn't offline them). One of the columns has the artist name in code. Match that with the artists database. If you know SQL this will be easy for you. 

Hope that help some of you ;)
 Farewell Grooveshark, Welcome PirateBay This was my worst nightmare, knew it would happen one day though.  Grooveshark absolutely paved the way for how streaming services work today. It's a shame such a good streaming website is now gone forever. Gutted.. none of the other services really compare with what Grooveshark were offering. I suppose we all knew deep down that it would go away one day.
 HAHAH, Oh man, I just found out how much I'm going to miss those crazy bastards over there...

I found this while searching for someway to salvage my playlists...

[Look at the "Server" header...](http://puu.sh/hx3gw/843606b756.png)

[Edit: My god they must have a list they aggregate through!](http://puu.sh/hx3zE/3c046914b9.png) What!? It can't be, they assured us there was no connection because a panda was chewing on their server wires. Surely they will be back up soon...*sob* I just received an email from PayPal stating that they canceled my automatic payments, prompting me to search and find out about this. I only ever used Grooveshark to listen to a specific song if it was stuck in my head or to show someone else, otherwise I used Pandora. It's sad that there's literally no alternative to "search song and play full" anywhere. Used to use a website called Playlist.com, that got shut down, but managed to salvage my music from there. Now Grooveshark is gone, without my playlists (tried the backup website and was only able to a get a fraction of 3k songs). 

I can get over how good grooveshark was as a music service over time, with Spotify or Streamus, but the account data is what is most damaging. The ironic thing is that even if I wanted to go to say iTunes and become a paying customer, I would not be able to buy the songs I have listened to for years without my account data.

TL;DR Pissed at Grooveshark closing, but even more frustrated at the loss of my account. Gotta log in to comment... Grooveshark was a big part of my day to day.... And I took it for granted. I had the Android app and always (and I mean always) listened to my custom play lists in my car or wherever. 

Hearing this news makes me feel like something I love has been taken from me. I'm pretty much devastated. Grooveshark did more to help the music industry then the riaa could ever hope to know. 

I'm HAPPY to say I was a paid subscriber for many years. 

But for a while it's going to feel like I'm missing a friend. Yeah there are some alternatives. But none come close to the community, catalogue, and flexible interface grooveshark brought to the table. 

I hope the record labels are happy. You've successfully delayed progress yet again.  Welp there goes my anime collection... Hope Nooble5 can find somewhere else to broadcast.  Yeah, and it's so hard sometimes to find un-modified anime openings on Youtube and other music sites :( Youtube: "[Insert show here] OP..." 
  
Great, just what I was looking for-  

"....Nightcore cover by a teenager"  
  
damn it. *Bury me next to Muxtape.*
-Grooveshark Yay another victory for the unabashed avarice of the American entertainment industry. You know how many obscure songs, rare live recordings, and out-of-print music was just wiped out forever??  I was actually listening to it when it went down... was acting weird, then panda, then message.

They had no notice on their twitter, so it was kinda sudden.

bah! &gt;Use a licensed service that compensates artists and other rights holders

Shit, after seeing them rape and pillage a site like they just did to Grooveshark, I don't think I want to give any money to the recording industry again. "Not only are we suing you, we're suing you for all your patents, intellectual property, your site, and we're gonna fuck your wife, mom, and sister" Darnit, now I have to mentally reconstruct all those playlists. Oh goddammit! The only streaming service I use. :( My commiserations to the broadcasters. Last night we lost our communities and listeners, with no chance to send them an email or anything.

That being said Im not at all surprised. Grooveshark was built on an extremely weak foundation, and now its all come crashing down.

This could be a power play by apple. 17 minutes before GS went down, this article was posted on the guardians website: http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/apr/30/kobalt-spotify-kill-streaming-mistake

coincidence? I dont think so.

I will boycott apple if they try to aggressively take market share, and while I think streaming subscription model is the best thing to battle piracy, Id rather pirate than give that company a penny.  http://recode.net/2015/04/30/grooveshark-the-free-music-service-that-used-to-scare-the-big-labels-gives-up/ I found my playlist because I had enabled scrobbling with last.fm.  I was gonna try to "waybackmachine" and go to a cached version of the page but I'm not sure it would work now.  Worth a shot if you use last.fm and until now you also used grooveshark. That really sucks that so many people lost playlists because of lack of notice before the shutdown. 

There is always risk associated with forgoing backups and with trusting third parties with your data.  And I was just preparing to play DotA 2 listening to my playlist. RIP GrooveShark. [deleted] Dear RIAA,

In the early 80s, many of us would go into the orchestra room at our school to meet up with other kids, bringing albums, cassettes, and blank cassettes. Sometimes, we'd put scotch tape over the protection tab on the B-Side of single cassettes so we wouldn't have to buy blank tapes. We'd listen to albums, and copy songs we liked while we listened to them. Two things you should take away from this "wearin' an onion on my belt" anecdote:

1) We will always buy music we want, and we won't pay a nickel more than we feel we should

2) We will always find a way to get it for free, and we will help others do the same. 

Sincerely,

Old man yelling at you clods "So I tied an onion to my belt!  ..which was the style at the time."   

I loved your anecdote &amp; agree with your 2 statements, and I wish to subscribe to your newsletter. I don't think anyone has a problem with what you're talking about.

What's shitty is companies making millions while artists get zip.

In my mind, there's a huge difference between violating copyright for profit and violating copyright for personal use.
 Guys, chill. At least there's TIDAL to save us.  I love how they didn't include it in their suggested list of "fan friendly affordable services". A fucking warning would have been nice. A little message that popped up when you log in saying "we're shutting down forever in a few days". 

 Maybe they were forced by a court order or something and didn't have a chance to notify. Or even that they were not legally allowed to communicate with the users. Grooveshark, you had your share of problems but for some five years you kept me in free streaming ad-free high-quality on-demand music with essentially unlimited playlisting and sharing capabilities. You meant a lot to me and your loss leaves a profound emptiness. April 30, 2015: The Day the Music Died. Most unfortunate. That does not bode well for other similar sites
 I really liked grooveshark.  Dammit! My go-to method of music these days was just the popular list off grooveshark, which ended up with a nice list of "new hit music and just 'good' music that people enjoy listening to". Spotify and Google music at least don't seem to have a similar feature. other sites just have a max top 40 list that gets updated like once or twice a month its stupid Right! Now I've finished gluing my hair back to my scalp, and had a scalding hot cup of Yingde black(red)-tea (Her Majesty drinks that shit!) I've had a moment to reflect on my predicament and think of alternative solutions... 

 Long story short, I'm in China. Which means I can't use Spotify or use my Union Pay account (I forgot my pin for my VISA, bumder) to buy a VPN to use Spotify. However, as China's attitudes to copyright laws are 'F*** you, we are China' (apply accent to your level of banter), you will find literally hundreds of free, no advert, music streaming and download sites. They also have loads of music, usually a full discography, from most artists and some pretty obscure one's too; It's not just mainstream stuff! And yes... they have Sandstorm.  

 However, there is of course a catch... it's all in Chinese. So get yourself a good translation tool or start learning mandarin. I have no idea if you can make playlists, but you can make an account and add shit to favourites!

This is the best site I've found so far:

[www.xiami.com](http://www.xiami.com/)

P.S. Any Chinese speaking volunteers, out there, willing to help out a fellow music fan?

EDIT: Discovery -Discography. Grooveshark had all of the gaming soundtracks, *actual soundtracks*, I wanted instead of shitty live orchestra versions.  I'm talking about you, Spotify. I can download an image by an artist from google and there is no foul so long as I don't use it to try and make money. Why can't I tune into some sounds someone put together for free? This is just entitled garbage. Artists trying to "make it" would be happy just for the exposure. Any band on a label claiming damage to their product ARE ALREADY MAKING MONEY and WILL CONTINUE TO DO IT THROUGH TOURING, AND THROUGH THE AMAZINGLY SUCCESSFUL "PAY WHAT YOU WANT" MODEL. WHO AM I YELLING AT? Napster made one of my favorite bands, Dispatch, famous. 

Personally I had content on there that is now lost forever. The second episode of my podcast, that is. 

Not to mention all the great playlists I had made from music I discovered on Grooveshark. can't count all the albums I've bought as a result of the site. I feel like the internet is generally good for musicians. I would love it if piles of people wanted to download my stuff for free, and maybe the occasional guy would press the donate button. 

Even for big bands-- if I'm not mistaken Radiohead's "pay what you want" album was a HUGE success financially.  So, it seems like groovebackup.com is now gone as well. Anyone seeing this? Yup I am mad because they finally fixed it but I didn't copy and paste my playlists. I wish there was a backup somewhere. noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

And with that, Grooveshark is gone... the only hope of people recovering songs now is cache, or by some miracle, if archive.org got to it in time.

Sleep well, Grooveshark. You will be dearly loved, forever. May your spiritual successor rise to the standards you have set before it. Not only am I sad to see Grooveshark go and annoyed because I'll have to find an alternate music streaming site but I'm also livid they were shut down in a way as to prevent people from accessing their playlists/collections.   

I mean how hard would it be to just fricking leave groovebackup alive for a week or a month to give people some chance to create a text file to help them remember what songs they had. Sad day. Congratulations record industry, you just made people want to 'pirate' music again.
 I used to do that, but have gotten so used to streaming that it would be hard to get into that mindset again. I'm just gonna use the shit out of Spotify, even though there are quite a few songs I love that they don't have. SHIT!  I was listening at work when it went down earlier this afternoon with the error message "Grooveshark is going down."  My quality of life has just plummeted; I used Grooveshark nearly every day. Or...and hear me out on this...you could pay 10 bucks a month and use Google Play. Sorry to hear whatever your rebuttal is, but that's how it works. No it isn't. Sounds like that's exactly how it works. What's the alternative? Choices for listening to music:

1. Grooveshark. It's gone now, so now we have to use a subpar service (all free or paid are subpar to grooveshark).

2. Use any number of free streaming services (none quite as good as grooveshark). Music quality moderate.

3. Use Youtube by creating playlists or an app that organizes Youtube videos into playlists. Music quality moderate.

4. Capture Youtube streams and build your own collection. Music quality moderate.

5. Download (through various sites) songs. Unsafe for those that don't know how to hide themsleves properly. Risky, but music quality is very high.

6. Pay for music (music quality very high). There are a number of ways for companies to separate you from your money in order for you to listen to music. You could buy albums, buy individual songs, pay for streaming services, or burn your money while listening to the radio.

It sucks that the best music streaming service is no longer with us. Hopefully another will take its place. Until then, these are our options. Spotify doesn't have even close to the selection that Grooveshark had, especially if you like listening to more obscure artists, remixes or game music. Grooveshark was great as a user-uploaded database because you could discover things you would never find on a more "standardized" service like Spotify. Lol at "standardized."  You mean "legal." By "standardized" I mean only hosting official albums and singles from certain record companies. On Grooveshark you could find fan uploaded live recordings, remixes, obscure soundtracks, and other hard to classify music. Services like Spotify wouldn't go out of their way to obtain licenses for that sort of stuff because they wouldn't think about it. That was the beauty of having user-uploaded content. What a shame :( so much good music discovered!

Thanks for the ride! All my playlists are gone, and this is really sad, since i've been using their site for a while, i lost like 2 weeks of my life there. I've been using it for 5 years. My life is ruined.  What's really getting under my skin the more I think about this is the fact that there is no legitimate service that even comes close to what Grooveshark provided.  

I would be totally willing to pay a small monthly fee (like with Netflix) to have this service running.  

Instead, big music labels are going to have their sales shit all over because they made the internet angry.   The (lack of) logic is astounding. Spotify's essentially the same thing as Grooveshark. The reason Grooveshark got shut down is it was giving literally zero dollars to any artists or labels, plus they charged for an optional premium membership. Spotify pays artists, even if it is a pittance. &gt;Spotify's essentially the same thing as Grooveshark.

Not for my taste in music. I tried using it before, and the library is too small.  Grooveshark also streamed artists who weren't allowed to be streamed, like Joanna Newsom. &gt; who weren't allowed to be streamed

Apologies for my ignorancewhat does that mean, exactly?
 Nah man I phrased it poorly.

Joanna Newsom is signed to Drag City, who notably offers none of their catalog on Spotify or other streaming services.

Grooveshark streamed their material anyways, because they're basically a piracy service.

They did this with other artists too, notably King Crimson for a while which resulted in a long series of legal battles between Robert Fripp and Grooveshark.

 Ah, OK. Thanks for clarifying! Maybe not to spotify, but if her music is released in the United States, by law Pandora and last.fm have access to it because they are classified as radio stations.  Perhaps (I don't know for sure) but Grooveshark still had no right to stream her music. For someone so worried about artists being compensated and about who has the "right" to give people access to music you sure do link quite a few YouTube videos in other subs. So I guess you aren't aware, then, that these YouTube videos often give revenue to the linked artists/performers? Sure they do, for the videos posted on official channels like vemo. Grooveshark isn't classified as a radio station, and never was. Spotify isn't either.  Yes, that's why I said they had no right to stream her music... The service is the same. The library is a pittance, if better curated, compared to Grooveshark. I'm sure the average consumer finds most of what they're looking for, but those people were likely already on spotify Whenever i play by artist it plays the same 8 fucking songs over and over. I don't see how Spotify is even close. Spotify's UI is ace, but my biggest issue with them is their limited library. I'd be willing to pay more money for a streaming service that's got a library as comprehensive as Grooveshark's. 

Maybe if Tidal had that going for them and made it their selling point, people wouldn't mind paying $20 a month, and they wouldn't be a laughing stock right now. Spotify's UI is a pile of shit. I used to think the same thing when I tried it a few years ago, but apparently it's improved a ton since then. Still not my cup of tea, but it's way more usable and not as harsh on the eyes as it was a few years ago. I'm using it right now and I have a few questions. What's with the greyed out tracks? Why does it seem to automatically play whatever the fuck it wants whenever the track I clicked on ends, and is there a way to make it stop doing that? Is there a way to just clear out my queue? I don't know - I downloaded it recently and messed with it for a bit and liked the UI, but some of the design choices are still really odd. I usually pirate my music and then go see bands live and buy merch to pay them back for stealing their shit. Spotify pays out the labels. The labels pass on the left over pennies to the artists.  Pretty sure Spotify doesn't have a bunch of stuff I would want to listen to though so I don't want to go that route. I'll pay for a service if it has the music, if not then I'll find a way to listen anyway. &gt; Spotify's essentially the same thing as Grooveshark.

Except that it's popular enough that it's blocked at my work. :( Spotify is not even close to as complete, especially for korean and japanese music. ITT: lots of small circlejerks about how small Spotify's catalog really is.

They've lost a number of mainstream artists lately, notedly Portishead and most of King Crimson. But they're really good at catching up with math-ish/rock and post-rock (even new releases by bands that "quickly achieve cult status" like Sickoakes but never become the new 3epkano). Even their Swans catalog is passable.

I mean, if you want to hear Nicki Minaj turn on the godam radio. Cool, so I can start my broadcast back up on Spotify, play the songs I want with no ads because I'm paying a monthly fee, and chat with all of my old listeners after they make the jump over in my broadcast specific chatroom where they can recommend songs for me to play?

Awesome, I'll be right over. Spotify doesn't have anywhere near the library that Grooveshark had. A lot of people who enjoy video game music, anime music, and foreign music had no other recourse. Those things aren't on Spotify. But spotify is a) not available in my country, b) doesn't let you broadcast (set up your own radio that people can join and chat in), which is what I'll really miss and c) from what I've heard, doesn't have nearly as many video game OSTs and Japanese songs Spotify's interface is a pile of shit. The big labels are already on every streaming service, so this is a net positive for them. It's the people looking for hard to find stuff who will suffer. &gt; ...there is no legitimate service that even comes close to what Grooveshark provided... I would be totally willing to pay a small monthly fee (like with Netflix)...

What made Grooveshark so much better than Spotify or Rdio? I used it for easy sharing. If I had a song I wanted a friend to hear, it was so easy to send them the Grooveshark link. It was just simple and worked well, and anyone could play it regardless of whether they used the service previously or not. Get Google All Access. It's excellent streaming and you can upload your own songs if it's missing anything. $10 per month is a small price to pay for unlimited, legal music.

Grooveshark was great, but what they were doing was unfair and blatantly illegal. They were making money off of other people's work without paying a cent. The first world arrogance of the "$10 is nothing!" people in this thread infuriates me.

That's a week's worth of groceries for some people in the third world, and guess what, those people are human, too, and enjoy music just as much as you do. Damn... these guys are in my back yard.  Didn't know this was gonna happen. It's not the music so much that bums me out.  It's losing all that standup.  They had a really extensive collection, which got me through more than a few road trips. I was listening to music on it.. then it showed the maintenance page... then it showed the farewell message a few minutes later. I was shocked that it happened so quickly. Record label lawyers helped write that apology I bet. Their farewell message sounds like someone was forced to write it with a gun held to there head.  Grooveshark was my go-to music service... what sucks is I had extensive playlists that now I can't get access to.  Songs lost forever.  Also I loved uploading my own songs and using their player on my blog as it was simple and perfect for what I did.

I've been a musician my entire life and I put my stuff out there for free.  I know other people may want to be compensated for what they produce.  But, I don't work that way.  Hopefully, another site will come along to take their place because at this point it looks like Sony, Universal, and Warner are starting to make a comeback:(  It's not like the money you're compensated is even going to buy you a ham sandwich though... things have changed.

*Grooveshark backup worked for me btw...  A sad day for music lovers indeed. I've loved Grooveshark for a few years now, having saved many rare playlists. Soundtracks I couldn't find anywhere else, even a local band I loved to see live in the 90s, someone had put up a few of their albums. I wouldn't even know where to buy the music if I could. 

Then I read an article from a few years back that says that record labels and distributors get 87% of the profits, with a mere 13% going to the band. And "For every $1000 in music sold, the average musician makes $23.40." WTF? And this: https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20150204/07310329906/yes-major-record-labels-are-keeping-nearly-all-money-they-get-spotify-rather-than-giving-it-to-artists.shtml Shutting down Grooveshark is a win for corporations maybe, a loss for genuine music fans. I'd gladly have paid the artists a subscription fee if that's where the money went.

Thanks to everyone involved in making Grooveshark. You'll be missed. Still playing roughly 150 shows a year up until this. This is going to be a tough loss for the blues and music community. 

[Just a great duet with Clapton](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59P6Ly7zRc0) &gt;"You know what? You're getting better all the time, young man. Thank you, Eric."

What a legend He used to stay at a hotel I worked at and would only tip in $100s &gt; Still playing roughly 150 shows a year up until this

Kind of sad to think he was still touring. He's 89, has diabetes and has cancelled many shows due to dehydration and exhaustion, plus he got booed at one recent show because his performance was awful, and that was down to his health issues. He needed the rest a long time ago, in my opinion. Have to wonder why his family/management let him carry on.  Perhaps he just loved it so much he couldn't give it up. It was his life. Saw him in 2008.  He was so active on stage, even when sitting, that you could tell there was nothing he'd rather be doing than playing that show. Who the fuck yells "booooo" at an 89 year old doing what he loves? Ludicrous. Ludacris did that? What an asshole I'd yell at an 89 year old Luda.

EY LUDA STILL HOLDIN IT DOWN IN 2040 DTP ALL DAY  THESE KIDS ALL IN MY YARD TALKIN SHIT I AINT TRYIN TO HEAR  Took out the aids and put it in my rear Seriously. You bought a ticket to see an aging legend. It will not be as good as him in his prime. If you want to hear that then listen to a fucking record or stream the music. What you would hear at that show is what the man is, not what he was. Let him play with Goddamn dignity.  Who the fuck yells boo at BB fucking King? &gt;I stepped out of Mississippi when I was ten years old  
&gt;With a suit cut sharp as a razor and a heart made of gold  
&gt;I had a guitar hanging just about waist high  
&gt;And I'm gonna play this thing until the day I die  

There's no way his family was ever going to get him to stop touring; it's the bluesman code, they all play up until the very end. I mean he's 89 dude. I seriously doubt he would have sacrificed his music to get a few more years of just existed. Do you know what kind of legend you have to be to still draw crowds at that age? Dude was still loving it Dude, he's 89. Are you suggesting that if he had retired earlier, he would have lived longer? Well that's not exactly true, considering he made it to 89. How much longer could he have lived? I'm amazed he's made it this far. There is a line in riding with the king. 

I stepped out of Mississippi when I was 10 years old. With a suit cut sharp as a razor and a heart made of gold. I had a guitar hanging about waist high. I am going to play this thing until the day I die. 

Edit it was 10 years old 
 And remember BB King was prominently performing while people like Elvis and Willie Nelson were just getting started. He truly is an icon.

(Although the lyrics to some of his songs are not very politically correct today.) I went to see him play about a year ago.  It was very hard to watch a guitar legend like him struggle so mightily to do something that was once so natural.  The whole experience was rather heartbreaking.  

May his last days be filled with family and friends.  He will be missed. My grandmother took me to see him for my birthday last February in Santa Cruz, I felt the same exact way. He put on a great show though, had the whole crowd singing "You Are My Sunshine" at one point. And dammit if he didn't try to play and sing his heart out in every song  It's easy to see that BB King has incredible passion for his music. He could have retired 30 years ago, but even when he seemed too old to perform he gave it his best shot anyway. I've never met him but my mother has many times and she says he's incredibly sweet and humble. We've lost so many great people in the last year, it would be terrible to lose BB King. *will be

FTFY
No one gets out of here alive. Nobody gets out of here without singing the blues.  Babysitting blues? "I'll never get out of this world alive." - Hank Sr. His sing-a-long rendition of You Are My Sunshine last summer was one of the greatest moments of my concert-going life.  Makes me tear up thinking about it. That was the same exact experience I had. It truly depressed me, but I was glad he still had his wits about him to even give a bad show (although I was honored just to see him play anything live). When I saw him I enjoyed it thoroughly. He seemed happy... I mean I wasn't expecting him to be at his prime I saw him about 5 years ago and he played great I love BB and his music. 

At Crossroads Festival in Chicago in 2010 he was one of the final acts (well after dark) and he just kept playing and and talking and eventually rambling. At first it seemed like he was doing his set, then it seemed like one long song, and eventually we kinda realized he didn't know what else to do but keep playing that easy twelve bar he was used to (and talk and repeat himself a whole lot). 

Honestly, it was grandpa cute. Everybody in the crowd seemed to love it. The families packed up their blankets and looked on smiling and the single/young people were happy the families were leaving the show prematurely. All the [fellas](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1699119/) (tons of legends and songwriters and up and comers) politely and slowly slid on stage to back BB up and transition into the final jam. I bet every lead guitarist on that list, which I haven't checked, except for Buddy Guy, because of his and Clapton's Chicago thing they do which I can also explain as best I know, played that song with BB. I think it was Clapton's call and move and it was just "this guy did so much for all of us, let's just sneak up and not make him feel cut off". Cities have limits on how late shows can go and the "surprise" but expected act of Buddy Guy hadn't appeared yet.

Imagine when your grandfather is kinda rambling on and you pick up the conversation and then get him to the table for Thanksgiving dinner. They were kinda doing that. I hope it didn't hurt BB's feelings but he would have gone on until he fell asleep, I think. What an entertainer. Saw him at the 2007 Crossroads. Maybe they were a little smarter that year as they gave him an earlier slot. Anyway, he came on, played a few tunes, then did one of his "BB Talks" if you will, with the backing band carrying on real smooth. I don't remember the exact speech, but it was something to the effect of "I'm not sure how much longer I have on this earth, but when they finally lay me down in the ground, let the last voices I hear be yours!"

There wasn't a dry eye in the crowd.  Hey, awesome anecdote man, thanks for sharing that today. I don't know what these other people are talking about, honestly.

no, when you go to see 89 year old BB King you aren't going to hear him like he was on his records 50 years ago.

but you go to see him because it's an experience. it's an achievement of sorts - you are seeing one of the greatest figures in popular music perform at some of his last shows. you are going to see an institution.

when you go to the louvre and you see the mona lisa, you aren't just going to see a painting for fucks sake. you are going to experience something that is bigger than just "a painting" - you can see much better pics online than by standing in a crowded room at the louvre. same with a lot of art. you go for the experience.

at 89 years old, BB King when I saw him last (just last year) was fucking amazing. he played a shorter show, of course. he wasn't the same as he was 30 years ago, or even 15 years ago.

but you go, you enjoy what he's doing now, you appreciate how much influence he has had on music over the past many decades, you sit in awe of the fact that you're seeing one of the greatest guitarists of the past 100 fucking years ... just casually doing his thing. I was honored to see him play in the summer of 1996.   I will not forget. I remember seeing a few years ago that he was still touring and I thought it was amazing and really wanted to make an effort to go see him but couldn't find an opportunity/ forgot to check dates in time. If that was the experience maybe it's ok I didn't. 

My hats off to him though for not just resigning to his age and saying "i'm too old" and effectively waiting around to die as I see so many older folks do. he's a true legend. It might not be his last days. Hospice care isn't necessarily right at the end like that. I saw him at Bonnaroo in 2008. A helicopter was flying overhead, and he asked the crowd, "What is this, Vietnam?" I was there too. He also said "The girls always tell me now, B.B., you're so cute! Why couldn't they have been saying that 50 years ago!"

It was a great show. To the people elsewhere saying he was struggling to perform over the past couple years, that's sad to hear. At least he was still at it. He definitely could put on a show in his early 80s  an impressive feat.  I love that he could play modest. If you've ever heard the ladies swooning at every lyric he belted out on Live at the Regal, you'd know that he had no problem pulling in the ladies. I gave you 7 children....and now you wanna give em back (Crowd erupts) That song gives me the chills every time I hear. So good. When I was a stupid kid in the late-90s I saw him at a concert and didn't get it - at all. He was just some old guy sitting in a chair playing music for a bunch of rich white people so they could feel like they got it. My family had tickets and I'd driven separately with a friend, so about half way into the show we left. Looking back, I don't think I was wrong about a lot of the people at the show, but having listened to a lot more of his music, I regret how much my own naivete and judgmental assessment of the concert cost me. 

Edit: Sorry for sharing an anecdote I thought was relevant and my thoughts about the experience. I shouldn't have tried to do that without opening myself up to insults I guess. It was a concert at a place called Interlaken, a *very* well-respected but rather pretentious performing arts academy in northern Michigan. Note my use of *a lot of these people* and not *all of these people* in my comment before deciding to write whatever de jour platitude about sjws or my own feelings of superiority you've thought up. And my family *were* some of those rich white people for what its worth (which made me one as well), but after growing up in a circle filled with hundreds of waspish, culturally superior people who had never really seen a black person but felt they understood them after hearing a select handful perform for them on stage, it got old. Northern Michigan can be a very racist place - there's no getting around this - and it manifests itself in strange ways.  When I was a young idiot I used to get mad when I saw a well dressed person say they liked Nirvana, because there was no way they "got it".  But now I realize that there is nothing to "get".  If they enjoyed that kind of music at any level,  their love of Cobain was just as valid as mine.   
B.B. King is a legend.  And these "rich white people" went to listen to a legend and pay respect.  At least they stayed and tried to understand it on whatever level they could.  And maybe they "got it" a lot more than you think they did.  I think you missed the part where he said rich white people. Don't you know rich white people *can't* get it?  He got so triggered he had to leave halfway through the show. &gt; playing music for a bunch of rich white people so they could feel like they got it

Huh. That wasn't my experience, at all. (Of course I saw him in the '80's....) There were young white kids in ripped jeans and old black people dressed to the nines....and everything in between. I remember looking around and noticing it and thinking "*This is fucking cool....*"
 That is why I like George Clinton shows so much.  Such a diverse crowd, all getting high from the music, the weed, or both.  :)

Never saw BB live.  Another opportunity missed.
I hope his passing is peaceful. When I saw George Clinton, it was like a cross-section of society: young white hipsters, young black stoners, rednecks with cowboy boots, middle-aged managers, old black church ladies, and more. I had no idea his appeal was so broad. Yes!  And the pimp suits complete with canes!  I would seriously encourage everyone to check out one of his shows.  

He is getting older too. I got to see BB play live when i was in high school. I didn't particularly care for his music in general at the time, but i knew it was an opportunity i couldn't pass up. How often do you get to see an actual legend perform in person?

I know i didn't appreciate every aspect of that performance to its fullest extent, but that night was not lost on me and stands out as one of the best concerts I've ever been to in my life. Even the opening acts were amazing, bands i'd never heard of before that i still listen to today.

I never got to see Maynard Ferguson play live while he was alive, and that's something i'm still kicking myself for today. I'm lucky to say that i got to see BB King. That was a great show. Agreed! Funny as hell, had a lot of energy... I put that performance in my top 5, easily. I was there too, god he was so great even then. Rest well King.  He came on in Glastonbury a couple years ago, sat in this chair and said "I need this chair now. I'm a little old, and a little cold, but I can still shake my boogie!" then he shook his booty while in the chair and said again "I said I'm a little old, and a little cold, but I can still shake my boogie!!!"  B.B King is one of my favorite musicians. He was mine and my moms favorite artist together. On my birthday one year she surprised me to go see him in kansas city. It was one of the greatest nights if my life.  KC rep.  Saw him in 1996 at Spritfest. Go kc! Yeah i was only 3 at that time or i probably would of went. I was i think maybe 13 or 12. So were you 3, 12 or 13 at the time? For the uninitiated, the classic, Lucille.

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=-Y8QxOjuYHg This comments section should be full of his amazing music.
"Why I sing the Blues":

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HJrZ1LAOLYQ [Worry, Worry] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YpnJry5Buak) Live At The Regal Favorite B.B. King song ever. I read somewhere that the reason he named the guitar Lucille was because he needed an excuse to rescue it from a burning building and they wouldn't let him run in for a guitar so he said "I need to go get Lucille!" I wonder if that's true. I heard that he was in a club and two men were fighting over a woman named Lucille. The fight somehow started a fire and he saved the guitar off the stage. This is what he said in the song... To not only do what he loved until he could literally do it no more, but to bring so much joy to so many while doing it is an achievement seldom realized.  I envy that.  He's among the last of the Old Guatd, a living legend.  

 here's some others of the old guard. one or two of 'em may still be alive too

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=baVMsZD8Yzk

 God Bless Him. 
With love, from Mississippi. Hattiesburg here.
He is in our thoughts. Also from Hattiesburg. Such a sad time. In our thoughts he will be.  Petal here.  We're also thinking about BB Indianola here. This man is a big part of our lives here. Saw him many times in my life at the BB King Music Festival. 2000 was the best blues show I've ever heard. There were so many different walks of life there that night, all hugging and dancing and singing the blues with BB. That's why he's loved. May God grace him with the ease of passing he deserves. A great man.  Just got back from a weekend in Clarksdale. Thinking about him. This is a weird circlejerk. Circlejerk here. Touching myself feverishly. Omaha here. Thinking about you touching yourself. Was the Juke Joint Festival this past weekend? Pascagoula. Yep we also love him. The Moon here. Thinking about BB King.  Petal as well. Good luck, BB.  Mexico here, this is how legends say goodbye. Doing stuff their way.  Laurel here. Keeping him close to our hearts, as always. Tupelo here. Feeling it. Thanks for the cool tunes, bro. You'll be remembered forever. The vibrato; the feeling.  Thanks, Blues Boy. All the love from Memphis and Beale Street, just finished Memphis in May thinking about him Well that just ruined my night.  I remember my heart dropped when I saw the post about Ben E. King passing.  I misread it and thought that B. B. had died.  Don't get me wrong it was still a tragic loss but I was relieved that B. B. was still with us.  Now this=( I had done the same thing.  I had listened to his music for a couple of hours after my mistake just to remember all the great music B. B. has made.   Well apparently Ben E. King died... thanks for the heads up. When I was 13, B.B. King was my guitar idol. I loved his music and through many connections was allowed into a 19+ concert and ended up meeting him and got a guitar strap signed. It was only a few years ago, and the concert was fantastic but he played a short 45 minute set, and after seemed tired. B.B. King is undoubtedly one of the most influential guitarists ever and he'll always be alive in each of us.

Proof: http://imgur.com/ofyIwSZ I could totally see Kenan Thompson playing B.B. King in a movie one day. I think it's the smile &amp; relaxed eyes in the pic. Very similar.

Bet he'd kill it, too. Like, "holy shit, this dude can act" levels of killing it. Back in high school I asked my dad if he wanted to go see bb king to the local theater with me. He said he wasn't a big fan of bb King. My dad was the kind of guy that would drop everything for me. We didn't hang out that often and whenever I reached out he would be there. Skipped an important meeting with the WHO once to go to the movies with me at the last minute because I asked. 

That show was the first time I'd ever experienced it from his perspective. All those times he asked if I wanted o go to a jets game and I said I didn't like football. Or if I wanted to grab lunch and I had a party. 

Now my dad is dead, BB King is dying, and I am sad.  You're probably better off not going to a jets game.  I don't know, there's always the first five weeks of any football season. Thats too bad man. You have the blues. Sounds familiar to my childhood.  I had the exact opposite experience. My Dad one day told me excitedly that he got BB King tickets. Not to say that I wasn't a fan, I knew all about him and what he did for Blues, but my Dad was waaaaaayyy more excited than I was.

Him and I went, and had a great time! It was a weird time in my life as I had just had a very nasty breakup from a LTR that had pretty much consumed my life for the previous 3 years. This was mine and my Dad's 'getting back to normal' outing. BB played very well (he had turned 84 the day before). When he played Thrill is Gone, we went up to the stage had he was able to hand us some souvenir pins during a break in his guitar part. 

Not a super spectacular story, but my Dad passed last year and am too thinking of him while reading this news. Fucking Achievement Hunter at it again. It's kinda scary how fast that was, just finished that video too. It's not even cool how this keeps happening!! Just watched that vid this morning  Came here looking for a comment like this.

They really do have some kind of black magic touch. Amazing. First Ray, now this. I think they are behind this one The curse continues. Could someone explain this to me? I'm familiar with achievement hunter, but what do they have to do with this?  Sometimes when they mention a famous person, bad things happen to that famous person.

They mention a lot of famous people so it's bound to happen, but it's been uncannily close a few times. The thrill ain't gone. He'll keep slinging his guitar from up above.  &gt;The thrill ain't gone. He'll keep slinging his guitar from up above. 

The thrill is alive and will never be gone.
 He's not dead yet... If you're not familiar with the implications of hospice care, I envy you. No, I'm very much familiar with hospice care. I just don't think we should be eulogizing him before he's actually dead.

People do occasionally recover enough to leave hospice, even at his age. It ain't over till it's over. It isn't over 'till the fat guy sings.  With Lucille. Heya, full time caregiver for someone in hospice (my grandmother) here.

The implications of hospice have changed hugely in the past year or two (my understanding is the Affordable Care Act altered things).

People who are not 'expectant', for lack of a better term, are now being placed on hospice as a general care plan. My grandmother is one such individual.

She had a stroke back in October, and is non-verbal and bedridden, but is otherwise healthy and is expected to last at least a few more years, assuming that nothing catastrophic happens in the interim (which we have no reason to think is going to happen past the usual old age thing). For all we or any of the medical personnel know, she could last basically indefinitely, and they've said as much.

We initially were enormously opposed to it because of the implication that she was dying (she's very clearly not...she's non-verbal and bedridden but relatively active, laughing, making faces, etc. and seems to be slowly recovering some of her speech) and we were putting a sort of expiration date on her, but hospice isn't just for end-stage patients anymore.

I think it's important that people understand this, and get over the psychological hump when it comes to hospice. For us, it was the best thing we ever could have done for her and for us. The level of care she's getting is higher than anything we could ever have afforded (we still have an assistant come in for five hours four days a week) and the peace of mind of having a nurse checking her once a week is great. Hospice does not necessarily equal brink of death. Yes it does.  B.B. King is always going to hold a special place in my heart. Last summer he was playing a concert on my 18th birthday like half an hour from where I lived, and it was an 18+ venue. So I had to go, no other option but I didn't have anyone to go with me. I chalk it up as no one my age wanted to go see B.B. King play cause of a generational thing or something. Security at the door noticed my birthday/age and let me hang out outside by B.B.'s bus before the show. I actually had brought my guitar out and ambitiously tried getting that signed but no luck. I was standing there by the back of his bus where there were a few dozen other fans and this one family was talking to this guy behind the fence to the bus who ended up being one of his tour managers or something. The guy walks in to the bus and a minute later pokes his head back out and tells this family's 3-4 year old kid to come around the fence and meet Mr. King. So this kid goes on the bus for a bit and comes out with a bunch of signed stuff and he's totally into it. It's like he was too young to realize who  exactly he just got to meet but it was pretty amazing for all of us to see. The show was awesome and frankly Im lucky I got to see him when I did. An absolute legend and evidently a good man. Just wanted to share my story about one of the greatest musicians of all time. His time left with us may be short but he has a legacy that will live on  First Ben E., and now it's not looking good for B.B. Someone needs to tell Kerry to watch out for the Angel of Death. First Ben E. King. Now BB King is deathly ill. Yet mother fucking Don King at 83 is still alive. There is no god.  Long live the King. The Achievement Hunter curse continues, he just featured in the 'Family Feud part 3' lets play. I saw BB King in college (early 90's).  He gave a talk, played some music.  Stuck with me all these years.  I'm grateful I got to see him in person.

That was the same year I saw Stevie Ray Vaughn play at VT.  Another sad case.... If you haven't listened to the first side of "Live at The Regal", you haven't lived. And if you're not jumping out of your seat when he finishes the last verse of "How Blue Can You Get", you are not alive. I have been lucky enough to see Mr. King play live three times. The performance that stands out was a night at the Providence Civic Center (Providence, RI). Stevie Ray Vaughn had passed the week prior. Mr. King came out on stage and explained that tonight was going to be a different show than he and his band usually performed, they were all playing with "heavy hearts", and he hoped we wouldn't mind. Instead of their normal upbeat and lively set, Mr King took a seat and he and his band played some of the most soulful slow-hand blues I had ever heard. They truly seemed to be playing for themselves and were giving enough to include us. So thankful to have witnessed such a night........... May you find peace Mr. King.     Paramedics checked King's heart rhythm

His heart **CREATED** rhythm. Bummer. One of the coolest people to ever walk the planet. Thanks for letting us know. I am so happy I got to see him play two years ago. I thought to myself how much longer he could keep going on, and how happy I was that I was able to see a living legend like that in my lifetime. God bless him. His music will live on forever.

My personal favorite performance:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LWLAAzOBoBI Living in Chicago, you kinda take him for granted. He was always at everything. 

My office was a short walk from where Blues fest was every year, and would walk over for a long lunch. I would time them to see him or Buddy Guy. 

He is getting up there, and the end might be near, but I hope he pulls through.  Dude is 89 years old. Dying is sad, but the man lived one hell of a life. Why is it sad?  The man has had one hell of a music career and has reached millions with that music.  Everyone gets old and dies (if they don't die prematurely) but not everyone has such a fulfilling life as Mr. King.  I'm not sad.  I'm glad, he made music that I have listened to my whole life, and even after he is gone his music will live on. I think losing someone to death, knowing they're no longer a living, breathing entity that can still impact this world, is sad at any age. B.B. is one of those guys you almost think will live and tour forever, just because he's been at it for so long regardless of his age, and that's such an amazing thing given the impact he's had on music. 

I do get you, though. Instead of being sad that he's on his deathbed, this is the time to remember his music and legacy, and be happy we got to experience it. It just hurts knowing that the end of that is here. I saw him play in 1994 and it was great! God bless him Everyone is acting like the man is already gone. Is hospice something that you can't come back from? Hospice means they stop trying to fix you. They only do it when they think they cannot save you.  Hospice is compassionate comfort. Right, some think it means you are on your own. While you may not see doctors as much anymore, you are still attended to and they make sure you are comfortable. It's a really hard choice to make, esp as a family mamber, but my experience is that they really make what little time you have left enjoyable. It's pretty unlikely at his age. Hospice implies that he can't take care of himself and the idea that he'd be able to recover from that to being able to play a show again... It's a stretch. Here's to hoping though!  Hospice is pretty final. Its free its so close. Though you can rebound and come out of there it's BBs last days.  Idk why people are saying unlikely because age or whatever. Hospice is literally the place they send you to make you comfortable as you wait to pass. If he had a chance he wouldnt be there. So no, barring a miracle, its not something you can come back from. Its a matter of time now.  People can live a considerably long time in hospice care. It could just means that he is no longer seeking treatment for anything and is willing to let life take its course.People can live for years in hospice. The best way I can put it to you is, judging by the last photo we saw of him before he went into hospice care, he looked like the last image of Steve Jobs, withered, tired, ready to go. He gave it all.  Godspeed. It is highly unlikely. If he ever plays a show again, you better see it, because it will be one of the last ones ever. I will miss this man when he goes. At his age with his illnesses ... Not a good chance.  Hospice is where no other medical interventions, aside from pain control and comfort, will be performed. Death is expected within six months of being put on hospice. I know a guy who has been on hospice for about a year now. So it's end of life care but there is no telling really when the end will be unless your family or on the inside. I hate Mondays... saw him for my birthday a few years back and he played for a solid two hours. holy shit it was incredible  Don't know a thing or two about his music, but I watched him play at my university two years ago and he is quite the entertainer. Admittedly I accepted the tickets last minute and had no idea what to expect, but for my first concert I got to enjoy a legend play music from a genre I had never explored. I hope he is surrounded by loved ones at his home. See ya later B.B. B.B was a great supporter of a charity I sometimes work with and helped us raise a whole bunch of money. I've met B.B a few times, I even got my picture in the paper with him (sadly my hair was ridiculous at the time).    
 It was always a short meet&amp;greet kind of thing when I saw him, and I always felt sort of silly cause I never knew what to say to him, other than than how much I appreciated his charity, and his music. I never know what to say to famous people, especially ones that have done so much and been so many places. B.B was always very friendly though, he felt almost grandfatherly in how open and genial he was.
       
B.B's been struggling for a few years now, he couldn't even stand for most of the shows he put on but every time I saw him on stage he would do his damnedest to put on a good show, and he always succeeded.
     
I don't know what else to say, I wish him all the best and if it's his time to go, I hope he goes painlessly and with a smile on his face. I wonder how Lucille is doing? I originally hopped in this thread to post this but figured others already beat me to it. A part of me hopes she winds up in the Smithsonian. Part of me hopes she gets passed around the world and every guitarist in the world gets to strum her once. Odds are they will bury her with him.  Every guitar he has is named Lucille.  There are hundreds at least. His live should be celebrated. He is 89 years old and was still playing concerts. Yes, it is sad to hear about a musical legend, falling ill. But he was able to play music and do what he loved as long as he could. Let's celebrate all the wonderful thing he did. One of my favorite of his performances, just watch as Jimmy reacts at the end of the song (the guitar player) just astounding.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=An6C8CYF4vU     I honestly hope the Internet's collective snarkyness goes away for a few days after this. I know poking fun at others misfortunes is kind of reddit's thing, but I suspect that many, myself included, have nothing but good memories of king's music and reading this has made me very sad my entire guitar playing style originated with bb king. Everytime I play a pentatonic, i play a BB king lick. I owe my entire electric guitar playing life to this dude. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ny5ajCn0xw

this is the video that seriously changed my life. I saw it and i HAD to learn the blues, I was a wee lad but i knew the undeniable greatness that unfolded in front of my 56k which left to load for half an hour.

It's a sad day for music.   I saw BB about 10 years ago at Indiana University. Great fucking show. Picture me, a big Puerto Rican dude with tattoos and 1 inch gauges in my ears sitting next to a hippie and an old dude in a 3 piece suit. That man could bring together the world. The blues are going to feel a little more bluesy without him.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-i6BdmIiilo The guy lived to be 89 so far, had a great career, and experienced more great things then most of us probably will in his life. Not so sad. His name just came up in a Roosterteeth Let's Play.  It's happening again. Live in Cook County Jail is one of my favorite albums of all time. Thanks for the tunes, B.B. He touched my life in profound ways. I grew up listening to my dad play King's tunes on his Gibson... Fuck. I'm crying.

King, I wish you could read this.. Your sound will forever play in my head, along with millions of others whom love you as I do. Jam on brother. Jam on. One of the many King's of blues! May he pass without pain, and in the comfort of his loved ones. I saw him at Chastain Park in Atlanta in 2005. It was several years after I began playing guitar and this man made such a profound impact on me that it really changed how I heard and ultimately defined music. B.B. is the original and it breaks my heart to hear this news. 

From a grateful guitarist, thank you B.B. King. The first concert I ever attended was B.B. King at Orchestra Hall in Minneapolis, probably sometime around '95 or '96. I can still remember the chill I got when he started playing that guitar. He inspired a lifelong love of the blues for me, and he will be missed. My dad's a huge BB fan, we've had an autographed poster displayed proudly in our home as long as I can remember. Always wanted to see him, but I missed him last time he came near me, figuring since he played so many shows he'd come back soon. So it goes I guess. We love you B.B.!!! First concert my parents ever took me to. Amazingly talented man. Thrill is Gone. Love you, BB. Talk about a man that was in touch with his soul not to mention most of the worlds...I hear a random BB king song on the radio the other day I had not heard in forever. I had to simply pull over and enjoy it! Bless GOOD music and art! Sad to hear.  Never got to see him live but have seen so many of his performances.  Thrill is Gone live with Gary Moore (RIP) was just legendary, helped get me into Blues.       

Do not go gentle into that good night.   God bless.    He was the last of ['The Three Kings'](http://api.ning.com/files/18Ac6arAjPh4ytwfq7h-THPHYE4ie9QaPnJy68dU-Cw-vVQr8q1sOmFYoBqVhB2vCZS3dcI2v1MTs-Qy1zQhIrq1uTajSj8h/tumblr_lxz6daqHCU1qll1ero1_500.jpg). Rest in Peace B.B.

In case people were curious:

[Albert](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdDRCIEEZ3w)

[Freddie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiUPyrMA78Q) Can we have a conversation about Lucille?
What happens to her when he passes?
 Saw him play in 2012. Had a bad memory, couldn't really stand, and the show lasted maybe 35 minutes, but goddamn, he could still play. He still had it. He played with a pretty crazy amount of gain.  The dude is in his 80's, he made wonderful music, and I am sure he has lived a great life.  Saw him twice about a year apart, maybe 3 and 4 years ago. The decline in that year even was noticeable. I'm glad I got to see him, but even his last album is about preparing his grave. Some people are just ready to go.

Buddy Guy blew me away though. First time I saw BB was at the Schaefer Beer Music Festival in Central Park in 1974 I believe. Sitting in a tree watching the band, smoking a doob. God bless you BB. We love  you.  I heard BB at his NYC club, and it was literally one of the highlights of my life, surpassing other now-legendary performances.  The perfect balance of the King and the bands and his tone throughout...unmatched.  BB has probably the best live guitar sound of all time, sorry to those who missed it, because you can't really understand the magnitude of the man without having been face-to-face and ear-to-ear with him.  BB's realness is his soul, it cannot be transcribed onto a record, the blues must live in him and in us forever.

I vow to honor BB when I get the chance, not just on a dumb reddit coment.  I can't really describe what I feel in words anyway, if you'll forgive me.

BB: the *ne plus ultra* of the blues.   Very sad. The finest storyteller I have ever heard. I had the pleasure of seeing him in the late 90s, Lucille in hand, at a very small venue. I treasure the memory as one of my favorite shows of all time. The man is a legend, a bard, and an entertainer extraordinaire. Heaven is going to be so much cooler when he earns his wings. Thank you, Mr King.  He was my first concert. I was about 7 I believe, it was an outdoor concert that my dad took me to. I really wish I remembered more specifics about it now, but I do remember thinking he was fantastic, and he shaped many of my music choices. A man finds joy in learning and performing music. He spreads joy wherever he goes. He lives a long and happy life. He has time near the end to say goodbye and 'I love you' to those who matter. 

That's not sad. That's poetic.  Hope he can leave this world comfortably. Thank you for everything Mr. King. Rt claims another.  I gaaaaaave you seven children and now you want to get them back As cheesy as it sounds, I'm hoping that he is buried holding Lucille. We will miss you BB.  Why is this sad?

The man lived an incredible, fulfilling, and downright lucky life. Whats sad are the people that dont.  After seeing Buddy Guy (twice), B.B. was next on my list of greats to see. I'm greatly saddened about his health. He was a cornerstone for all music in the past 70 years. There's no denying that his condition is serious and that unfortunately it's unlikely he'll ever improve, however as someone who used to work for hospice there's no reason to mourn him just yet. I've seen many patients live on hospice care for months if not years and still have many wonderful and fulfilling days where they're just bursting with life. I'm sure Mr. King is probably one of those people as well. The word 'legend' is overused nowadays. 

In this case it's appropriate. 

Thanks for everything.  I was privileged to have seen him play a few years back in one of the most acoustically perfect venues around these parts.  Wish all the best for BB and his family. It really is a stormy monday Nice pun! God Bless Him. With love, from West Palm Beach. BB has played at the facility I work at on several occasions. He is, by far, the most cool and down to earth guy you could ever meet. Not one single sliver of ego or contempt-for-the-little-people to be found. Back in the early 2000's, I was a stage manager at a concert venue and set up for a B.B. King show. It was probably the biggest named artist that my crew was responsible for nearly the entire set up. We used all our house sound gear and all the equipment was backline(rental gear) which was not usual for an artist of his caliber. He traveled pretty light, the only equipment he carried was Lucille and his amp.
      We had everything set and ready for soundcheck by the time his crew arrived, and they were very impressed with how spot on of a set up we did, and relayed that to Mr. King. He was so pleased that he invited my crew and I backstage to hang out after the show. Such a genuinely nice guy, which was also not usual for an artist of his caliber. You COULD be sad.. or you could reflect back on all the great, no wait.. legendary, music he played and smile instead. 
 Saw him at jazz fest 2-3 years ago in the big tent. Best concert I've ever seen, he had masterful stage presence even at 87 I went to go see him in 1998 or 99 cause I wanted to before I couldnt again. 

And here he was still touring into 2014... 

I hope that the rest of BB's days are easy ones, if theres 1 or 1000 left. A sad day indeed. I'm privileged to have seen him play live more than a few times over the years. He was truly a gifted guitarist and a soulful player. I hope his last moments are peaceful.  TIL Most people in here do not know what hospice is I saw B.B's show in Dublin many years ago. (When love came to town) A truly great team! To this day the most solid performers I've ever encountered. That drummer of his was pure magic. Listen to his fills during the fade at the end of Hummingbird and tell me it doesn't make the hair stand up :o Back in the 70s 80s BB King used to regularly play gigs at the River Queen in downtown Grand Forks, North Dakota.  This nodak girl's intro to the blues, what a lesson.

I wish peace for him, his family and us all. I loved when he would play in Indianola and you could hear him from my grandparent's front porch. Best part of the summer. If you're ever in the neighborhood check out the BB King museum. It's worth the walk through. I was just talking to a few friends about making a painting based on B.B. Kings songs and few days ago and then I hear this sad story.. 

May his last days be blessed with family and friends love and definitely will be paying tribute to him. 

Blues Legend always  Love me some blues so this is incredibly sad news. But then if I live to be 89 I'd say I had a pretty good life. I'm sure he would agree too. Why is this sad? He's aged and lived his life.  Celebrate what he's done not what he's become.    You know full well why it's sad. Why do people ask this?  
You're allowed to be sad  I am happy for him and very thankful that he opened his heart to us thru his music. Warts and all he is a beautiful man.  Don't cry because it's over,  
smile because it happened.  
-Dr. Suess I had an opportunity to see BB King in Washington DC back in about 1991. Unfortunately I was violently ill for a few days before (and after) the show and wasn't able to attend. I've not been in the right place at the right time to see BB King since, which I'm absolutely gutted about. Of all the musicians I would have loved to have seen play live, BB King is the one. Years ago I was in Crestview, FL, on my way to visit my in laws on New Years Eve.  Had been working all day and hadn't stopped, so on my way I figured I'd stop in and grab something.  It was about 11:30 PM at this point.  Whataburger was kinda new to the area, plus I had to pee so I went inside.  As I was waiting for my stuff, a big, jolly, black guy (looked kinda like Huell from Breaking Bad) opened both the doors and said, "Hey we gonna ring in the new year witcha!"...and behind him you could see a big tour bus in the parking lot and a bunch of other guys walking right behind him...and one of those guys was BB King.  I couldn't believe it.  Got to shake his hand and tell him how much Ioved his work, he smiled, and wished me a Happy New Year.  Seemed like he loved what he was doing, out on the road with his boys, and loving every minute.   Makes me sad to see this now, but I wish the man peace in his passing, and his legacy and art will live on forever! I had the privilege of seeing B.B. in 2005 at the House of Blues in Atlantic City. It was one of my first concerts and we waited in line for the doors to open and got a place right in front of the stage. It was close to his 80th birthday and a lot of his family was there and brought out a cake for him on stage. Kenny Wayne Shepherd opened for him and after BB's set, he invited Kenny back out to the stage and they played until 2 AM. I still have a shirt from that show and even though it doesn't fit anymore I'll never throw it out. That night holds a special place in my heart and I feel lucky to have a memory of BB as cool as that.  One of the greatest guitarists to grace us with his unparalleled vibrato and overall feel. I'll be raising a glass of whiskey while listening to your music King. Cheers We at least he had a chance to say good bye I met him after his show at a casino in NY in 2007. Very friendly man to myself and my family. I was 12/13 at the time. I am lucky to see him live, i'm 25 years old and my heart fell to the ground right now as i read this, one of my favorite blues musician and a huge influence to my guitar playing. I really liked Winston's quote.  

&gt;"We dont want to be part of some Tidal 'streaming revolution' nor do we want to be Taylor Swift and be anti-it. I dont understand her argument, either... This is how people are going to listen to music now  streaming. So diversify as a band. It doesnt mean selling your songs to adverts. We look at our albums as standalone pieces of art, and also as adverts for our live shows."


EDIT: [Here's the original interview article from The Daily Beast.](http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2015/04/12/mumford-sons-diss-jay-z-s-tidal.html) I 100% agree with the "advert for the live shows", I agree so much there. My fav example is Kendrick. Wasn't a huge Kendrick fan, but the idea of screaming YAKYAKYAK made me want to happily drop 100$ on a good concert seat.

Basically, this streaming culture may change the industry to be more about experiencing the music live. I think that's where the money's going to be, the industry has changed so much, but live music is still here and thriving.  The problem is that it's the up and coming and not so popular artists who are getting cheated the most and they are hardly being represented by their Millionaire peers. The primary goal of up-and-coming artists is being heard, and with how many people use Spotify it makes sense to be available there. As a listener, I use Spotify for convenience. As a musician, I use Spotify because listeners use it for convenience. This is what people don't understand: years ago, they wouldn't even have been heard. Now, with the same technology that is responsible for so many artists even getting a chance is being blamed for taking money out of the pockets of the very same artists.

Neil Young said it best: (paraphrasing) when the internet started out, I didn't get torrenting or streaming. I figured it was theft. But then it hit me: the internet is the new radio.

This is so true, but the internet "radio" is far larger and more diverse and provides opportunities to far more people to be successful. I could be wrong about this but didn't artists used to get paid royalties when their songs were played on radio?  So it wasn't just a way to advertise their albums and concerts but they made money that way too.  Also, I am old enough to remember when concerts were actually considered to be adverts for the albums not the other way round :) Yes, but the same is said for streaming. I think the point is that your "audience" is, in theory, limited to the number of human beings with an internet connection. So the negatives of some people being able to listen to your music for nothing should be offset by the increased number of people willing to pay for it.

What is happening now, is everyone is benefiting from the increased sets of ears, and are wrongly thinking that every listen is someone that would have paid were it not for torrenting/streaming. But this isn't true at all. The artists were never paid, only the song writers and publishers. They are fighting to change that...

http://www.billboard.com/articles/business/6531693/fair-play-fair-pay-act-performance-royalty-radio

But that's only the tip of the iceberg. Macklemore once stated that one of the biggest burdens of entry in the music industry was that they had to pay radio stations to play their songs.

http://raprehab.com/macklemores-indie-rise-is-simply-a-white-lie/ still do get paid royalties The royalties artists receive from most streaming services are nowhere near the statutory rates that they'd get from radio. Royalties per play or per listener? If you're talking about the amount artists get per play, then you're correct. If you're talking about the royalties per listener, then online streaming nets a much higher gain. 

The issue with comparing online streaming to radio is that radio was station-curated while online streaming is listener-driven. An individual artist has an incredibly low chance of ever being played on any radio station. An individual artist has a very high chance of being played online. 

The per-play compensation comparison of radio to streaming is outdated and no longer relevant in a world where individual listeners are choosing what is played in their own listening stream.  Radio is still playing you know Radio doesn't play up and coming garage bands until they're worth playing so they never got royalties. 

By putting your music on a streaming service you can at least be heard and garner a tiny amount, instead of not being heard and getting nothing.  Years ago artists were heard, but it happened differently.
The cassette deck and the ability to record and share tapes was probably a major factor in the punk movement. There was a huge music scene centered around teenagers with no musical training playing at dive bars who made absolutely no money doing it. Spotify is like netflix. Both are reasonably priced and convenient. That's why I pay for both. Are you the Aerocity of the Aerocity Music Forums? _ Reddit background check initiated. Did he pass? I don't want to do the leg work, Bro.  I gave his profile an ocular pat down and cleared him. He's ok. I couldn't even tell how scared you were! I agree with you, but the primary goal of Tidal has been billed as a company that will create a more even playing field for all artists and I've yet to see anything that supports this claim for young and up and coming artists. I've gotten SO many more people to listen to my music because it's on Spotify than if I sold physical albums. I don't even care about the money, I just want people to hear me.  I live in Columbus OH and a lot of artists that really should be in big venues come through smaller ones here. I'd say at about 50-75% of them I come to catch the opener and end up saving them on Spotify to check out later. If it wasn't that convenient half the time I'd forget to check the note on my phone and miss out. Who are you? I'll take a listen if you tell us. Thanks. Well, I'm not like big at all. When I said I got a lot more listeners, I mean like a couple hundred rather than just like five people. But if you search "Andrew Harris EP" on Spotify, my music will come up.  You've got a good attitude.

Your music on Spotify?  If so, PM me and I'll give it a listen. Better yet, if you feel comfortable, shamelessly post it here. This thread is full of spotify users that I'm sure would be willing to give it a listen! Youtube is the new MTV It's a really wild ride for up and coming artists these days.  They're in a transitional period between the old and new and nobody really knows how it will play out ultimately.  But I wouldn't say they're getting cheated anymore than they have in the past.  It's easier to get recognition these days and monetize your music without the help of a major label.  But on the flip side it's harder to become a major act with lasting power.

I'd also say the deals that artists get these days is better than some of the ones they got back in the "heyday" of music.  Signing to a major label only to be left with crippling debt because of their advances that you could never afford to pay back. From the linked article:

&gt;"However, Mumford did add that the music industry is more democratic than it was in the past. He stated: "Smaller bands have a better opportunity in the music industry now than theyve ever had, because you dont need to have a record deal to have your music listened to worldwide. Its democratised the music industry." You just need enough money to pay a plugger, a press guy, or be very, very lucky to be noticed amidst all of the "hottest band of the hour" blogs there are these days... It depends on what your goals are. If you just want to make music and make a decent living at it then no you don't need all of that. One of my best friends has been making music since a teenager never been popular got 1 song with airtime on about a dozen stations about 5 years ago but makes a good living as a full time musician. He does corporate gigs and is paid to play at restaurants and clubs all over the US. It's easier than ever to make a good living as a musician but because of that there are a lot more so you will have fewer and fewer mega stars which is a good thing. If you can find yourself 10,000 super dedicated fans in anything you do you can make a good living with it.  totally agree... I've been lucky and made a living doing music for the last 10+ years... it is never not a grind, but if you're happy to work hard and adapt with the times it's doable...

and in the end I'd rather be happy and living frugally than have a bit more cash and work a job I hate... Well, I don't think he's saying it's perfect but there is absolutely no question it is easier today to access music than it ever has been before. For example the movement of electronic artists on Soundcloud is truly incredible. Artists can essentially publish their own music and have a direct link with consumers. A simple "recast" on soundcloud can make someone's career.

My friend's band uploaded his first EP on to Bandcamp, and started touring. They reached out to friends and got their stuff into smaller blogs. Soon after they were #1 in the region. They continued touring and one year later were signed to Warner Bros. 

Even in my personal experience, I used to buy CDs (too young for records or anything), and I would get about a cd per month, and just listen to that for the month. Then I started downloading music, hoarding a huge collection in my iTunes. Now, I use Spotify and soundcloud for everything and I have diversified my listening more than ever before. I can also afford to listen to artists I previously couldn't. CDs or iTunes albums cost about $10. Spotify gives me constant access to millions of songs for $10 a month.  &gt; A simple "recast" on soundcloud can make someone's career.

Yup. My fraternity brother remixed a Skrillex track and Tweeted the Soundcloud link to him. Skrillex put it on a mixtape and published it on Spotify. And he played Coachella a few days ago. 

His career went from 0 to crazy all because of social media and free streaming. 

Yes, he got very lucky. But it was also very low effort to be heard. If Skrillex wanted to promote my friend's music in years past he'd have to actually invest time and money in physical materials to put out a CD. Now he can give a huge leg up to no-name artists without any risk to himself by simply plugging them online. It's pretty amazing. 

[**Here's the track that made it all happen.**](http://www.thefader.com/2014/11/20/skrillex-ease-my-mind-jai-wolf-remix) Or just spam the hell out of Reddit with [links to your album.](https://open.spotify.com/album/2gMycgcP39btpYsBBuwOF7)

For the record (ha!) it isn't ideal and doesn't seem to work well. Insert Rampart reference. "Cheated" how? 20 years ago, a local Portland band had close to a zero percent chance of EVER being heard in NYC. Now, they can get on Spotify and their music will pop up in streams for people all over the place.  Yeah I'm lost as to why people argue it's harder. 

In the past you had to get an album, get it in stores AND then people had to listen. 

I'm out of touch as fuck,  but the amount of awesome music I've found using Spotify,  sound cloud and twitter is awesome. Very little of it on major labels. I'm not sure what cut they get out of that but it's at least about the same if I had never heard of them I'd argue that it's miles easier to get recognition these days. You used to rely on touring around the country to get your name out. Now if a reputable music blog/channel uploads your stuff, it's available to millions of people "Reach" and "notice" are wildly different things, though. Yes, a blog/channel can upload your stuff, but it's being uploaded with thousands upon thousands of other artists' stuff. For the lucky few who get noticed, it's incredible. For the tens of thousands who get lost in the shuffle, it's hardly any better.

To paraphrase Yahtzee Croshaw, it's a little like tossing a message in a bottle into an ocean comprised entirely of messages in bottles.  With all the digital venues and methods to listen to music, there are tons of people who compile playlists and co-promote artists and work.

Soundcloud has brought me to 10x the number of artists that I listen to regularly as compared to when I used Pandora. Pandora was 10x the amount I used to get trolling Kazaa or whatever was playing on MTV/Fuse before that.

I don't know just how inundated the industry is, but I know I am listening to way more music than ever before because of how easy it is for me to be by a computer or hook my phone up to my car. I'd say the ocean got bigger and there are more people fishing than ever before. Cheated?  Music is an art.  If you are getting into music for money, your going to have a bad fucking time.  Be happy to get booked at live shows and be able to express yourself artistically.  If you can't get booked, it's not because you're being cheated, it's because you probably aren't that good. &gt;Basically, this streaming culture may change the industry to be more about experiencing the music live.

Back when the industry was dominated by music labels that took just about everything, the artists earned most of their money on live shows. This modern shift to the internet was heralded as the means by which artists could take charge of their own distribution and stop handing over their earnings to the record labels. Instead, the internet has created a handful of streaming giants like Spotify that have become the new record labels, claiming most of the money from distribution, and once again leaving artists in a position where they have to make most of their money from live shows. 

Meet the new boss, same as the old boss. You have to appreciate the irony of this.  Well said. I'll say this. Thanks to Spotify I've been introduced to a ton of new artists I would have never gone out looked for. It's broadened my musical taste. I go to a lot more shows now. 

One week in seeing Pig Destroyer the next week I'm seeing Astronautalis or Koji. Artists I had no idea about a few years ago.  Can I confess something to you guys?

I don't give a *hoot* about live music, and I think a *lot* of people are exactly like me.  Music isn't a large part of my life -- it merely scores my daily activities.  It's something to fill my ears when I'm driving/coding/"working out"/gaming/etc.

People like me used to have to fork over all kinds of cash (or tolerate advertisements via radio), but now I can spend a small monthly amount and get *way more* music than what was (legally) available to me.

And that's probably all I'll contribute.  They basically *lost* access to my wallet, and again, I suspect I'm part of (at least) a large portion of music consumers.  That's what bothers the music industry, and what's keeping them up at night.  That's the fear they're responding to -- they lost most of my money, and they're pissed/scared/nervous about how that will effect them.

There is going to be fewer wallets filling the pool of available cash for the entire industry.  Will that result in lower revenue for the music industry?  Maybe not, if they can convince the diehard fans to subsidize the casuals. I'm mostly of the same mind as you on that. Pre-downloadable music, I'd probably spend $20-$30 a month on albums, more if there was new stuff from bands I liked. 

Once Napster was a thing (and all that followed) I'd still buy the albums if the whole album was good, but I no longer had to pay $5-20 for the chance to listen to anything that wasn't on the radio. 

Now with all the monthly subscription options, I don't even buy an occasional album. It's out, I have access to it immediately, and my music budget is always $8 a month. $20-$30 a month spent on music actually puts you in the extremely high end of the population. 

&gt;At the 1999 peak of the recorded music market, about $40 billion of recorded music was sold. How much did the average consumer spend per year on recorded music? Hundreds of dollars? Nope. At the time, according to the music trade group International Federation for the Phonographic Industry, across the total 18-and-over population (both across many countries or individually within one), the average amount spent came to $28 per consumer.

http://recode.net/2014/03/18/the-price-of-music/

So a $10 a month Spotify subscription is going to turn that average consumer fromt the absolute peak of the industry into a customer that's more than 4x as valuable to the industry. Artists and rights holders should not be pushing people back to purchases and away from streaming. They should be promoting streaming services that will pay them forever based on plays rather than the one time payment from a sale. Um, lol? You cherry picked the opening paragraph of that article and then ignored the rest of it that clarifies that the $28 is *all* consumers, not just music buyers, and that the yearly spending average has been on a downward trend since 99.

Literally the next paragraphs after your quote:
&gt;But that includes people who did not buy any music that year. If we look at just the consumers who bought music, they spent $64 on average that year. And that was at a time when one had to buy a bundle of 12 songs in the form of a CD in order to get access to just one or two. What has happened since?

&gt;Once the bundle broke, the average spending per consumer decreased. This is predictable, since bundles artificially raise the amount of total dollars a consumer spends.

And then from further down:

&gt;But the one retailer on the planet who would really know what consumer are willing to spend on recorded digital music today is Apple. The largest music retailer in the world, their data is very consistent  about $12 per iTunes account per quarter is spent on music, or about $48 per year.

And all of that ignores the business model of streaming services. Back with CDs, there were fewer hands in the pot between artist and consumer. Now, at a minimum, there is artist and service provider, but in most cases, artist, label, and service. They're charging the consumer less for access to the content, and then they're taking that fee and splitting it more ways. It makes sense that, for the big name artists who already have the exposure and following, streaming through itunes or google play or sportify or whoever is not a great model. &gt;Um, lol?

Not at all.

&gt; If we look at just the consumers who bought music, they spent $64 on average that year.

That's still half of an annual Spotify subscription. Getting average music subscribers to sign up for a subscription service would take recorded music revenues to *double* what they were at the highest point ever. This is where the focus should be, but humans in power are really bad at seeing the long term picture.

&gt;Back with CDs, there were fewer hands in the pot between artist and consumer.

Also not true at all. The streaming service takes the place of the physical retailer (coincidentally instantly removing the physical product shipping fees). The whole supply chain from songwriter to finished product is still there if you're doing it the major label way, and is significantly smaller if you try to do it on your own (which was next to impossible back in the day).

&gt;then they're taking that fee and splitting it more ways

Nope again. If we're only talking about the streaming service and not the whole musical supply chain (which has not grown and has in fact shrunk in most cases as revenues fell and it was streamlined out of necessity): *Spotify and most other services pay out 70% of all revenues, which is the same as iTunes and much much higher than the old days when the wholesale price on a CD was about $11 and the retailer sold it for $17+*. 

That money is divided by all songs streamed and payed out accordingly to the rightsholders. So if artists want more money, they need to negotiate better deals with whomever holds their copyrights, or they need to drive more paying customers to the services so the pie is bigger, or they just need to get more streams so they get a bigger piece of the pie. This is basically what happened with porn, with obvious differences.

Pre-pornhub/youporn/tubesites paysites were the only place to get quality content, sure there were torrents etc but those were a small percentage. So paysite owners and affiliates were literally swimming in money from 95 to 06 or so.

Then tubes happened and the guys that just wanted to get their nut off in 3 minutes and didn't care if it was 1080p with surround sound promptly cancelled all subscriptions to paysites and now 90% of the human population doesn't spend a penny on porn.

The difference between the porn and the music/film industry is that it's taboo to even talk about it so the industry is left to basically die a slow death and consumers rejoice. 

Once the Mindgeek owned production companies are the only ones left producing porn and everyone gets tired of the same 50 chicks sucking the same dick it'll be interesting to see how the consumers react. &gt; and everyone gets tired of the same 50 chicks sucking the same dick 

Will never happen. I dont know man, it makes sense what you're saying and all but there's new sites up all the time and new chicks going in the business, there's obviously profit to be had. I can't get past how expensive live music is. I was talking to a guy today who paid $150 for a Garth Brooks ticket. WTF? I spent $30 for a Lalapalooza 3 ticket with a whole raft of huge bands. How are young people supposed to afford to go see musicians live if this is the kind of prices they are charging? I can see this causing a drop in demand in the future when people don't see a benefit to a live show. You said "Garth Brooks" and then asked how young people could afford it!


But really, older bands do have higher ticket prices. Especially older bands that DO appeal to all age groups, like area floor front rows for Black Sabbath and Roger Waters were over 200 each I think. If they don't price em that high scalpers will, there's just so much demand, prices drop for upper levels and stuff too.

Bands that generally only appeal to young people you're looking at 90 tickets unless they're the super of the superstar acts. He's rarely touring anymore and still had a major following. While I understand and agree with your point, you can see why certain rarer (or perceived rare) acts upcharge. Because they can.  Young people generally aren't going to see Garth Brooks. His tickets are that expensive because his demographic is middle to upper middle class parents. Most people are paying $50 for Warped Tour or some other festival that the ticket prices often are of little consequence because there are so many bands playing. I know I've found a good many little bands through going to concerts like this. I suppose that's an issue, but it's not like being able to purchase music to listen to was the traditional way that artists made money and survived. What was that section of history, 60-70 years? Music has been around a wee bit longer than that.  It used to be live shows were adverts for albums. I think that's kind of funny. I was at Pitchfork in Chicago last summer when he performed. 10/10 he performed Good Kid/Maad city and had the whole crowd repeating the YAKYAKYAK part. 

Schoolboy Q went up earlier that day and did Gangsta, with his YAP YAPYAP YAPYAP YAP part. A lot of nonsense was chanted that day.  God, what amazing shows. That was my second time seeing Kendrick with the first being a $15 show at my university in 2012. It gave me chills to see how far he'd come! Cincinnati? And what about the songwriters and producers who don't make real money on live performances? That's what bothers me about Tidal and some of these services. First of al Tidal comes in claiming to be better for the artist (which unless people are streaming high resolution, I'm not sure it's that much better than spotify?), but what about the writers and producers that wrote your music? Aside from deadmau5, im not sure that anyone on that panel writes there own music 100%? 

Don't get me wrong, I'm a streamer. I believe that it's the future of music listening and recognize that people don't want to pay for albums anymore. But are we maybe sacrificing the quality of music by not letting the writers get paid?  Yawk yawk is schoolboy's thing, even though it got popular thru maad city. Just thought I'd clarify  His point was that it made the song though.  When you hear that in maad city there's a really strong desire to want to see it live.  


Which is very true, can't wait to see Kendrick for the first time st roo this year, it is gonna be so hype! [YAWK YAWK YAWK YAWK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wgt3lXc6IM) As someone who knows nothing about the song or artist, that mostly appears to be a large group of people performing for one man. Swift makes more money by not streaming.  They did the math.

I don't have the link but it was something like the conversion of listeners to album sales plus streaming revenue was less than the number of people who would just buy the album or the songs they liked because they're not available otherwise, despite having fewer listeners overall.

Basically, she doesn't need word of mouth so streaming doesn't net her more revenue as it would for smaller bands or big bands with smaller fanbases. And it helps when she's one of the most popular celebrities in the world and all her songs get played to death on the radio. Seriously there's like 5 tswift songs on regular rotation at my work. I don't think people get that artists make pennies off their album sales unless they produce it all themselves. The record labels make all that money. There is a reason why Winston said their albums are adverts for their shows, it's because that's where they get a huge chunk of their money. That's why streaming apps like Spotify are there for exposure.  Taylor Swift owns a stake in Tidal.... BRB going to listen to Mumford &amp; Sons for the first time.  Hope you like banjos. [Obligatory Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lJNYxpEAh68) Fucking nailed it.  [semi-relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t-guTCmbIIs) [Not anymore!](http://www.gq-magazine.co.uk/entertainment/articles/2015-03/9/listen-mumford-and-sons-new-single-believe-no-banjo-wilder-mind) I'm not really a fan of M&amp;S, but it was kind a breath of fresh air that they got as popular as they did. With pop music dominating the industry, it was cool to see an actual band that wrote their own songs and performed their own songs live to get the popularity they did.  Wait, you mean there are people out there that DON'T like banjos?! Oh no, not banjos! If he said metallica, should I say "hope you like guitars" ? Yeah, kinda. They are so right. Hell, I like some of the artist that were at the tidal press conference, but the whole thing was just so ridiculously cringeworthy, I couldn't bear to watch it longer then 5 min. Millionaires talking about how new, struggeling artists are suffering from cheap streaming services.. ugh.  well the cringeworthiness was that they didnt show ANY of these artists they talked about. They should be there at the meeting with arms around them, hearing their plight and addressing it. The whole thing seemed so exclusive and cut-off from reality.

It's like, imagine the mission was getting some food to starving kids and the video if of all these fat motherfuckers at a 5-star buffet talking about how they are going to help them, all while stuffing their faces with turkey legs Holy shit. I couldn't quite put my finger on what I thought was so offputting and dismaying about it. You however nailed it. 

It seems like a big budget public relations stunt more than anything else.  That fucking press conference, man. I remember seeing the 'teaser' for it and thought to myself 'what the fuck is this shit'.
Everyone was hugging each other with solemn looks on their faces like they all just got diagnosed with cancer or something. 

They're making more money in a year than most people will ever make in their lifetime and they're trying to act like they're being short-changed by streaming services. Fucking disgusting.  Agreed.  I won't be listening to daft punk for a while.  Daft punk disappointed me most Wow, and Arcade Fire and Kanye, apparently.  That's disgusting. They signed a "charter". They signed it like it meant something - I can assure you it's completely void of meaning. The whole thing is a pompous, masturbatory joke. Embarrassing is an understatement. I don't know if I'd say that "embarrassing is an understatement." So few people care now and that number will quickly plunge. In a few months it'll simply be a footnote on their wiki pages, honestly.

The idea that higher bitrates (which most of the population doesn't care about, and the effects of which are dubious at best, especially compared to mixing and mastering, which Tidal doesn't address) and an artist-owned model are going to beat out "free" and "ridiculously vast library" models like Spotify, Pandora, Slacker, etc. is pretty funny. You have to be delusional to think that's gonna work. When they plunge this much pomp and circumstance, and money, into something so poorly thought out and basically doomed from the start...  
But I see what you're saying - it's not like they can't afford it. But from a business perspective - holy shit. Oh, it's definitely doomed from the start. It's a terrible idea. I just don't think anyone cares enough for it to be more than mildly embarrassing, which is a pretty bitter damnation in itself. Except for the part where they don't want to actually want to take on the other streaming services. They just want to get big enough to be bought out by one of the other big players.  Yep. Jay Z saw the money Dre made with the Beats acquisition and I guarantee he is making a very similar play with Tidal. He's all about making a deal, look what he did with his Nets ownership when he sold it in 2013. 140+% return on investment, not bad. They had to know people would realize how ridiculous the whole thing was and maybe expected to gain press that way or are they really that delusional to think that people care about millionaires making more money? Their fans might care. I think they were trying to use their name recognition. Many people don't really care about non-millionaires making more money. What do you think is going to get people's attention, "hey support struggling artists!" or "hey Jay Z, kanye, daft punk, and all those other people you know and like are making a music service, check it out!"? If they want to create a streaming service that is run in the interest of the artists, they either need to set it up like a credit union, or a non profit organisation. Deadmau5 actually mentioned this in his stream. Said it was stupid that a table full of billionaires talking about how they are their for the struggling artists.  

He even flat out said he only joined to have control of his music not to pretend to be part of a cause. Deadmau5 ranted on Twitch about his stance on the whole Tidal thing since he's involved with the company. He signed on because he was frustrated that record labels were the middle man in how much money your track on streaming services and they would always screw you over in those deals.  
He realized how shitty the video was made to make it seem like some over the top, culty video with millionaires in one room and acknowledged everyone being pissed at that -- he seemed pretty frustrated like "yeah it totally looks like that, my bad". He *said* there wont be exclusive tracks but I honestly doubt that. Who's going to be paying that much money for a subscription, its laughable honestly. No shit it's all for the wealthy artists. The tidal promotional video was the biggest circle jerk I've ever seen. They acted like they were changing the world. No you're not. You're just making a little more money for yourself. And everybody else is going to continue to torrent like always.  [Wow, you weren't kidding...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYYGdcLbFkw) So pretentious! Man. I had a feeling that even the most successful musicians generally know very little about the business side of things, but this video confirms it. They keep blabbering about what people want, without realizing the simple truth that consumers want unlimited access to the music they love for the cheapest price possible. It's just basic econ in a capitalist society. All the fluff about bringing human art back to the people is just distracting. They act like technology is the enemy, when the only real enemy is supply/demand. Tech plays a big part in that, but it's pointless to fight unless your grand plan is to completely change how the Internet works.

I'm not questioning any of these artists' intelligence, but it makes sense if you dedicate your whole life to art and music, you're not going to be great at business. As much success as Jay-Z has had, I feel his efforts at forming a cartel in the music industry are severely misguided/short-sighted. There will always be artists like M&amp;S who don't want to be part of their club, and listeners will obviously gravitate toward the cheaper option. His scheme can work in the short-term, but it's ultimately doomed by the forces of supply/demand. Honestly, most of the musicians that were on that stage didn't make music, they made target marketed product. It felt so ironic when Madonna started taking about putting art back to the front. Yeah sure, the singer who just went with the flow in order to maximize profits for the last decade is definitely interested in the art... Basically they're about to become what the record execs at the major labels were. "Changing the game" so 20-odd superstars can control it. Sounds like record companies in the latter half of the 20th century, no? Why would daft punk wear their helmet to a business meeting  Tidal exists solely as an attempt to strong-arm Apple into an acquisition - It's a brilliant pump an dump scheme by Jay Z &amp; Co.   
Here's how it's gonna go down -  
The Tidal artists that can, will start putting exclusive content on Tidal for streaming. Apple can't ignore them because that is the strategy they are going to use to get traction for whatever they turn Beats into.  
Instead of trying to lock down streaming rights to each individual artist Apple can just buy Tidal and get them all.  
Jay Z laid out about $56mil to buy Tidal, will sell for around $1b.  
Bam about 18x return on investment. Jay Z is a fucking genius.
 Despite the altruistic posturing, anyone with half a brain knows that Jay Z isn't going to be involved in any venture that doesn't make Jay Z more money.  Sadly this is probably pretty accurate.

The sad part is that I wish I had thought of it first. And had $56 mil to do it.

I mean, if WhatsApp was worth $18 bil... then.... And Jay-Z's clout to get the artists on there. Kinda need that part too. Who says I'm not Snoop Dogg? Or an equally .... clouty.. person... Do you even clout bro And Jimmy Shoes will do it with a smile on his face - now he doesn't have to run around and kiss (hostile) record company ass.  
This whole thing is giving me huge amount of respect for Jay Z (if this was actually his plan). Slippin Jimmy! 19 billion dan, 19 billion.

http://pando.com/2014/02/24/whatsapp-bought-for-19-billion-what-do-its-employees-get/ [deleted] Misleading customers and artists all for the sake of propping up a company to make a quick buck="good business head". Merica. not merica. capitalism Synonyms. What's misleading about it? I'm sure the rest of the artists would be in on it, and the customers will get the product they are paying for while it is available. Starting a company because of a favorable business climate with the intent to sell it is indeed good business sense. business = profit margin 

business != morals/ethics

anyone who wants to act like these businesses are "bad" for acting solely on profit are ignoring that the entire point of being a business is to profit in the most profitable way possible. I don't blame them for that, I blame us for not actually giving a damn enough to reject their products. Instead we yell and scream, then give them our money anyways.

it is our job and the government's job to force businesses to align with the ethics and morals we see as important. If they aren't aligned with us on those issues, it is our fault. So people should boycott the artists who exclusively sign up for Titan is what you are saying. idc what you do, my comment wasn't directed towards Titan exclusively but towards the comment that businesses needed to be moral/ethical.

In the end, support your artists directly. Buy their apparel, see them live, hell email them and ask if you can buy their CD through them personally. Going through corporate entities to try and "support" your favorite artist just means that whatever you give will be chopped in half before being split again and some pittance is given to your artist in comparison to your initial payed price. If you're looking at it from the business' perspective. You could easily argue the purpose of a business is to provide for customers, not simply maximize profits.

Some (not many) businesses do in fact put customers and service over profits. Putting customers first is a long term strategy.  Businesses that don't put enough emphasis on profits don't survive long. I seriously doubt Apple will drop the cash for Tidal nor is the exclusive content going to hurt their income. Apple at the moment has *too much* cash lying around and will have to buy something expensive soon to satisfy shareholders even if it doesn't need anything. Shareholders don't like companies that just pile up their cash reserves for no apparent reason. Yeah, that argument's been around for years. But shareholders also understand that large amount of cash can be used to lock down large supplies for new products and shift production if something goes awry with one producer. Up to a point. You are not using $200 billion to lock down a supply chain. They need to find something to invest some of this money in, shareholders are OK with the massive stock buy back program they have going right now but there are a lot of people who think it should be used for acquisitions instead.  "Oh no, we are getting rich as fuck!" "But we could get even richer! Moar moar moar!!!!!!!!" They just dropped the Watch and the new MacBook. I'm sure the shareholders are content for a bit at least.

There are rumors floating around of what Apple is looking to do (I've heard car for so long but that seems a bit extreme) but I seriously doubt Tidal will be worth the cash to them.  You know they have 150 billion lying around, right? They'll hardly be hurting over $1b to secure some of the biggest artists for iTunes and Beats Music  I'm going to have to disagree, Apple just overpaid ($500MM) for Beats (the streaming part was valued at that in the acquisition) specifically to be able to enter into the market, they wouldn't be able to justify anywhere near that amount of money (in acquisition of Tidal) to the board.  I also don't think Tidal will take off in the way that you're assuming it will.  Apple has a lot of ability to bully/persuade artists to upload their own unique content.

The reality is that there seems to be a race to the bottom with streaming services.  They (perhaps incorrectly) assume that in order for a person to subscribe to a service they'll need the critical mass that will mean exclusive content.  Apple can get more streaming rights than Tidal, think of the backing power.  Tidal is the same thing with a different name, I mean, even the design is a total ripoff.  The amount of people who can benefit from streaming FLAC is very low, now, maybe they can sell it idk.  But any service can stream in FLAC as easily (perhaps more easily due to .mp3 licensing fees) as .mp3, its just more expensive (bandwidth).

All of the common streaming companies seem to want to move toward IPO and pass off inevitable losses to public shareholders.  Its a shame and its sad.   Apple already bought Beats, they don't need tidal. They already have streaming rights.  Artists (or really their labels in most cases) can choose to sign a deal with each individual streaming service, or not. Apple doesn't "have streaming rights" to all music
 everywhere. No but they have just as much streaming rights as Tidal. Go for yourself and compare Beats Music's catalog to Tidals, they're the same.  For now, sure. But what about when Jay-Z, Beyonce, Madonna, Usher, Rihanna, Jack White, Daft Punk, and Arcade Fire all stop releasing their new music on Beats and Spotify? I'm assuming you don't exactly get an ownership slice if you keep putting your music out on competitors' platforms. &gt; But what about when Jay-Z, Beyonce, Madonna, Usher, Rihanna, Jack White, Daft Punk, and Arcade Fire all stop releasing their new music on Beats and Spotify? 

Then I'll just start torrenting again. I pay for Spotify because it's more convenient to legally obtain music through them than it is to go torrent the stuff I want. If you make it inconvenient to listen to the music I like, I'll just start illegally downloading it again.  You're not getting it. YOU ARE NOT THE PERSON THEY WANT TO SELL TO! 

They want to be bought out by Apple in this scenario. Apple doesn't want you to torrent, they want you to use their service. Which means if they have to make a $1b investment to get you as a customer, they'll do it. It'll be the exact same as it is now after Apple pays up, and they will.  I'm not saying Apple/Beat's current selection is bad or anything. I'm sure they have very good coverage now. My point is they don't gain automatic rights to all music going forward. Artists like Jay-Z can and will make their new albums exclusive to Tidal.  This is exactly how I felt when I saw the presentation for Tidal. Sure, some of it was heartfelt emotional stuff, but the second Alicia keys was talking about the business model and the buzzword of "sustainability" came up, it started sounding like a sales pitch. They're gearing for an acquisition from the get-go. If the streaming industry starts fighting for exclusive works so the services lack a full, diverse library of music....this is how piracy happens Yeah I'm cool paying for a single spotify subscription, but I really can't afford to pay for multiple simultaneous subscriptions to services with incomplete libraries.

Even spotify is pushing it in terms of how much stuff they don't have. Which is why Google Music beats Spotify in my opinion, giving you the ability to upload your own music into the library to fill in any gaps when things like this happen. You can do this with spotify as well. I haven't used Google Music before though, so they might have better selection in general. &gt; You can do this with spotify as well. I haven't used Google Music before though, so they might have better selection in general.

I find that most artists that have their stuff on one streaming service, probably have them on all the major ones. There's only been a small handful of times where I've noticed a slightly different selection of available albums or tracks. I've used Rdio, Google and Spotify, and they're roughly the same with selection.

The Google Music cloud is much more user friendly and less restrictive than Spotify's though (imo), which is what keeps me with Google.  Does Google music allow for free streaming like Spotify or is it only subscription based? You can't listen to your uploaded songs through your phone or other devices unless they are on that device. Google let's you play your uploaded songs anywhere from any device. Yeah - my wife and I have a family account.  It has most everything I need (i'm a indie Hip-Hop fan), sans a few artists (e.g., De La Soul) - but overall, it's been great and well worth it for both of us at like 15 bucks a month.

But as it loses records to Tidal/Beats, I'll have to reconsider and maybe just go back to buying records here and there.   It's not even (only) about paying. Am I supposed to switch between apps to listen to different artists? Daft punk has already said they will have content exclusive to tidal.  Well then Daft Punk can go fuck themselves.  But what 'content' is it?

If it's exclusive interviews with the band, then yeah whatever, I don't care.

If it's actual music - whether their back catalogue, debut of a new single, rare B-sides etc - then it's just fucking *annoying* and yet another loophole that fans have to jump through to access content. Pretty sure it's gonna be the music. I was looking for Jay-Z music videos on YouTube last night and couldn't find any. Seriously. I am a huge Daft Punk fan, but that's fucking ridiculous. I'll just pirate it. My thoughts exactly...I've been fan of Daft Punk since 90s but this is really fucking stupid! I just really don't get it. Are they too greedy or what?
Sure they need money to be able to make big shows and shit but...Daft Punk is in top (can you fucking imagine) FIVE richest "DJs" in the world! Is it not enough?
All those rich artists like Jay-Z is making me sick.
I have nothing against his music but he is one of the most fucking richest artists in the world. Is it not enough?

This is why I people like Bill Gates, making big money but at the same time making huge donations to charity! Unlike those ego-driving pricks like Jay-Z &amp; Beyonce who selling $2.500 shoes made out of elephant(WTF???) skin. Fucking disgrace. As a long time Daft Punk fan, it pains me to say it but I agree. If DP puts certain content behind pay walls as exclusives, I will pirate or get it via other means. I refuse to pay $15 a month for better audio quality when I'm content with Spotify or YouTube.  Exactly. And this is what infuriates me.

The majority of people who listen to the music provided by these artists do not care whether the music is audiophile quality or not, nor can most of them even tell the difference. This is because they also can't afford hundreds and even thousands of dollars in sound equipment to be able to tell the difference.

I don't like the idea of TIDAL because it's a repeat of the Napster crisis. History shows that if you provide people with an easily accessible and relatively cheap way of getting the music they want, they will flock in like crazy.

Why not try to adjust that model to make everyone happy instead of fighting it? Fighting it, especially with something like TIDAL, is only going to drive people back to the world of pirating.

Personally, after I found Spotify, I was happy. I could abandon having 30 or 40GB of music taking up valuable space on my computer and mobile devices. No more spending hours pirating and trying to find albums and more hours after that trying to organize it. Spotify lets me just search for a song, it organizes my music for me, download what I want, when I want if I need it and stream it when I have service or wi-fi. 

The albums I don't have access to through Spotify I can buy on vinyl for my record player or just pirate. Simple as that. Most people would probably do the same. You summed it up nice. I don't buy a lot of music personally. Usually just the artists I really love and am already dedicated to. Otherwise, I stick to my Spotify subscription. It's reduced my pirating by an unbelievable amount. I'm happy to pay a subscription to something that'll get me interested in an artist that I will later actually want to see live and buy merch from. More expensive "exclusive" content turns me off so much.  I love daft punk immensely but this is the exact opposite of what do do if you want people to not pirate. 

It's proven time and time again if you make you music available people are willing to pay for it Got a source on that? I really hope not... Exactly. Its why I've paid spotify $10 a month for years now, while still downloading movies. 

Give me a reasonably priced source for what I want and you've got a customer. 

Slice that pie up 10 ways and make me run around like an idiot to get what I pay for, you're on your own.

Even if you have access to several streaming platforms (I have at least 3, Netflix, Amazon, HBO) having to hunt around to see where you can watch ____ is exhausting. Just when the music industry seemed to be taking the turn away from piracy, they steer right back into the iceberg. I had to look it up, and it looks like Google Music All Access debuted May 15, 2013. I signed up that day for the trial, and have since been paying $7.99/month. 

I don't even listen to music that often. I listen to podcasts on my walk to and from work. Really I only listen to it some afternoons while cooking dinner, or while doing some cleaning around the house on the weekends. That's it. And yet I've been a loyal customer for 2 years, for one simple reason: it's a lot easier to stream the song/album I want to listen to when I do use it, versus the alternative of pirating it. Take that ease of use away from me, or jack up the price like Tidal seems to be doing, and I'll find other means. "In general, we think there is a fundamental misconception about piracy. Piracy is almost always a service problem and not a pricing problem. For example, if a pirate offers a product anywhere in the world, 24 x 7, purchasable from the convenience of your personal computer, and the legal provider says the product is region-locked, will come to your country 3 months after the U.S. release, and can only be purchased at a brick and mortar store, then the pirate's service is more valuable. Most DRM solutions diminish the value of the product by either directly restricting a customers use or by creating uncertainty."  

http://www.ign.com/articles/2011/11/25/gabe-says-piracy-isnt-about-price
 How is this quote relevant? In music it contradicts itself immediately (DRM free music exists for purchase 24/7 from online retailers) and the model people want is something that Steam doesn't have (a subscription based model).  Basically what is happening with video streaming right now. All of the services are coming out with their own original content, on top of the differences in their catalog of existing series and movies. And in those cases you can't just get a physical DVD as an alternative unless you wait a year, if they bother to release to DVD at all.  I just feel like music is different? Piracy gutted music much harder than the movie market.  

I find myself a sucker for all of these things as I have Netflix, HBO, &amp; Spotify  I just don't see how this will appeal to anyone who already uses spotify.  Agreed. I have decent audio equipment (using Schiit Audio amps/DACs at home and work, have high-end Sennheisers and AKG headphones at home, great Bowers &amp; Wilkins earbuds at work) and can genuinely tell the difference between 128kbps MP3 files and 320kbps audio. I "passed" the Tidal test thingy with flying colors (tho I suspect it was rigged).

That said? The difference in sound quality was not worth an extra $10/month to me. Anyone who really cares THAT much about audio quality will be listening to CD or Vinyls.

Tidal is a shameless money grab, and any exclusive music that's there that I really want to listen to will most likely be pirated. Meet the new boss - same as the old boss. won't get fool'd again... Under Tidal, artists will still be slaves to the record companies and higher powers, only now the Millionaire Artists want to play the part of Plantation owner.  Go watch the Tidal video on YouTube. It's absurd. Thankfully people realize this and the thumbs down far outnumber the thumbs up.  I was reading the FAQ on the Tidal site, and they mention prices being higher when using Apple Pay because of "service fees", however, everything I have found so far says Apple Pay DOES NOT collect fees from merchants, so what "service fees" are they talking about?

I don't own an apple device, I'm just curious. Apple does billing differently and they actually own a patent on what they do to save money so others can't do the same things to save money that Apple can.

No I'm not defending Tidal, just pointing out that Apple can do things with her billing system that they can't. You're correct, Apple Pay takes fees from card issuers, not from Merchants. Sounds like something is fishy at Tidal. The fees to Tidal are no different from any other credit card payment method. It's unfortunate for artists, but I really feel like the days of being able to make money from music sales are over. Streaming sites can't/won't pay artists more without raising prices. Customers aren't going to pay more. CD sales are dying. Unless they somehow make piracy completely impossible, I just don't see a way where artists can make money and still sell it at a price consumers are willing to pay, unless they cut out the middleman (labels, streaming sites, etc.)

Artists selling directly to the consumer (Bandcamp for instance, and even they take 10-15%) seems to be the only way. Or selling your album from the trunk of a car or at a show by hand.

If I were a musician, at this point, I'd just cut out the music sales completely. Run The Jewels has given away their last 2 albums for free and they're one of the most popular acts in rap right now. The same way artists hand out free flyers to promote shows, the album is now just the free thing you give away to promote the things people can't download yet: concert tickets, merchandise, etc. Tidal can suck itself. I use Spotify because I can't afford to buy all the music I listen to individually but I still want to support the artist as much as I can. If Spotify put prices up a bit in order to give the artist more I wouldn't object. Music run by the musical elite is no better than the current monopoly the major record labels right now, the money appears more important right now than letting fans have access to their music on a mass scale. I feel like Tidal is a nod toward piracy even, as pirates sail the tides.
It's almost like saying "hey.. Pirate this expensive shit" *expensive higher quality shit Q: What do you call 1000 riaa lawyers on the bottom of the ocean?


A: a good start. Thank you!  When I saw their "launch" video, I wanted to barf. What pretentious bullshit! Not an exact quote, but something along the lines of "only people who love music as much as us can be where we are". Yuk. I would never ever support that bull. I know Spotify doesn't exactly hand out tons of cash to the artists that are on their service, but at least any little guy can get in there and not be walled out by a bunch of rich snobs. Again...barf.  Key statement: "We look at our albums as standalone pieces of art, and also as adverts for our live shows."

Artists do this.

The others are just marketing machines and looking to sell as much pop as they can. Repeatable, reusable, re-sampled non-sense.

 Well my respect for these guys just grew ten fold.  you can tell by the commercials its all those rich music artists trying to grab more money...rich try to get richer and dont give a fk about anyone else... I have yet to see why Tidal is better than Spotify.
I'm waiting on some killer feature.
So far:
Spotify is cheaper, is on PS4 and can be remotely controlled on my PS4 by my phone, is on Uber, has an awesome catalogue and sound quality, I can follow my friends and see what they like and are listening to...and I don't have to worry about Taylor Swift or Nickelback getting mixed in.

Tidal:more expensive. No intuitive interface. Controlled by artists who already have money. That whole conference just proved how dumb these artists are "revolution of music" my ass.  Rich *and* wealthy? I bet a lot of these big artists didn't start owning their own copyright until later in their careers - so I bet half of all the stuff on Tidal ends up being the later albums that people don't like as much anyway, I buy physical media (vinyl, usually) from artists I like and I pay to go to their shows. I use the free digital file download that most always comes with the vinyl or CD. This is how I listen to the artists I love. Another streaming service means nothing to me. They are going about this like they started some sort of co-op. 

I use streaming services like I use a radio - that's essentially what it's becoming in both diversity and concentration of power. I may stream something on spotify to see if I like it but will usually grab the vinyl afterwards.  Ditto.  If anything, Spotify has introduced me to numerous bands that I'd have otherwise not been familiar with.

In the last 4 months, I can easily say that I've spent over $500 on "music", be it Live performances, merchandise, or vinyl records.  And we haven't even hit the summer touring yet.

Without Spotify, I'd have maybe gone to 2 shows instead of the 6 or 7 that I've gone to already this year.   The FLAC quality appeals to me, but their library seriously needs expanding. Found over 40 albums Spotify had that Tidal did not, and I had only gotten through artists A-G in my library. looks like ill be listening to a lot more mumford I just want to comment and say, "FUCK THAT TIDAL COMMERCIAL!" Seriously Jay Z just because you use to sell dope don't mean you a marketing genius. Fuck I hate that commercial.  Totally agree. That commercial is the epitome of entitled, elitist, aggrandizing bullshit. Oh really Madonna? People don't respect your "art" anymore? What the fuck do you actually care about making art and music. You've been pumping out generic, trendy pseudo-techno shit for 20 years at this point.   When you really like an album, go and buy it directly from the artists' website.

That's what I do, and it benefits the creatives the most. An buy their merchandise!!! They get the biggest profits from merchandise purchases! Good for them and it's still spotify for me. So Mumford &amp; Sons aren't rich, wealthy artists at this point? I love Mumford and Sons I don't like their music at all, but this is right on. Can I be a fan if I still think their songs aren't great? I'll allow it I never liked Mumford and Sons' music either, but it's refreshing to see a successful band be so self-aware and honest about the state of music these days.  This all just makes me want to support local musicians in local venues.

Screw the big streaming companies, the record companies, the big name bands, and screw $100 concert ticket prices, and $500 festival tickets.

I'll stick to small locally successful musicians in small venues.




 Local music is the back bone of the music industry, please support it!

I've found some really great music by going to local shows. there is barely anything here in my city (and its  still a major city) and very few big acts show here. so supporting them is not easy  Don't just support local music, support all kinds of underground and unsigned bands and artists everywhere. You're on the freaking Internet, go out and discover bands on Bandcamp and whatnot. Start a 'radio based on artist' station on Spotify or something. It's way too easy these days to accomplish these things for artist not within just your geographical proximity.  Mumford nails it: Follow the money. Why do you think Jay-Z founded this company, and why are major artists backing the venture? They all own [or at least hold fractional ownership of] record labels they wish to protect. Labels themselves are operating on a business model that is steadily becoming irrelevant as democratizing services such as SoundCloud and Spotify gain listeners.

When I say "democratizing"  I mean a model in which creators and listeners alike can benefit. Artists no longer need to submit a demo to a record label for airplay and exposure; instead they can showcase their work immediately to SoundCloud or Spotify. They are in total control of their intellectual property (no record label contract to sign). Likewise, listeners enjoy content directly from the artists, without the interference of a middle man injecting their interests in the artistic process. This model terrifies record labels, as they are no longer in control of content.

After all, this is what we all want: Content that's authentic, easily accessible, and at a fair price that benefits the creators. TIDAL attempts to reverse the progress started by content democratization.

Long Apple, Spotify, SoundCloud. This is now a battle between tech vs the old, dying guard. A "revolution" that is heavily marketed and has the same names that we've seen in top 40 for a decade is really barely a revolution. It's a shame that people will fall for such a stupid marketing campaign. What happens when, inevitably, anything released on Tidal is made available via Pirate Bay, et al?  Will Jay-Z whine about stealing from artists?  A bit rich coming from a mega-wealthy ex-drug dealer.   Jay-Z doesn't whine about piracy. He's just really good at making money. You can already download music in FLAC format on pirate bay. Piracy has existed for over a decade now, at this point the industry has accepted piracy as something they cannot control. I am 100% certain that Jay Z doesn't care about piracy. Fuck that. For people who don't play live shows/smaller artists, making more money with something like this is better than the "less than a cent" per play model of Spotify, etc.

Fuck this "music should be free" bullshit. I love music and art, but as an artist and a fan, I don't think music and art should be free all the time, especially if the artist is trying to earn even a decent living. 

Artists deserve compensation for their hard work. I think the least people can do is throw just a bit of money to the way of the artists. Recording, mixing and mastering songs is a real fucking art and process too. As an audio engineer, I wish more people had this mind set :( Youtube pays the same amount as spotify, and youtube gives you video as well. It's not like spotify is hoarding cash either. They pay out most of their revenue. Spotify could charge more and pay the artists more, but users wouldn't except that. Tidal isn't even charging that much more to pay out, maybe double tops.

EDIT: I just needed to add that I agree with you that artists should be paid. However streaming is to music what television is to video. That is television pays something like cents per viewer for a TV series. Yet that TV series costs 20$ to purchase. Is TV ripping of shows? I don't think so as it works on the basis that it draws in a lot more views than purchases, like a lot more. So too does music streaming achieve far more streams than purchases, so comparing the two is moot. I just read a bit of what Mumford &amp; Sons were saying. Talking about "...We look at our albums as standalone pieces of art, and also as adverts for our live shows." It just seems reminiscent of this kind of "Free music for all!" mentality that a lot of musicians (big time and small time) and music fans seem to not want to let go. Thinking things like "I don't care if people torrent; as long as they hear my music, I'm happy. Then they will know what they're getting when they come to see my shows."

It's fine for Mumford &amp; Sons, as they can draw a crowd. Lots of acts make most of their money (at least the quick money) from touring. That's fine, and there isn't anything wrong with that. But for musicians who don't tour/play shows and primarily just make recorded music to be sold (which, like I said, recorded, mixed and mastered music is almost a complete art form unto itself), they aren't making nearly as much money as they could be making, because the people who own copies of their music are torrenting them.

A streaming service like Tidal that could pay more money to artists could help this. But people don't seem to care: they don't want to pay or give artists any compensation really, and they just think artists are being greedy. Jay Z might be a fucking billionaire, but millions of other bands are nowhere near that level. It's like the 1% + the 99% thing.

It's a shame, people seem to be willing to follow the rules to not steal anything else that you'd spend money on (or at least most people), but when it comes to art, people want to consume it so badly, yet don't want to give anything to the artist in return. Can Mumford start a streaming service that is exactly like Spotify except it pays fair royalties to artists? I feel like the margins have to be there, and if they're not I would pay more to make it happen. 

I don't care at all about exclusive content, I just want to be able to listen to the bulk of music that artists release without feeling guilty, and I'm willing to pay for the privilege.  "Fair royalties to artists" aren't the responsibility of the distributor. It's up the the labels to not take all the income from the streaming service, or the artists to negotiate better deals with said labels. Spotify pays out the same percentage of revenue that iTunes and every other service does, so if people want more money from them they need to either get more plays or get more people to sign up for the service and increase the size of the pie.

&gt;At the 1999 peak of the recorded music market, about $40 billion of recorded music was sold. How much did the average consumer spend per year on recorded music? Hundreds of dollars? Nope. At the time, according to the music trade group International Federation for the Phonographic Industry, across the total 18-and-over population (both across many countries or individually within one), the average amount spent came to $28 per consumer.

http://recode.net/2014/03/18/the-price-of-music/

So a $10 a month Spotify subscription is going to turn that average consumer fromt the absolute peak of the industry into a customer that's more than 4x as valuable to the industry. Artists and rights holders should not be pushing people back to purchases and away from streaming. They should be promoting streaming services that will pay them forever based on plays rather than the one time payment from a sale. Awesome, thanks for the info! I"m assuming $28 figure is annual? I've heard Spotify demonized for screwing over artists before, so this is really interesting and makes me feel a lot better about it.   Literally what tidal is

It pays artists marginally more (supposedly twice as much) as Spotify

Obviously it's not really "run by the artists" but it's still what you're describing this is the same argument that Dave Mathews made back in the Napster days. If a paradigm shift just means that artists live and die by the quality of their live shows then...good!  That's a good commentary by M&amp;S.  They should make another 3 or 4 just like it. fuck Jay-Z.  I really have no good point to make, I just dont like that guy and his fake philanthropic bullshit.  &gt; fuck Jay-Z

What's up niggas, ayo, I know you ain't talking 'bout me, dog, you? what?

&gt; fuck Jay-Z

You been on my dick nigga, you love my style, nigga I don't even know what you're trying to say.  Something about jay z wanting my dick I think, he could bend over and hang a bow on it and I might just tear him a new one why not?  He's referencing the Nas song "Ether." It's a song anyone with an informed opinion on Jay Z would know.  I dont have to listen to rap music to have an informed opinion on Jay Z.  I hate rap music, if I was judging him for his music, I would be admittedly, completely biased.  My comment has no reference to his work as an artist, which again, I can not comment on because I do not like rap music.  Yeah you do. Ok genius, explain, cause I'll say it again, my opinion of jay z has literally nothing to do with his music, it's the man I'm judging. Unless you know him personally, you are no more qualified to judge his character than I. Oh also, you are discrediting a man you likely have love for, as he is, by his own admission, much more than a rapper.  So I can't judge him as a man, who does business, just like me and every other person I know? Get a clue.  No, I'm saying you like rap. It's awesome, how could you not? Yeah I mean, let's get real. I love ghostface killah, Clipse and UGK and that is, as literal as fucking pandas, the only rap music I like.  WTF? How do you like all them and then say you don't like rap music. Are you retarded? Artists do make marginally more money from Tidal, supposedly twice as much as Spotify. should be beneficial to artists as well as consumers though.  That's not really possible.

Spotify is operating at a loss to keep their free service up.

Tidal is the same price as Spotify premium I believe and it offers more to artists.

If you're not the audience of jigga's service it's not "fuck Jay-z", he's not doing anything wrong, his service just isn't for you its not possible to create a product, sell that product for a profit and please your consumers?  I'm pretty sure 90% of companies do exactly that man.  Also, all music streaming services are fucked, my distaste for Jay Z comes from many sources, this is nothing.  And his fake "kept" wife who can't do anything for herself. First it was her Daddy, now it's Jay-Z (almost as old as her Daddy). Agreed, she's pretty awful too.  &gt; The man literally sold crack to desperate people. Their suffering was his business. He helped ruin lives. Fuck that guy with a capital F.

 Eh who cares about that, everyone makes mistakes.  What I don't like is this shit where he thinks he and Beyonc are like some divine creatures worthy of the love of the whole world.  You put a stadium in Brooklyn and made some clothes and some rap hits, you ain't God Jay Z. He's probably one one those guys that would come back with "Well what have you done, where's your millions?" It helps if you can understand that he is an advocate of rape and murder.  No he isn't. Making art about crimes doesn't mean you advocate crimes. You think every other metal band ACTUALLY murders and worships satan?

In the words of Jay;

"Hov is back, life stories told through rap

Niggaz actin' like I sold you crack

Like I told you sell drugs...no...

Hov did that so hopefully you won't have to go through that" The man literally sold crack to desperate people.  Their suffering was his business.  He helped ruin lives.  Fuck that guy with a capital F. the rap hopper thugs want to violate our innocent kids. and what about those video games? Simply speaking of such atrocities isn't the same as advocating for them, but it's still fucking disgusting.  Wow, it's been so long since we've had some new Ratatat stuff. It feels like it's been seventeen years. It's like they don't even write their stuff anymore... [deleted] Can they do that? No dissrespect! But that's just how they are Okay baby, you gave me the business on that one! You know what I'm saying? Okay! I know what you're sayin! They just kick it from their heads... [deleted] Yep, set to release this year. They're on tour as well.  saw them in Denver...they have a new killer laser show.  They also played like 3 new songs Can confirm - just saw them in Tulsa

http://imgur.com/ubxcAru that is an awesome picture even minus the tat of rats.   Thanks! The light show they had going on was really kick ass. Seeing them next week at Coachella... This is very exciting news thanks you.  Duuude Going to see them this Monday! They said to expect a new release back in early 2014. So we can hope this is an actual sign that there is a new album coming out. Lp5 anyone?!  Their website used to just be a page that said, and Im paraphrasing, "We're in the studio recording new music. See you in 2012." This group has some serious replayability. I really thought LP4 was only released in late 2013. 
 Evan Mast (E*vax) released a song called [Daughters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EoUHa2ejKc4) early last year, but the last Ratatat album released was LP4 in mid-2010. They're on tour at the moment, and playing some unreleased material. We'll hear more of them if Despot ever releases his album. All the beats are going to be Ratatat.  Actually sounds like old ratatat, which is a good thing. Liking this a lot. Right when that funky bass-line hit I instantly thought, "Classics!". Then, that sweet, sweet guitar kicks in and I thought, "LP3!". This gets me so pumped.   What if the title is analogous of their two primary styles; the smoothness of cream and the retro of chrome. I like consistent stuff from them. Never needs to be crazy or progressive. They make the best chill music ever.  new Ratatat?!?....what a glorious day. Today is my real-life birthday.  This is the best present I've received in recent years. happy birthday and thank you for bringing us new Ratatat!  Been waiting forever this is a great day. Yeeeeee The best surprise of the year!!!! YES YES YES! Thank you OP! You mean thank you Ratatat.  Thank you Ratatat for the music. 
Thank you OP for letting me know about it. You forgot to thank OP's mom Oh, I do every night  Thank you based Ratatat I started listening to some of their older stuff on regular rotation recently and had no idea new stuff was in the works.  Glorious day, indeed! I'm fucking done with this year man. I can't take this much new music from so many of my favorite artists. My head is going to explode. Gimme a list to listen to EDIT - I know for fact that this list is probably missing some big releases, so please tell me what I'm missing.                     
EDIT 2 - Please read the comments below this one, because there's some that I missed!                                         
**Already Out:**                                
Sufjan Stevens - *Carrie &amp;amp;amp;amp; Lowell*                       
Kendrick Lamar - *To Pimp a Butterfly*                     
Viet Cong - *Viet Cong*                        
Madeon - *Adventure*                             
Purity Ring - *Another Eternity*                  
Big Data - *2.0*                            
Shakey Graves - *Nobody's Fool*                 
The Mountain Goats - *Beat the Champ*                  
Rozwell Kid - *Good Graphics EP* (I admit that this is a plug for a no-name band that I like, but fuck you I like them and hope they get a larger audience)                               
Father John Misty - *I Love You, Honeybear*              
Modest Mouse - *Strangers to Ourselves*                   
Death Grips - *Jenny Death*                        
Death Cab For Cutie - *Kintsugi*                           
Awolnation - *Run*                                
Smallpools - *Lovetap!*                          
**To Be Released**                               
Passion Pit - *Kindred* (4/21)                        
Twenty One Pilots - *Blurryface* (5/19)                  
Tame Impala - *Currents* (TBA)                         
Kanye West - *So Help Me God* (TBA)                     
Joywave - *How Do You Feel Now?* (4/21)                  
Blur - *The Magic Whip* (4/27)                       
Mumford &amp;amp;amp;amp; Sons - *Wilder Mind* (5/4)                
My Morning Jacket - *The Waterfall* (5/4)                 
Florence + the Machine - *How Big, How Blue, How Beautiful* (6/1)                             
Muse - *Drones* (6/8)                          
Of Monsters and Men - *Beneath the Skin* (6/9)                   
Coldplay - *A Head Full of Dreams* (TBA)               
**Bands/Artists That Might Be Releasing Something:**                            
Young the Giant                     
Cage the Elephant                    
Turnpike Troubadours                    
Adele                      
Anthrax                       
Band of Horses                      
Iron &amp;amp;amp;amp; Wine                    
Black Sabbath                   
Garbage                  
Metallica                
Motrhead                  
New Order                   
RHCP                       
Slayer                  
The Smashing Pumpkins                         
The Weeknd Gorillaz too! REALLY???  Not until 2016, according to [this](http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/damon-albarn-eyes-2016-for-new-gorillaz-album-20141019) article.  Though it is a few months old at this point and there may be more recent news about it that I haven't heard. Frank Ocean- Boys dont cry YES! Rumored July right? Tyler the Creaotr - Cherry Bomb
Out tomorrow night

I just realised, Creaotr. I'm fucking pumped More confirmed for July Frankie Ocean so mutha fuckin' gewd
 Apparently they said that's not the album title. That's the title of a zine he is publishing and the album is still untitled. And hopefully some new Radiohead  Well, they are in the studio - but I've learnt to be patient. 2016 LP9 HYPE Dayum you delivered Yeasayer is due to release an album this year as well. Dunno if people are into them. Fuck yeah! New Built to Spill comes out April 21st, which is also a much awaited new release. IT DOES WHAT?! When was their last fucking album, five years ago? Holy shit you're making my life.  Right? I just stumbled upon it the other day. Apparently Martsch and co. actually had an entire album in the works that got scrapped because he didn't like it. Untethered Moon is what they did instead. Can't fuckin' wait.
 I'll take table scraps before I'll take nothing. Martsch is sure to throw in a decent couple classics somewhere in there.

EDIT: Now I'm rehashing Goin' Against Your Mind on new headphones and my night is a write-off. Kendrick Lamar - *To Pimp A Butterfly*

Lupe Fiasco - *Tetsuo &amp; Youth*

Joey BADA$$ - *B4.DA.$$*

Drake - *If You're Reading This It's Too Late*

Sleater-Kinney - *No Cities to Love*

Nightwish has a new album I haven't heard yet, too. Don't forget earl sweatshirt's album I don't like shit, I don't go outsode Others in the rap category

Wale - The Album About Nothing
Big Sean - Dark Sky Paradise

Should be coming this year-

Kanye
Ab-Soul
Kid Cudi
ASAP Rocky
Chance the Rapper
Mac Miller
Vince Staples
Travis Scott
Pusha T
Meek Mill


Big year in rap, after the cluster fuck that was last year. Cough cough Iggy Missing Brand New in the might release column I love brand new but they have been fucking with us fans so hard for the past few years I feel like they hung it up till they get really bored and are just gonna fuck with us till jessie can find a way to be super depressed/bored/lonely again.  Action Bronson- Mr. wonderful
Earl Sweatshirt- I Don't Like Shit, I Don't Go Outside
Tyler, The Creator- Cherry Bomb



Also if you're a This World is a Beautiful Place and I am No Longer Afraid to Die Fan (and I'm assuming you are because you like Roswell Kid) they just got signed to Epitaph and might be releasing an album this year.  Earl - *Faucet*    might be my favorite song of the year so far. Love it. 
 Dude. Rozwell kids are super dope. Don't be ashamed. 

Edit: joey bada$$ - b4.da.$$ (before da money) Fuck yeah! Their album Too Shabby was one of my favorites last year. I've actually been debating on whether I should make the drive to Dallas to see them live! ROZWELL KID 4EVER.
HAWAIIAN SHIRT CORE Here's a few more good recent or upcoming albums

The Tallest Man on Earth - Dark Bird is Home
Twin Peaks - Mind Frames
Lord Huron - Strange Tails 
Dan Mangan and Blacksmith - Club Meds
Lowpines - Lowpines 
Lower Dens - Escape From Evil
Ghastly Menace - Songs of Ghastly Menace
Au.Ra - Jane's Lament
 FTFY(Formatted that for you):

The Tallest Man on Earth - Dark Bird is Home    

Twin Peaks - Mind Frames    

Lord Huron - Strange Tails    

Dan Mangan and Blacksmith - Club Meds    

Lowpines - Lowpines    

Lower Dens - Escape From Evil    

Ghastly Menace - Songs of Ghastly Menace    

Au.Ra - Jane's Lament   
 Meow the Jewels? Not sure if anyone is too into then, but the Mowgli's are coming out with their new album in a couple weeks! oh i thought this said Mogwai and i got excited. Hahaha sorry about that... Me too I literally just yelled OH SHIT NEW MOGWAI WHERE HAVE I BEEN  to my co-worker... and then read your comment  Love the Mowgli's! The new material sounds really good. You forgot the new Death From Above 1979 album! I think that was last year It was Props for that Rozwell Kid plug. Haha thank you.  Holy crap I need to pay more attention this year. Courtney Barnett  Her new album is great! Savant has 3 albums planned for this year I think, first one is Vex coming soon. Then another called Ronin and a few other projects, but he has been making 3 albums a year since he started.  Never heard [Shakey Graves](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qufmErE0TLM) before. Thanks for that! No problem! He's so great! New Deathcab album is great.  I actually wasn't too impressed. Lots of whining. Lord Huron - *Strange Trails.* The Wombats - Glitterbug death can? lol Lol thank you, I fixed it.  XD I like this list. IDK if you'll even read this but I'm gonna get to check out some new stuff now. You could add Built to Spill on there :)
Built to Spill - Untethered Moon Add DMB to the list. Nothing official yet, but plenty of signs they have been in the studio. Gorillaz are coming back as well.

Edit:

Also..

The Mowgli's - Kids In Love (comes out Tuesday)
Matt &amp; Kim - New Glow (released)
 &gt; 
&gt; Bands/Artists That Might Be Releasing Something:

Radiohead. They've been in the studio several times and Thom is teasing a bit on twitter, I'd bet it'll be out end of this year, maybe early next year. Bjork? Rozwell Kid! hell yeah, I love too shabby This list makes me so excited. Music erection. Can't wait for 21 Pilots! Aphex Twin released a new album this (or last) year. but it looks like he has plans to be releasing a lot of stuff. already two albums (well one might have just been an EP i don't remember) and he also has a new single out now.  Let's not forget the new Django Django album, out in less than a month! Lord Huron just released their new record a couple days ago. First thing they put out in almost 3 years.  You forgot The Avalanches in the "Might be releasing something" list. Caravan Palace is planning a release as well. Breaking Benjamin too, but solid list there. How about MUSE and Red Hot Chili Peppers! Skrilllex mentioned another album coming out soon ... And i'm a fan but skeptical about Lil Wayne's Carter 5. 

Thanks for this list man. Honestly so dope of you. Much appreciated by a general music lover. No problem, man! Oh man new Slayer and Anthrax would be the tits! Woah. TBD.  New Iron Maiden album also supposedly coming this year. Chance the Rapper - Surf

confirmed to be this year but a surprise release. comment for later reference Oh my god I didn't even know Madeon was still making music.  New Order is my favorite band... but... uh, I kind of dread new releases form them.  Shit went downhill hard after Republic (not that Republic was all that great...)  I guess the Sirens stuff was OK, particularly compared with the suck fest of Get Ready.  Phil Cunningham in performance is the 2nd best musician on stage after Morris, but without Hooky?  (even pissed off disinterested Hooky...)  I'm worried.

New Blur?  That could be pretty cool. Thanks for the list! Wow. I really have some catching up to do. Thanks for essentially kickstarting this discussion, you and everybody below are going to give me plenty of me listening material for work. Thank you for informing me that Purity Ring has released a new album.  I'm very pleased with this.

And Garbage is still making music?  Is this the same "I'm only happy when it rains" Garbage? &gt; Big Data - 2.0

What the fuck. When did this came out? 2015 has been an amazing year for music so far I agree. Do you have a top 3 favorite songs of 2015 so far?  Modest Mouse- Pups to Dust

Matt &amp; Kim- Get it

Trevor Hall- Still Water

NoMBe- California Girls

The Black Keys- Weight of Love

Ratatat- Cream on Chrome

These are my top five so far this year. All of them are on Spotify and YouTube.  I don't think the number five means what you think it means. Weight of love was on Turn Blue which came out May 2014. Damn good song though, check out Waiting on Words from the same album. Love the darker, slower feel to Turn Blue. 

They get a lot of hate for turning away from their earlier garage band sound and their collaboration with Dangerous but I like that they've evolved and don't put out the same album time after time. Would it be too much for you guys to do a top 10 for me? No links just some songs. I've been missing out, apparently and need some new tunes. [deleted] I'll take a crack at it.                          
Dying With Dignity by Sufjan Stevens                
Tear in My Heart by Twenty One Pilots                
The Legend of Chavo Guerrero by The Mountain Goats                          
Pay No Mind by Madeon ft. Passion Pit              
Dissolve by Absofacto                          
Bad Believer by St. Vincent                     
Where the Sky Hangs by Passion Pit                    
Bodyache by Purity Ring                  
I Love You, Honeybear by Father John Misty                   
No Shade in the Shadow of the Cross - Sufjan Stevens I just discovered Sufjan Stevens this year.  I really love his song Chicago.

 Illinois is really an extraordinary album, if you like that song I'd recommend giving the whole album a listen. Chavo Guerrero is such a fun song Agreed. It blows my mind that one of the most well-written and beautiful albums of 2015 is about wrestling of all topics. John Darnielle is just *that* good.  There's so many great songs on I Love You, Honeybear I don't know if I could choose just one or which one it would be. Seriously, it feels like there's a new song every day. It's amazing, I wish every year was like this.  They're playing at Coachella tonight, apparently with a couple other unreleased songs You can watch it streaming live on youtube: [Coachella Livestream Channel 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HC5sCm6Mg40) @ 12:15AM PDT Here I was thinking I was going to go to bed at a reasonable hour tonight (east coast). **My body is ready.** I heard it last week live in Tulsa. Amazing show! http://imgur.com/NmJpQcq Same here in Denver! They put on one amazing show. It was better than I was expecting and it's been 4 years since I've wanted to see them.  I've seen Ratatat live three times now. They never disappoint. :) I was at that Denver show too. Denver buds! Those lasers were awesome. Did they play, any other new tracks? Im not sure, it was an hour and a half solid set! Damn, nice photo. That light show looks insane. "See you in 2012!" ~Ratatat


I just shed a tear :') [My ears are so happy.](http://www.awyisser.com/assets/images/thumbnail.png) About. Damn. Time. This is their first release in 5 years, and its amazing! So back in 2003 I was passing through NYC and stayed for a weekend with my friend in Brooklyn.  Two of her roommates were performing around town as Cherry.  They were all super cool, friendly and hospitable.  They gave me 4 track demo with songs that I listened too for like 7 years without ever knowing they became RATATAT.  I actually heard one of the songs from the demo on a Hummer
commercial, googled them and found this whole catalogue of music they had done.  It was amazing.   Hell yeah, new RATATAT feels good. Does anyone know what those tubes are? Or could anyone direct me to a sub where i could ask? Thanks I also want to know this. Could be projection mapping. http://www.reddit.com/r/Whatisthis/comments/32a8t5/fluorescent_type_tubes/
 I want to know what the Chinese is that scrolls by on the tubes.

I know , I don't know the next one, then it's  and cuts off. The first four mean "welcome" but I dont know what the rest would mean without the missing character. I am so happy about this, I google them every couple of months in hopes that something has been announced, and now I see this after 3 years of solid waiting. Life is good.  how are they able to do that with those lights ? Are they not just fluorescent lights ? Legitly misread this and thought this was Pokemon related music. Now I'm super curious as the comments are all incredibly positive. "been waiting 5+ yeaaaarss!!!" I'm excited to click play.  Yeah, it's been 5 years since their last album, and they sort of just dropped off the earth so it's a great day. They did 2 songs under the name Abuela a year ago but that's it. [They're a fantastic listen =)](https://soundcloud.com/listen-to-abuela) Abuela is actually only Evan/E*VAX from Ratatat as well as White Wizard/Justin Roelofs. Mike isn't doing anything with Abuela I believe. oh, my mistake, thanks :) THANK YOU OP!  You made my day.  This is awesome news! I've been waiting for about five years, okay? Ratatat, Muse, Modest Mouse and Gorillaz.

Christ I feel young now. finally! these guys are my absolute favorite to just kick back and zone out to. can't wait to watch tonights set.
 They toured in Colorado 6 days ago... my heart, I don't know if it can take this Fuckin finally. And the perfect balance of updated sound without losing the magic of the old  Anybody else get hooked on Ratatat after playing MLB 07: The Show?

[Specifically, Loud Pipes?](https://youtu.be/iexoDhvwGbo)
 When I first heard of them was in a college radio station and the played [Party With Children](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYpqE0_VpWA), then I  couldn't hear their name right and never found them.  
 Two years later I was searching vids of the game Audiosurf and came across this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2IbMrkooFus).   Been listening to their music since then. Really grooves. Loving what I'm hearing, though parts are awfully similar to Loud Pipes. Also, am I the only one getting clipping towards the end there, or was it just mixed kinda poorly in that section? I'm not even great at noticing that kind of thing but it seemed really bad. New ratatat.. Old ratatat.. What's the difference again? 0:47-0:59 is basically their old stuff That's ok by me.  is it the top percentage RATATAT?
 Wow, this is really good! Mmmmmmmmmmmm... smooth. No mention of the random asian guy wanting to take a picture of the camera? And one of the bulbs in the display not working? I feel like I'm taking crazy pills! &gt; Cream on Chrome

Depressingly sounds like last night. Foreveralone.jpg Anyone know what the Chinese characters mean? When will it hit Spotify?
 Sounds the same as all their other songs o.o yeeeeee Fantastic ... It's a little house thumping fatiguing but the crazed style of the rest of the instrumentation kept this song very funky and very interesting!   About damn time. Love those breakdowns. Angelic.  I'm so excited to see these guys on Monday! Reminds me a lot of the beat in this vid for some reason heh

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4txVqr1eNwc Awesome new track.  Perfectly encapsulates the ratatat sound.  Good news everyone! Damn, been waiting so long for this. I've missed these guys, they always manage to string all the best sounds together. Thanks for posting. Never heard of RATATAT til now. I'll be listening to more, this is some funky shit.  Classics is one of the best albums of the past 10 years (and the others are great to!). I recommend wholeheartedly. Anyone else see this as good cruising/road trip music?  The beat just makes me want to put some miles behind me. Ratatat is considered electro? I'm not good with music styles, but I think I'd describe it as experimental alternative rock or something. This song certainly isn't electro. 95% of the time, electro is used wrong, usually to mean electrohouse. Electro is this : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hh1AypBaIEk

 It's a real blend, and electro is a pretty broad label.  If I had to give it a genre, I'd call it electro/instrumental hip-hop meh / 10

sounds like something you'd hear in a commercial for one of those cube cars It sounds like a bunch of Ratatat songs that already exist. And I don't mean that in a good way. Ya it's extremely underwhelming. So I know I'm going against popular opinion here, but Ratatat's sound is just soooooooo lazy to me. Maybe I'm missing something, but it makes me just as antsy and bored as "elevator music". Lazy? Have you listened to LP3? The production is very good. There are so many different sounds layered in the mix. It's pretty well crafted I think. Don't see how they're lazy Try smoking a bowl first. Hell yeahh. Seeing them in 2 nights 
Edit/addition: Don't miss their set on the Coachella stream during weekend 2 if you missed the first one  Squeeeeeeeeeeee! I never listened to too much ratatat but this song was great. I have been dreaming about this.  This is great news, I was wondering when this would come out. This is insanely good. The drop at 0:48! New ratatat on my birthday? Best birthday ever!!!!! Thank you. on fucking point. as always guys!
keep up the good work and hopefully see you on tour!!  Roller coaster tycoon.  
Chronic 2001. 

I didn't know who I was.   You were a fucking badass. That's who you were. Roller coaster tycon reminds me of White grape blunts and steel reserve. Viva Piata. 
The Chronic.
(It was the only album I uploaded to my HDD ON THE 360)
For a while, my dumber friends thought that was actually the soundtrack.
Damn, I miss that game. Wu-Tang Clan 36 Chambers and  Earthworm Jim.  I'm trying this combo. You will need a beanbag chair, and jolt cola to complete the effect.  If that's not a perfect weekend, I don't know what is.  second ... this can't go wrong. Ha. Think we'd have been friends as little kids.  36 Chambers and Goldeneye / Wave Race 64

Fucking 90s, dude.  Nirvana-Nevermind while unlocking everything in GoldenEye. I can't see any GoldenEye gameplay without hearing that album. This isn't quite the same but i can't help but associate strawberry milk with harvest moon 64. I played that game so much as a kid and was always drink strawberry milk while playing. It took me a while to realize "strawberry milk" was not referring to some indie band. I'm sure somewhere in the depths of indie bands, Strawberry Milk has a small, dedicated fanbase For what it's worth, Strawberry Milk *is* a Korean pop group.. so.. Yep, and they're actually a sub group consisting of twin sisters from the group Crayon Pop, whose biggest hit so far is Bar Bar Bar which currently has [26,000,000+ views](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yMqL1iWfku4). God bless K-pop. Mine was Arizona pina colada (the one with the Indian on the label), slushy from sitting in the freezer, and FFVII. They sold em in larger glass bottles in the 90s, stopped making it for a bit, and recontinued it in the past few years in smaller blue plastic 99 bottles. When I saw that they were back I immediately bought two, threw them in the freezer, and fired up some Final Fantasy.  For me its Sunny D and Dk64 Haha, that game (and strawberry milk, of course) kicks ass. Sounds like a pretty baller part of your childhood. Beatles Magical Mystery Tour and Mario 64 That actually sounds like a damn good combo.  Along with weed and mushrooms Beatles' One and Majora's Mask That's amazing. Oh man, that's a good matchup.  Daft punk's discovery, and megaman battle network two This sounds amazing. Anything sounds amazing with daft punk Great combo Currently establishing the link between gta 5 and run the jewels 2 I was playing GTA IV the other day and kept thinking of Blockbuster Night Pt. 1, that song is perfect for those games.  finally heard this song after a Silicon Valley episode. It's muh new jam. Same here. I'm not even a hip-hop guy, but I *needed* to get that song after the credits started playing.  That song basically got me INTO modern hiphop a few months ago, "Top of the morning, my fist to your face is fuckin' Folgers" makes me want to punch a wall every time i get pumped for "I Jake 'The Snake' em, DDT em in mausoleums."  I remember playing GTA on the Dreamcast  while listening to RHCP - *Californication* album. Those two things will forever be linked. Only the overhead versions of GTA though. Listening to *Porcelain* while throwing Molotovs at people has made human combustion a serene and calming event to me. so now its like the music video to californication! For me it's GTA 5 and Pinata So much Freddie Gibbs in that game already, too Robbing convenient stores and riding away on my bmx bike listening to Thuggin. best rap album in a long time IMO.  In a very similar story more than a decade ago, GTA and [Soundbombing 2](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8dW5cAgqNoip4v4YyoXse7Z94aollAT7) Deftones White Pony -&gt; Sonic Adventure on Dreamcast.  What am I doing *not* enjoying that combination SOAD and Runescape 

Now chop suey makes me think of thousands of hours spent in the fishing guild Same, except my band of choice was Sugarcult. I've got All American Rejects connected to smithing in Al Kharid Breaking Benjamin and Slayer. Breaking Benjamin and elvemage. Excuse me whilst I spend the rest of the evening on youtube. Billy Talent and killing Lessers. Runescape and Rammstein - Herzeleid for me. Exactly the same here, weirrrrddd Late to the party, but every time I hear Nightwish (Planet Hell specifically) reminds me of the Falador massacre.  KMFDM's Nihil was basically the soundtrack of Doom 2 for me. And look, you never shot up a school. KMFDM got such wrongfully bad press for Columbine and they're fucking awesome. Saw 'em live in '05. I still remember how disappointed I was when I found out their name wasn't really an acronym for Kill Mother Fucking Depeche Mode Liquid Swords while playing GTA 3. It was like GZA was narrating the game for me. Great times When i was little.. My father was famous Come boy, choose life or death.  Kind of random I guess but Glassjaw's worship and tribute to Forza. I probably wouldn't have liked the album if not for endurance races, but once you listen to an album so many times it feels like family. You have to love it.  Upvote because gJ I love that album to an unhealthy level. Glassjaw's EYEWTKAS with Resident Evil (1) on GameCube. Flatbush Zombies and Skyrim Well this is an interesting one.  Try it out, shit is nuts  didn't expect to see the zombies this far up Same, thought I was in HHH for a second Dude,  FUCK YEAH. This subreddit overlooks so many hip hop artists, FBZ being one of them. Erick Arc Elliott is a mastermind with a beat pad.  I saw them live in manchester, UK last month. The underachievers were supporting, one of the best gigs i've ever been to. I even got a high five off The Architect and a firm handshake off AK from underachievers. 

Shit was balla. Could you link to some good Flatbush Zombies tracks? I've been told repeatedly to check them out but I've never been into the tracks I've found. http://youtu.be/AbumQ5yEIZ8

http://youtu.be/FaUyq18r_GI

http://youtu.be/_RyilxxuaG8 listen to their mixtape d.r.u.g.s, and then when youre done with that, listen to better off dead. both incredible  I dig it Plastic Beach by the Gorillaz and playing the Stimulus map pack for modern warfare 2. Man on the Moon and Starcraft 2...can't stop making zerglings in my head when I hear some Cudi. I always thought it was funny how it sounded like Cudi Zone had samples of Hellion fire in it. Mine was Man on the Moon 2 and COD Black Ops Are you me? But serious MotM2 and Black Ops Freshman year of college with my roommate is so nostalgic. Californication, By the Way, and Spyro the Dragon :) This happens to me with videogames, emotions, people, places, and then more.  Most songs I know have some memory I've associated with them.  Sometimes it's the memory of a certain period of my life or even the emotions that I was experiencing during that time.  Sometimes it's a person.... maybe they showed me that song, maybe they didn't, but hearing it still makes me think of them.  Sometimes it's a place, sometimes it's the memory of a fleeting moment that seems to have no significance aside from how I've come to associate it with a particular song.

To me this is the main reason why music is so fascinating.  I can put my itunes on shuffle and it's like a shuffle button for my memories allowing me to bounce from place to person while experiencing the emotions I've felt in the past as if it was for the first time.

EDIT - Spelling. I feel you, same here.  I'm curious if there's an actual scientific term or study on this effect of music and how it triggers our memories. It might be [context dependent memory](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-dependent_memory). Not sure if there's a better term. 
Also relevant: [Music is used in some nursing homes to help people suffering from dementia and Alzheimer's.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=43&amp;v=fyZQf0p73QM) American Idiot and RuneScape. Although, to be fair, RuneScape's music was very much excellent. For me it was Late Registration and Runescape. I'm not even a big Kanye West fan but it was big at the time and my brother bought the cd. Ruenscape and system of a down for me lol fucking eminem's curtain call album and runescape Haha mine is eminem show and mx vs atv American Idiot and Tony Hawk's American Wasteland Holiday! holy shit.  For me it's Franz Ferdinand and runescape Franz Ferdinand and Burnout! For me its Abba and runescape, I stayed at my grandmas house for a week once and got to play so much runescape but the only music she had on her computer was Abba. I can not hear any Abba song without immensely powerful nostalgia hitting me. For me it's Runescape and The Offspring's Conspiracy of One.  
"Million Miles Away" and "Living in Chaos" will forever be my official Cooking Guild and Fire Giant anthems. along with Where Is the Love by Black Eyed Peas I used to be in love with the song "ms. New booty" and I listened to it while playing runescape a lot. Now when I hear it I kind of miss runescape.  /r/runescape /r/2007scape Yep, I know. :) Getting pretty excited for Deadman on OSRS, whenever it will come out! Mine was Stronger by Kanye West, just the song, when I was playing Castle Wars. Castle Wars.. wow. My brain tucked that deeply away until now. In high school it was Radiohead + Halo 3. Every time i hear any song off "The Best Of" i connect it with Halo. Here comes the flood... If I play Oblivion I hear The Moon in Antarctica and if I hear any track off The Moon in Antarctica I see Oblivion. They are connected. Yep, listened to high amounts of Weird Al while playing Star Wars: The Force Unleashed.  &gt; Star Wars: The Force Unleashed

Damn I didn't realize how old this game was now, 2008?
 Oh, 2008 is old? 

Oh, *I'm old*. Seven years ago is a while no matter what your age is! El Cielo by Dredg and Neverwinter Nights *Here we goooo... Down that same old road agaaaain............* The amount of Dredg love in this thread is excellent.  Tool 10,000 days with the GBA version of Super Mario World. Weird, huh? Oh man, both of these are going to make me sound so lame, but fuck it.

Harry Potter Quidditch World Cup and Avril Lavigne - Under my Skin

Mario Kart Double Dash with Dashboard Confessional - A Mark A Mission A Brand A Scar.

I got bullied a lot at school, so when I left to go to college (UK so aged 16) I just stopped giving any fucks at all and did what made me happy. I remember the look the guy in HMV gave me when I bought that Avril Lavigne album. No shame, I'm 27 now and still a big fan of hers. We did a LOT of *Swiss Army Romance* and *Places You Have Come To Fear The Most*, along with *Stay What You Are* by Saves the Day playing Mario Kart 64 in college. Those were some great times and great albums. Still are.  Day 4832: I have finally found someone else who has played Quidditch World Cup. Wave Race 64 and Life After Death - Notorious B.I.G.

1997 was a good year for 12-13yo me Wave Race 64 was amazing. I probably put more hours into that game than even Mario Kart 64. Me too.  All of the other games were merely an intermission for more Wave Race 64. Pros and Cos of Hitchhiking and Phantasy Star II. Is that the Roger Waters album?
 Marshal Mathers LP and Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2. Yeah I was a cool 6th grader. But Tony Hawk games had awesome sound tracks.. why would you need anything else? LIGHTS OUT, GUERILLA RADIO!! When I was just a little baby boy, my momma used to tell me these crazy things Yep. "Echoes" by Pink Floyd while playing Castlevania 64 on an old black and white TV I picked up from an antique store.

While laying in my free flow queen-sized waterbed.

Damn, I was a cool kid. Nevermore and World of Warcraft Coheed &amp; Hillsbrad Foothills Mine is linkin Park reanimation album and world of warcraft.  Marvin Gaye &amp; Team Fortress *Brother, brother, brother*


*There's far too many of you dying*

 I just imagined a Heavy mowing down people while singing "What's Going On." Absolutely!  Great question.  I now associate Offspring -"Smash" with the snowboarding game Cool Boarders 2, and I associate Linkin Park - "Reanimation" (remix album of Hybrid Theory) with Final Fantasy 8. A lot of Metallica growing up while playing Gauntlet Legends.  The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time will forever go hand in hand with Stone Temple Pilot's "Core" for me.

And I'm OK with that. Older blink 182 greatest hits album = the original spyro for me. Motion city sound tracks vomit this to memory album = Starcraft.  I only have one of these and its actually the reason I now listen to podcasts while gaming, instead of music.

Mine is Marble Blast Ultra and As the Palaces Burn by Lamb of God. Yes!! Take Off Your Pants and Jacket will forever be Tony Hawk Pro Skater. The Elfen Lied themesong on repeat plus minecraft. 


O quam sanctaaaa


O quam sereeenaaaaa Balmorhea's Bowsprit was what I listened to when I played Minecraft. Just this lonesome sort of adventure-y sound, and wandering across this weird blocky landscape. Balmorhea breaks my heart though. Vice City and 80s music so good. This is the best combination ever. I own a convertible and as soon as the sun comes, i get my vice city playlist (mostly emotion 93.3) on it and just drive and imagine myself on gta. Except i don't kill people. Tony Hawks pro skater 2 had a killer soundtrack Taking it WAY back. The original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles game on NES and Heavy D and the Boyz album "Big Tyme" on auto reverse cassette. Yup...

Also KMFDM's albums "Angst" and "Nihil" while playing nethack on the PCs in the library at my university (NeXT color machines no less for any old school computer geeks) :-P

Oh man...good times....good memories...good music.... That's how it works.

MuteMath's first full length + Perfect Dark Zero = Nostalgia

Deltron 3030's debut + Medal of Honor: Underground = Childhood

Dredg's Leitmotif LP + Sonic 06 = ...Well, the album was good

Saint Vitus's debut and Born Too Late albums + Sonic Unleashed = Man, that was cool.

Gorillaz's Demon Days + GTA: San Andreas = 2005.

Radiohead's Kid A &amp; In Rainbows + Jet Set Radio Future = Didn't just mix, but gave me a story concept.

Rage Against the Machine's eponymous and Evil Empire + Mercenaries 2 = Made up for the lackluster game, actually

Candlemass's first two albums plus Mercyful Fate + Saints Row the Third = Not a fan of glam/gangsta rap, so a bit of epic doom metal and speed metal was a better choice. Worked!

P.O.D.'s Testify album + Medal of Honor/Underground's orchestral OST + Freedom Fighters = Ohhhh sweet nostalgia!

Alt/hard rock radio (Let It Die, Headstrong, Wherever I May Roam, etc.) + Perfect Dark = COME ON, STOP DYING ELVIS! JONATHON, GET OVER HERE!

Judas Priest's "Breaking the Law" + 3 Doors Down's "Kryptonite" + Scott Pilgrim vs. The World: The Game = 2010 was a good year

Daft Punk's "Derezzed" and "Fragile" + Mirror's Edge = Gasp... pe...perfection!!

Just Cause 2? Too many to count. Too amazing.

Jet Set Radio Future's OST + The World Ends With You = The World Ends With Jet Set Radio

Soundgarden's "Badmotorfinger" album + Midnight Club 3: Remix: Dub Edition = A Sound: Of: Childhood Jet Set Radio was so much fun.

Understand, Understand

Understand, Understand

Understand, Understand the concept of love! Stoked on your Dredg reference One does not simply turn off the JSRF BGM.  Evil Empire is such a good album. In my opinion, that's when RATM were at their peak. Anything Nightwish and Halo 1. Oh man. White Pony by the Deftones had just come out, and I would sneak into my brothers room and use his stereo and play the original Deus Ex. No matter what, when I listen to that album I can't help but talk about Deus Ex and how much I played it. It's so strange to me how listening to music can call back such strong memories of very fleeting moments in my life.  Diablo 3 (PC) and Prodigy. EVERY. TIME. With like 45 days played. Gorillaz Plastic Beach album - Just Cause 2

SOAD - BF4

Korn - AC4

NIN broken and fragile - Minecraft/borderlands 2

Incubus science - deus ex hr

Spawn movie soundtrack - skyrim 

Underworld/my life with the thrill kill kult - Max Payne 3 
 Pretty Hate Machine by Nine Inch Nails and Shadowman will always go hand in hand for me.  Hybrid Theory with Cruis'n USA for Nintendo 64. Never had an album like that, but there's a certain scent of candle that makes me think of necromancers boning shit in Diablo 2. Coldplay. X&amp;Y, Redridge mountains in Wow, when vanilla was all there was. 

Now, no mythologies to follow by MO for monster hunter 4 ultimate...  Nirvana = X-Com, Terror From the Deep

Cake = Fallout 2

There are others I can't remember... I always listen to deadmau5 when I play Mario kart on 3ds, so now when I drive and listen to deadmau5 I feel as though I'm speeding down wuhu loop ready to take a red shell up the ass! Linkin Park - Meteora and final fantasy ix. Melodies of Somewhere I Belong Pretty much every FIFA game has amazing 'non-mainstream' music bundled with it and I tend to associate those songs with the game FIFA music is seriously the best part about the game, it's the one thing they get constantly right.

I discovered Passion Pit and Two Door Cinema Club from FIFA. So good. Its not necessarily the same thing but I can't hear any of the songs from GTA Vice City without thinking of that game. Africa, and that Mr Mister song Broken Wings instantly pop in my head.

I wasted my teenage years on video games and shit, spending summers playing that shit with my friends at the time... Marshall Mathers LP and FF7. 

At that point in my life, I had a travel-trailer that was basically my man cave.  The entertainment?  FF7 grind.  The Soundtrack?  This CD on repeat, period.

It was a strange time. Abba and Burnout. 

Nothing like causing millions of dollars in damages while screaming VOULES VOU Legacy of Kain: Soul Reaver + Deftones' White Pony Common Dreads (by Enter Shikari) whilst playing World of Warcraft back in '09/10. Good times. Holy shit I didn't even realize I associated this CD with WoW until you said it. Used to always blast that cd while pvping....good times. No, but I've done it with books. Read Neuromancer to Heligoland, Fountainhead to OK computer, and Snowcrash to Nero. Reading is actually something I have difficulty with while listening to music. I get distracted and end up just looking at the words. Yahoo Pool, Jar of Flies Heads are Gonna Roll- The Hippos &amp; Final Fantasy 1. 

I replayed many old games in high school and I had this album playing often when playing FF1 after school for a couple hours. I used to listen to Breaking Benjamin when I was playing WoW and Firefly always causes memories to resurface. Disco hits and playing Black on Xbox.  Nothing like killing people to "Play That Funky Music White Boy"  Quake 1 and Spice Girls (idk which album, the one with "If you wanna be my lover"?). Was too young to play it without getting scared shitless, this took the edge off I used to listen to a lot of Daft Punk and Justice while playing Quake Live. Some songs more than others are great for the frenetic pace of Quake and I suppose I will occasionally connect them.

This song went well with Quake:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6iHYTjEyKU

While this song goes better with a game like War Thunder, blasting fools out of the sky:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0qXmxVySMzw Daft Punk, unf... whenever I hear Around the World I get flashbacks of walking home from middle school listening to my first taste of electronic music I associated Blind Guardian's Somewhere Far Beyond album with a lot of games because it's one of my favorite albums that I'd listen to all the time while doing everything every chance I got. LOZ: Link to the Past - Voivod: Nothingface
LOZ: The Wind Waker - Muse: Black Holes and Revelations
LOZ: Majora's Mask - Skeletonwitch: Serpents Unleashed
Need for Speed Carbon - N.W.A: Straight Outta Compton Doom2 LAN deathmatches with Ministry's album "Psalm 69".

Not me, but my best friend whose kill ratio went noticeably up when he was listening to that album at deafening volume on his headphones.

IIRC he didn't listen to all the songs, he mostly just had [Just One Fix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbXciBKcfQ8) on repeat.

He killed my ass so many times with the Plasma Rifle when he was listening to that album.

I miss the Rocket Launcher in that game. He used to have to taste that rockety goodness in retaliation.

Then Unreal Tournament came out, and he got a Pulse Gun to play with. I'll admit that didn't go well for me. Underoath's The Changing of Times and They're Only Chasing Safety albums with MegaMan Battle Network 4 Mario Cart, w the wedding singer sound track Awake by Tycho and Minecraft. Kings of leon + WoW Not exactly what you are asking for but it is relevant. In high school band, we were playing a pretty cool arrangement of Shenandoah but my instrument had about a dozen bars total when I wasn't resting. During the rest, I played an arcade game called Peggle  on my friends iPod. Now I can't hear that song without thinking of Peggle and can't play Peggle without thinking of Shenandoah. This was around 6 years ago.  2-Pac's All Eyez on Me with Donkey Kong 64, made me feel pretty fucking gangsta' as a kid.  Yes, that happened to me with Dragon Quest 8 (I think) and Editors In This Light And On This Evening Album, especially with the song Eat Raw Meat = Blood Drool. Not quite the same but I associate Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 with King of the Hill. Everyday after school as a kid I would come home, put on King of the Hill and work on my park. I first heard Bad Romance by Lady Gaga while playing World of Warcraft. Somehow after that I began making an effort to listen to Lady Gaga while playing that game. If it pumps you up, it pumps you up I guess... Evanescence and devil may cry Yes, I used to play EA Skate 1 with Kanye West's Graduation playing along all the time. Recently when I listened to it again, it was a huge nostalgia trip of playing that game in the summer time between 7th and 8th grade Dishonored and The Safety Dance... No ragrets... Disturbeds first album and kingdom hearts. It was great for castle oblivion  Weird Al: Dare to be Stupid, and Doom 2. A dissonant combo that formed odd associations, though the 'Slime Creatures From Outer Space' track made sense The "Sawdust" album by the killers will always make me think of the first Assassin's Creed. Even seeing new AC games I still get songs jumping into my head from it.  And when I listen to the songs I imagine jumping on rooftops. I don't know if this is relevant, but I've listened to some serious dance music while playing Smash Bros and it has BLOWN MY MIND. While my friend and I were playing together, we threw on some really fast EDM and within minutes, our palms were sweaty and we had abandoned the usual quips we throw at one another in favor of intense, utter silence. He broke it at one point to ask me frantically, "Is this...is this more intense than usual?" And I responded, "Oh my god. It is. I think it's the music." 

"RIGHT?" he shouted, and then we lapsed back into obsessive silence.

And we played on wordlessly for a long, long time, doing that side-dodge every so often that you do with your shoulders and the controller when you're REALLY into what you're playing, but staying quiet aside from that. By the time we had finished, we were nearly gasping for air, because we hadn't actually realized we were holding our breaths.

I mean, we were also on a lot of acid, but I feel like this could happen to anyone. But now, whenever I hear some seriously blood-boiling, fast beats, all I see is Kirby laying waste to Snake in Final Destination, his comet punches totally in sync with the beat. Knock Madness and Borderlands 2 Under the Table and Dreaming and Myst. Tom pettys running down a dream reminds me of flying a jet thru the desert in vice city Running down a Dream was in San Andreas on KDST. I stand corrected, you're right it was Yeap played the first dark souls while listening to saosins translating the name ep. Still love it and that game  Saosin was great. Seven Years is how long it'll take you to finish that damn game. Ahaha I wish it lasted 7 years that would be amazing  Yes, I used to play Doom while listening to Machine De Plaisir from Klaus Schulze. 20 years later when I hear Machine De Plaisir I can feel myself running through halls killing demons. In general, I'm too interested in immersion to play my own music through a videogame, but there's one counterexample.
Portal (1), and the Waking Life OST. [(Listen to the first piece)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYhzYc2WnGc). Since it's a solid OST, it's not immersion breakinginstead it just gives the game a very different feel; somewhat darker and more eerie.

Honestly that's not why I did it though, the main reason is just the the music is twenty times better than what comes shipped with Portal, yet it still fits seamlessly. No-brainer. When Quake 2 came out I was listening to The Future Sound of London's album Dead Cities that came out about the same time. They are both creepy enough to complement each other.  The album has a track where it sounds like someone is sharpening a knife or dragging a large metal object, I always associated this with one of the game's goblins. I have the strongest music-game association with Quake II. For me it was Stabbing Westward's "Ungod" album, which I felt went perfectly with the gameplay, but I can definitely see how FSOL would be a good fit, as well. Thank you! We always played Quake to Stabbing Westward's "Wither blister burn and peel". Been trying to remember that album for years, never could come up with it! Really was perfect for the game.  Finally some electronica in this thread. Finally some electronica in this thread. Yes, this album was so good.  Back when I played tf2 I would start playing "How you like me now" over the mic when we started to really make a comeback. 

Laughs were had, and it's how I got my very first hat (thanks baconator420smokedbeef) I connect"Misery business' - Paramore ,"Teenagers" - My chemical romance and "What I got" - Sublime with saints row 2.
The game gave you an option to choose which songs got played over your cars radio and i only listened to those 3 on repeat Trivium, Plain White Tee's and Final Countdown. Dude, when you were on the bike and the song came on, your character would start imitating the keyboard. That small detail was hilarious. Don't forget Take On Me! My female character did such a good-bad job at singing along to that song, it was great. I too associate them songs but you missed one... https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=djV11Xbc914 The original Tomb Raider and The Deftones' "Around The Fur".   Mine was Tomb Raider 2 and OK Computer. Got them both for Christmas and played the shit out of both of them. Kid Cudi's *Man On The Moon* and Cyress Hill's *Black Sunday* with Grand Theft Auto 4. Is it weird that i want to hear Roman sing TGIF now? # 50 Cent - Get Rich or Die Trying with Tribes. Man that was a long time ago.  Tribes was the tits. Shifter mod was my favorite. I was mostly into paintball mod. Also dabbled in Annihilation mod n a lot of the Hybrid servers too.

 What up Blood, what up cuz, what up gangsssta Is it weird I mostly listen to punk n metal now? Haha # I've posted this before, but [Maybeshewill - Not For Want of Trying](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IOKO3b9qXd8) is pretty much constantly on behind Binding of Isaac: Rebirth, now that PS4 has Spotify! I almost exclusively listened to Evil Empire (RATM) while playing Geometry Wars Retro Evolved (Primarily the Pacifism mode). No real reason. Not necessarily video games but more like events in my life. Like vacations or finales. Those too. I listened to Toxicity by System of a Down pretty much the entire time I was in Hawaii as a kid. In particular being in a tour bus type thing that went around the island always pops up when I hear any song off of that album. Also I had to read an entire book about the Vietnam war in a weekend to catch up for a paper in my freshman year, and I listened to Flobots Fight with Tools the entire time, so I always associate the songs off of that album with the sketchyness 'nam.  Same. I think the prob with games is that i don't listen to anything specific and have a huge library. Special occasions i usually made specific mixtapes. The entire Quadrophenia album by The Who while playing Super Smash Bros 1 against three other AI's with 99 stock lives each. Also Ocarina of Time while listening to a Monsters of Rock Greatest Hits of the 80's album lol, good times. The first papa roach album and a link to the past. Still play both at the same time occasionally. My Link to the Past soundtrack was the first Fugees album Not an entire album, just one song.

Back in the day I played SOCOM 2 multiplayer. I was decent at it and some of my favorite video game memories come from it. 

Anyway, a buddy of mine [remixed Outkast's "Bombs Over Baghdad"](https://soundcloud.com/dan-mackevicius/bombs-over-baghdad) with a bunch of stuff, including Slayer.  He would always play it full blast while on the [Sandstorm](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/WBVWLUXdH68/maxresdefault.jpg) map. MBDTF and Borderlands 2 Full Moon Fever and Wolfenstein 3D For most people your name is synonymous with Sandstorm and nothing more, is there a song of yours that you personally prefer and wish was more appreciated, and if so, what is it? Can't really put one above the other, but if you like 'Sandstorm', try 'In The Darkness (Tech Mix)' (on 'Label This!') as well. 'Serendipity' (or 'Rush') is a bit different, more progressive, a bit tribal-y even. And I love 'Ranta', the chillout track on 'Rush'. ^^Youtube ^^links

Can't really put one above the other, but if you like 'Sandstorm', try ['In The Darkness (Tech Mix)' (on 'Label This!')](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tlr1L8FHp2U) as well. ['Serendipity' (or 'Rush')](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQoA_wjmE9w) is a bit different, more progressive, a bit tribal-y even. And I love ['Ranta', the chillout track on 'Rush'.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2HQaBWziYvY) I really thought all of these were going to be links to Sandstorm. .........I

It didn't even cross my mind to do that. 

And to think I considered my self a dank meme :( Hey, we can't all be [this good](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SQoA_wjmE9w) Dear Lord, this was my first time seeing that. Thank you. Thank you so much. His album [Before the Storm](https://open.spotify.com/album/3EWyQlR8LFyu6FImQT49bv) is largely ignored because of the two huge singles on it.

Solid record though. Thanks! And then the Sandstorm attacked. Everything changed when the dank meem nation attacked. I believe it's spelled may-may  Darude - Sandstorm   _  DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU  this is exactly how I imagined the comment section to look like!             
reddit never dissapoints http://i.imgur.com/Nb2sr4K.gifv Its only me or Darude looks like Hitler being DJ
http://i.imgur.com/nIdwmLW.jpg [DJ Zorg](http://i.imgur.com/jzqi0Gm.png)

Could probably photoshop that AMA picture into his hand. [Like this?](http://i.imgur.com/H6NplYM.jpg)

Edit 1: [Or like this?](http://i.imgur.com/SkT7wnW.jpg)

Edit 2: [Or full-on meta-recursion?](http://i.imgur.com/PxGWLMZ.jpg) http://i.imgur.com/LPor1Un.png the dankest of all *darudest OP is dead... www.niceme.me Personally I don't like Sandstorm and never have, but love [Feel the Beat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mN84To5ndw0) This song sounds very similar to another one of his songs. Can't remember how it goes though. Hmmm don't know... for me it sounds [like many other songs in Germany](http://i.imgur.com/8gMuFlA.png) YouTube wishes to see your papers. All Kolechians must be searched. Glory to Arstotzka. I always thought of this as a Darude Sandstorm 2 What did you think of the tiny trumpet cover of Sandstorm? [Here it is, if anyone hasn't seen it.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=esMnme69t2M) I don't think most people appreciate how amazing that is. He uses some crazy horn playing techniques that are really difficult.  Is he, like, harmonizing with himself? Yes! It's called ~~polyphonic harmony~~ multiphonics and it's rather difficult to master. Given, that's a toy trumpet so tonality isn't exactly fantastic, but between the crisp double-/triple-tonguing and polyphony, that musician is fairly talented.

EDIT: Multiphonics, not polyphonics.  Wait, is this possible on a real trumpet? Can you provide links to a good example of it in a song? [My favourite multiphonic solo(at the beginning), albeit on a tuba. Brass instruments are kinda similar though](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mHMyrhilkdo) Here's a lovely lady [singing ~~polyphony~~ multiphonics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vC9Qh709gas) until I can find some instrumental. Bonus: [Mongolian throat-singing.](https://youtu.be/5wHbIWH_NGc?t=145)

EDIT: proper terminologies That is literally the first time I learn about this. My mind has never been more blown away. Holy fuck I've been trying to learn this. I can make overtones but anyone I ask can only hear the undertones (so it just sounds like I'm groaning).

Edit: also, [here is one clip of trumpet overtones](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_D2hmkFFvcw), it's not a "real" song though. that tonguing though * How did you start out as a musician? Who would you say influences your work the most?

* What's you favorite music album right now?

* Which service will save musicians from the evils of online piracy? Bandcamp, Spotify, Google Play music, TIDAL (that new thing Jay-Z purchased)?

* What TV show do you never miss? I started when I was around 20 years old. I had played some keys before, but wasn't a great player then, nor am I amazing now, but I know my chords and melodies enough to get by ;)  A couple of my buddies at a new school I started studying at made music with tracker programs. They showed me what they were doing and all of a sudden I realized that I could do that, too. I had been a huge music fan for long, but never had really heard the different layers of music and never thought, due to my lack of live instrument playing skills, that I could make music myself. All of a sudden my world was filled with kick drum this, hi hat that, and I started putting together my first tracks. My first track I think was called 'Alone' and it had a kick drum, clap, hi hat, bass and piano and I thought it was as great as Robert Miles' 'Children'... ;) (I'm happy that it's never been shared anywhere...)

My fave album right now would be... Finnish Boy Wonder Robin's '16' as I know it by heart because my son has been listening to it on repeat for several months.

TBH I don't know all the ins and outs of all the services, especially the internal money stuff, but if/when something like Spotify gets their payments on a better level, then it's definitely going to be that kind of streaming service. With the gadgets we have these days and the modern bandwidths, most people don't really need to own/store actual files. Having access to those huge amounts of legal music is at least as convenient as any pirate site, so there'll be no real reason to go after questionable sources. I'm sure (amateur or pro) musician (content) ran sites like SoundCloud and BandCamp, ReverbNation are going to stay as great places for music discovery, too.

I LOVE Scandal. dude, I googled exactly "the new thing Jay-Z did" because I didnt know what that was and it worked! 
I'm amazed
 &gt; the new thing Jay-Z did

I googled the same thing and the second link was this comment... Are you actually Werner Herzog?? nope Sounds like something the real Werner Herzog would say will you perform at DOTA2's TI5? If they ask me and if my schedule permits, I have nothing against it, I'd love to. yes please!!!! udduudududud Please giff dududududu   _  Give Darudetide also is it true that you will be in the all star match, picking sand king? If I remember right, your big hit Sandstorm came out when I was in high school, well over 10 years ago.  

How do you find the tools for creating trance/techno music today compared to what you used back then?  Which did you prefer more? Creating music was technically and financially a little more difficult back then. Not saying it was horrible or anything like that, but the technical advances in the last 15-20 years have allowed people now to have the equivalent of like $100k professional studio as software in their cheapo laptop. Technology of course doesn't make music, people using it do, and it's also good to have a proper room and monitoring setup still, but getting to decent sound and finding out how things are done is very much easier with the presets, samples, template projects online forums, YouTube tutorials and such. I loved making music then, I love it now. I made use of what I had and bought what I could afford. The only slightly negative thing could be that these days you could easily have difficulty of choosing between all the plugins to buy and then which ones you use when you have too many! Hi Darude. My dad always told me this story where he said he was backstage at a club and walked up to a DJ performing Sandstorm. My dad hated the song and told the DJ that it was repetitive and couldn't understand why people liked it. Getting a weird look from the DJ my dad returned backstage and talked to the manager who then informed him that the DJ he insulted was in fact you. Do you remember this by any chance? My dad felt pretty bad and would apologize if given the chance so I'm doing it on behalf of him. I on the other hand happen to like Sandstorm and appreciate its mastery of the dance scene. Thank you! Seems like your dad was Darude one there. 

I'll see myself out.  [You're the hero we deserve](http://i.imgur.com/D9zv6Lr.gifv) Ahh closure :) this will be nice Imagine if Darude had listened to your Dad.. we would literally have no dankmemes.  The darkest timeline, instead of the dankest. [No dank memes?](http://gfycat.com/ChubbyDecimalBeagle) [I NEED DANK MEMES](http://th02.deviantart.net/fs71/200H/f/2014/318/1/6/meme_breathe_pepe_by_lunchwere-d86fm8i.jpg) Who the hell walks up to a DJ to personally complain about a song choice unless they hired said DJ personally? You've probably never DJed in a small club.  I can't tell you how many times people go "are you gonna play some hip hop/house/dub step?" while I'm playing drum and bass.  I've had people come stand right next to me and keep asking for something different.  Drunk people do stupid things. I've had this happen to me a bunch! What makes it even more stupid though is I'm not the DJ, I'm the fucking light board op! "Hey bro, can you throw some more Blue in the mix? You're going a little heavy on the Red. And how about some strobe?" You can never go wrong with some strobe Strobe is the visual version of cowbell: you can always use more "Omg this light is *totally about me!~"* Assholes. So, instead of all the dududududu's he would like a couple dodododo's? WHAT WAS IN THE BRIEFCASE??? Did you watch 'Feel The Beat' video? ;) [Feel the beat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mN84To5ndw0) After your links previously... I feel oddly betrayed. One embarrassing snapshot of SpongeBob at the Christmas Party! Darude - Shoebox The lyrics Dank Memes Who is one artist you would want to work with? Madonna send photo Hi Darude, if you had to pick your favourite track from the 'Golden age of Trance' (Late 90's, early 00's) what track would it be and why?

Also, any specific DJ's/Producers that have inspired your career?

Bonus question: Favourite place to perform live? Both past and present?

---

Edit: A few people have replied with theirs, keep them coming, I'm reliving the past here :) For the record, I have to go with [Chicane - Saltwater](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-ix5rXblhQ), an obvious one but I saw PVD, Tiesto, and Oakenfold play the Cream closing party in Ibiza around 2003, and when that came on it was amazing.

Two that always get my spine tingling..

[Sun Decade - I'm Alone \(Ronski Speed Remix\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fJq6EAReGE0)

[Saltwater - The Legacy \(Alphazone Mix\)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pfkGLQTC3GU) Chicane - Saltwater is also a HUGE fave of mine. But there are SO many... Dance 2 Trance - Power of American Natives, Jam &amp; Spoon - Right In The Night, Sash! - Encore Une Fois, Rank 1 - Airwave, Faithless - Insomnia... ... ... Why? They took me to places :)

Scooter, Sash!, JS16, Members Of Mayday, Faithless, Clivilles &amp; Cole (C&amp;C Music Factory), 2 Unlimited (Yeah!), Snap!

As far as cities go, Turku in Finland as my former home town is always great... Seattle in the US, and San Francisco, and LA... The WHOLE of Australia. I love it when people don't stop moving when they don't know the track that is being played. Since there are 50 questions asking about where Darude is:

&gt;**Ill be here to answers your questions later today April 8 @ 7 PM ET.**

---

Edit: Shoutout to the person who reported this even with the info in the text and this comment saying: "it's been four hours and this piece of shit coward hasn't responded to any questions"

Edit 2: He's here.

Edit 3: If you're into trance or any other type of electronic music, check out /r/electronicmusic and it's wiki list of related subs.  No responses for another 8 hours? That is just Darudest. Why start the AMA 8 hours early?  I guess to get the most popular questions to float to the top? He's probably just busy but I'd do the same thing. That makes sense if you're doing it 3 or 4 hours before, but this was posted around ~~10am~~ 8:36am and the guy won't be back before 7pm. That's long enough for it to fall off the front page and for nobody to actually see the answers. [deleted] [deleted] The idea is presumably to give Reddit a few hours to get "LOL SANDSTORM LOL" out of their system so we can get actual questions. i thought he was caught in a ... sandstorm You're not even trying. #DUDUDUDUDUDUDU I want to know the true meaning of Sandstorm, why did you name it that and what was the meaning of the music video? Have you ever been in a Sandstorm? Apparently not.  Allow me to explain.  It starts off with a clap from the distance.  Just than the sand begins swirling around you in a dancing motion... You feel nothing, but the sound is almost addicting.  Than it comes.  Those first sharp grains of sand come and you know it is over for you.  Pow pow pow pow pow.  It's as if they strike your soul!  POW pow pow pow pow pow.  Again they hit with the melody of ten thousand grains.  It begins to build faster and faster!  Pow pow pow pow pow, pow pow pow pow pow, powpowpowpowpow powpowpowpow powpowpowpowpowpowpowpowpowpow.  And than like the cruel bitch she is, she stops... swirling around you once again. Only to repeat the process.  And this time it doesn't stop, as if sand was being fired from a 136 bpm machine gun right at your ears, and that's when you realize it.  Your legs can't stop moving.  
Many people think you die from the suffocation of the storm, but it's the dancing that'll kill you.  Ask any sandstorm survivor and they'll tell you the same.  What Darude has done for us is capture and release it over the years to build up our tolerance for the sandstorms.  I bet you've never even heard of a sandstorm death.  Ever since the songs release we've been unconsciously trained to survive, adapt, and nullify the effects.  We've been so engrained by the song (pun intended) that whenever a sandstorm does come around, we immediately perceive it as simple, legendary music, but listen... And feel.  Next time you hear sandstorm as your walking down the street reach out and feel.  If you try hard enough, you just might feel a grain of sand, and you'll know that Darude has saved your life.  Thank you Darude.  We fear the sand no more!! This is the copypasta I've been yearning for ##THE TRUE MEANING OF SANDSTORM To DUDUDU or not to DUDUDU,

That is the question. Hey Darude! What computer hardware and software did you use to make Sandstorm? P2, Cubase VST 32, Fast Tracker 2, ReBirth, Korg TR-Rack. Then with JS16 in his studio: Cubase on Atari ST1024, Ensoniq ASR-10 sampler, Roland JP8080, NordLead2, Roland JV2080, Ensoniq DP4, Mackie 24/8, Behringer rack compressor Hmmmm yes, yes. Those are good.

 https://i.imgur.com/2RMOh.jpg Windows Media Player on Intel Pentium 4. Nah dawg, the Pentium 4 came out AFTER the release of Sandstorm. Pentium 3 was all the rage in 1999. How do you think the drug scene effects EDM? People in all walks of life use drugs, it's a shame that dance music has been labeled as the main culprit... I don't use drugs, I never have and I don't support drug use. That said, each grown-up person is responsible for their own bodies, so I'm not trying to tell anyone what to do. In some places you see so many people so ***ked up that you begin to wonder if the people really care/have the capacity to care about the actual music that is playing. :O http://imgur.com/GpRr07f &gt;effects

Not sure if typo or hilariously on-point Ecstasy makes EDM better. Then again ecstasy makes **everything** better Ok nutsos, there are so many of you around already, so I thought I'd start going thru your questions now. Hit me! Do you feel as though it'll be impossible to release a song that gains the popularity of Sandstorm, and if so, how does that make you feel?

Thanks for doing this AMA! Believe me or not: I'm not trying to outdo 'Sandstorm'. I make music that I like. I made music before 'Sandstorm' and after it before its big success and didn't try to replicate it. 'Feel The Beat' has several similar sounds as it was worked on the same time 'Sandstorm' was. We just happened to like those JP8080 and NordLead2 sounds and energetic drums etc. I think it might be impossible to gain similar level of success with another track by specifically trying to do it, music doesn't work that way. I didn't try to make 'Sandstorm' popular, I was just very excited to be making music and it just became popular with very minimal promotion effort by my label or myself. It started a life of its own. So you could say that song took the world by storm.^Kappa Sandstorm was THE tune during the best summer of my life (2000) - just wanted to say thanks. You're welcome. And thank YOU! That song for me was Blue by Eiffel 65. And then Papa Roach Last Resort. And Teenage Dirtbag by I don't know who. CUT MY FROG INTO PIECES. THIS IS MY LAB REPOOORT. Wheatus Yes!! "Who lives on my block, and drives an IROC..." But she *dosent know who I ammmm* That song taught me that if you like a girl out of your league just sit back and wait, she'll eventually come to you.

I didn't have many girlfriends :( I'll second that. I remember being that guy to request it at all the school dances. Only to have more often than not the DJ say "OK" and completely ignore me. Usually right before a bunch of white-as-fuck teens grind to "Get Low". That song was the first song I ever grinded to!  *Sheds tear* ground? No, the window and the walls. TO THE WINDOOOW
 
TO THE WALLS
 
TILL SWEAT DRIP DOWN MY BALLS
 
ALL THESE BITCHES CRAWL
 
Ah, to be 12 again.
 
SKEET SKEET MO'FUKKAA AHW SKEET SKEET GODDAMN And now I want to play Need for Speed Underground NFS U2 was where it was at man. Photoshoots, Skindred, Xzibit, so many car customization options, Ministry, Freeland, a surprisingly interesting story, excellent driving mechanics, Rise Against, a Snoopdog Riders of the (Sand)Storm remix... 

Man, I gotta play it again.  Riders on the Storm  NFSU2  Hi Darude. Music creation is more accessible now than it ever has been. How would you say this has affected the industry? And would you say it's a force for good or otherwise? I think the tech advances have allowed a lot more talent to surface. It's also added huge amounts of the not-so-good-yet noise, and it's everywhere. But cream always rises to the top, so in general, for the consumer there's never been a better time to find and consumer music. ITT 6,790,828 redditors all making the same joke What joke is that?

Edit: Follow up, what's a dank meme? Eyyude - Lmaostorm Dankude - memestorm Thanksude - Obamastorm Something about DUDUDUDUDUDU...

But if you are genuinely curious, Darude's song Sandstorm has become somewhat of a meme specific to the culture that is twitch chat. What is twitch you say? Twitch is a website that streams pro and amateur gamers alike, allowing you to see what someone else is doing when they play a video game along with what they are saying or appearing like as most streams are accompanied by a webcam and mic.

Well, twitch has a thing for Darude Sandstorm. Idk how it came about, probably because the song itself is archtypical and for many encompasses a wide swath of electronic music. So, when someone on twitch chat asks what song a streamer has playing, the go to answer has become Darude - Sandstorm. This is regardless of whether it is techno music or country, the answer is always and will always be Darude - Sandstorm on twitch. I have no fucking clue why. And when the song actually is Sandstorm? Prepare your anus, because that chat will be nothing but a solid fucking wall of

DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU
DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU
DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU
DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU

... and so on.

So that, is the joke that everyone is making in this thread. I don't fucking get it for the most part. I guess it might be because many songs on p2p networks were improperly labeled Darude - Sandstorm, or maybe its because the song embodies the genre so well. In any case, the joke itself makes no fucking sense. Sure you can have origins, but if twitch has taught me anything it is that twitch defies all reason.

Edit: a follow up for you, because you also asked about "dank memes". The phrase dank memes is something that is native to reddit and from what I can tell is a joke about the stupidity of some of its user base, or at least people who frequently use the word dank. Dank was a word that was originally used in reference to high quality marijuana, but because stoners are stoners, came to be used as a reference to anything that was positive. Thus young people could often be heard calling all sorts of things "dank". Someone along the line apparently thought this was stupid and jokingly called something here on reddit a "dank meme". The joke took off and now it has become a spammable term that reddit loves to use often without context or any real significant meaning. Generally though it is used to poke fun at someone being the lowest common denominator redditor, someone who really likes "memes" (commonly confused here on reddit for image macros ala /r/adviceanimals) and uses the word dank a lot, or perhaps another way to phrase it would be a "bro". This sort of jest is also where "ayy lmao" comes from, making fun of people the user views as stupid, but also used as a completely spammable phrase that has no significance or meaning. It started because one of the users, who played mostly League of Legends, loved to play that song over and over on his stream. New viewers who would come to his stream, hear the song and enjoy it, and then ask what song it is so they could go download it or whatever.

But of course, the long-term viewers had to answer what the song was over and over again. They all knew it, but had to answer it for every new viewer. So it became a joke, which everyone enjoyed because they were part of those core users who answered the question all the time. Those same users were on other Twitch channels, Reddit, YouTube, and so on, so it spread from there.

Edit: Sauce: http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/darude-sandstorm &gt;One of the users

Do you even praise General OddOne? Which streamer specifically? Apparently TheOddOne. Darude should consider sharing half his revenue with him or invite him to Starbucks ;D

As far as I remember TheOddone was very lazy regarding his old playlist, so Darude Sandstorm was played a ton during his stream and many people picked it up from there. 

Also this legendary video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jT5BC2f8MQg What is your personal favorite song of all time?

(Besides Darude - Sandstorm) Hmhmhkki Kiipes langalle. Tuli Sandstorm rankka, hmhkin vei. When you first started to learn music, did you play an instrument?

When you started producing, what gear/programs did you use?

Currently, what gear/programs do you use? I started when I was around 20 years old. I had played some keys before, but wasn't a great player then, nor am I amazing now, but I know my chords and melodies enough to get by ;) A couple of my buddies at a new school I started studying at made music with tracker programs. They showed me what they were doing and all of a sudden I realized that I could do that, too. I had been a huge music fan for long, but never had really heard the different layers of music and never thought, due to my lack of live instrument playing skills, that I could make music myself. All of a sudden my world was filled with kick drum this, hi hat that, and I started putting together my first tracks. My first track I think was called 'Alone' and it had a kick drum, clap, hi hat, bass and piano and I thought it was as great as Robert Miles' 'Children'... ;) (I'm happy that it's never been shared anywhere...)

I used a Pentium2, Cubase VST 32, Fast Tracker 2, ReBirth, Korg TR-Rack. Then my first album was produced with JS16 in his studio with Cubase on Atari ST1024, Ensoniq ASR-10 sampler, Roland JP8080, NordLead2, Roland JV2080, Ensoniq DP4, Mackie 24/8, Behringer rack compressor.

I use Logic Pro X, Melodyne, Ableton Live, good bunch of plugs, check out www.darude.com &gt; artist info &gt; studio for full gear list  Miksei sulla ole pirikiikarit pss?

Edit.  Kiitos ensimmisest kullastani! Nyt kun saatais kaveri viel vastaamaan kysymykseen!  piritorilla tavataan, perkele Darude - Sandstorm Perkele Jonnet ei muista Olennaisin kysymys thn menness!  No tm. Kansa vaatii vastausta! Darude, how was your experience at Dreamhack 2013? I watched your presentation on stream and have to say that I think you did a great job but the audience was pretty lackluster. I liked Dreamhack! It's maybe not entirely my usual crowd with the guy/girl ratio being waaaaay tipped on the guy side and there's the LAN network tables etc around, but it was good fun nevertheless! Can you verify that these are indeed the lyrics to Sandstorm?

Duuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuun
dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dun dundundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dundun
BOOM
dundun dundun dundun
BEEP
dun dun dun dun dun
dun dun
BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP
BEEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP
BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BOOM
daddaddadadsadadadadadadadadadaddadadadadadaddadadaddadadadadadadadadadadadaddadddadaddadadadd dadadadaddaddada
d
dadadddaddadaddadadadddadadada
nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nnyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu
doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo
nnn nn nn nn nn nn n nn nnn nn nn nnn nnn nnnnnnnn
dddddddd ddadadadadaddadadadadadaadadadadadad
BOOM
nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu
BOOM
BOOM BOOM BOOM BOOM
BOOM
nyunyunyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu nyu
BOOM BOOM
BEEP BEEP
BEEP BEEP BEEP
dadadadadada
ddadad
BOOM BOOM
BBEP BEEP
BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP BEEP
BOOM
(Unintellgibile)
ddudndundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dund
dododododododododododododododododododododododododododododoodo
DRUM DRUM DRUM
ddodododododoododododododododoodododododododo
chi chi chi chi chi chih
BOOOM
chcihcihfkdhfdisjfkla
dodododododododododododododododododododododododododododododododododoo
SCHEW
dododododododoodododododododododododododo
dadadadddudndundundudnudndundundunddunfudnundudnudnudndund
BOOM
FADE Seems legit. You're a good sport. He actually has quite a good time on stage. He had some signs that he would hold up and made lots of eye contact. It was an outdoor daytime show, and quite the blast! Confirmed by Darude himself, you saw it here first.  Not enough DUDUDUDU (-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-) (-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-) (-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-) (-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-) (-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-)(-_-)(-_- )(-_-)(-_-) 2 of those guys are missing their left arm and 1 of those guys has been cut in half. You got a problem with amputees boy? Verified.  I listened to the song and read off the lyrics. [Google Text-to-Speech](https://translate.google.com/#en/en/Duuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dundun%20dun%20dundundun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dundun%20dundun%20BOOM%20dundun%20dundun%20dundun%20BEEP%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BOOM%20daddaddadadsadadadadadadadadadaddadadadadadaddadadaddadadadadadadadadadadadaddadddadaddadadadd%20dadadadaddaddada%20d%20dadadddaddadaddadadadddadadada%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nnyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20doo%20doo%20doo%20doo%20doo%20doo%20doo%20doo%20nnn%20nn%20nn%20nn%20nn%20nn%20n%20nn%20nnn%20nn%20nn%20nnn%20nnn%20nnnnnnnn%20dddddddd%20ddadadadadaddadadadadadaadadadadadad%20BOOM%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BOOM%20nyunyunyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20nyu%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20dadadadadada%20ddadad%20BOOM%20BOOM%20BBEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BEEP%20BOOM%20\(Unintellgibile\)%20ddudndundun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dun%20dund%20dododododododododododododododododododododododododododododoodo%20DRUM%20DRUM%20DRUM%20ddodododododoododododododododoodododododododo%20chi%20chi%20chi%20chi%20chi%20chih%20BOOOM%20chcihcihfkdhfdisjfkla%20dodododododododododododododododododododododododododododododododododoo%20SCHEW%20dododododododoodododododododododododododo%20dadadadddudndundundudnudndundundunddunfudnundudnudnudndund%20BOOM%20FADE)

Click on the Speaker to hear playback Did you have a deal with Youtube for the latest April fools prank? Putting Darude Sandstorm on top of Taylor Swift music videos made them almost watchable.  Hahaha! I like Taylor Swift!

I was in on the prank with YouTube, it was so much fun watching the interwebs go nuts over it! :D Are you the Darude from the Sandstorm forums? _ All videos had a button that linked to the Sandstorm video as well. What is your favourite thing to listen to right now - genre, artist, specific song, whatever. What's on your ipod? I listen to a lot of nu-future-electro-bigroom-progressive house and prig-uplifting-vocal trance... I scout tracks for my DJ sets and that forms most of my music-listening material. I'm also about 23/7 listening to my own music that I'm currently producing for the new album; it's a cycle of working in the studio, jumping in the car to go grocery shopping or picking my son up from daycare and test listening to something, or listening back at the house and making notes for the next studio session.

I love Ellie Goulding's voice... And Sia is dope. As is Kiesza's voice is amazing, too! Wouldn't it be funny if he answered "Never Gonna Give You Up"? Darude created a smash hit techno song in 2000 in order to do an AMA on reddit in 2015 in order to rickroll thousands of neckbeards...

The long con. Thanks for the AMA, Darude! 2 questions:

1. In a world where faking DJ skill is becoming more and more prevalent, do you see dance music continuing down this path?
2. As much of a genius piece of work as it is (Sandstorm), what other songs of yours would you recommend trying out?  People, the crowds, are not infinitely stupid, they'll figure out at some point that there are some fakers in the game and they'll find better DJs, producers and performers to follow. So some responsibility also lies on the consumers' side.

As a side note: not all DJs are producers. Not all producers are DJs. Not all producers are songwriters. Not all songwriters are producers. Not all producers are mixing engineers etc... Mill torilla tavataan? Turun torilla. How much money did you make from sandstorm? It's been played everywhere so I imagine the royalties must be pretty good. I've got it all stored in Sahara. How does it feel having your name in most answers to "Song name?" questions? I've spoken with a few old school trance fans, many who've actually listened to your work after Sandstorm. Though many dismiss you as being cheesy and perhaps the song has cost you a gig or two(not my words!), those who've actually heard your work after Sandstorm agree that you've made a lot of good songs after it. How have you dealt with the fact that many of your songs are in the shadow of Sandstorm? Hi darude!

Do you still tour? What's the best show you've ever done &amp; why? Yes, I still tour. The first couple of years I did like 100+ gigs a year, like literally was away from home over 9 months out of those years. Since 2003-4 I've done 40-60 gigs a year.

My best show... Umh, so so so many to choose from, but I'll pick one from way back and one new: MTV Ibiza 2000 party was bonkers for me; the first time in Ibiza in general, 12000 people outdoor festival, my name the first time sandwiched between the likes of Paul van Dyk, Underworld, Armand van Helden etc... I watched Underworld perform before my own set in the middle of the crowd, half an hour later I was on that stage myself. So crazy. Caught PvD play 'Sandstorm' on the other stage, saw &amp; heard people go berserk, was mindblowing. The new thing is the Future Music Festival tour in Australia I just did a month ago; such crazy Ozzie crowds, such great festival, everything worked like it's supposed to be, had a blast! How much sand could a sandstorm storm if a sandstorm could storm sand? Hey Darude, Thanks for doing this AMA! shoutouts to [/r/trance ](http://www.reddit.com/r/trance), you should come visit us some time

How did you enjoy playing at Voodoo in Sydney last month?

also I just wanted to say I think "Feel The Beat" deserves more recognition, my personal favourite I can't wait to see you in Dallas next month, you're easily one of my first favorite artists from the 2000s and I'm so glad that you're still coming out with new music. 

What do you think has changed the most about the electronic music scene since you debuted your hits that have rocked the scene for over a decade now.   Come say hi!

The music making tech is now available to everybody with a laptop or even a tablet or smartphone, so there's way more music out there now then 15-20 years back.

Internet as distribution and piracy method has probably changed the music industry and the scene the most. Same revenue streams don't exist anymore, nor do breaking the artists work the same way these days. There's much more freedom for artists these days as getting to your fans doesn't necessarily require huge machinery anymore that is the label. Do you like how popular Sandstorm has become ironically, or are you just glad it's fun and iconic with everyone? For a reason or another 'Sandstorm' has been played in various places thruout the years and licensed to movies and TV and games etc and I've been requested it endlessly at every gig of mine, so it really hasn't gone anywhere, at least not for me. This new meme-phase was strange at first, but I don't mind it at all, I mean, people are throwing my name into everything and even those who do it out of spite or otherwise jokingly end up kind of being in the other end of the joke anyway, because all the publicity works for me! ;) It played at my wedding even :) Do you take thee in holy matrimony? 

I dudududu. i cant believe you are doing this lots of love to you man, what was your reaction to youtube's april fools prank this year? I was in on the prank with YouTube, it was so much fun watching the interwebs go nuts over it! :D Best day ever. Did YouTube actually pay you for the samples? What was the prank? You could play Sandstorm over any video to upgrade the audio!

My home internet cut off on April 1st, so I couldn't try it for shit, but I suppose it was awesome. Fml What's your favorite flavor of ice cream?  Salmiakki http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJBBakWOeEQ Is your name pronounced "DA-ROO-DAY" or "DA-ROOD" (like "the rude")?  Darude like 'the rude' &gt;&gt; 'da rude' Wow. As a Finn I thought it was just pronounced like you see it (in Finnish). I always got so pissed of when youtubers etc said Daruud but I guess they were right all along, huh. Out of curiosity, how would it be pronounced in Finnish? And I first heard Sandstorm when I was a little kid, and the first thing that popped into my mind was da-roo-day, but in recent years, with its emergence as a meme, I started to see that "da rude" would definitely make sense. However, hearing people pronounce it like "da rude" still irked me. I almost didn't want to ask this question out of fear I've been saying it wrong all the time, but I had to know. Might as well learn from the man himself! Well I don't know how the ridiculous English pronunciation explanation is properly used but I'll try... Dah-ruh-deh. Or maybe Dah-roo-deh (the roo is short). I think you add h at the end to show you want the vowel before it. Seriously though, the English pronunciation thing makes no sense to me. You explain a sound with letters that are not very much connected to the sounds. It feels like just another level of confusion. I would use the [IPA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Phonetic_Alphabet) explanation but that would just be Darude. In Finnish and in IPA you would pronounce Darude as Darude... UPDATE, 9:00 PM ET: Thanks for the &lt;3 and the great questions. Got to get to bed at some point. Until next time, find me on FB &amp; Instagram! G'night! Thanks man! &lt;3 Do you play any video games, e.g. Counter-Strike, with which your music is often associated?  No, I don't really play video games. Perhaps because I sit in front of my screen enough anyway when I make music and take care of business. I've last played regularly when I had a Commodore 64! :) Loved River Raid, Pitfall2, Boulder Dash, Bomb Jack, Outrun, Wizards of War...  You're talking my era! I loved Boulder Dash III!  dude, commodore 64? that was so long ago! River Raid was the best game for Atari 2600. "take care of business" (   ) On Darude's Twitch stream, he reveals he is not a gamer. He plays Dota I think, look at his pen. That must be his favorite hero https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=utF0Wi7TkHs Conflict: Desert Sandstorm. DUDE YOU STILL MAKE MUSIC?

&lt;3333333333333333333333 

Your song, sandstorm, back when i was a wee lad, literally got me into what is now called the EDM scene. Along with a song by 

DJ Encore - I see right through to you

Thank you for defining my love for trance and progressive, i love you Darude! &lt;3

AND I LOVE THE DJ ENCORE TRACK, TOO! I... my life is .. complete. [Wow, I remember that.](https://youtu.be/TlQ-2U9-Hz8) literally the two songs that defined my love for trance and progressive. 

i have goosebumps for days, the actually responded 

*faints* [deleted] DUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDUDU DU D [DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD](https://youtu.be/esMnme69t2M?t=12s) DUDUDUDUDUDU *the break* DUDUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDU Hodor What song is that? Sarude-Armstrong DUUUUUUUUUUUD! this is highly underrated  Holy shit. That kid is a motherfuckin musical genius. I am blown away by this kids talent. That was amazing. [I know what Darude - Sandstorm sounds like. It has been on my running mix since 2001. Because DUDUDUDUDU DU DUDUDUDUDU](https://youtu.be/IZvz6oFTHAE?t=9s) Deep lyrics guys DU HAST. DU HAST DDDDDU DUDUDDDDU   [DUDUDU](http://www.mobygames.com/images/shots/l/3032-mortal-kombat-3-dos-screenshot-sheeva-the-female-counterpart.gif) DUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDUDU
 darude used sandstorm It was super effective! DankMeme fainted! Use next Dankemon? I guess Darude *can* melt dank memes. Could you fill me in on the information I seem to be missing which would make the whole dank meme thing funny? Don't worry, I'm cringing at all these kids too.  Wow okay like wow. It can't even deal damage. git gud Sandstorm (the move) doesn't do damage, but sandstorm (the weather) does... It can't be super effective since it's not a damaging move.  Sandstorm does no direct damage, it only brews a sandstorm which can cause damage over time to any pokemon that is not Rock, Ground, or Steel type or has the ability Magic Guard, and therefore can not be "super effective". [All attacking creatures suffer one damage](http://gatherer.wizards.com/Handlers/Image.ashx?multiverseid=220964&amp;type=card) DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUDUD DU DUDUDUDUDUU DUDUDUDU DUDUDUDUDU Strangest thing... I came to say this. dootdootdootdootdootdoot But, but... that's not a question :o Imagine if he replied with more DUDUDUDUDU Do you have any "Spinal Tap" moments in your career you would like to share? Something that was incredibly embarrassing at the time but now you look back on it and laugh. I once performed at Miss Finland contest finals on national TV with a keyboard that didn't have one single cable attached to it AND the camera guy did "cool" camera runs from over my shoulder etc, so that everyone even with only one bad eye saw nothing was on... Yeah, "live" TV rocks... At some point of the career those things come up and you might make forced silly decisions and go with it only to regret later. Some time later I did my third Top Of The Pops in UK with 'Out Of Control', and refused to do the same when the head of the production refused to let me do anything live, so I changed the performance a bit; I sat back in an armchair observing in the and used my keyboard and keyb stand as foot rest and let my singer Tammy &amp; dancers do the performing ;) What the fuck was going on in Inception? No clue. Eventually the "loudness wars" sound will be dated. maybe it'll become a trend for other bands to undo it as well. A great example is  Superchunk's  Majesty Shredding, which is an excellent album ruined by terrible mastering.  already is dated, after death magnetic even non-musicians started to get annoyed by it. It's amazing how often Metallica can fuck up the production of their albums (...and justice for all, st. anger, death magnetic) If anyone is interested to hear what St. Angry would have sounded like with modern metal production, this guy recorded the whole [thing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lU-UI3_6HcM) The most amazing part is their version is 15 minutes shorter:

&gt;Recorded from the ground up, the album has been shortened by 15 minutes, yet every riff and lyric is intact, resulting in a more concise and focused record.

It sounds *a lot* better. Like seriously, WTF was Metallica thinking...not only would Albini have made St. Anger sound better, but he would have told these "I Am The Table" having mother fuckers to tighten up their writing and cut out the fat. There's no reason to have 7 minute tracks when you take out all the solos that make other albums like Justice good. To be fair, I think they were kinda goin for that not-very-produced sound on st. Anger The problem is it was completely contrived and stupid. They are rich, and extremely competent musicians who all decided to use the crappiest equipment they could find because lo fi was trendy at the time. Shitty mics, shitty amps, shitty guitars, and shitty drums recorded to a shitty format does not make a great lo fi album. People using what they have to make music still sound good with the crappy equipment is what makes a great lo fi album. They should have stayed the fuck away from the entire concept.  They could have just gone to Steve Albini. It would be pretty interesting to hear Metallica "raw". Kurt Ballou produces awesome sounding heavy music, too. The sound on that album has fuck-all to do with guitars/amps/drums, aside from a handful of short parts where they wanted the amp to short out as an effect. They used Diezels and Mesas for the main guitar sound. The drums are Lars' usual high quality Tama stuff, they just didn't tune the snare because I don't know why. 

They went completely the other direction from what they were accustomed to. EQ-ing the shit out of every instrument was a Bob Rock staple on the Black album, Load, Reload, and (their best sounding album, IMO) Garage Inc.

If you've ever heard a band play in a garage, they pretty much nailed that sound (yay?). Even with $5000 guitars and the best amps money can buy, this is what a metal band sounds like in the rehearsal space, more or less. I really hope so.  Eventually, it will hopefully be the case that over-compression/brick-wall limiting will negatively impact the overall level of the music as compared with less compressed counterparts, leaving no advantage to the practice.  If the standards referenced in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0EIRF7QW0eA become more widespread, I'm optimistic that this will be the case. [deleted] Yes, that really more or less reassures periodic re-assessment. Hopefully it will occur to more artists to do this kind of expanded remaster for at least their best albums. YouTube probably won't be the best place to demonstrate this. They've been using [loudness normalization](http://productionadvice.co.uk/youtube-loudness/) on music videos for a while now. It looks like it can take about [a week](http://productionadvice.co.uk/youtube-loudness-normalisation-details/) for the changes to catch up with the upload in some cases. You'll never get full quality on YouTube because everything gets turned down to AAC format. That said, the better the input, the better the output; as a result, the new remaster really shines compared to all other YouTube uploads. The albums sound even better in their full glory in lossless 24bit FLAC.

Loudness normalization can be a good thing. If the compressed/brickwalled loudness war remasters are turned down, and the quieter versions are turned up, we can get a fair volume-matched comparison of the different versions of songs.

The better remasters will shine. Ian Shepherd says this in the article you just posted as well:

"Quieter songs are being boosted

Loud songs are being turned down, but quieter songs are also being turned up. This is a good thing  it means great-sounding music with more dynamics will stand up well against the smashed mainstream stuff.

And dont worry
 
It doesnt cause clipping or extra limiting

Another concern is that if quieter, more dynamic music is boosted in loudness by the normalisation, it might cause clipping, or add limiting to prevent it, as Spotify does.

Again, our testing suggests YouTube isnt falling into this trap. More dynamic songs arent boosted so far that they will distort."

In ways it's a step in the right direction when people start to realize that the loudness war compressed audio sounds flatter and less clear than the properly-mastered audio. If some more dynamic music is turned down a little bit, listeners can just turn their volume up manually. &gt; You'll never get full quality on YouTube because everything gets turned down to AAC format. That said, the better the input, the better the output; as a result, the new remaster really shines compared to all other YouTube uploads. The albums sound even better in their full glory in lossless 24bit FLAC.

Sorry, but I just have to interject. [With high enough bit-rate lossy compression is indistinguishable from source material even for expert listeners](http://www.music.mcgill.ca/~hockman/documents/Pras_presentation2009.pdf) And before you start to object with CD quality being toted as the gold standard - [there is no benefit to going above 44kHz](http://xiph.org/~xiphmont/demo/neil-young.html).

Ignoring the mountains of psychoacoustic research out there is not good engineering. It's too easy to fool oneself with the audophile snake oil and it's only helpful to the platinum coated oxygen free pope blessed HDMI cable peddlers. You're assuming that it was uploaded in a lossless format and converted once to the lossy format (AAC).  Converting a lossy format to another lossy format results in horrific sound quality (ie a 256kbps mp3 to 256kbps AAC). Ah that's good. My mistake for misunderstanding. It sounded like YouTube were applying a process that undid the remaster. Glad that's not the case, thanks for the info.  What do you mean by uncompressed 24bit flac? Flac does use compression. Sorry. It's early morning. The word I meant to use was "lossless." Two different things. FLAC uses lossless data compression. Actually this makes youtube the best place to demonstrate this. You can't just compress the sound and crank loudness to appeal to the listener so tracks that retain dynamic range actually have a fighting chance. This needs to be done to Californication  Here you go: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vTUVcKDDOBY

Edit: For the record, I didn't make this. I found it a while back on a different thread referencing compression.  Oh my god. The drums. Drums sound amazing. I'm not sold on the cymbals yet though.  cymbals were a bit too..."piercing" I guess would be the term. Nah. Just needs more cowbell Just Wow. I have listened to this album so many times over the years. It's just amazing to finally hear this. When taking a sound engineering class back in 2010 my teacher would always talk about the compression of albums and this made sense but I never got to hear anything that stood out like American idiot or Californication.

He often referred to Metallica as having such a compressed sound. He said this was based on the bands, specifically Lars, desire and the producer to have everything raised to the maximum levels thus cutting off the low and high end. Kind of like they do in commercials. Thats why they sound louder. No dynamic range at all.

He was an interesting guy and was the one of the foley guys for [Calliou](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ONO9x4CSCI) and other shows like Arthur, Paddington, Animal Crackers, Upstairs-Downstairs Bears and Mona the vampire.
 It should be noted that this isn't an actual remaster from the source tracks, but done using post-processing utilities like Ozone and iZotope on the album version to essentially mask the clipping, tune the EQ, and widen the stereo mix.  This effect isn't much different from turning on the "sound enhancer" in iTunes.

At this stage you're not improving the dynamic range, which is the true point of a genuine remaster, but stereo positioning and EQ can make individual instruments sound better and more clear, which is definitely the case here.  A full re-master of this album would be excellent. Actually, according to the video description it was made using a rough mixes bootleg that's been floating around online for a few years. Most of the songs are the same as the album version, but there are differences here and there (e.g. the chorus of Around the World, some extra vocals at the end of Easily). Not quite, once a file is damaged by super compression nothing can bring it back to this level. These are early unmastered leaks.

Source - Small time mastering engineer Thanks a lot for this.  
FYI folks there is a lossless download in the youtube description pastebin link - which I'd link but would probably get this comment deleted.

Just did an AB in audacity and it is ridiculous how much better this remaster sounds (the drums alone are amazing, and the lack of clipping).

Californcation was the only album I didn't have a decent copy (as it didn't have a good vinyl remaster) for and you've just fixed that for me.
 The 2012 Californication vinyl remaster was worlds better than the original.  Maybe not as good as the Steve Hoffman-mastered Stadium Arcadium, but significantly better than the heavily compressed original. Ummm i dont remember the first track with so many "bing bang bong bong bing bang's" in it. "You say hello and then i say i do" was the other lyric right? Seriously, what the hell... Why do this to the song?? It's like restoring a renaissance painting to its full colourful glory but adding in moustaches on everyone. Yeah, he only does that once during the song but for some reason this version has him doing it twice in each chorus. No idea if the person who remastered this did that on their own or not, but it's definitely overkill. According to the person who remastered it, it was taken from an earlier 'unmastered' version of Californication that was leaked prior to its final release that has been floating around the internet for a few years. Apparently, at that time, Anthony Kiedis (the vocalist) hadn't come up with lyrics for the chorus so he had initially sung those 'ding dang...' lyrics for each chorus when they recorded this version. There are other differences in this version as well such as additional vocals at the end of 'Easily'. Plus the songs were in a completely different order.

Edit: There's more info about it [here.](https://sites.google.com/site/rhcpsessions/californication-rough-mixes) Holy crap it's so good. How about Stadium Arcadium???? (please let it exist!) [It exists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQKI_uwqUto). I wasn't entirely convinced by the greenday, but right from the start it makes a difference here, good find. Here's my review.

**Around The World** really distracted me since Anthony was doing his yin-yan-yeen-yang thing every chorus and I'm pretty sure it wasn't this way in the original. What the hell? This song sounds great though. "Strings" at end of last chorus come through well. +

I'm probably going to be in the minority here, but getting rid of compression completely kills **Parallel Universe**. The [original](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9fPYyoY49Bc) is in your face and intense the whole time; the loud volume is used as an effect that sustains intensity across the sparse instrumentation. With this revised version, the bottom is constantly going out of the song. John's guitar solo in particular sounds weak. It's just not as enjoyable. -

However **Scar Tissue** sounds great. Way more of a ballad version. +

**Otherside** sounds way more complex and interesting, but again the guitar solo used to be the strong point of the song, now it's weak. -

**Get On Top** is more interesting. Anthony's voice sounds way more nasally and annoying than the [original](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-A6VY-TGysU) sounded. The chorus is more annoying. Him doubling himself sounds annoying. It sounded way better when it was less clear. The jam session, however, is more awesome. +/-

**Californication**: I'm starting to question the quality of this remaster: Anthony has a lisp added to his voice. It's very distracting and annoying. He does not sound like himself, or like the original recording did at all. The instruments, however, sound impeccable. Drums are amazing and the main driver of the song's intensity, bass and guitar are great. I really want to like this song, but Anthony sounds like he's an alien from another planet here. It's just very sloppy. I expected better. -

**Easily**: Man I did not remember this crazy ethereal jam part at the end of this song. It's been a while but it sounds amazing. I [confirmed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhiE6B1AkgQ) that the original does not sound this awesome at the end. The opening riff is weaker, but it's not that important - this song is a clear win. +

Porcelain: I always skipped this song haha. It sounds nice and full but I'm not qualified to debate whether it sounds different. +/-

**Emit Remmus**: sounds way more hard rock without the treble.. I guess John's guitar was probably too loud in the original. Bass and drums give it a plodding, technical, building feel. The bridge is crazy. I think there's double bass? +

**I Like Dirt**: You can hear the tension in the beginning. Guitar is weaker but I hesitate to call that a bad thing. However I do think it is bad that Anthony and the guitar don't encroach on each others' sound waves anymore. It used to create a cool blend effect (like two soloists playing over a similar register) but they don't complement each other well here. Also at 37:34 I hear a very distracting noise 3 times.. sounds like a bad cymbal recording. +/-

**This Velvet Glove**: Guitar is just weak. It needs distortion to compensate for the lack of distortion on the track or something because this is not the song I remember. This was one of my favorites too. It would not be my favorite if this was the original album version. Guitar does sound cool on chorus though. It used to blend in with Anthony's voice but here it is distinct. -

**Savior**: Always thought this was kind of a boring song. However the remaster helps Anthony sound better somehow, and the weird breakdown part sounds good. The guitar solo at the end is very heavy on the mids. This makes me think that maybe it's not coming through in other songs because its focus was moved from treble. +

**Purple Stain**: Bass sounds awesome. There's some distortion effect on it. Anthony's voice is louder than guitar though with this remix, and although I have been rambling on about it for most of the review, that's a problem that heavily detracts from the original intent of the mastering. +/-

**Right On Time**: Bass sounds clear, drums sound cool, guitar comes through (and gets loud at the end), vocal mix sounds hilarious (because one of the singers is creaking), there's more personality than there was before. Some weird clips of someone talking were added at the end. +

**Road Trippin**': Epic. Gave me chills. Vocals are a little high but still the definitive version. +

Don't know the B-Sides :P

Overall, the electric guitar is way too low. It does not maintain a consistent and commanding presence like the original master did. This affects basically every song, but some songs it does help (guitar was too loud to begin with). Also, the increased clarity that comes with the dynamic range does not make the songs unequivocally better. The instrumentation gets really sparse - they are after all only a 3 piece band - and the compression served as an effect that filled the instruments out and gave them character. 

Love him or hate him, Anthony's voice is now the primary focus when he's singing, and it creates a very unequal, unsatisfying balance between him and the guitar. This is very typical of some remasters I've seen - in particular the remaster of the album The Ugly Organ by Cursive decided that every syllable Tim Kasher utters needs to be comprehensible or something, and in doing so completely upset the delicate mix and cut off the balls of the awesome guitar work. Maybe this is a necessary move to increase the dynamic volume. On the other hand, the remaster of Gish by the Smashing Pumpkins did not do anything whatsoever to disrupt the powerful presence of Billy Corgan's guitar strings with his voice. So I think this remaster is just sloppy. 

I gave 7 songs a +, 4 songs a -, and 4 songs a +/-. That sounds pretty good on surface, but you can't ruin Parallel Universe, Californication, and This Velvet Glove and get away with it, so I'm giving this remastering a thumbs down.

EDIT: I now think this is an unmastered version; the song differences are similar to one described by [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Californication_%28album%29). Holy shit where can I download that? My god it's amazing. Can they do that to all music ever?  I came into this thread to make a smarmy jab at "They sound way better." thinking there is no way that average Joe is able to pick out a subtle difference that a remastering would provide.

Then I listened to this.  Holy crap.  It's Californication...but...but...but...it's BETTER!  This has changed my entire notion of what sits in my audio collection.  How much of my stuff is inferior sounding to something else out there?! I created a subreddit that will host all of the remasters you find, care to check it out? http://www.reddit.com/r/musicremasters Oh man. You totally could have called it /r/musicremasterrace
 DAMN. Didn't think of that! But yours is better since that joke is already beyond old. And By The Way That's actually my favorite RHCP album. Unmastered with unaltered, natural dynamic range would be great for all the acoustic parts and clean guitars that are layered on that album. It's their only album besides BSSM that I can listen to all the way through. I mean, Tear remastered? Unff And Death Magnetic by Metallica.  People have done this using the tracks from Guitar Hero. I think it sounds pretty great. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sebArtGr0JM Holy shit it actually sounds like instruments now. I couldn't believe how much clipping and noise there was in the album. I actually thought my speakers were starting to die.

I don't understand how the original album made it out the door. It sounds like when I used to plug my guitar amp straight into the mic jack on my old computer and didn't realize it was clipping.  The mastering on most Metallica albums has been pretty garbage unfortunately. Yeah, it kind of has its charm as far as 80s metal goes but I'd love to hear how they would've sounded in a modern studio.  They've put out some great albums that really deserve better than they got, 80's metal charm be damned. It wasn't a big deal when you were listening to everything on tapes anyway, but at this point it's just a shame. At least they fixed the damn snare drum.  Also the last two Alice In Chains albums. Seriously, especially the last one. Could the devil put dynamics here?  *Any masters out there?*

*Any one at all?*

*Can you finally hear this deep note*

*Scratching through the wall?* And anything else produced by Rick Rubin A lot of Metallica material could do with remastering, really. Metallica has bought all the rights to their music and is releasing the remastered albums on their own record label "blackened", starting with Kill Em All this year Goddammit, I bet this was their plan all along. 

"We'll get filthy rich selling our poorly-mastered music, and when we need/want more monye we'll just remaster it to sound like it should have to begin with!" *evil laughter*

Goddammit, Lars. I'm not even mad. 

Kill em all, RTL, AJFA, and death magnetic need it so badly. Death magnetic remastered was great.  Fire bad! Money goooood! CAN'T WAIT FOR SAINT ANGER!!!!!!
 Wow, this is news to me. I'll probably rebuy all of them too. You might be able to find them on napster Old Metallica sounds like it was recorded in a dungeon. The true way heavy metal is supposed to sound!  Brtal. Amazing album ruined by tons of clipping. Not sure about *ruined*, but yeah I get your point. When did RHCP change their name to clipping? It's clipping bitch * high pitch screech * And on letting go by circa survive I just listened to this and Juturna this week, coincidentally. The music itself is so dynamic, but it's just so slammed with brickwall compression that there's no dynamics to the albums. It's distracting [Full album (unmastered)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CF1PmnhCV04) From leaked out 192 kbps mp3s Oh god it makes my ears bleed. And Blink-182's Untitled album, holy shit. The difference in the Green Day ones is big and Jerry Finn's work is always really compressed. I'd lose my shit if someone did this to Blink's Untitled album.  I'm most curious to hear All of This remastered, one of them said there was a total of over 90 tracks throughout that song and I'm sure a lot of them got buried. I Miss You and I'm Lost Without You would be interesting too. Fuck, that whole album. I'm sure there's more going on in Feeling This than the average person hears, I didn't know for the first couple years Mark's bass part was as complex as it was.  Stadium Arcadium needs it badly.  Get the vinyl. The vinyl Stadium Arcadium is amazing. It was mastered by Steve Hoffman. No DR compression on that mastering.  Yesssss, you can even get a digital rip of the vinyl on pirate bay.  &gt; Get the vinyl.

Out of print and expensive now, unfortunately. I'm sure there's needle drops floating around out there somewhere. Californication (full album remaster 2014)

https://youtu.be/vTUVcKDDOBY

 Rick Rubin is crying in a pillow somewhere  Amen. It's really sad that we have a whole generation of music  mangled like this, not allowed to express its full potential. Recently, when I want to buy an album made before the late 90s, I'll often look for a copy of the original CD release rather than the remaster re-release or the digital version, because the sound is often better.

It does seem like audiophile aesthetics are starting to break into the mainstream, and the next generation's music may be much better served by the industry (and giving new life to some from the past).

Some of the most remarkable audio I've heard recently is [this guy's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T7okvbwIg9M&amp;list=PLtDh1R-OgY6aCapg4plkg-n_0IxLc9AKk) fan-made downmixes of the Talking Heads' albums from the 5.1 DVD releases. It's like hearing the albums again for the first time. It's effectively a remix as well as a remaster, because downmixing from 5.1 changes the balance of the track levels, but a big part of the improved sound is the reduced compression. There's just so much space in the mix, it's beautiful.

edit: And this is also an opportunity for the record labels to make more money re-selling their albums in yet another version. The problem is that it's mostly the wrong "aesthetics" that are being picked up.  I'm seeing more 24/96, 24/192 recordings, and more vinyl, but the mixes and mastering are still the same garbage and that's where the problem is. 16/44 lossless is more than enough. Yup, this makes me laugh. 
"HD TRACKS! "

"But it's the same shitty master from 2 years ago, just not downsampled to 44.1/16" 

"Yea, but it's....HD! " I recently purchased American Idiot on vinyl and had noticed that, at the beginning of the "Nobody Likes You" section of "Homecoming", there were some additional background vocal samples that I had never heard before.  I wondered if maybe I had just never noticed them before, but after listening to the Spotify version confirmed that it was not present.  You can hear the new version of this track here, to see what I'm talking about:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1zRkEnRJRuc

It looks like the master used for the vinyl is, in fact, this Ted Jensen master, which would explain why it sounded so much cleaner and crisper to my ear (particularly in the drums).  Funny that you posted this, just in time for me to find it.  Thanks for the clarity!

Now I'm wondering how many other albums have received a similar treatment and have flown under my radar... It's interesting that you bring up vinyl. Vinyl masters absolutely can not be the same as anything mastered with the "loudness war" in mind. Too little dynamic range and the needle will bounce out of the grooves. I think that's the reason people are returning to vinyl these days, but they don't get that dynamic range is the reason. It's not the format itself, but the limitations of the format dictate a more dynamic, and therefore cleaner, better mastering process. Unfortunately, many new vinyl masters come from the CD master.  Fortunately, there are many mastering engineers that are doing different versions (like me).  I supply a 16bit 44.1khz CD Version which is usually loud (as requested by client) including DDP Image, 16/44.1khz and 24bit native resolution for download/streaming, a less limited/compressed 24 native sample rate version for 'Mastered for iTunes' (mostly big record labels use that) that is more dynamic, and vinyl versions which are not limited at all and are very dynamic.  I usually do a bit of manual volume automation on certain parts of vinyl the tracks if they get really loud or differ a lot, but I stay away from the limiter for vinyl.  It's always supplied at 24bit native res, or if native res was 44.1 I usually upsample to 96khz and master at that.

Also, vinyl mastering is usually a little warmer as well, because vinyl actually increases the harsh sibilances in songs in the upper mid/hi areas.  It could sound present but not harsh on a digital file, but once pressed to vinyl, it can really become prominent and harsh and ruin the track. 

EDIT: Also adding, I've been doing a lot of cassette masters too lately.  That's increasing big time in the ambient/lofi/beats scene (i.e. Hush Hush Records). /r/CDmasterRace It's a pleasant irony that the constraints of a medium can sometimes be the most effective safeguards against misuse.  :) That is awesome! I'd never heard those before either. For everyone else it starts around 4:04. I love my vinyl of American Idiot. When I started listening to this remaster on youtube I was thinking that it doesn't sound to different from my vinyl.

I'm hoping it's because my vinyl is the remaster, and not because I have bad ears. Listen to the section just after "this lifelike dream ain't for me" on Homecoming, and you should hear some background samples behind the snare roll that leads into Nobody Likes You.  If you hear those samples, that means that you've got the remastered version. Got it. Will report my findings later tonight. They just submitted a screenplay for the American Idiot movie based on the broadway production btw. 

Edit: jesus christ, green day is music snob bait.  Yes yes it is. If you say 'Wow I like green day!' you will get shit on repeatedly unless you say 'well their older stuff is way better than the crap now' 

greenday4lyfe I didn't care about the Trilogy at all. I think I listened to Uno twice.

21st I listened to a lot, but it had a few songs I didn't care for.

Absolutely love American Idiot. Everything prior I appreciate on some level, though my favorites will always be American Idiot, Dookie, and Warning. Stuff on International Superhits is dope too. Definitely! But it's a "greatest hits"-type album, so that's kinda cheating! That's a "greatest hits" compilation is why. I love Green Day as a whole. Fuck the snobs.  Sigh, Green Day, really?  It's just mindless dribble.  

* Now, you have to listen to Wilco's- 'Being There' album on vinyl,  that's music. Preferably any live of their live shows from the mid 90's.  As for newer music, I like FKA Twigs, although she's getting a little too mainstream for me.

* There's a great Brooklyn band that plays some small shows locally called VVi+h Vs (with us). Great sound.  It's a folk/synth/indie duo that play genuinely good music .  I went to NYU so I know what I'm talking about. This satire is so perfectly done that it's actually infuriating me because I know how many people think/talk like this.  &gt; I went to NYU so I know what I'm talking about.

I almost thought you were serious for a second there.  *slowly lowers pitchfork*  *slowly lowers pitchfork.com review of American Idiot* Downvote turned to upvote upon second read People like to shit on anything Green Day put out after *Warning*. The truth is that a lot of their stuff is great music, it's just different. I think *21st Century Breakdown* might be my second favorite album by them (behind *Dookie*).

There's also a lot of guitar snobs out there (mostly technical guitarists) that think any use of power chords whatsoever is "lazy" music. I don't think power chords have anything to do with it. People got over that with nirvana, I just think people hate pop punk, because those genres are supposed to be opposite. Every time a punk band gets to big or a sub genera of punk gets too popular people start hating them.  Those same guitarists think playing guitar means shreading, sweep picking, or highly technical stuff. Sometimes, simplicity is key People still love Blink-182... If you think Blink-182 doesn't get as much if not more hate than Green Day in punk rock circles, you're sorely mistaken. It's harder to level charges of pretension or "selling out" when you're making dick jokes from the beginning.

Also, Green Day came up from a DIY, very punk, very anti-corporate music. When they signed to a big label, a number of people from their original crowd were pissed, and the narrative has persisted.

Anyway, fuck those people. I love the music, they just might be the best live band in the world right now, and that's all that matters. Their first album was nothing but love songs. They may have been DIY but they were hardly singing anarcho-punk songs. &gt; When they signed to a big label, a number of people from their original crowd were pissed, and the narrative has persisted.

In the episode of Driven about them, Billie Joe addressed this directly. He basically said that everyone in the band got tired of playing show after show across the country for nothing more than some food, beer, and a couch to crash on that night. 21st was the first green day album I listened to, so I can definitely see the appeal.  I just feel that it gets somewhat repetitive by the end, I still think it's a decent album, it just has too many songs that sound really similar. I liked all up to American Idiot personally. After that it got kind of repetitive and the whole uno/dos/tres thing was just a lot of crap I thought. edit: I LOVED American Idiot, that tour was actually my first concert ever, and I'm a sucker for concept albums. I thought American Idiot was phenomenal  &gt; I'm a sucker for concept albums

Have you listened to 21st Century Breakdown?  It's one of their most ambitious/less repetitive albums... Growing up a big Green Day fan, you hear this shit all the time.

But man, being in high school when Time of Your Life (Good Riddance) was a hit was fucking annoying. I like the song, don't get me wrong, but hearing it a billion times is just terrible.
 I hate carnival rides. The only one I ever got on went upside down and would spin laterally. The thing felt horribly rickety. The only thing that got me through the ride was distracting myself by shouting the lyrics to Time of Your Life.  That is hilarious. IT'S SOMETHING UNPREDICTABLE BUT IN THE END IS RIGHT I HOPE YOU HAD THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE. *shits pants* They put the song out 2 years prior as a bside to their Insomniac album. It's a FAR better version without the strings and schlubbliness. I just made that word up. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g43slSQG4HY Average /r/music subscriber:

Hates green day

Loves the sex pistols

does not know about death I listened to The Sound of Perseverance a couple of hours ago. 

I miss Chuck. :( THIS IS MY THREAD What about greenday 1 - 5493? THEY DONT MATTER Yeah, even putting the words "green" and "day" in the same sentence on this sub is apparently enough to be relentlessly insulted. People really don't seem to understand that some people like different music than them  I have unsubscribed from /r/music several times due to that snobbish attitude, with tons of bands, not just Green Day.

People refuse to believe that music is a highly individualized interest. It all means different things to different people, yet here so many are adamant that there is a correct and an incorrect music.

It's like saying there are good colors and bad colors, it just doesn't make sense, if someone likes blue, let them enjoy their blue. You bluists are ruining it for the rest of us. Wow, I remember hearing about it in high school and really liking how they treated a couple songs in particular. I'll definitely have to keep an eye out for the movie. I've wanted the movie for a long time as I liked the concept but was unable to see the stage production for a long time. its been tied up in hollywood bullshit apparently. I eventually saw the show when it came to town, quite moving personally.  Sounds great. Even the YouTube video sounds noticeably better. I hope he keeps it up and does some more albums. I was expecting the FLACs to sound good, obviously, but I didn't think the Youtube videos would sound so much better as well.

I guess shit in = shit out. As a music consumer, I have a question: 

Why is it *not* assumed that the engineers and artists in this case *knew full well* how compression would make their music sound, and *deliberately chose* to over-compress their music as an artistic choice?

In other words, if artists (musicians and producers both) didn't want their music to sound flat, loud, and lifeless, wouldn't they be making different choices in the studio and throughout the mixing and mastering process? Shouldn't we respect their art and their creative process by listening to the tracks as they originally intended?

I'm just unclear on the artistic merit in making a piece of art *more palatable to the buyer* after the fact, instead of respecting the original artwork and the artist's intent to make something that we happen to find less-palatable. To me this whole project seems a lot like retouching a Warhol to get rid of the "fakeness" (when Warhol's clear intent was to portray the fakeness), or repainting a Picasso to look more realistic (when Picasso made a deliberate choice to paint unrealistic shapes). The main reason that albums have become progressively more and more compressed and "flattened" in dynamic range is not an artistic one; as record labels competed to make their artists' songs more attention-grabbing on the radio, they realized that one of the easiest ways to do this was to simply "make it louder".

The more dynamic range you squish out of a track via compression and limiting, the higher you can bring the overall level of the song, thereby making it louder than other songs that aren't compressed as much.  This is the reason why TV commercials are often so much louder than the adjacent programming.  Advertisers want the ad to be as loud as possible so that people will perk up and pay attention when it comes on.  The same principle applies here.

If everyone were to agree on an RMS (or average perceived volume) well below the current "brickwall" norm, then end-listeners could achieve the same exact levels by simply turning their volume knob, while still enjoying the benefit of wide-open dynamics.  The problem is that in order for this to work, everyone has to agree not to smash their tracks, and this isn't happening.  Songs that aren't compressed to hell will always sound puny when played alongside their crushed counterparts, so nobody with a shot at radio airplay can afford a dynamic mix as long as everyone else is just "making it loud".

I think you'll find that, in most cases, the artistic elements of distortion, compression, and lo-fi aesthetic are all fully formed in the mixing stage (which, ideally, has about 6dB of headroom).  It's the mastering process that usually goes awry, and is these days used more as a tool to smash a track to rectangular proportions than to complement the artistic intents of the mix.

 What I don't understand is why not just smash a radio version of the song and use that version in your stupid loudness war without fucking up the entire album. It... makes no sense. And given how much fine-tuning goes in to mastering an album for peak loudness it's not even really very efficient. Make a few radio masters and let the album sound less shitty. There are some realistic uses of it as well. For instance, I know I've been frustrated driving in the car when if the volume *does* drop to a certain level I start to not be able to hear it as clearly over the car noise. So in the car that compression keeps everything above the car noise without the loud parts becoming ridiculously loud. 

Also, retail settings, restaurants with talking, the music never drops out during the verse, you can always clearly hear the music at a consistent level. 

However, that consistency of volume is not ideal in listening for enjoyment.  Whoa, weirdly connected to this post haha

Ted Jensen mastered my second album as well, and was the first "big time" mastering guy we ever used.  This was around 2005 and just about the time that he was also doing the mastering for American Idiot (about a year later it looks like.)

Even though it was for a major label, we very specifically asked not to push the loudness to much and he didn't over do it at all, even before this really great ears on that guy.  I ended up sounding incredible and, of course, not as loud as it could have been because we didn't want the whole thing slamming up against a brick wall.  I've always loved the fact that a guy in that position would listen to the bands that didn't want to participate in the loudness war and could still do a killer job.

Most interesting thing is that we were ON THE SAME LABEL with the SAME TEAM as Green Day at this time, using the same mastering guy, and apparently got very different results.  Not sure why that is, but I'm guessing someone along the chain who wasn't the band or Ted was really pushing hard for that loud master. From a 2004 "interview on SteveHoffman.tv:

&gt;	daved64 said:

        Ted, any insight into the American Idiot mastering? What kind of instructions were you given? Thanks

They wanted a big, bombastic, loud, punchy album. Chris's 24/96 digital mixes were really good but benefitted from a bit of beefing up. Some low end, high end and a bit of multiband compression helped. The multiband compression was used not to get more level but more as dynamic eq. It can help bring out detail in some spots and not get harsh when things get cranking. It's also useful to tighten and enhance low end. It's used conservatively and there are no overs going in or coming out. I also slightly widened some of the tracks and eq'd the guitars out on the sides to be a little heavier. Some tracks also got some presence and air in the center which helped the vocal and snare. The whole band was there, spent 5 minutes discussing which version of one of the songs, ran the whole thing down, done by 3pm, approved no changes. Wish they all could be like that.

TedJ, Nov 19, 2004  Interesting, I wonder if he'd remember it differently now since he's the one doing the remaster.  He says right here that we wasn't getting and more level out of the multiband but clearly in retrospect that's something that he wanted to change.  Hard to tell.

Could also be that our producer himself very clearly said, "do not try to slam this as loud loud as it can get," where as in the article it sounds like he was just told to do his thing on the Green Day record. I had something mastered by him.  He actually did a reasonable master initially but the fucking band asked him to make as loud as their first record. Hsker D next please A snowball's chance in hell! :) :) :)

Seriously, it'd be nice. Although I'm not even sure their album received this treatment in the first place! Don't not hold your breath, the Huskers have actually been talking with each other (!) about re-releasing the catalog and I have a feeling if they're going to finally do that, they're going to make it sound as good as it can.  24bit 192khz is a crock of shit, and I say this as an audiophile. 16bit 44.1khz covers full range of human hearing.

See this: http://xiph.org/~xiphmont/demo/neil-young.html

Dynamic compression, however, is a big deal. Uncompressed is also important, but less so. So I stopped listening after "Dookie" . Should I give the later stuff another chance Yes. Insomniac is one of my favourite albums. Nimrod is also great. American Idiot is a masterpiece despite the bandwagon hate it receives. It's worth a chance. It's obviously not in the Dookie style, but I honestly enjoyed American Idiot and 21st Century Breakdown. Uno, Dos and Tre had some solid tracks spread throughout them too, though they weren't as coherent as full albums. You'd like Demolicious way more than the trilogy, it sounds a lot more raw compared to the polished trilogy. American Idiot is great too and 21st Century Breakdown is definitely a hit or miss. I personally think it's worth listening to everything. Thanks for posting this.  People think I'm a fool because I still buy cd's because of the audio quality.  Do you have a link to the remastered 21st Century album on HDTracks?  I can only find the 96khz version.  Or sadly, maybe it isn't available for purchase (yet)? It's total bullshit that these superior masters are only available via HDTracks and never via physical media. 

I still buy physical media too and I hate that the non-digital versions are subpar products. The vinyl could especially benefit from these more dynamic masters. Actually, there are lots of audiophile-grade remasters physically available on CD. Look for audiophile labels like Audio Fidelity, Mobile Fidelity Sound Labs, and (the Platinum SHM-CD series (2012 to present) imported from Japan) Universal Music Japan. There are many of superior remasters of older "classic" albums (and some newer albums like Beck's 2002 album "Sea Change" have been given that treatment too). It's too bad the major commercial releases don't already have well-mastered audio. We should be able to get great-sounding albums by default -- they should be the main versions that people hear -- but unfortunately that's not the case. Lots of new albums haven't gotten the treatment; one never knows if they ever will. There really needs to be a sort of social movement, I feel, to make the industry aware that we want better-sounding audio. No more compression or limiting! The version of American Idiot that I recently purchased from Amazon is the same master as the HDTracks version. Most audio devices (including your computer) will not playback anything greater than 24 bit 48khz.  And if you go the extra mile to ensure that they do, then you're speakers will likely not be able to produce the information sent to them.  

Just check out whatever device you play your music through to make sure you aren't pulling an "emperor's new clothes" on yourself; i.e. talking about how great your new FLAC 24 bit 192khz audio sounds... as you listen to it on earbuds through your phone.     I believe 21st Century Breakdown was only released in 24bit 96khz format. The 24bit 96khz version is really more than enough as a format. The only higher standard is 192khz; the mastering, I feel is more far more important than the format itself. Hi-res audio depends more on the mastering than the format, to be honest. You'll still find brickwalled hi-res audio, but the hi-res format gives music more headroom so that the more dynamic music can shine.

Go for the 96khz 21st Century. I think you'll enjoy it a lot. Some people say it sounds even better than American Idiot just from a sonic perspective.

I would be happy too if American Idiot and 21st Century Brakdown were reissued on CD with these new remasters. Most CDs feature poor, compressed mastering though -- it's not the format's fault, but rather the fault of the engineers who prepare the audio for release. For listening, 16-bit and 44.1 kHz is plenty.

24-bit and 96+ kHz may be useful for studio work, but it's just waste of storage in the final product. 96kHz surely isn't any use for anything? 4x the range of human hearing... 44.1 being chosen to satisfy nyquist-shannon sampling theorem. There is absolutely no reason for distributing 96khz/24bit. 96khz is pretty much redundant (in fact harmful sometimes) with DACs that do oversampling, and 16bit more than enough dynamic range (especially with noise shaping). 24bit is useful during processing / postprocessing but just a waste of bits for distribution.

http://xiph.org/~xiphmont/demo/neil-young.html I'm not saying you all should do this, but a certain public torrent tracker that has this FLAC album. If you aren't convinced enough to spend $25 bucks on it from HDTracks *yet*, there are about ~~5~~ 22 users seeding it now. Join in.

^^^^^TPB ^^^^^11020531 I needed all of about 15 seconds of playback of American Idiot to realize the wall of sound is largely gone.  I think the entire mix is still too loud but the dynamics are much better. Rush fell victim to this for their album *Vapor Trails*. After (years after) fans complained, they remixed it. The remixed, more dynamic version sounds almost like a different album to me.

And much better, I should add. I have really good hearing, and maybe it is just YouTube, but I only hear a very slight difference. Then again, I also stream my music, which is also compressed, so maybe I'm a bad judge. This is something that is really, really difficult to explain to people who don't understand much about production. 

Basically, you can't hear a difference, really. You can just feel one. We tell people that this is higher quality, and they're thinking like SD vs HD, but that's not what we're talking about. It's a higher quality of craftsmanship, not like...definition. 

Find somewhere on the album where it's quiet and starts to build. I think there's a good one in the middle of Give Me Novacaine. It'll actually start out quiet, then build up, get punchy and good, kick in with a bit of pre-chorus, and when you're really into it at this point, and you are absolutely ready for the chorus to drop, and the chorus does, this happens:

It actually becomes slightly louder, because the band is playing harder

If the music is squashed, it's already always as loud as possible. It loses the ability to impact you on this subconscious, emotional level. You aren't hearing this. You are feeling it. 

The improvement on this will not be audible to most people, but on a day they really need to hear this album, and it's been playing for 25 minutes in their car on a long drive, they'll be able to feel it then.  TL;DR - Psychoacoustics don't real, only feels I'm with you. My hearing is fine. I'm listening to these in a quiet room with good quality headphones. I've listened to the CD version of American Idiot hundreds of times, so I'm very familiar with how it sounds. And I'm hearing, at most, a tiny difference in quality.

It does sound good and I do not doubt that the new version is better. Whether the difference is enough that it matters to the average attentive listener seems questionable. The drums are the real thing that changes This was all I noticed after a few loops. Have a listen to the FLAC files. The YouTube version is still encoded down to a lossy format, although it proves that a well-mastered source is still a better-sounding MP3 than a poorly-mastered source.

The FLAC files are even better. The dynamic range is doubled relative to the original 2004 CD. You will hear the difference. I suppose one has to be a seasoned audiophile to notice, because I can't discern any significant differences.  Keep in mind you're hearing a quality difference in a compressed YouTube stream, compared to the cd. Those differences are going to be highlighted to a much higher degree in the flac files.  Just wanted to point out the compression for streaming music is different then the compression they are talking about.

Theyre speaking about a mastering effect called compression rather then the digital compressing of files used to deliver streaming music HOLY SHIT Boulevard Of Broken Dreams sounds ahhmazing! Amazing clarity. You can even hear the punk community ridiculing their music.  I don't care what everyone else says, "American Idiot" was my favorite Green Day album. They didn't miss a beat. Whole album was great.  TIL there's a tambourine part in Extraordinary Girl that I never knew was there.

This sounds fantastic. My kingdom for a remaster of ...And Justice For All Here's a Smells Like Teen Spirit remaster from the same guy.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DnaA-VxOV1o Wow. I'm listening to the YouTube version right now and THAT sounds 100% better than the original. I am excite. I think it sounds better too, but I am wondering if it's some placebo effect from being told it would sound better. :/ you can always make an http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABX_test to eliminate that effect Were they remastered using Pied Piper? Yes!! The overuse of compression is the reason I put those on the shelf and never listened to them again.

Also, people thought I was insane when I tried to point out how aggressively the choruses are smashed. I'm glad to read that there are people out there that can hear it, too. I used to be a angry at how stupid the person must have been to overampify the music when ripping it from CD to MP3. During the next ten years I was so often asounded to find the overamplification was on the original CDs. I hadn't realised it was the norm though.

There is a lot of music I don't play loud because it is simply painful in the high tones.

Here's looking forward to a time of better quality in already existing music :) If you didn't like the album before and now you do you're dumb oh wow, I wasn't expecting to notice much but I can definitely tell with nice headphones. the into is so much louder and...just cramped sounding. Holy crap, these are great. Anyone know where can I get/download these?  So, I dont know if I went about this the right way, but I listened to all of the previews of the "remastered" versions and went back and forth between those and the album that I ripped at the highest quality from the actual CD to my computer and I cant hear any difference at all. Not through my desktop speakers, iphone earbuds, expensive over the ear headphones, etc. It still sounds the same to me.  God damn those guitars sound so much more full. It took me 6 seconds to realize, holy shit that's clean and immaculate.  Question: why did he compress the shit out of them to begin with? In there an existing torrent of this yet? I think I deserve it, since I paid for the original copy and whatnot. I love Rick Rubin (he's worked with so many of my favorite artists), but god, why on earth does he crank up the levels so high? 13 by Black Sabbath, for example, is a great album, but just unlistenable.  I'm just praying, PRAYING for someone to remaster Oasis's "What's the Story (Morning Glory)".  I love this album but it's almost unlistenable due to compression. I can't hear a difference. I think I'm glad I can't. If you're using the original 2004 CD as a reference, compare it to the FLAC files. If you're listening to the YouTube version, have a listen to the other versions on YouTube for comparison. When an album's dynamic range is doubled like it has been, the differences can easily be heard. The fact that the YouTube version of the remaster is as good as (and even better than) the original CD audio is a testament to the greater dynamic range (and therefore the overall sound quality) of the remaster. The tom-tom patterns on 'Amercian Idiot' sound really good.  In 100 yards, turn right.   
  
In 50 feet, turn right.   
  
Turn right.  gold, jerry, gold! what Tom-tom is also a brand of GPS Whoa leave some headroom bro This actually sounds like a concept for a sequence of fills. Like you start with a long fill, then every 4 or 8 bars you make it shorter, but a bit louder and keeping doing that until you get to the chorus where you turn right and hit the china  This is just my drunken shenanigans, but anyways.

I work as an intern in a studio and i've been learning mixing and mastering for a few years now. Most people i've encountered think mastering is about making the mix sound fat and polished and what ever. Nope. That's the mixers problem. I've always tried to make my masterings as transparent as possible. If the mixing is done professionally there's not much that the mastering engineer needs to do or even should do. And i think a good mastering engineer knows that. Some guys use EQ to bring the levels up and some guys like myself just use a limiter. But i always try to keep the mix sounding like it originally was mixed. Just louder. And it's actually pretty hard to do that. I very rarely use compression when i'm mixing, maybe when it's a live band and usually i just compress the kick and snare a bit to make them more punchy or something. EQ is my best buddy. Holy fuck this is hard to explain. Compressor is just a glue for mastering.

About them bits and kilohertzes. 16bit 44.1 is plenty enough for anyone. Youtube does some weird encoding shit that pretty much always cuts everything above 18-20khz or something. That's why stuff there sometimes sounds so flat. They do other shit too. Only reason those 24bit 196khz things exist is because it gives more headroom when you're recording it. Of course it sounds better, but when you poop out the normal 16bit 44.1 version of it, there's not much difference in my honest opinion.

I hate when tracks look like sausages on the waveform, but if the band played full blast punk rock for 3 minutes then obviously there's not going to be that much dynamics in there. So band people, think about the dynamics!!! Have some silent little moments in there. But yeah, it's pretty much down to the mixing engineer and what the higher ups tell them to do. None of us sound engineers like to brickwall the living shit out of anything, we usually just have to, because people tell us to. Different audio compressions (or even encoders) have different cut-off frequencies. It's often as low as 15kHz. 

MP3 for example has [problems with frequencies over 16kHz](http://wiki.hydrogenaud.io/index.php?title=High-frequency_content_in_MP3s), but in most cases it's not a big deal because of masking. Holy shit. American idiot came out in 2004? I still consider that a new album. 

I'm old. You're not alone. I'm only 22 and yet I feel like American Idiot is the first of the "new" albums. heh okay good. 

I think what it is, is that I put it on all the time still. So it hasn't really gotten old. I'm the same way with Smashing Pumpkins.  AS a 40 year old....you have no idea yet. I know and it's scary. I'm only just starting to see the bands I loved most during my teen years to slowly go to shit. Imagining that every single listener older than me has gone/is going through this experience really disturbs me. If I hadn't been told there's something different about this recording ... I don't think I would have noticed.

Might have to do with the fact that it's on Youtube, but ... I just can't tell the difference. My speakers are shit anyway. Compare it to other versions of the album on YouTube. You'll be able to hear the difference. The FLAC audio will have that same superiority over the 2004 CD audio. The fact that YouTube audio (AAC audio, which is comparable to MP3) is better than the 2004 CD shows the effect of greater dynamic range and better mastering. Man, I can't even hear the slightest bit of difference (nor can I ever on these sorts of posts). I guess I'm glad my hearing/musical ear is shit--I can gladly enjoy the lower-quality recordings.  These arguments over sound quality are rarely noticed when not listening through high quality audio components.  Most people shouldn't notice a difference because of the setup they're using. Ah, that very well could be. If I'm not listening through my laptop speakers, I am listening to my stock car stereo or iPhone headphones.  Investing into even a Sennheiser HD 201 or HD 202 can open a whole new world of sound for you. They are cheap, but very good. See http://www.headfonia.com/sennheiser-hd-202-review/.

For me they are the greatest things ever since I can't buy more expensive equipment, but like to listen to music and hear more than the cacophony cheap earphones and speakers tend to produce. Thanks for the recommendation! I'll check them out.  I'm listening to this video through a set of 201s and most of the time I can't hear a difference between the versions. Then you might just have shitty ears.  I don't know about the video, I don't think Youtube is the place to listen to music.

I have both and the HD 201 is great, but it requires a large amount of amplification, and it's sound is very neutral, flat. Kind of sounds like a studio monitor would sound and I saw people using it for that purpose. It is great for listenting to voice or ambient music. The HD 202 is a much better all-rounder and it's sound is more enjoyable.

The HD 202 also isolates much better, but in turn it is less comfortable, because it clamps on your head with a large force.
 Although of course if you've invested in a bunch of audio equipment you'll probably end up convincing  yourself you can hear the difference. American Idiot (2004)

Remaster, $24.98 rofl. 

No thanks. I don't care if it pisses excellence. Not spending effectively $40 on one album.  It is worth it if you are into hi-fi otherwise do not bother. I wonder how this compares to the songs in Green Day Rock Band. god I miss Last.fm's streaming service. It was GOD before they went to their current youtube format.  Zune unlimited was even better.  Pick an artist/album/song and it'll compose a playlist around it.  Next time you sync the device it would refresh the playlist with a whole new one.  It was pretty damn awesome in 2009 I loved my Zune. I would still be using it but it randomly stopped working one day. I've had a Zune and Zune subscription for the better part of five years and I have no regrets The music randomly stopped playing one day on mine. The radio still works perfectly but not the music. Got any ideas what would be wrong with it? I would be thrilled to get it working again.
 Broken disk drive inside. Yep it's got two internal drives one HDD one SSD  Google Music will do this thing. Confirmed. Fucking love it.  Love the google. I  have an hour drive to work, so I've been using the crap out of it. Last month 26gb (sprint)  It was my legitimate music directory for 3 full years. Then they did youtube...

Why? I practically cried. They were SO good, and I was paying for it. I would have paid triple. Hell, I'm paying what amounts to triple for spotify now.  I still use last.FM for logging/scrobbling. They still provide good similar artist suggestions. They went to shit after CBS bought them I still lurk through their recommended page to find some good new stuff. Their algorithim is killer No question. Back in the day I would set it for "foxsable's radio" and it would provide good music all day and I would never skip anything.  Last.fm was far more powerful than Spotify, which doesn't really have very much of what i like. CBS killed what could have dominated the steaming world. I have friends say "Have you tried a site called Pandora?" .... yes, I have tried pandora. For a time I tried listening to classic rock on there. It played Come on Eileen every single day. Even after I thumbs downed it in frustration. Fuck Pandora.  The worst thing about pandora is that whenever i downvote a song, it gives me the exact same song remixed in some insignificant way, over and over again.. Can't agree more with you. I still scrobble everything that I ever listen to - spotify, youtube, local files - mostly to catalogue my life's listening history, which has changed over the last 10 years. In the coming years, I'm hoping their dev team starts focussing on providing algorithms to streaming services rather than have a user facing standalone last.fm website  It's not TOO bad now, but I definitely agree that I used it more then. I have Spotify now though, so there's that. I find soooo many new artists through streaming services (specifically Spotify). Spotify has a "related artists" tab for any artist you listen to. I find myself constantly going down a rabbit hole by starting with an artist I like, or was recommended to me, and then clicking on some related artists, then their related artists, and so on. Pretty soon out of the hundred artists you've checked out, you're bound to find at least a few that you like. I find a lot of great new artists on Spotify.  A few things that I **dislike**, is if I dislike a song, or many songs from a certain band, Spotify will continue to play them through the radio feature.  Also, when you open a radio playlist they only grab about 20-30 songs that cycle through.  And when they pick a song from a band or artist, they pick the popular songs, leaving a lot of great content behind.  It *really* bugs me when bands have covers that are more popular than their own stuff (i.e. the Punk Goes Pop series), ad Spoitfy will get in this kick of playing cover after cover...

Edit:
**TL;DR**:

Spotify is great for discovering new bands/artist, but their radio **SUCKS**!
 Ok, it's not just me! I WANT the radio feature to surprise me. But no, the same 20 songs over and over... I wish they would put a little less effort into changing the appearance with every update and a little more into the damn Radio! As a developer (not of Spotify, but in general) I can garentee the development team who does the radio/search/overall functionality does not do the UI.

Not saying they don't work together heavily, and not saying some don't do both, but in reality the UI team is able to get more done and push updates. The team who does the radio may not be focused on that at the moment, they may be making small improvements and bug fixes in the meantime.

If you would like to prioritize the improvement of the radio feature, I recommend leaving feedback! It really lets us know what the users want, and is super helpful. Do not be dull with the feedback like, "the radio sux!!!1!1!!one." In detail explain what could make it better. I've left a long feedback email, I hope they get the chance to read it :)

But you're totally right, it's hard for a lot of people (e.g. me) to remember it's not all a single team. So..... just like OTA radio? Spotify radio is completely broken. There are posts on their support forum about this, and I noticed it around a year ago. It's like they never developed a radio, but put the button there for users who want that feature. 

Regardless of the song or genre I try to make a radio from Spotify always plays the same few songs, all based on my overall listening history, with no relation to what I want to hear.

I've gone back to paying Pandora, and using Spotify to store playlists. I pay for spotify so I can listen to a full CD without ads, but use other apps for radio services. Their discover is so fucking terrible. I was listening to a specific J-pop song one day between my subs, and the random shit it played after it had nothing to do with it at all. It wasn't more J-pop, it was some Bruno Mars shit and Vance idfk.  I still like Last.fm and Pandora for finding new music that's similar to what I already like. Spotify's never done well for me in that regard (at least not the radio feature - their "similar artists" feature isn't bad).

If I find something on one of those services that I like, then I'll use Spotify to specifically search and listen to more from that artist. My suspicion is that it would be very hard for Spotify to incorporate a feature where you can stop artists from showing up, solely because companies who pay money to Spotify for their songs to show up in the radio feature would not appreciate it. 

I'm assuming the current contract clearly states their songs will not be more or less favored than other songs, and the feature you describe would have to be appended as a clause to that section of the contract, which would not slide with the record labels. Which sucks because, let's face it, no one wants to hear Maroon 5.

Edit: Indie artists don't have to pay up and therefore don't have to sign contracts so I'm probably wrong, unless it works differently at the content distributors level. &gt;solely because companies who pay money to Spotify for their songs to show up in the radio feature would not appreciate it. 

I thought this worked the other way around. I know Pandora pays for the music it plays.
 I get that.  But, if that *is* the case, why have a downvote option there at all?  A skip would be just fine.  The voting is a feature that is supposed to play what you like, and ignore what you don't.

My biggest gripe is still the fact that over the radio you still only get the top 5 popular for the artist, *usually*.  iheartradio had(might still have) a feature that was really cool.  They had a slider that allowed you to be more or less diverse with the radio.  Spotify should incorporate something similar.

 Great point on how the downvote is pointless without some type of aggregation. I also agree on the slider, Radiohead has many songs besides Creep &gt; Which sucks because, let's face it, no one wants to hear Maroon 5.

Speak for yourself!  [Not Coming Home](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBtlL5YJX1U) from Songs About Jane is one of my favorite songs. I think Sugar is a catchy song. :( 