For those wondering, the high-risk population they used was children who had older siblings with autism spectrum disorders. This is a really nicely done study.  Not only that, but 95000 cases is a huge sample size with a laser focused effect. If there were a link, they'd have found it here. They really wanted to end the debate.

Unfortunately, it won't. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] We took part in a similar study in the UK called BASIS.

http://www.basisnetwork.org/

Most of what we did was around the intervention therapies but they did a lot of tests and one of the questions was around medical history and vaccination.

There's a lot of good work going on now and it's such a shame that the anti-vax freaks still take their lead from a former playboy model and a discredited ~~doctor~~ quack. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Here's the [original study](http://jama.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=2275444) published today in JAMA. Excerpt:
&gt;"A retrospective cohort study using an administrative claims database associated with a large commercial health plan. Participants included children continuously enrolled in the health plan from birth to at least 5 years of age during 2001-2012 who also had an older sibling continuously enrolled for at least 6 months between 1997 and 2012...In this large sample of privately insured children with older siblings, receipt of the MMR vaccine was not associated with increased risk of ASD, regardless of whether older siblings had ASD. These findings indicate no harmful association between MMR vaccine receipt and ASD even among children already at higher risk for ASD." [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] + Risk of autism is 75 times greater if their sibling has the disorder than those who do not have. (McBridge, Anderson, &amp; Shapiro, 1996)

+ Twin studies show a 60 to 90% concordance for autims between identical twins, compared with concordance rates of 0 to 20% in fraternal twins (LeCouteur et al., 1996)

+ Autism is the most heritable psychiatric disorder with heritability estimates that are even higher than those for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (Nicholson and Szatmari 2003)

The foregoing evidence indicates that ASD involves changes in
regional brain anatomy and functional neural networks and
likely results from abnormal regulation of multiple ontogenetic
processes
 http://www.jneurosci.org/content/26/26/6897.full.pdf+html?sid=0cb9815c-327b-46fd-9cd3-8f6b8d09b2e9

+ A Genomic Screen of Autism: Evidence for a Multilocus Etiology
 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0002929707620667

 It is now generally accepted that autism has a biologic cause, and considerable research has been carried out with the aim of uncovering its nature. Both hereditary factors and the prenatal and perinatal environment have been considered. This paper will review the role of genetic factors in the cause of autism; the role of the prenatal and perinatal environment is considered in the paper by Nelson
 http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/87/5/767.short [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Although you are right, it is important to always study and restudy, people get things wrong all the time. It's also important to allocate limited resources to where they would result in the most benefit. Just because of a ridiculously shabby scam so much money and time has been wasted to fight specters.  While it's totally stupid that it has to be done, that's a huge, and valuable, part of community health. It took studies on seatbelt efficacy for people to be persuaded to use a device that stops you from deepthroating the steering column.

This study not only helps disprove the MMR/Autism relationship, but it can also provide a valuable point of research in effectively communicating scientific information to broad audiences. That can very helpful in the areas of policy and outreach. There will always be quacks, and seeing how this plays out can help us deal with the next one. The problem is, prior to this study there was already ample evidence for the areas of policy and outreach.  Scientific consensus debunked the link between vaccines and autism more than a decade ago.  It is the most thoroughly researched and defeated hoax in the history of hoaxes, and we're still spending money on it.   While in general the idea that we need to test claims is commendable, there are quite a few good and big studies on the same topic already out there. The people who still need convincing don't accept studies, they accept anecdotes.  Agreed!  One can quibble about the allocation of limited resources, but there is almost always *some* value in conducting studies like this.  Also, since this used a pre-existing data set it was probably relatively cheap to conduct.   I would agree with you, except these studies are being done because of one that was completely made up. None of this needed to happen. It's as if Dr. Oz claimed that antibacterials are good to take every once in a while to boost the immune system and people did studies to prove him wrong. There's no reason to waste time and money on all these studies on a completely unfounded claim. If it makes you feel better, this looks like a pretty inexpensive study. They just took a database from a health insurer and analyzed it. 

Pretty clever actually.  &gt;  studies still need to be done on this issue.

They don't. 

What we need isn't more studies - we need policy that supports fact regardless of opinion.

Things like not allowing anti-vax members into public schools, denying them travel passports, access to healthcare facilities with at-risk patients, etc...

People can go ahead and believe what they want, but society should react appropriately to this dangerous behavior. 

If you want to run around juggling knives blindfolded - that's your prerogative. But we're not letting you into our schools while you do this. And we don't need another study to show the link between blindfolded knife jugglers and injuries.  Can't recall which country, but one just outlawed non-vaccinated students from attending public schools. Something like that would be useful for the U.S.   Australia did this recently.

edit: Not quite exactly what was asked; they enacted some reforms, but no banning kids from school has taken place. [Guardian story here.](http://www.theguardian.com/society/2015/apr/19/vaccination-crackdown-australia-announces-end-to-religious-exemptions) There is already something in the works that does just that in California

[California approves bill banning child vaccine exemptions](http://www.msnbc.com/msnbc/california-approves-bill-banning-child-vaccine-exemptions)


[Link to bill text and status](http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160SB277&amp;amp;search_keywords=)

It looks to be very promising and is getting a lot of approval.

Additionally, there is at least one other state (can't remember which) that already bans child vaccine exemptions. As someone who is Autistic i've been waiting for the blind to be convinced that vaccines have no relation to the condition so that we can stop wasting time and learn more about us. I strongly believe that there is a way to help the lower functioning Autistics and i felt we have wasted a lot of time on this issue. 

Imagine feeling that you genuinely don't belong on this planet, you can't relate to any of the humans on it, and they refuse to help you understand yourself. It sucks. 

**Response to threaded questions:**

Male aged 26, Born in the United States. Due to a troubled childhood i only received what the hospital gave me at birth and what was required by the State of Wyoming. I never received follow up vaccinations or boosters until the age of 19 where i was required to get Tuberculoses Shots and a few others for leaving the country. My vaccinations in short, are terribly outdated. As a Graduate student of Microbiology i would encourage everyone to get their children vaccinated. 

As for those curious to the condition i would be happy to elaborate. As i was also a victim of child abuse and unfortunate circumstance, my experience will differ than that of a loving family. (Separation of Autism and PTSD) I must however express my distaste of most Autistic/Aspergers communities as they focus primarily on the family of those with the condition, and often misunderstand my people and focus on us as a second interest. 


In short its a battle of self awareness and something about those of us you call "higher" functioning is the key here, something in us is different than our lower functioning kind. I don't know what it is but its been too long that we have wasted recourses bickering about ways to eradicate my species and prevent our existence. I think its time we put forth effort into understanding and helping those who need help. Its hard to live in this world for anybody, we try but i don't know if we belong here. Many of us if given the chance and correct environment could contribute to humanity in great ways, but often we are left to waste away in overloaded and uncontrolled states of what is debatably "consciousness". 

For parents. A few basic milestone dates may be of interest to you. 

- Vocal at age 4. No prior attempts at language. Dissociated conversations. No baby talk. Started reading at 5 with high level of comprehension which helped me become very articulate for my age. Mispronunciations of certain words persist to this day but its a limited list which i work on. By age 9 i could hide any difficulties. Age 14 began studying undergraduate texts. 

- Coordination inapt. Walking was difficult as i can recall with precision to the age of 3. I could walk at age 3, however i couldn't mimic humans well enough. Walked much like a penguin until age of 7. I have several issues with my right leg due to not walking properly but i train in submission grappling and play several instruments. 

- I understood that humans were living conscious entities much like myself at age 14. It was quite an experience. Before that its hard to explain what i thought people were, i just felt that i was the only one alive. It could be an enhanced awareness of my developing brain that allowed me to be conscious of the changes. I would however think that children normaly become aware of this much sooner. Before that humans were apart of the pattern, i made calculations about future events and responded to them in a manner that my goals could be achieved. 

- My mind is never off. I currently use Cannabis to elevate this and can elaborate on request. I can recall the times faintly before i awoke. Its hard to explain. Its a deep pit of chaos from sensory stimulation and over anxiety to the point of non communication. In that place we are not human. My mind glitches when i try to remember what it was like and how i came out of it. This is often referred to as being "overloaded". I get overloaded from time to time and i have identified causes and created systems to avoid it. It must be said that another state exists that to me was the great dark, i feel that many lower functioning Autists are trapped in this place. Its pure hell. I have often wondered if a loving home can fix the dark, as i was forced to learn mimicry in order to survive. In that place its hard to achieve consciousness, its as if you are trapped in a tempest with only moments to realize you exist only to pulled back under into the obscurity of thoughts and calculation. I have seen it in the eyes of children with autism and you can see it in earlier photographs of myself. Its a battle of regression and progression and circular thought.  

- I stopped yelping at high frequency noises at the age of 12

- I stopped snapping my teeth together at age 14 but did so again from 17-19. (I have a canine bite)

- I stopped clawing my arms and legs at age 9

- I stopped hearing radio voices also at age 9

- When i first received prescription eyeware at 14 i went into a deep depression. The world was too much and i often refused to wear them. I now wear them while awake and can carry on normal activities. 

- My chameleon effect is mostly automatic now whereas in my childhood it took great personal perseverance and couscous effort to maintain the facade. A side effect is however i always wear a mask and i do not know what is underneath. Underneath is the great dark and i refuse to venture there. (This is how we mimic humans).

- Showing empathy is still hard for me to do. I started smiling Naturally (or it became an automatic process) at age 14 with great practice with a mirror. I can understand how others feel by observing the micro expressions in their face or subtle fluctuations in the voice but its problematic because most humans are not aware they are doing it which leads to conversations they are not ready for because they don't realize their own emotions. I am married which has put this to test. 

- I am extremely loyal to the few i keep close. Its always been that way. 

- I must be in control of the schedule and am most comfortable with planned activities. If its short notice or if a sudden change happens or if someone new becomes apart of it, i tend to overload.  Communication is key for any autist. 

- Sleep and anorexia: I managed to sleep a full 8 hours a day at age 18, i overcame anorexia during ages 18-21.
Sleep is very difficult. I sleep at 65 degrees and utilize a system of fans and ice packs to achieve this year around. I can't currently afford a weighted adult blanket so i use several thick blankets and my lovely wife holds me. I have found that pressure at the shoulders and feet/legs is the best. The fan is mostly to create a white noise so that the pattern of stimulation is constant and i can achieve sleep. I have found that stability of senses while sleeping is the best approach. 

- Becoming stuck in circular thought for hours is very common to this day, in comparison to the days spent in endless repeats as a child. 

- Bright lights no longer turn my brain off. 

- Info dumping is very common. I use learning as a coping tool and must teach myself something fairly constantly throughout the day. 
 
- Never the eyes. Its too much. I can force it now but it will **NEVER**  be natural to me. 

Here is an excerpt of my answer to ~~a previous~~  many questions about the eyes:
&gt; Well to me eyes speak. They deliver concentrated information that is unbearable. The countless computations that glitch my mind when i look into someone's eyes makes me tremble is if at a great height. A high pitch that you can ignore deafens my mind with its intensity. I feel as if i can fall over with the weight of it. Eyes are windows to a person, i don't understand humans and there is too much unknown information being relayed and processed. Even now just thinking about it my brain starts to form circles. The intensity of emotion that is portrayed is too much at once for my mind to keep up with the chameleon. If i look into eyes my mask melts and i can't remain functional. 

Here is an excerpt of my answer to questions regarding the thought cycles:
&gt;It took years of self observation to even realize the loops existed, as a part of a theory i had on why i annoyed people. I eventually learned with great effort to stop it for the first time 3 years ago. I struggle with this daily and i've never mastered control but i can say that i am now aware that it exists. A large contributor to the cycles is my analytical nature founded on early independence. I was forced to observe and understand humans so that i wouldn't die. Because of this i repeat every permutation of possibility that i can imagine to calculate the best decision for me to make. Sometimes there is no clear answer, or several viable options and so the cycle repeats, over and over with the same results. At times its simply too much possibility for me to handle and so in ignorance my mind repeats previous conclusions.

Here is an excerpt of my answer regarding questions of  self identity:
&gt; I have no self. The self that i think i am is merely a construct of the various masks coming together. Much like how people act differently in varying situations i too change from place to place but its not superficial. There is a being under all of it that controls and maintains a line of structure but i can't express that being, i can only express the manifestations it creates to exist in a stable format. That lack of self expression is what makes me endlessly lost. I am not who i am.

To elaborate on my understanding of humans as living entities: See my reply to this comment. (maxed characters)

**Due to character limits on this comment, i have started another threaded to this to continue elaboration of subjects at request.** 
 [Link.](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/33czht/study_of_95000_children_finds_no_link_between_mmr/cql7xtk) Thank you so much for sharing this. You put into words something I never came close to understanding. I have read up on autism but hearing you describe your condition made it real to me. You may not 'feel' human but you made autism seem very human. I feel like up until this moment I was interacting wrong with people with this condition.  Thank you for hearing me. 

Many of us are hard to understand and we don't show the normal cues humans show in face to face interactions. But we are there and we want to contribute.  [deleted] [deleted] I've hid my autism my entire life, only to reveal it at age 22 to a few individuals and anonymously  here on reddit. I have recently considered becoming public in the field and would gladly intern for the right people. 

Edit: Yes. It does make me feel better. Thank you.  [deleted] I absolutely agree.  As someone with a brother who is more on the severe end of Autism, it would be great to actually do some proper research on this and provide assistance, coping mechanisms etc.

My brother is doing fine for now; he knows how to drive and gets himself to concerts.  He even travelled to Sydney on his own recently (stayed with our Uncle) to go to some big rave.  However, we have family friends who also have an Autistic child who is very severe and simply cannot look after himself, has tantrums and the behaviour of a toddler. He's the same age as my brother, 28.  It would be nice to actually have support for families like this - a program to help them become more independent and simply function in normal society.

Vaccines simply do not cause this and I wish those people would stop making Autism out to be the worst thing ever.  There are worse things out there, like Polio.  My brother, Michael, is awesome and you can't catch Autism.  To think so just shows that they have absolutely no understanding on how it even works. I don't think all anti-vaxers are afraid of "catching" autism.  I suspect that some of them are desperate for something, anything, to make it *not their fault.*  Imagine the stress and strain of raising a low-functioning autistic child, and knowing that it's either your or your spouse's faulty genes that are the sole cause for your child's suffering.  It's not logical, it's not rational, it's actually a direct risk to the health of other people's children, but I can understand the thought process. I work with children in the mental health field and often come across kiddos with diagnosis of ASD and SPD. I love working with them and helping parents to understand what it is like and am working on a research studying around how specific play therapy techniques can make observable changes in the brain.

That said, I have never seen an explanation like this written by someone who intimately understands. I've seen researchers and practitioners explain it but it misses this. Would you mind if I share parts of this with the parents I work with to help explain? The parts I feel would be really helpful would be combining some of the bullet points. If that makes you uncomfortable, I am completely ok with the answer being no. I understand this is extremely personal and don't want to exploit that. Thank you for sharing this either way. For education and sake of helping those on the spectrum you may use anything i say for those ends. I also would be willing to answer any questions you or other might have as long as they understand that its a spectrum and that i am one man. Others are hardly effected while some of us remain in a state of chaos unimaginable to comprehend for lack of exposure.   What is your sense of time perception like? Bizarre. I am very glad you asked because i forgot to include this. 

I can recall with high precision the majority of my life events since the age of 3. However, if an event has become more than 3 months or so in the past i lose complete track of its placement on that timeline. I have to use other memories to keep everything on a straight linear path, whereas my memories do not exist on a linear path of time. They all happened and to me they all happened at the same moment. Only deductive reasoning can allow me to organize the manner in which events occurred.  I'm not autistic (at least I'm pretty sure I'm not, but I do feel like there's something a bit off about me, perhaps ADHD-PI combined with a bit of social awkwardness?), but you just described almost exactly how my recollection of events works.

When remembering an event within a recent length of time that is 'comprehensible' to my brain (roughly a few months) I can recall when it happened to a good degree of accuracy. Any memories of events occurring before that are a blur to me, I couldn't tell you how long ago they actually happened except in relation to other events that I remember.

The only exception is when I've specifically attached a year to an event in my mind. For example I will always remember that the first time I went to Big Day Out and saw Metallica was in 2004, three years after I graduated from High School. I remember the year as a number, but I have no actual comprehension of the span of time between then and now, how long it was, what that span of time 'feels' like. I just remember that the event happened, not when, and that's it.

I wonder sometimes, is that normal? Does everybody recall memories the same way, but they just don't notice because they never had the idea or took the time to think about it? [deleted] So what do you think causes it? Genetics. I think the issues lies within a highly conserved genome regulating prefrontal association cortex development. This is the research i have been waiting to do my entire life.  My wife has 10+ years working with children in early childhood development with a focus on children with autism (she hold a masters degree in early childhood education). I read your post to her as she is incredibly knowledgable and passionate about helping children with autism. She said you have gone into incredible detail in way you tell your story and life experiences. She wanted to know if you have ever considered writing a book about your life? Her other question before I even finished reading through your comment here was if you were an aspie. (No offense meant here by the way)

In talking about this article, I asked her what she thought caused autism, and like you said in comments below, she believes it has to be genetics. I cannot say I come close to the knowledge and experience my wife has, but I remember going to a conference with my wife a few years ago where the keynote speaker was Temple Grandin. Much of what she explained about how her mind works is what you wrote about above, but (I feel anyway) you've gone into even greater detail about the struggles within your own mind and what you do to cope with it on a daily basis. The way you describe it is rather easy for someone like me to understand as I have no idea what you or others like you go through with on a daily basis. But let me tell you that based on what my wife has told me, incredibly intelligent people like yourself are an amazing addition to our society. Don't be discouraged by the idiots that are out there or those unwilling to take a few moments to try to understand the struggles people like you go through. You may feel like you are alone in this world, but we are all still human beings, and while you may be different, we still need to be on the same page here when helping the fight for autism research. It is stupid that in 2015, we still have to prove that vaccinations have absolutely nothing to do with autism. For what its worth, my wife and I stand by you. [deleted] There are probably tons of causes leading to a similar behavior. I'm suspecting they are mostly genetic, although they might be developmental too. Autism is really a syndrome, not a disease. To some point, it's a personality type. 

  We really should focus more on research on neurobiology and less on cancer in my opinion. There is a lot of research being done on brain morphology and autism. The hard part is figuring out what caused the brain to change leading to these differences. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I suspect a big factor is the current generation of people at childbearing age are too young to remember how many people used to die before vaccines.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The original paper that caused the controversy had a sample size of 12 children.

Here it is for reference: http://briandeer.com/mmr/lancet-paper.htm

Disgusting people take this as fact.. It's also currently being used as a textbook example of unethical science.  The background of the paper pretty much hits every major violation.  About the only positive thing is I don't think anyone has found any plagiarism in it. Funnily enough, just about any MCAT (medical college admission test) practice exams or study materials emphasize the ability to recognize what is and isn't a valid study and significant sample size. This change has cropped up more recently with the introduction of the psychology/social sciences section, but I imagine they really don't want people who don't raise an eyebrow at a 12 sample study. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I was wondering the same thing. Rule breakers?
 [deleted] [deleted] The only downside of this study is that people who believe that vaccines cause autism also don't believe in science [deleted] It's people like you who are going to pay the price for anti-vaxxers' choices. You and the cancer patients and the other immunocompromised people who rely on the rest of us for herd immunity. 

I hope you never get ill because of these other folks.

Sincerely,
Someone who's been autistic since the day she was born, and probably before that. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Thank you for posting this. I was actually able to change my parents' opinions on vaccines. This was the first concrete study that I could really show them and they would understand. We need to post this across all forms of social media.  Don't you think it's hilarius how vaccines cause so much debate .. yet pain killers and sleeping pills, which have much worse side effects, are used by lots of people, to the point of addiction? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Well I'm glad that solved that problem... people are still gonna say that they cause autism aren't they? "You can't reason someone out of a position they didn't reason themselves into." -Christopher Hitchens &gt; You can't reason someone out of a position they didn't reason themselves into

Hitchens did not say this, and thankfully so, because it's dumb.   

People take positions on instinct all the time only later to be turned based on information and reasoning they hadn't thought of before.  It has happened to me many times and I suspect it has happened to you as well.   Good article. 

The biggest irritation I have with anti-vaxxers believing that vaccines cause autism is the implication that autism itself has some kind of an external (literally injected) cause. Widespread refusal to vaccinate not only dramatically increases risk of major diseases spreading, but it also indicates a much more widespread fervent false system of beliefs regarding autism and mental health in general. 

I guess what I'm trying to say is that finding the cause of something mental-health related such as schizophrenia will not work if we are looking for an injection that caused it, and the misconception that mental health issues are exclusively exhaustively caused by injections will set back public opinion and research in those fields as well.  autism is not a mental health issue. it's a broad description of a developmental disability, which can be caused by many factors.  This is accurate, but autism often comes with comorbid mental health issues. I know this as an adult with anxiety and depression who was diagnosed with Asperger's in adulthood after my son's diagnosis a few years before that. understandable. mental health problems can be caused by a myriad of health issues or external stresses, sometimes you're just born with them. I guess that's the only thing autism and mental health disorders have in common. 

I'm sure I sound like I'm on the wrong side of the fence, here, but I grew up around autistic and developmentally challenged kids as my mom was a special needs teacher. my boyfriend also works with autistic adults as a caregiver. 

autism is a developmental disability. it's genetic but can also be caused by external toxins, high fever or infection. 

I know a lot of people here will hate me for saying this but, forcing immunizations is absolutely abhorrent. nobody should be forced to inject something into their body. 

vaccines and other modern medicine are great! they have gotten us far and I believe they are a good idea. I do think some children are more susceptible to toxins and environmental impact and is up to the parent to decide if their child is ready (if at all) for the injections. 

nobody wants to cause a plague, everyone is just doing what they feel is right for their child.  Pervasive Developmental Disorders such as autism are covered in the DSM (on Axis II in DSM-IV).  It may not be a mental illness, but it falls under the umbrella of the mental health field.  Psychiatrists and psychologists, along with other professionals, help evaluate and manage patients with autism.  I'm assuming that's what that person meant.

Sources: psychiatry resident, DSM-IV/V, see link below for a good overview.

Edit: wrong link http://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/autism-spectrum-disorders-asd/index.shtml.  A video of dogs doing stupid things does not qualify as a source. thank you for that link, I found it very interesting. 

I suppose in cases of autism where the person is still functioning and verbal, one could address it like a mental health issue, but at some point you have to admit that there is brain damage, or malformed brain connections,  which is something a psychiatrist or therapist can't address.  Psychiatrist and other mental health professionals aren't "not admitting" anything.  We diagnose and help manage the problem, not pretend it has no organic cause.  In anything, our field has strongly  advocated that it isn't a mental illness and that it is a multifactorial problem.

If they're doing well, they don't come to us.  so we agree. cheers.  A lot of their motivation is to find something to blame, other than themselves. Some people just can't live with the knowledge that, really, it was their genes. In his book *Missing Microbes*, Michael Blaser, MD (a professor of microbiology at NYU School of Medicine) argues that overuse of antibiotics could well be a contributing factor to the development of autism. [deleted] and hydrates them!!


felony!! Correct me if I am wrong but I believe they found autism develops in the womb. No, you're right.  Autism and other illnesses like schizophrenia are found to have altered brain structures in the womb during development, which continues after birth! Now, depending on specific things, the changes made can be superficial, or devastating to the child. I mean, brains don't grow uniformly, that'd be weird, but some brains change more drastically than others when developing in the womb. 

It's fascinating what we can do with medical technology!

http://www.npr.org/blogs/health/2014/03/26/294446735/brain-changes-suggest-autism-starts-in-the-womb Awesome thanks for finding the link. Can't find the original study, but this is a news article about it:
http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-03-26/autism-begins-as-brain-cells-altered-in-womb-study-finds [deleted] You're right, the article is trashy and opinionated, but at least it links to the actual study. Also, the case report is long and for those who want a succinct summary, it does the trick. I also consider the study to having been used in a strawman argument here.  I consider myself more in tune than most, with what media so loves to label "the anti-vax movement".  The MMR vaccine has been the nexus of more than it's share of controversy, and some of it for the wrong reasons, but it's the preservatives and adjuvants in many vaccines that are considered to be harmful.  If this study is to be considered to have an actual goal/bias beyond it's hypothethis, then it's not very compelling. It's amazing how one intentionally flawed study can waste so much time. No one would even be bothered with investigating the correlation between these two factors if it wasn't for that one asshole doctor. Link to actual study (on mobile, sorry): 

http://jama.jamanetwork.com/Mobile/article.aspx?articleid=2275444 Do we really need to keep spending time and money investigating this? Anybody who was going to be swayed by scientific research is already convinced, and anybody who was an anti-vaxxer yesterday is still going to be one today. They're not going to suddenly change their minds based on this, no matter how convincing the data may seem to us. That's not true. People go through huge life changes all the time and seeing new studies like this could help push someone who's on the fence.  there was just a big anti-vaxxer one week ago who finally came around after all seven of her kids got infected with whooping cough. That's the thing. The sort of person who becomes an anti-vaxxer isn't convinced by studies; they're only convinced by personal experience. Better late than never though! [deleted] Maybe. But it's better to have too many studies than too few. I believe it's necessary. Vaccines have had issues in the past. Even recent ones like the HPV vaccine are not completely safe and still have kinks to be fixed. Regardless of the views of anti-vaxxers, scientists should approach all aspects of the medical field with skepticism and continue to use the scientific method to everyone's benefit.   Not anymore.  This giant study has agreed with all past studies on MMR.  All studies (except for the initial discredited one) have agreed.  So we need to move on to something else __until__ there is new evidence that would suggest a different result.  Resources are limited (financial and personnel) so we should allocate them in an intelligent manner.

Other, newer vaccines (and combinations) should be studied, sure.  None can be 100% safe, and there are varying degrees of safe (anthrax, anyone)?  But there is no need to continually repeat the same study. I disagree on your comparison of these two issues.  HPV had some claims that are sourced to observations which are directly correlated to the vaccine's use.  The autism/vaccine correlation is far weaker, has been previously discredited, and has already had supporting research which validated those earlier conclusions.  This huge study was far and away more comprehensive, yet may not have been necessary.  Now that it is performed, further research is further waste.
 Uh, sometimes they do. I did. (Sort of. I'm still against yearly flu shots for anyone but the most immuno-compromised)).

The points that changed my mind: Thimerosal being removed from the majority of vaccinations,  better understanding of herd immunity, and the realization that having a child on the autism spectrum was better than having a child who was dead.

That being said, even vaccination isn't full insurance. A friend's daughter almost died of pertussis when doctors refused to diagnose it as such because her vaccination schedule was up to date.  Especially considering the only people still bringing up the autism connection are the extremely ignorant, and the vaxxers looking for a red herring.  What's sad is the amount of time and resources that were put into this study on something that was already proven when they could have been put towards researching what actually causes Autism. Yeah it's a waste of time and money, especially considering most anti-vaxxers aren't that way inclined just because of this dumb strawman. There's way worse side-effects than autism to worry about. I'm not usually one to advocate government sanctioned murder, but... I think I have a solution. I am the postdoc on this work and would be happy to answer any questions you may have.

[Proof](http://imgur.com/ZZsAqaF)

**EDIT:** thanks so much for the [gold](https://youtu.be/ntG50eXbBtc?t=45s). I will try to answer as many questions as I can. We are currently discussing whether to do an official science AMA in the future as well!

**EDIT2:** So excited this work is providing so much discussion. I will keep trying to answer as many questions as I can. Hopefully a full AMA can be arranged for this topic and a more general overview of our work at OSU.

**EDIT3:** Anyone know where to put reddit front page on an academic CV?

**EDIT4:** Thanks for all the questions. I'm going to break for dinner but will be back later this evening.

**EDIT5:** I had a lot of fun answering your questions. I will check back tomorrow morning to see if there are any more topics that have yet to be covered. Hopefully a full AMA on this and related research from our group can be arranged soon. Goodnight! What is the potential application for oil spill disasters like Deepwater Horizon? The great thing about this kind of separator is that is repels the oil from the oil-water mixture so unlike other technologies used that tend to absorb the oil it won't require much cleaning. This is a continuous separator, oil rolls off the top of the mesh, water is collected under the mesh. This kind of setup could be useful for future spills.

Another advantage is that you can apply it to different materials like meshes or filters and that will help determine what size of oil droplet you can remove from the water. For bulk cleanup like at an oil spill, you can image a coarse separators to remove the vast majority of the oil, then finer filters to remove smaller oil contaminants. Thanks for the answer.  Would the mesh essentially be pulled by boats like a dragnet? I more envisage a pumping system where the dirty water is pumped onto the mesh, the oil rolls off to be collected and the water filters through to be pumped back out. It would be crazy to see essentially an enormous floating oil cleaning facility that gets towed to oil spill sites.  I wonder if the oil it gathered could then be re-processed and eventually used? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] If the technology scales up in an economically feasible way I can't think of why the reprocessing would cost much more. Most spills are crude, right? The issue I would see being difficult would be handling the deeper spills. One thought which may be nonsense is how about putting a sleeve of this stuff and a pump system around the deepwater pipes? Spill occurs: turn on emergency filter rig. Also: why not make small "skirts" around all the surface rigs to catch the smaller spillage? 
    In conclusion: I have no idea what I am saying. Proof: I'm a carpenter. Oil companies will only recapture the oil using this new separator if it costs less than it does to just disperse the oil like they currently do. Regulate it so that they have to use this mesh or other techniques. It's cheaper to buy politicians than proper cleanup equipment.  Until they realise they can do away with the wells, just puncture the sea floor, let it disperse,  and filter the water out of their oil. Now there's our dieselpunk story! Thousands of skimmers on dozens of different vessels were used in the Deepwater Horizon cleanup.  Hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil were recovered by these skimmers.  Problem is in the open ocean containing the oil so it can be captured by any recovery vessel is difficult. Those exist, they used one at the Deepwater Horizon spill.  Am I wrong in assuming that the oil could also be recovered like this and be able to be reused? Are other applications also possible? How quick is the filtration, how quickly could you lets say pump a million litres of water through it? I have more questions I don't want to overwhelm you. Yes the oil can be rolled from the mesh to be collected, I don't see why it couldn't be reused, after further processing.

There are plenty of applications that the press release didn't have the space to go into. For oil-water separation, in addition to oil spills, this technology could reduce the environmental impact of various industries via wastewater treatment. The coating also has applications in anti-fouling, think reducing biofouling on ships hulls, reducing drag and improving energy efficiency.

The separation is very quick. Unlike other systems previously developed, the water immediately wets and soaks through the mesh. And unlike other technologies, you don't need to stop separating to remove absorbed oil since the oil just rolls from the top of the mesh.

Thanks for the questions! Keep them coming! &gt;Thanks for the questions! Keep them coming!

What's the uni getting you for this potentially extremely lucrative discovery?   One green card please.

^OSU ^lawyers, ^this ^is ^a ^joke. ^But ^please ^send ^me ^a ^green ^card. Hey, if this works that well you probably deserve it.   How does it work on other types of organic molecules? Which does it filter effectively and which does it not?

How long do you predict that this coating effectively lasts? Especially on a ship like you mentioned. 

Oh and of course, how does it work? We tested this on a series of alkane oils but haven't yet tried other organics. Bulky, low surface tension molecules will be repelled effectively. Smaller, more water like, ones will probably pass through.

The [open access paper](http://www.nature.com/srep/2015/150303/srep08701/full/srep08701.html) hopefully goes into enough detail for you. This sounds like some pretty awesome stuff. Do you envision a capability to incorporate this material into static system filters? For instance in maritime operations, most vessels have onboard filtering systems like an Oil/Water separator. These things function via internal plates (the name of which I can't recall) and filters that cost upwards of $6,000 USD each. Do you think there is a possibility to reduce the overall cost of cleaning internal watercraft waste, with increased efficiency? So how long does the coating last after it is applied to a surface? We have done some durability testing but more work needs to be carried out before I can answer that. The up side is once it does wear off you can re-apply with a few spray coatings. &gt; I don't see why it couldn't be reused

Because of impurities in ocean water maybe? I can't imagine some don't get stuck in the oil, although I know nothing about refining oil, so could well be that it wont be an issue in practice.

I hope it doesn't turn out that it gets gunked up too quickly when it comes to real world.

Anyway, the next time BP messes up I hope I hear about them using your method. The mesh is mildly self-cleaning because it has an affinity for water and repels the oil. Hopefully this means it won't require as regular cleaning as other existing technologies. What effect do salt have on the mesh? Collects on the surface, or goes through with the water? I recall that mechanical wear is one of the main wear paths for nano coatings, for example never-wet tends to get dirt fouled or the rough surface mechanically sanded when exposed to salt-water.

My real question though is what sort of optimization work has been done on the mesh/substrate? too big and the oil+ water would still go through, too small and the flow rate is significantly impeded?

Also is there an obvious path to commercialization?  So many times research like this is awesome in the lab, but can't be scaled up to practical sizes or costs. You think a few months in seawater adds impurities try 50 million years at depth surrounded by minerals and heavy metals. Salt water is not an issue for oil quality. I work in SAGD on the water treatment side. The oil is typically produced with brackish/brine water. The ratio is typically 3/4+ water. There is no impact to the oil and water is treated. I imagine there's still a lot of problems to be solved - e.g. having a big enough collector to make an impact probably means you're also picking up and collecting a lot of stuff that you didn't want to filter out - fish, seaweed, plankton, etc.

Also how fast does the filter operate? If a 100 m^2 filter can filter 1,000L/minute, it's pretty promising. 1L per hour, not so much. Yeah as I said elsewhere I don't know anything about how you pump oil/seawater mixtures without damaging the ecosystem but this technology can be applied downstream of that.

I don't have concrete numbers for you but we are proud of the speed the water penetrates through the mesh as this is a big advantage compared to prior art. Awesome, thanks for the reply (and awesome project). Sorry if I came off as a negative Ned, just wanted to point out there are a lot of hurdles to consider adapting this into real world oil cleanups. No need to apologise. Critical review and feasibility studies are important aspects of science. I'd imagine this might be better for disposal purposes.. instead of having a big jug of oil waste that's 60% water.. you now might now only have to dispose of what's actually oil and crap.

I couldn't imagine this being applied on a large scale to oil cleanups.  You'd be talking about trying to filter the entire ocean, effectively.  For localized spills, maybe, though. Could this technology be applied to smaller vessels which pump their oil laden bilge water into the ocean? We imagine all sorts of applications where this coating could help reduce our impact on the environment. If you're going to be pumping the oil/water mix anyway, how is this better than an existing high - volume separator like a cyclone or even a traditional gravity separator? 

I envisioned a cordon with this material concentrating all the oil to the center so you don't have to pump up and separate out much water.  That could work, by gradually reducing the size of the cordon until only a little water remains. Neat idea! Could mesh like this be placed around storm drain/water purification systems as well?

For all the oil lost in major oil spills, there's a crap ton that also just drops to the ground and is washed into our water ways when it rains.

Would it be possible to 'pre-filter' some of that runoff with this material?

How sturdy is it?

It sounds like it's a completely mechanical process.  If nothing on the mesh is consumed, will it work for years at a time before needing replacement? Absolutely, we imagine a lot of different applications for helping to clean wastewater.

It is as sturdy as the substrate you put the coating on. The mesh we chose was a little too flimsy but you can apply this to any porous media.

You're right that nothing is consumed, we have carried out some durability tests and continue to investigate. If you had something like a massive submerged net of this material, would it properly siphon oil suspended in water from the water column, or does it require air to properly separate? How permanent can the coating be on the mesh? does it wear out with use or age? We have conducted some durability tests but more need to be done before I can fully answer you. Right on. Congratulations on your success so far. The Gulf spill is a big issue for me and your work is very exciting. Would this mesh still work with oil that has been treated with corexit or something similar? An interesting question that requires further study. The current technology doesn't just rely on surface tension but the size of the oil molecules as well. Could this be used to separate plastic particles from water as well? Like for example cleaning the pacific ocean from microplastics. Any small particles suspended in water will likely not be filtered by this technology which is more for separating bulk oil from water. Interesting thought though. Would it be feasible to reclaim the oil once it's been separated out?  When oil companies respond to a spill, they basically do [the cheapest thing that looks like work](http://blogs.howstuffworks.com/brainstuff/how-bps-oil-booms-in-the-gulf-of-mexico-dont-work.htm) (for more detail, read the [profanity-laden original post](http://dailykos.com/story/2010/05/11/865387/-Fishgrease-DKos-Booming-School).)  If the oil's lost either way, I don't see this getting much traction.   It is definitely possible to collect the oil from the mesh. I see no reason why this couldn't then be reused after further processing. So not cheesecloth and ice cubes then. :-)

Your work sounds really promising!  Will the mesh be used to cleanup the BP (Deepwater Horizon) spill? (The oil that has already sank)? With the use of dispersants, it is too later for this technology to work at the Deepwater Horizon site.  Will this work on oil that has been treated with dispersants? This is presumably pure water and oil.  How will seawater affect the results?  

Do dissolved minerals pass through as well?  Or does a precipitate form?  Does that affect the results?  How long does the coating last before losing its effectiveness? Dissolved salt (or dye as in the press release) to the water has no effect on the separation capabilities and no precipitate is formed on the mesh. In future it would be interesting to perform real world tests (currently googling how to get seawater delivered to Ohio!).

We have conducted a few durability studies but more need to be done to determine the full lifetime of the coating.

 [deleted] [deleted] expanding on the seawater question, what about the interaction with micro organisms? Also, could this be useful in cleaning plastic out of the oceans? Do you have a marine biology department? Some of them have seawater on tap in the labs. I live in Jacksonville, FL and have access to a wide variety of different water sources of varying salinity and composition. If you wanted to send some mesh samples instead of getting seawater delivered, happy to film the rates and send back the meshes and some small samples of the pre-and-post filter water for analysis. I think it would look bad for his post doc if a significant part of the testing was done by some dude in Florida, rather than in the lab [deleted] What is the biggest hurtle from mass-producing this material? The materials used are cheap and non-toxic and the fabrication method is simple. I think we are in a very good position for mass-production compared to other technologies being developed which sometimes use exotic chemistries or impractical deposition techniques.  I think it is really interesting how cautious these questions are. We're *so* conditioned to anything we get excited about on reddit being a disappointment. It's great to read and answer all these questions. It is a big help to ensure we know everything we can about the science we are conducting. What are the boundary conditions for this mesh? How close in polar character can two constituents be before they are no longer effectively separated? And what about very fine nonpolar particulates or small molecules emulsified or dissolved in water? And what is the interaction like with other organics, like benzene or terpenes? Sorry if this is outside the scope or if I'm not asking a clear question. Very interesting question. We have yet to investigate other liquids but I can imagine that there will be a point where molecules become to "water-like" to be separated effectively. This no-doubt warrants further study. Thanks for the response! Just thinking about possible medical or industrial uses for this outside of petrochemicals. If you don't want to teach yourself to think sceptically, then reality will make sure you learn it the hard way instead. From the picture it just looks like you used motor oil, how does it do with crude? Can it get "clogged?" And is it reusable?

What is the water infiltration rate? I ask because I could imagine that ocean currents and trolling speed could pose as a big obstacle if the infiltration rate is slow. The water infiltration rate is very good compared to other technologies. I have always imagined that the oil/seawater mixture be pumped over the mesh, the oil collected and the seawater returned overboard. I am no expert in this part of the problem, however.

The oil used is a simple straight chain alkane. The clogging of the mesh should be minimal since it repels the oil component. How fast does it work, anyway? Like, if you had 1L of water-oil-mixture, how long would it take to filter through? Where do I invest? The real question. Is it food safe? I'd love to be able to separate the fat from my stocks more efficiently... Possible back-up plan if the whole disaster cleanup angle doesn't pan out? Just out of curiosity,  I'm not familiar with what happens after a paper is published, so you or the people that you worked with get money if someone mass produce the product?  Can you go open a company that produce this? 

Like what is the process of going from research to production? 

And in not sure if anyone has said this,  CONGRATS DUDE.  [deleted] [deleted] Why would you hurtle this?  There is no need to throw it with great force? That's pretty neat. I can think of applications in extraction technologies. How does it perform with emulsions? There are a wide range of applications that the press release couldn't go into. As you can imagine emulsions are trickier. You can theoretically apply this coating to a range of different porous media where the ability to collect the oil droplets will be defined by the aperture size. We envisage this as more of a bulk oil-water separator where the water can then be sent on to be cleaned by other filtration technologies that will no doubt do a better job albeit at a smaller throughput.  Market it as an oil well perforation technology too.A lot of old oilfields have a problem with high water cut mixed in with oil production. Not treating it at a plant is a significant cost saving. This is very interesting, thanks! Apart from crude oil and water purification (which are probably the $$$ here) I definitely see applications in food flavoring processing too.... there are times where we have to filter several thousand gallons of oil through industrial filter presses. There can be significant loss in the process and it requires a lot of man hours. Good luck with everything! This is amazing technology THIS, having worked around the industry for years, I'm certain there is a ton of money to be made in solving this problem. How fast does the water go through the material?  If I have to process a cubic km of water/oil mixture, how long will it take?
 Unlike other technologies, the water penetration is pretty quick. I don't have concrete numbers for you but this is something we want to focus on when comparing to prior art. I have a few questions, apologies if I didn't catch it in the article or it's answered already:

1. Salt seems fine, but how do you think the filter will deal with larger particles like plankton and sand Will the filter be easily clogged up, or can it filter large amounts of water/oil with no issues? I can envision something like this used to clean up an oil spill near a beach, so ability to tolerate sand will be really useful. 
2. What is the flow rate like? Can the flow rate be increased by forcing the water through under pressure or will the mesh get destroyed?
3. How long can this mesh be used for before replacement/respraying the coating? Hours? Days? Months? I imagine that this depends on the conditions of the work environment..  Maybe you should do a AMA since this is front page stuff... Hi, I'm the science writer who wrote the news release (new enough to Reddit that I don't know what proof would work for that, but there you go). We are definitely working on setting up formal AMAs for Ohio State researchers in the future, but it seems that in this case you've all spontaneously started your own, which is super cool. Welcome to Reddit!  This is very promising stuff.  You should send a message to the mods to verify you are who you say you are. Good idea. Thank you! Yay! I am now verified and flared! No way! I want a flair! Your flair looks cooler. What flair? Would be happy to, no idea how to set that up... I think you can find directions here:

https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B3fzgHAW-mVZM0NndWNNZHNFQjA/edit?pli=1

If that link is dead, there is a reddit science AMA submission guide in the science subreddit that takes you to that link. How does this translate from in theory to in practice? The biggest hurdle is probably further testing to ensure this is safe for use in the environment. We did some durability testing to make sure the coating doesn't fall apart but you also want to ensure that none of the material is able to leach into the filtered water. In regards to that testing how durable is the material?  I would imagine it would be put under a lot of stress in the application that you described above, do you have any idea it would work effectively under those conditions? What's the speed of filtering? The water penetration is very fast compared to previous technologies. Are there currently any plans/designs in mind for a clean-up apparatus using this material? A net made of this would pick up a lot of wildlife, judging by the size of the pores I'm assuming it would pick up phytoplankton as well. 

Amazing work by the way. I am by no means an expert on pumping sea water but hopefully this could be used downstream of a system which collects the oil/water mixture without harming the ecosystem.

Thanks for the comment! I realized after I wrote my comment that you already addressed my question, but that seems like a  completely viable solution. Very cool stuff! What is the anticipated timing before this can be rolled out commercially? Have you started to engage any government or industry partners to help with the commercialization?  We have. [deleted] [deleted] Just curious - what type of polymer are you using? Also, what's the likelihood if reaching the target of 90% transparency? Experimental details can be found in the open [source paper](http://www.nature.com/srep/2015/150303/srep08701/full/srep08701.html).

We hope to achieve better transparency by further optimising the coating thickness. Obviously, for certain applications like oil-water separation, we don't care about transparency.

For the applications where transparency does matter, it will be a balancing act between getting a transparent coating and a durable one. You mentioned "oil rolling off the top" in a few comments, is there a video anywhere to demonstrate the mesh in action? [This video](https://youtu.be/hGBJlUltPpA?t=3m26s) shows the collection of oil on top of the mesh. If it was tilted it would roll off but the director had his own vision for how he wanted it to be filmed. I can maybe film my own version with the rolling off of the oil. ~~Are you the guy in white that looks like Dr. Spencer Reid?~~

&gt;Philip Brown (right)

Should have read the image caption First off, awesome work to you and your team. This could have a huge impact on environmental cleanups and potentially remediations.  I have a couple questions about it. 

1) What's the thickness of the sheet? And could you layer multiple sheets or would that make the separation go too slow? How much flow rate can it handle?

2) Have you done strength/stress tests on the material?

3) What type of oil had been tested? Is it a heavy oil only or have you tried lighter oils as well?

4) Just considering scaling up and making it feasible, have you tried testing non-aqueous mixtures? Do smaller things such as sticks or pebbles cut through the membrane?

Thank you for your time, it's awesome seeing developments like this since I get to work in the Wastewater field where there are hundreds of ways to separate oil from water, all which are costly, intricate, and/or fragile. 1) The mesh we are using is pretty thin but you could apply this coating to a range of different porous media depending upon desired application and flow rate. The coating itself is less than 1 m thick.
2) We have performed some durability testing on the coating itself, again the mesh is a different story and can be selected depending on the application.
3) It is a straight chain alkane oil in the paper. Any long chain oils will be repelled
4) It could become a problem when it comes to larger foulants getting onto the mesh. There may need to a removal process upstream of this technology.

Thanks for the questions! How soon will we see it in action? Could this reduce the amount of oil lost in spill, as in, could the spilled oil collected by the mesh be reprocessed and used in the market? I am no expert in oil refining but I can't see why the collected oil couldn't be reprocessed. I am a chemical engineer in a refinery, it would definitely be able to be processed. The only thing that would need to be looked into is if any possible contaminants from the membrane were to be corrosive or environmentally unfriendly which I doubt would be very significant  1. Exactly how large are the pores that let water pass?
2. Would you say that chromatography and/or solid phase extraction techniques influenced the design?
3. How do you keep it from getting clogged with solid particulates?
4. What kind of pressure can it withstand without damaging the coating?

Thanks. Awesome work. Are you familiar with Fibertect? It is a woven fabric that performs a very similar function to what your material does. Dr. Seshadri Ramkumar [developed it at Texas Tech University](http://www.tiehh.ttu.edu/sramkumar/research.html) a couple of years ago. [Here is a local news report on it](https://youtu.be/1xk6WecrSjM?t=37s).

What are your thoughts on this? Does it appear to be better/worse at absorbing oil or letting water pass through? Will this only work for crude oil, or will it work for other oils and/or petroleum based liquids? Any long chain liquids should be repelled. Can I pour soup through it to make dishes low fat ? My girlfriend asked the same question! The coating was developed a while ago (previous reference I can find was [May 2014](http://phys.org/news/2014-05-smart-coating-oil-spill-cleanup-faster.html#nRlv))

&gt; **Abstract** 
&gt;
&gt; Smooth copolymerfluorosurfactant complex film surfaces are found to exhibit fast oleophobichydrophilic switching behavior. Equilibration of the high oil contact angle (hexadecane = 80) and low water contact angle (&lt;10) values occurs within 10 s of droplet impact. These optically transparent surfaces display excellent antifogging and self-cleaning properties. The magnitude of oleophobichydrophilic switching can be further enhanced by the incorporation of surface roughness to an extent that it reaches a sufficiently high level (water contact angle &lt;10 and hexadecane contact angle &gt;110), which, when combined with the inherent ultrafast switching speed, yields oilwater mixture separation efficiencies exceeding 98%.

So they added the nano-particulate silica to increase the surface roughness as previously suggested. Good progress so far, now to figure out how to mass produce it.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Not to mention, the "Surface Innovations" group at Michigan Tech made almost *this exact product* over four years ago using carbon nanotubes.  The difference between this and the new work is the use of a silica coating as opposed to a carbon-based material.

[Article in *Carbon*](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0008622310007426)

[PDF from 2011](http://phy.mtu.edu/yap/documents/Water-Oil_Filters_Carbon2011.pdf)

(I was not involved in this project.) I'm very excited by the potential impact of this concerning environmental issues, but as a chef I'm also very excited for the commercial benefits of a tool like this; separating oil from other liquids is a time consuming bitch and easy 100% separation opens up culinary possibilities for a lot of people. bingo! not even a chef, but as a home cook this would save so much time. no more cooling stock/stews overnight and scraping fat off! I feel like something that can strain off oil would strain off some other stuff too. It could potentially be used in a lot of areas! There are a bunch of things in science that rely on separating hydrophobic and hydrophilic phases; liquid-liquid extractions are extremely common! I know organic chemistry uses liquid-liquid extractions after what seems like every single reaction, and in biology you can do a phenol-chloroform extraction to extract DNA. If this could be adapted to use in other liquid-liquid extractions, OMG it would make doing these extractions SO much easier. I work in civil engineering and we have been using something similar to this for a while now in oil containment applications. Basically its an underground polymer fabric that allows water to flow through freely for drainage purposes, but if there is a major leak or spill in the piece of equipment in question the fabric will turn to a gel and contain all liquids from passing through. This works great when you dont expect a leak, but once you have one you have to replace the system. It looks like this does something similar, but can actively contain oil while letting the water pass through simultaneously, which definitely adds some advantages.  So what you work with is effectively an aquatic fuse? Oh wow a PhD in my lab has been working on the same thing, just a foam-like material not a fabric...

Damn...that's why I picked the most obscure possible project for my Master's. I hate having to feel that I need to differentiate my research from other peoples' worth, especially when it comes out at the same damn time. Hey, the more research on these topics the better. Who knows how these technologies are going to be used?

Academic research shouldn't be a competition. I don't agree with that completely. Friendly competition can drive a lot of industries forward. It only becomes a problem when you throw huge amounts of money and corruption into the mix. [deleted] [deleted] Won't this catch fish in the process?  [deleted] [deleted] &gt;I more envisage a pumping system where the dirty water is pumped onto the mesh, the oil rolls off to be collected and the water filters through to be pumped back out.

If the technology was applied in this manner, it would not catch fish as a 'net' would. Scientist up above said he sees this being used in a water pump/filter system, so the pump would have some sort of solid intake filter. Does this also work for readily biodegradeable oils? This would be a big step- filtering water out of contaminated hydraulic systems The technique works for oils with surface tensions in the 2030 mN/m range. It also helps that the oil molecules are bulky compared to water. [deleted] How is this different from other meshes that are already used in oily water separation processes? Is it cheaper? More effective? The basic concept seems to have been around for a while unless this uses a different mechanism to perform the same task. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] According to the article, they mixed oil and water, and then poured it through the coated mesh. Yes it does. Cool. Probably all sorts of applications for this if we really think about it. This is cool. I work at a company that produces something similar.  Isn't prevention better than the cure? nope. accidents will always happen. cures are good. Cool.  And since it's coated with an oil repellant, it's not alike a typical filter which when it's clogged, you have to throw it away and replace it.  Just tip it, roll off the oil, and continue. Is this mesh able to be used repeatedly. Or is it a one and done item? Yeah I wanna know if this works on a bong. [serious] Environmental cleanups? I was thinking of using it for skimming my chicken stock. Hopefully this might help with future oil spills if we ever have those issues again. I work on oil spills every day. This could be very promising. Pretty hyped honestly do you know if this will impact the local wildlife? I'm not sure if I understand what you are referring to with regard to wildlife impacts. The mesh?  Yes, it probably wouldn't be good if you ran it like fishing wire as you would also catch the fish. 

 Would you only have it on the top layer of the ocean assuming we were using it to clean up a spill Ah got you. I primarily work on surface, river, and ground water, not ocean. That being said, you are correct catching fish could be a issue but keep in mind that the bulk of your oil will be at the surface so going more than a few feet deep probably won't be an issue. If you do catch any fish at the surface they would likely be killed but hopefully not in any numbers that would do any damage to the ecosystem. They should call it "oil filter" [deleted] could be useful if you can reuse the oil making it economically profitable. So let me ask this, if Ohio State invented it, why don't they sell it themselves.  Then with the money made reduce tuition for students?

Somehow I think the universities do all the work, get nothing and private sector companies get all the profit. Research is conducted with outside funding 95 % of the time.  Usually, a professor obtains a startup grant from the university when they're hired, then they have to figure out how to get funding on their own afterward.  A university gets some royalties for IP developed within their institutions, but most of the props go to the people with money bags who decided to fund that lab (NSF, DoE, etc.).  If you want to reduce the price of tuition, I recommend getting in contact with your university's president. Thanks for this.  I was curious how this worked.  Makes sense now. If the research was done at the university, then any patents taken out on the invention will probably belong to the university (having been "purchased" from the researchers, the actual inventors, through some term in their employment contracts). The university probably won't open up a business arm to manufacture and sell a product itself, but it will try to license those patents to other companies that do those things (maybe even a startup founded by the inventors in their spare time). The revenue from the licensing will be split between the university and the inventors. So the part that the university keeps is exactly what you're talking about.

For example, Google pays Stanford University more than a million dollars a year to license technologies invented there, like its famous PageRank algorithm, even though the inventors left Stanford (technically went on extended leave) to create the company.

source: my university is submitting a patent application, on which I'm the inventor but the university is the assignee, within the next few days It's important to note here that the term "organic" refers to the fact that this molecule [(methyl cyanide)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetonitrile) contains carbon atoms - nothing more than that. 

It may be the precursor to more biologically relevant molecules, but it does not imply that these ingredients will go on to form life.

Still, a great discovery from a great instrument :)  Methyl cyanide--&gt;H3C-C=O-NH2 when introduced to water--&gt; amino acids. Ok then..how far of a reach from amino acids to life? It's just a numbers game after that.  One hypothesis is that concentration of chemicals like this in ice bubbles fosters the growth of organisms. Is there a place I can find more info about this hypothesis?  So is there a way that we could try and simulate this? Have we done it in a vacuum? Surely it can be done? In amounts greater than the sum of the oceans of for a duration of millions- billions of years and with differing conditions throughout. It could be neat to try though, maybe its a common occurence. If life formation was a common occurrence given the right conditions, however, and those conditions still exist on Earth, shouldn't we expect to occasionally find life with completely separate evolutionary trees?  How likely is it that life would spring up separately in different places and evolve into nearly the same stuff? Well.. think of it this way. Those emerging lifeforms would not only have to evolve from scratch but would also have to compete with existing lifeforms. So who is to say it isn't happening but getting wiped out by existing predators before there are enough to be observed by our species. Pathologist here. I'd like to chyme in and say that nobody really knows for sure how viruses originated. 



Edit: chyme? Chime? Idk; I'm not a linguist [deleted] But the conditions under which life started don't exist now- the atmosphere (along with the rest of the planet) has changed radically due to the effects of the lifeforms that arose. Oxygen is highly toxic to most early lifeforms as well
 The current life on this planet would disrupt any new formation of life. A nascent source of life here is just food for even the simplest bacteria now. Maybe because once life evolved in one place, it spread to most available environs and increased in complexity rather rapidly, blocking other emerging forms from developing. It probably even happens right now, self-replicating amino acids that emerge get eaten by bacteria. Essentially first one through the gate gets to take the biosphere, so all life on earth has a common ancestor.  Yes, your logic is accurate; however, one of your assumptions is false and the term 'occasionally' is too subjective. I would also argue that the hypothetical posed by Felix (formation of life being a common occurrence in the right conditions) is unlikely and not an assumption we should make if you want an honest scientific discussion. 

First, the conditions that spawned the origin of life do not exist anymore on this planet. It has been a very long time since the existence of the common ancestor that all life on Earth shares. It has been observed that this life-form existed at least 3.5 billion years ago, as we have found [stromatolites](http://evolution.berkeley.edu/evolibrary/article/0_0_0/origsoflife_02) indicating a relative timeline of microbial life. Regarding the atmosphere at the time, if I can quote [Dannel Yeo and Thomas Drage](http://draget.net/hoe/index.php?p=p3), about whom I know nothing, 

&gt;"[a]t 4.0 billion [years ago] H2O, CO2, and nitrogen (N) were the dominant chemicals. Cooling of the atmosphere causes precipitation and the development of the oceans. By 3.0 billion CO2, H2O, N2 are the dominant chemicals. O2 begins to accumulate." 

Today, the atmosphere is ~78% Nitrogen and ~20% oxygen, with plenty of other gases filling the remaining 2%. Although life has thrived alongside the development of the Oxygen in our atmosphere, we have not seen any evidence that it would be helpful in spawning brand new forms of microbial life.

My second point would be that new life may still 'occasionally' spawn on Earth, however, we are dealing with a very sparse set of events on a large-scale timeline, and these occasions would be unlikely to occur during humanity's reign, and even less so during our era of understanding. Add on to that the the most likely places for this to occur could very well be at the bottom of the oceans, a place that we are still unable to adequately observe, and it starts to seem very unlikely that we would notice a new Domain* of life unless it were to thrive for millenia alongside us. Of course, it is also possible that this process has been occurring in the background, and we may be on the verge of making such a significant observation. I vaguely remember a story a few years back of scientists who believed they had found a silicone-based life-form (as opposed to Carbon), and the entire scientific community was excited for the possible ramifications before it was proven false.

It is certainly possible that new life could spawn on a planet it must share with an already dominant species, however, I do not think making a valid observation by this point in our evolution is a fair expectation &gt;what comes before kingdom?

Domain

Excellent comment. Well, nature does try to find a way to be as efficient as possible, so we might actually see some sort of resemblance in different patterns of organisms.

We have many examples of different evolutionary trees producing the same structure through different means. The example I can think of right now are turtles and tortoises. Although evolutionarily separate, they both turned up with a similar shell. Yeah, we only have one data point about the formation of life, and that's our planet. Doesn't really tell us anything about how rare or common it is. We know we haven't found it anywhere else. I don't really like to think that it might only exist on earth - seems too fragile an existence for something so valuable!  The reason perhaps not is the idea of survival of the fittest, theoretically...and then all life survives and evolves from "the fittest." If some new life spontaneously developed here it would most likely be consumed immediately by a higher order life form that has already evolved here. Just my take on "the origin of species" and your question, I'm no expert. Amino acids have been shown to form in conditions similar to the early earth, but it took billions of years for even the most basic 'life' to appear. It's unlikely we'll be able to replicate it in a lab. I have high hopes for advanced computer simulations, though. When we run a computer simulation, we get a speedup by making a simpler abstraction of a complex phenomenon. Water simulations, for instance, can be done in real-time if you pretend that the water is just a bunch peas bouncing off each other, covered in plastic wrap.

I'm not optimistic about an abiogenesis simulator unless we cheat it quite a bit. It's hard to compete with real-life in terms of the number of molecules interacting, accuracy of the interactions, smallness of each simulation step, etc. nope. less than a billion years,  actually  I'll just start my timer then.... Mix some crushed ice with amino acids (from GNC).
Stir vigorously to make bubbles.
Enjoy life.  I remember that Harvard professor and chemist George Whitesides has done a fair amount of research into this topic: how organic molecules became ordered and became living organisms. Not sure if his view points are widely accepted by the biology community but he did start out from a chemist's perspective. Is this the guy that said life is a more efficient way of increasing the total entropy in the universe? Regardless, I'd love to reread the article by the guy I'm thinking of or George Whitesides. Anyone have a link handy? That really isn't a favored hypothesis.  They are probably talking about this [experiment](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11543508)  where they took NH4CN and stuck it in a freezer for 25 years.  When they took it out, it had formed some of the pieces needed to form nucleotides which make up DNA.  

If you want to know some of the more widely accepted theories, I would go ahead and just google abiogenesis. It's a lot more than a numbers game. We really don't understand the process that takes simple molecules like the amino acids up to simple cells. So as an astronomer, while I like the detection of these organics in a protoplanetary disc, I think the title and spin of the article are remarkably misleading. 

Edit: words x2 &gt;as an astronomy

seems legit I agree with you on the title.  But it's not just one, CN has a unique absorption frequencies, so I'm guessing it is easier to measure because of less overlapping peaks.  isopropylnitrile has also been confirmed, and lots of unstable nitrogen heterocycles have been synthesized using the international space station.   It is not just a numbers game after that. The best proposed mechanism involves self replicating RNA. We really don't have a reasonable mechanism for where the RNA comes from. We just don't know.  That's still a numbers game. Even given random assortments of molecules, the *instant* you have one that can replicate itself in any fashion, you've kicked off natural selection. This is actually a really fascinating question. I'm curious to see what answers come up.  I have a decent background in this. What specific questions do you have? Modern theory is on an RNA world not proteins. Many people here are citing the out of date Miller-Urey experiment which is no longer considered likely to be an example of how life could arise. See this video for the how (don't know the "how long") https://youtu.be/U6QYDdgP9eg

Edit: first couple minutes read like a fb religion debate. I know. Just skip that part, the science after is good.  As far as we know, you probably will need some self replicating RNA strands to act as enzyme precursors to get to proteins. From there, it gets a little easier Very. Billions of years of worth. Age of the earth 4.6 billion years, first life appeared 3.8 billion years ago. It took hundreds of million of years for liquid water to appear on the surface, lets just say 200 million. That means life formed on earth approximately 600 million years after water did. Far less than "Billions of years" . All this tells us is that given certain conditions (Earth's) abiogenesis has the potential to occur in as little as several hundred million years. Could be a lot more, could be a lot less. The error bars are still really big.

There is still a lot we don't know about the origin of life on Earth.

Plus there's always panspermia. You are correct. But I was just giving an example of how long it *can* take life to form. We can use this as a minimum time and it turns out to be less than Billions of years. What I love about origin of life theories is that they are one of a select few mega-questions that could be solved in our lifetime.

The 1800s and 1900s had plenty of huge paradigm shifts, and the answer to abiogenesis would be a wonderful event to live through. The deleted comment said:

"What others might we live to see answered?"

Artificial Intelligence (kind of a gradient, but still), consciousness, any number of physics theories.

Abiogenesis is to my knowledge, one of the bigger mysteries in biology/chemistry (abiogenesis is really a chemistry question, but it straddles both, and possibly involves geology/mineralogy too). There are countless questions to answer in the fields, but few questions are so grand and awe inspiring as that one. However, I won't be surprised if a biologist or chemist replies to me with something I haven't heard of. As a geologist, abiogenesis is especially interesting given certain hypotheses that are competing for the answer.

Then of course there are engineering breakthroughs that are possible in the near future. Useable fusion reactors, breakthroughs in battery storage, new vaccines and genetically tailored treatments to insidious diseases.

It's an amazing time to be living. [deleted] Where do socks go? Well *now* I feel so firmly confirmed and affirmed that living carbon life is out theres in them stars. It would be too hot "in them stars". More importantly, the sample size is abysmally low.  If there were more oxygen in the atmosphere originally when life began to develop, would we have developed any quicker? Or, rather, what gas in the atmosphere was the primary catalyst for early life? Nitrogen? (I suck at biology, so I apologize for ignorance). Actually there was an insignificant amount of atmospheric oxygen when life started. The oxygen levels rose in ~~two~~ five jumps, but the first is known as [The Great Oxygenation Event](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Oxygenation_Event).

It's one of the ways we are looking for extraterrestrial life because atmospheric oxygen naturally escapes most planets, so a high amount of detectable atmospheric oxygen may suggest oxygenic bacteria. I didn't know about that, thank you. How does it escape most planets? I found a few examples of the different ways atmospheric oxygen is depleted listed under the **Reservoirs** section of the [Oxygen Cycle](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxygen_cycle) Wikipedia entry:

&gt;The main way free oxygen is lost from the atmosphere is via respiration and decay, mechanisms in which animal life and bacteria consume oxygen and release carbon dioxide.

&gt;The lithosphere also consumes free oxygen by chemical weathering and surface reactions. An example of surface weathering chemistry is formation of iron oxides (rust):

&gt;Oxygen is also cycled between the biosphere and lithosphere. Marine organisms in the biosphere create calcium carbonate shell material (CaCO3) that is rich in oxygen. When the organism dies, its shell is deposited on the shallow sea floor and buried over time to create the limestone sedimentary rock of the lithosphere. Weathering processes initiated by organisms can also free oxygen from the lithosphere. Plants and animals extract nutrient minerals from rocks and release oxygen in the process.

Then they list some other ways atmospheric oxygen is lost in the **Capacities and Fluxes** section:

&gt;Aerobic Respiration
&gt;Microbial Oxidation
&gt;Combustion of Fossil Fuel
&gt;Photochemical Oxidation
&gt;Fixation of N2 by Lightning
&gt;Fixation of N2 by Industry
&gt;Oxidation of Volcanic Gases
&gt;Chemical Weathering
&gt;The Ozone Cycle

What I found interesting was this tidbit:

&gt;By far the largest reservoir of Earth's oxygen is within the silicate and oxide minerals of the crust and mantle (99.5%).

On other planets, we can only speculate as to what crazy-ass natural processes exist. If the planet in question is completely devoid of life, there will be no aerobic respiration, microbial oxidation, or combustion of fossil fuel. The planet may not have an earth-like fluid mantle and, thus, no volcanic gases to be oxidized. If the planet isn't massive enough, any oxygen released from the surface would float off into oblivion.

It is my personal opinion that we will continue to find familiar organic compounds in far away places. I believe we will find life elsewhere in the universe, as long as we don't blow ourselves up in the process.

The disappointing part is that the discovery of life on another planet will probably be inferred by an instrument not unlike the one used for this study. Odds are, we will never be able to contact any alien life that we discover.

Interstellar communication is still a science fiction. Even if we had the technology to send and receive messages faster than the speed of light, the odds that our alien friends would be capable of receiving and replying to such a message are slim to none. Then again, so are the chances we would ever need such a technology, for we are *far* more likely to discover alien microbes than we are to find evidence of little green men, or any remotely humanoid life-form. It's a complex process that involves the planet's mass, the speed of rotation (I believe), and the mass of the gas in question. There are other factors that go into it, but mostly it's just whether or not there is enough gravity to keep it within the pull of the planet. Otherwise it gets whisked off into space as it passes the influence of the planet's gravity, aided by the solar winds. &gt;  but the first is known as The Great Oxygenation Event[1] .

Also known as "The Great Green Cataclysm" by the silicon-based life that existed before... Actually, oxygen was poisonous to a lot of the early life on earth. That great oxygenation event the other person posted was the first mass extinction event on earth. Panspermia doesn't answer the 'where did it go from organic molecules grouping randomly to self-replicating RNA' though. [deleted] And that's just the time component. Science has yet to figure out how exactly "life" came to be from "non-life."  

Was it a lightning strike? Violent shaking of these amino acids? What converted them from non-living molecules into living organisms?

That is the ULTIMATE QUESTION.   Unfortunately, those little arrows, while possible, are actually huge jumps in terms of likelihood. And, we have no idea if these kinds of reactions can occur in space rather than in a lab. 

As someone has pointed out below, this isn't the first time this molecule has been detected in space. It is, however, the first time it has been detected in a protoplanetary disc (due to the increased sensitivity of this new instrument). This shows us that some of the raw materials needed for life are available when planets begin to form. 

This work is an important part of the puzzle towards figuring out how life may form (I was at the meeting when it was announced a few months ago) but it isn't the final answer.  Would love to see a mechanism for this. Where's the other carbon? And does the oxygen have 3 bonds? The formula is linear, the molecule is not. The carbon has a single bond with the nitrogen and a double bond with the oxygen. Well he omitted a methyl group, so that kinda fucks up the mechanism for someone who doesn't know what an amide is.  I see that now. Very interesting science! Sorry, I omitted the CH3. http://www.chem.ucalgary.ca/courses/351/Carey5th/Ch20/ch20-3-5-1.html I also feel this isn't the first time. We have found PAHs before. Maybe I am mis-remembering in all the papers I have read. Or maybe I am just thinking of the ISM and not in a proto-star The [Miller-Urey experiment](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MillerUrey_experiment) produced aminoacids from simple inorganic molecules with electrical discharges, so it's not impossible that ultraviolet radiation could do the same in space.

I bet that if you look closely enough you'll find aminoacids there. Does it mean the presence of life? No.

 Could it? Yes. And this is what's exciting.  These kinds of articles are hilarious. "Wow, so chemistry exists in space too?! Who would have thought!" And I don't think any chemist would call this molecule "complex." It's like when they tried to claim methane was a "complex organic molecule" on mars, even though it is one of the simplest and most abundant molecules in the universe.  We also don't call it methyl cyanide, we call it acetonitrile and it's used commonly as a solvent. I wouldn't call any small molecule complex unless it was chiral or contained at least 2 stereocenters (and that's generous). But at the end of the day, I don't know much about space, so maybe it's kinda neat there's acetonitrile in space. I'd be more impressed if they found THF or dichloromethane instead ;) What if we are the first? And we invade other world's for space? And we are the aliens Imagine there's no heaven, I wonder if you can No hell below us, Above us only sky Imagine all the people, living life in peace [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] How can they know what molecules are what that far away? I would think spectroscopy, but I'm not an expert. Can we get an actual scientist to answer this? Scientist here, I helped create [a software tool](http://www.astrochem.org/pahdb/theoretical/2.00/help/view) that does exactly this.

The basic idea behind doing work like this is that you first observe the spectra of complex molecules in a lab, or calculate what they would be by analyzing the different bonds in the molecule.  Once you have a large set of these spectra, you can observe a region of space and measure the intensity of the light at different wavelengths.  

This observation is (ideally) just a sum of the spectra that you have already (assuming you have a fairly complete set of common molecular spectra).  Assuming you correct for noise in your instruments, red shift, environmental effects, etc., you can have a computer figure out which molecules are present, and their relative concentrations by running an optimization algorithm. How reliable is this? I mean, measuring something in the lab and measuring something light years away are (literally) two different things. Are there any corroborating experiments? What are the potential sources of error here? &gt;How reliable is this?

From a software standpoint, it's very reliable in the sense that if you create a spectrum with our emission models, the fitting tool will correctly identify the molecules that you put into it.

&gt;What are the potential sources of error here?

Eliminating sources of error in a real-world spectrum is outside the scope of that particular project.  The end users of the fitting tool (astronomers) are expected to remove noise from their data and correct for red-shift, systematic effects in their instruments, etc. before uploading a spectrum.  The reason for this is that there is not One True Method for eliminating errors that can be applied to all spectra.

&gt;Are there any corroborating experiments? 

Depends on what you mean by 'experiment'.  Since Astronomy is mostly an observational science, we can't be 100% sure that the results we're getting from real spectra are accurate until we go out and physically sample the stuff we're looking at.  The data from laboratory-collected spectra from PAH samples match their theoretical spectra pretty well, though.

If by 'experiment', you mean has this been used on any data from telescopes?  Then, [yes](https://astrobiology.nasa.gov/nai/reports/annual-reports/2012/arc/cosmic-distribution-of-chemical-complexity/).  I haven't been involved with the project for a few years (and I'm more of a computational physicist than an astronomer, so I don't keep up with the literature on that side), but it looks like they've [done well](https://astrobiology.nasa.gov/nai/reports/annual-reports/2013/arc/cosmic-distribution-of-chemical-complexity/) with using this tool with Spitzer data. &gt;The data from laboratory-collected spectra from PAH samples match their theoretical spectra pretty well, though.

This is a funny way to view things. We can measure most spectra much better than we'd ever think we could calculate them *a priori*. It is the calculations that do a good job at matching the spectrum. Well to be fair, with ALMA, the calculations wont work so well.  Its near impossible to fit to the resolution of rotational spectroscopy with the amount of confusion in the spectra and the vast differences temperatures can cause.  You are essentially limited to matching them up against laboratory measured frequencies.

Even then, historically, radio astronomy has often been to write a proposal to search for X (that has been measured in the lab)and thats all they look for.  Thankfully the bandwidth of ALMA is helping to change that and we are seeing more and more survey spectra make their way out allowing us to do real a priori searches. How fascinating is it that in our age, a scientist can magically appear when you have a question. Like rubbing a lamp for a genie. This is the true beauty of technology and community.  But how can it square in on such a small thing? Like a planet? I thought the stars are all stars which are huge so any planets around them would be even smaller.

Also, is the light bouncing off the stuff around this planet, or anything out there for that matter, light from our sun or does the light of other light sources in the universe light other stuff up for us so we can see it? 

Man, I wish I paid attention in high school science.  The answer is almost always spectroscopy, so I suspect that you are right.

I'm not presently aware of all of the remote sensing techniques, but most of them involve looking at the electromagnetic spectrum and using complex methods to tease out detailed observations. Spectroscopy is the big mitt that catches all the science-y goodness. My graduate research was actually in this field (and even did some work with Karin the papers author who is a great person btw).

We use a form of spectroscopy, rotational spectroscopy, to look at the natural emission of molecules in very low frequency regions (THz down to MHz).  We are actually [mostly] looking at transitions of the physical rotations of molecules.  This is interesting because every molecule is shaped slightly different, so just like an ice skater they are all going to rotate differently with similar amounts of energy alowing us to tell them apart.  Its so sensitive to changes in shape and mass that we can easily tell if a molecule has a single deuterium instead of a hydrogen

As opposed to other forms of spectroscopy this is perfect for space because A. Space is cold so there isnt much energy,  B. since its emission its far far easier to detect weak signals and C. rotational spectroscopy the best spectral fingerprint that spectroscopy can offer making it very easy to tell molecules apart.


TL;DR:  Molecules rotate and slightly different frequencies like an ice skater with her arms in or out.  We look at the frequency and match it up against lab measurements to identify which molecule it is. As others have said, spectroscopy. In simple terms, when looking at light radiating from a particular element, it has a specific "pattern" to it, kind of like a barcode. There's a really cool episode of *Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey* that explains this, I think it's episode 5 "Hiding in the Light". (Though I could be wrong about that).  
  
edit: I just checked it out, and it is that episode at about 30 minutes in. Could someone ELI5 this? I'm not really smart when it comes to science terms, space, etc. but I'm so curious about it all. If you turn the television on, you will see the light from the screen.  Does it mean Ducktales is on?  

It might, but wiithout further inspection you won't know. Wow, its not often an ELI5 lives up to its name, well done. Yeah, I'm often sad that ELI5 answers are still pretty complicated. While they're often *useful*, it's nice to have one that really lives up to the acronym, boiling it down to the absolute most basic level. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] In true genius fashion, the ELI5 answer has within it, hidden clues that relate to the explanation.

A combination of competing probabilities would allow an observer to calculate the odds of Ducktales being on.

Parameters like: What decade it is, where the TV is located, if there are children or cartoon enthusiasts who frequently use the TV, what time of day you turn the TV on, with what clarity you are able to view the contents of the TV, etc.

It truly is an exquisite answer. [deleted] Its definitely on the right channel though. Bravo. You are a goddamned poet. We are carbon-based life forms; the long and complicated molecules that allow our complex chemical interactions to occur are based on carbon's ability to bond with a large variety of other elements. Carbon is like a very sociable diplomat, able to bring many others together. An organic molecule, like the ones detected here, are these carbon-based, long molecules. An organic molecule doesn't have to be long. CH4 is organic, and it's a single carbon bonded covalently to 4 hydrogens. Now for life, yes, the molecules have to be long chains, but it's not necessary to qualify as organic What do you want explained? Organic molecules? Proto-stars? [deleted] It's only a matter of time before those are found somewhere. These compounds are the building blocks of amino acids. If correctly stated, the title should read, Astronomers finally able to discover organic molecules which have always been present. Given the sheer size of the universe and number of stars and galaxies, isn't it statistically impossible our conditions are unique? Any individual condition, yes. The whole series of conditions, jury is out on that one. The universe is an extremely vast place but the chances of life arising are extremely slim. Drake's Equation is commonly cited in this situation but it is really more philosophy than science. Drake set estimated the values for several factors which lead him to believe it statistically improbable that there is not intelligent life in the universe but we don't know what the value of those factors should truly be. More practically, due to the relatively short lifespan of species on our own planet and the mindbogglingly huge time-span the universe works on, the chances of us detecting intelligent life are extremely small. Going beyond that, the chances of us being able to actually contact or interact with intelligent life are next to zero :( Also, minor pet peeve, nothing is "statistically impossible" because statistics does not deal with absolutes.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; for the first time  
&gt; reaffirms

... ITT: People who don't know how chemical kinetics work.  Biology tag?  It's not biology unless it's alive. "But the Fermi Paradox!"

...Isn't science. The idea that we're the only planet with life is laughable. The idea that intelligent life is rare is not so crazy, but rare in the universe still means potentially hundreds of millions or even billions of examples.  The fermi paradox isn't about life being rare, it's a question asking why nothing else is here. 

Fermi assumes that out of the 14 billion years the universe we know of has been around, a galaxy could be populated in what he believes is 10 million years. 

The question then is, given the number of goldilocks planets and similar stars out there, why have we no visitors?

It's an interesting question because it outlines the probabilities quite well:

1. It's impossible to travel that far/it has not been discovered anywhere.

2. We're the most advanced in our vicinity of the universe.

3. We're untraceable

4. They're avoiding us

5. We're alone/they died before they could leave.

6...etc There's plenty of obvious obstacles to getting visitors. A better question is why we haven't observed evidence of colonization / stellar engineering. My take is that either we can't see it / aren't looking for the right things (like, seriously, what kind of interstellar civilisation would still use radio signals? It's like saying we are alone because we can't see the smoke signals of other tribes.), or there's no point in actually doing that, for reasons we don't know yet. I think the better/simpler explanation is 'would you recognize if ants were trying to communicate with you?' I don't really agree with what that question is trying to posit. I think it's clear that we humans have a capability beyond all life forms on this earth, which is something along the lines of critical thinking and reasoning. 

There are some things which are so universal that we would be able to communicate them to anything with these cognitive skills. Stuff like basic mathematics, the wavelengths of light, the structure of hydrogen molecules. These things are the same everywhere and any intelligent society would recognize them. I find it hard to believe that any intelligent species would be completely beyond communicating with us. Exactly. Arthur Clarke was wrong, sufficiently advanced technology isn't indistinguishable from magic. There are rules that must be followed, and those rules will encourage the use of certain materials and certain designs of those materials. One rule is that creating certain elements is expensive - thus spacefaring civilizations would need to harvest other planets and stars. And another rule is that there's no undetectable way to do that.

Obviously, we don't know all the rules yet. So maybe this is wrong. But that's only a small chance. It's a much better bet that the future rules to be discovered go in this direction, which all the evidence currently available to us implies, than that they go in the opposite. [deleted] Ah good old Michio Kaku. Guess attribution's just not fashionable these days. Thanks, didn't know the source. Of course a lot of these discussions always assume "interstellar" is a goal of all intelligent species... Some may be content to watch and listen, or be xenophobic, or have senses that allow them to develop high intelligence but not see light,..etc.. etc..

So many of the "Why would they, Why wouldn't they" things depend on the assumption that any intelligent being is somewhat remotely close to what we can expect/plan out.

The Amgdravinians, for example... Developed on a world with very bright localized star/moon configurations. That combined with their genetic "slouch" and a socially ingrained reflex to not look up (for fear of the mighty Targoon-Sah who lived slightly higher than the sky and visited a genital pox lasting no less than 3 years upon anyone looking up and meeting his gaze) kept them from ever caring about anything outside their planets surface.  
 It wasn't until they had developed quantum teleportation to get from the dry arid wastes of the shahaad desert, to the persistantly monsoon plagued burnatta zone, (essentially using the two for eco-friendly washing and drying) that they thought,.. "Hey, we could hop BEHIND the head of Targoon-Sah, thus avoiding his gaze and the ensuing embarrassment that has plagued us all at one time or another!" (The genital pox of the Amgdravinians was distinctive in it's regular erruptions of a purple fog that smelled vaguely of earth cabbage)   

20 Amgdravinians died before they thought to send a camera, 20 more (trying to retrieve the camera) before they thought to send a torgle flea, 20 more trying to retrieve the torgle flea, and finally one Amgdravinian decided to build a box with a shuttered window on it. (For surely all the others had appeared, Targoon-Sah had turned his gaze on them, and from that distance, the punishment would surely be a million genital poxi and would thusly result in death). The shuttered window would allow enough time to see Targoon-Sah, and close it quickly before he could swing his gaze to the pod, then a return trip and report could be made. Luckily  Amgdravinian construction techniques were quite advanced. They had been working with Amgdra sub-nanotube construction for some time and nearly everything was built with this material. In essence the pod was a *mostly* air tight indestructible shell. The *mostly* was more than "none at all" and so this particular Amgdravinian had enough time to make a return trip to tell of experience of appearing, Targoon-Sah making him feel light as a torgle flea hatchling, and then violently trying to suck the air from his room.   

Thus space being, and additionally being a vacuum was discovered but wasn't interpreted as such. The Amgdravinians discussed it for some time and finally decided that considering their near immortal lifespans, 60 Amgdravinians dead was 59 too many (No one liked Pretesh the umbrella vendor) and they simply gave up trying to get one over on ol Targoon-Sah. Any radio transmissions they received after this were simply interpreted as Targoon-Sah trying to lure them back to to his domain to steal the breath from their lungs which it was decided was like candy to him.   

In apology for their transgressions a monthly hunting party would risk further wrath looking up long enough to capture several of the highbeters (basically giant floating air filled jellyfish) to teleport into space for Targoon-Sah to suck the breath from. While this pleased the Amgdravinians and greatly confused the highbeters, it also had the unfortunate side effect of thinning the highbeter populations. As a communal creature their newfound confusion, decreased numbers and the occasional feeling that somewhere far away someone was doing very un-natural things to them, eventually caused their extinction. As the highbeters were one of the keystone species that maintained the atmospheric cycle, their abrupt absence caused global warming to occur. (Not like Earth global warming which any child knows can manifest in many things other than actual temperature increase, but rather a literal and drastic rising of temperatures planetwide.)
   
Within 30 years all the Amgdravinians were either dead or dying. Towards the end they no longer gave two squirts of purple fog what Tagoon-Sah had to say anymore so they frequently donned several layers of their best reflecto-glass, and stared out into the sky. Had all life not been eradicated within the several months that followed, it is assured that they would have looked for ways to teleport to their moons, and eventually to other worlds that they would have identified as habitable for Amgdravinians. Earth (though in relatively close proximity) wouldn't even have made the list.   
  
So you see,.. there's a LOT more variables to take into account beyond "advanced civilization". [deleted] &gt; like, seriously, what kind of interstellar civilisation would still use radio signals?

What's wrong with radio signals? Using EM waves is the fastest way to communicate  across essentially empty space. Are you arguing that an advanced civilization would prefer different wavelengths than we're searching for?  They might not know something better that we dont know of ....

That we know of... I mean, unless there's some gigantic exception to relativity, what we know of is reasonable.

Even the methods that people say could be used for faster-than-light communication, such as quantum-linking, information cannot travel faster than the speed of light, because it requires knowing the initial state of the linked particle, which must be dictated from the sender, via another communication method.

Some say that there's still a lot that we don't know, and that's true, but we're pretty good at recognizing what it is that we don't know. And it appears that through various tests and observations, information cannot travel faster than the speed of light. This theory has had nearly 100 years to be disproven. What I find the most fundamentally amazing thing about humanity is it's ability to form a collective mind to discover new and amazing things at a now exponential rate. Just imagine what it will be like if this discovery curve continues at this rate. People 100 years from now will be amazed that we couldn't really understand gravity, magnetism, location, and their correlation with each other and how to use it. &gt;that we couldn't really understand gravity, magnetism...

That's what I'm in love with about science. The two things that affect us the most every day are completely enigmatic to us, and beautiful things at heart. We hear the word "gravity" and it makes complete sense to us, we perform static or dynamic analysis and incorporate the weight, or force of gravity, into every problem from the get-go. But then, from a top-down view, it makes no sense. Two things pull on each other purely based on how much stuff is in them? And it gets stronger as they get closer? It's such a beautiful thing, and it saddens me to think that few people are educated enough to realize it. It took humanity over 5000 years of strong civilization to even be able to record the force of gravity, and another 300 years after that to realize that it's not unexplainable. Everyone's turning to computers for calculations and solutions, but there's one thing that they can't do, and that's higher-order differential equations. Humanity will need to continue paving the way with our brains, and allowing our computers to simply be calculators for our formulas. It's what makes me wish I had the attention span to be a mathematician. And.... your reply was so much more than I expected to my comment. Thank you. The best part? We still don't really understand gravity. We know two objects with mass attract, but how? We know the other fundamental forces have particles, and we think gravity probably does too, but we haven't found one yet, and our model of particle physics doesn't suggest gravity exists. It appears to bend spacetime, but we don't know how, or even what that actually means: what *is* spacetime? How can it be warped like that? 

There's so much more to learn :D I always wonder how fast we could advance as a species if more of the population had a high education. Like, we have a shit ton of minds out there. If they were all properly trained and given the opportunity to innovate think of where we'd be. It's pretty depressing dwelling on these things too long. Even though this is a great time to be alive, our potential is still so much higher.  &gt; unless there's some gigantic exception to relativity

Or a giant exception to our human capacity to understand things. [deleted] Well, all experimental measurements made to date support special relativity, and what's more, they place some pretty strict bounds on how wrong special relativity could be without contradicting past measurements. If faster than light communication were possible *and* special relativity were still correct, this would allow for things like time travel into the past which leads to all sorts of paradoxes. I think that's pretty unlikely. Ruling that out, special relativity would need to be wrong in a very subtle yet profound way to permit FTL communication. You're right, it's not impossible that we have something wrong here, but based on my understanding of past (and ongoing) experimental tests of special relativity, it's overwhelmingly unlikely.  I'd say focused emissions like lasers are far more likely (energy efficient and all that), so whatever the wavelength we wouldn't see anything. And that's assuming there's no esoteric quantum shmilblick ahead of us. Plus, radio signals as we make them turn to undecipherable white noise before reaching the closest star. What's wrong with smoke signals? Using smoke is the fastest way to communicate across essentially empty space. Are you arguing that an advanced civilization would prefer different signals than we're searching for? 

Is what he means. Humans didn't imagine EM waves when they used smoke signals; it's possible we can't imagine X waves use when we use EM waves. But when we used smoke signals we didn't really have a reason to believe we couldn't one day think of something faster. All our physics basically rests on the speed of light being a speed limit, so we have a good reason to believe there is nothing faster than EM radiation possible. His point still stands since they might discover something even better than radio.

But yeah it's wrong to imply that radio is useless compared to other forms of communication at this point. [deleted] That you know of. I understand what you're saying, but try to imagine that a civilization just 1000 years ahead of us would look at our planet as we look at civilization here 1000 years ago. 1015 CE, and the idea of anything faster than a courier, bird, or visual system seed laughable and the idea of using something like radio waves would have been viewed as nuts. 

Edit: And then there's the more likely probability that they could be tens or hundreds of thousands of years ahead of us! (Or millions, maybe billions?) &gt; like, seriously, what kind of interstellar civilization would still use radio signals? It's like saying we are alone because we can't see the smoke signals of other tribes

Radio signals are still used today on Earth, I wouldn't imagine why they WOUDLN'T use them.  Aside from the usage for communications, radio waves are also emitted from various galactic events naturally, so while radio waves can carry information, not all radio waves CONTAIN information.

it's mostly that radio waves would be used because they are the easiest to catch, especially at great distance.  Let's compare a torch and a laser beam at night for example.  If someone precisely aimed the laser beam at the ground in front of you, AND you were looking down, you could indeed see the laser beam.  However, if someone had LoS and were carrying a torch, just about anyone could see the torch because the torch is sending light photons in every direction unlike the laser which is sending ALL of the light photons in a focused beam.  

It's the same for communication.  If we were to use laser-based communication over vast distances of space (such as the experimental unit in the ISS) it would require an incredible precision and fine-tuned equipment to do so.  It wouldn't be something you could easily do on the fly because the precision must be so incredibly high that you would require prediction of two moving bodies locations at once, making it absurd to use for any artificial satellites to use if they are expected to move ( such as in the case of an alien ship).  

**TLDR;** AoE op, nerf AoE.   Hubble can't even see the lunar landers that are still on the moon, it doesn't have enough resolution.  How are we going to see anything from lightyears away when we can't even see something 250,000 miles away. &gt; A better question is why we haven't observed evidence of colonization / stellar engineering.

The vast expanse of space, and the (likely) impossibility of exceeding the speed of light.  Even the closest major galaxy is 25 MILLION light years away.  Using propulsion based spacecraft, it would take more mass than the universe has to propel a craft to light-speed (note that this is NOT including theoretical devices that do not propel a ship such as "warp" drives).  

So, even if a being on another planet COULD somehow bend spacetime to travel at the speed of light, it will likely take them millions of years to even ARRIVE at our galaxy (also note that I said major galaxy; there is not a significant chance of life in minor galaxies).  

The Fermi paradox is very silly because it does not take into account the enormous vastness of space.  It's even more funny when you consider this paradox theory was only made TWO DECADES after we learned that we weren't the only galaxy in the universe.   What about the concept that the probability of life arising is extremely unlikely, such that it's virtually impossible that any two life forms would ever be ever to contact each other because the likely hood that they're even remotely close is near 0.

I don't get why people assume that life must occur spontaneously given Earth-like conditions. It certainly sounds plausible, but as far as I know there is no evidence that this happens.

For any life form that *does* arise, why should it assume that life is prolific? Additionally, the probability of life forming could be so low that the thought that we are the first is not out of the question. What's more is that a virtually infinite amount of time can elapse before life happens to form, and only when it does can it even ask the question. The infinite amount of time passing thing really makes me consider that we could be the only ones here. There's a great, in-depth post on WaitButWhy that goes into the Fermi Paradox. The most exciting parts are that there might be one or several Great Filters, such as simple life turning into complicated life, civilization starting or civilization lasting. The more I think about this though the more likely I believe intelligent life might not be as rare as we think. Sure, out of the millions of species on earth we are the only one species we would consider intelligent, but what if this is how all advanced civilizations start?

It is evolutionary advantageous to be intelligent.  It is the sole reason we are uncontested at the top of the food chain and why we may one day outlive our planet. 

I think if the conditions are right for complex, multicellular organisms in a habitat then it may only be a matter of time until one emerges as intelligent.  Fortunately for us, perhaps, we were the ones to make it here on Earth. &gt; The idea that we're the only planet with life is laughable.

Why? Expected number of planets with life on them = n*p, where n is the total number of planets and p is the probability of life springing up on any randomly chosen planet. What's n? Pretty big, right? What's p? The only thing you can say about p with any degree of certainty is that it ranges from 0 to 1, non inclusive on both sides. Read close; Means nothing. Click bait at best. I get banned for jokes and this sub is full of embellished Pop-Sci.  I just can't get over the "artist impression". Ugh... Great discovery nonetheless. Who's down for a science party?! Beer for everyone! If you roll the cosmic dice enough times, you're gonna come up with double sixes.  Anyone else think of *The Integral Trees* when seeing this? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Who declared cyanide to be a "complex" organic molecule? I was expecting an amino acid. so like? is this real aliens? (7) I got pumped reading this.

Then I realized I don't know what anything other than the title means. So I clicked comments of course.... Now I feel dumb again. Yay ELI5: how are we able to spot molecules millions of light years away but nearly don't know nothing about the deep sea?  because the amount of dust and gas between us and distant stars is less than the amount of water between us and the sea floor. also deep sea life probably doesn't undergo large-scale nuclear fusion. I know it's not actual life (yet) but still THIS IS SO EXCITING! I wonder how it looks now, considering the image we are seeing is 455 years old... Probably the same If one more person uses the term "the building blocks of life" to describe anything with carbon in it, I'm going to go spare. Lego are the building blocks of.... youth.  And if they look a bit closer, somewhere they will find an apple tree and a talking snake. Further proof that scientists don't understand allegory.
 You'd think that such an omnipotent and omnicient god would be as straightforward as possible to make sure that everyone understands his message so they don't commit a sin, knowing that a lot of his creation is just dumb. But no, apparently he doesn't care that little kids in sunday school, the illiterate, and I'd argue 90% of the christian population needs to understand figures of speech to interpret "his message". Funny how the religious always tries to make an excuse to make the ridiculous look plausible. Why would god prefer to use allegory? Does human law use allegory? No. So if allegedly flawed beings know not to use figures of speech in something so important, why would god in all his perfection in the eyes of his blind followers prefer to use a figure of speech to make things complicated? I mean, that sounds totally illogical and stupid. Wait a minute, of course it does, we're discussing religion. &gt; Why would god prefer to use allegory?

Because every human being interprets God's message differently.  

&gt; Does human law use allegory?   

For about five thousand years now.  

&gt;  I mean, that sounds totally illogical and stupid.  

A lot of things sound illogical and stupid to the ignorant. We need to send an information capsule to the star so that if life evolves to our level of space exploration, they can potentially find it and use it, and understand that there were aliens out there too. It feels like I'm living in the ancient eras in Europe and I know that there's more ground thousands of kilometers away with people but I'll never see them.  Now lets just hope the aliens don't pull a 'conquistador' on us. This seriously confirms nothing at all.  Is that where all the hplc grade MeCN went a few years ago? Wow, this is kind of a big deal... If that same system has a lot of water it's set for life, literally. That's a stupid comment. Just because they found one basic carbon based molecule, to state that conditions around the sun and earth were not unique? 
  
There could be a billion other variables involved than just the presence of methyl cyanide. Methyl cyanide doesn't equate to life. You could have a million primordial Earths and still never have life. Scientists have access to every organic molecule known and still cannot replicate life in a lab. The article doesn't say that the conditions which create life are not unique. It says that the conditions which create the sun and earth are not unique. 

The real question is why the authors felt the need to sensationalize this discovery. Yes, it's cool that we've detected complex organic molecules in a proto planetary disk but it's not like we didn't know they were out there. 

The sun isn't a first generation star which means that the molecules in our solar system come from the explosion of at least one other star. Assuming, probably incorrectly, for a moment that our solar system consists of the remnants of a single star that explosion must have deposited the same molecules elsewhere in the universe. If we take the more likely scenario and assume the solar system is made of the remnant of many stars, then the same molecules which make up us must be fairly common in the universe. 

The magic of life is in what comes next. We have a very limited understanding of how we came to be and next to no knowledge of the exact instant and way life first arose. That makes it extremely hard to say that confirming the building blocks of life in other solar systems means that there is a good chance of life arising in those solar systems.  Stop stalling!

WHEN DO WE GET THE ALIENS?    Now this is going to sound crazy and maybe doesn't belong in /r/science.  Remember a few years ago when we realized amino acids are basically forming all over the universe? I happened to read that just after reading about matrioshka brains.
    I almost believe that humans are organelles of a sort. The universe is destined to become an intelligence, industrial carbon based life is a small step in this. Us, then our children(AI) who are the remote ancestors of god. It is beyond arrogant and shallow to think that the conditions that spawned earth and sun are unique in the universe. According to the great filter theory this is a terrible find. The more alone we are the better!! We find life and we are screwed.  But as cool as the Great Filter is to think about, ***_it's not science_***. Ah well it's fun to talk about  The great filter doesn't make judgements on whether finding other life is good or bad, it simply hypothesizes that our knowledge currently must be incomplete because in spite of every indication that life should be common, we haven't found any signs of it... thus the great filter, a theorized an unknown barrier that somehow prevents sentient life from forming or achieving interstellar travel.  However, increasing evidence of basic life building blocks, such as amino acids, decreases the likelihood that we've already passed the Great Filter; if amino acids (and other basic building blocks) form commonly, than them having formed on Earth is not a rare event. Thus, the probability that the Great Filter is behind us decreases, and consequently the probability it's in front of us increases. And we really, *really* don't want it to be in front of us. I believe that was the gist of what /u/fib16 was getting at. Exactly my point. Silence is golden.  Read the article but I'm still confused. I thought the controversy of Brontosaurus was the mismatched skull to an apatosaurus' body. So are they saying the skull is still wrong but the body was actually a different animal from apatosaurus? You're right about the mismatched skull thing. For a long time, a skull similar to that of Camarasaurus was incorrectly set at the end of Apatosaurus/Brontosaurus. This was mainly because the skull is generally the first thing to detach and and get destroyed after a vertebrate dies, so you usually don't find big skeletons with skulls attached. Generally you can tell the difference by the more elongated skulls of Apatosaurus which contrast the more bull-dog like Camarasaurus. However, this actually doesn't bear directly on the controversy around the name of the animal.

The Apato/Bonto naming thing actually stems from an unfortunate (but now relatively obsolete) convention in the practice of naming animals. Historically, the first person to name an animal generally got "priority". So even if Joe Schmoe discovered a crappy fossil in his back yard and published it in a journal no one has heard of, his name would still be the preferred one, even if later someone gave a much more comprehensive discussion of the same animal (being unaware of Joe Schmoe) and provided a different name that was widely accepted.

This has been particularly troublesome with dinosuars, and something exactly like his happend with Apato/Brontosaurus. The discovery of apatosaurus was based on a really crummy fossil published in an obscure journal that no one read (in fact, the name, meaning "deceptive lizard" ~~refers to the poor quality of the type specimen~~[my bad, /u/LoyalGarlic is right on that one]). On the other hand Brontosaurus was a truly magnificent find, one of the largest dinosaurs ever discovered at the time, and remarkably well preserved. It made a splash and people latched on to it.

It was only later that someone discovered that it was actually the same thing as Apatosaurus and given the rule of priority, they deferred to Apatosaurus.

Fortunately the rule of "priority" is much less strict now, and an exception would probably have been made in the case of Brontosaurus. If you want the full story though, I highly recommend an excellent essay by Stephen Jay Gould called "Bully for Brontosaurus".

What these guys are saying is basically "we looked into it really closely and we think Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus really are different animals that should have different names". I should caution that it'll take a while for the rest of the paleo community to digest these results and they may not end up buying them anyway...such is science.

EDIT: Made a few changes, corrections, and additions. Stephen Jay Gould's essay "Bully for Brontosaurus" is available in his book of the same name containing a collection of such essays. Gould delves into the rule of priority and its history, as well as the history of Brontosaurus in both science and culture. I happen to be ~3/4 through this book presently, having read the titular essay just last week. Looks like it's available in full on Google Books. 

[Link](http://books.google.ca/books?id=etKX2s6JgAkC&amp;lpg=PP1&amp;pg=PA79#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false) Not anymore :( It's still working for me. Might be different by location. I'm in Canada. Bully for Brontosaurus is one of my favorite books. He was the master of explaining complex debates in the history of science. How is the book? Is it more for paleo nerds, or does it have broader appeal? It definitely has broader appeal. He talks about a lot more than just dinosaurs. His other books are excellent as well. But according to the article, the Bronto was *always* its own distinct species, there was just a fight over the use of that word for the genus (that's the way it reads, to me).

So what was the big deal all this time? The Brontosaurus was a dinosaur *species* with real fossils found.... In what sense does not being the name of the genus hurt, and in what sense does having its own genus "bring it back"?? Currently, Bronto- and ~~Apatosaurus~~  *Apatosaurus excelsus* are the *same* species. The (remarkably complete) specimen O.C. Marsh called Bronosaurus was later determined to be an adult Apatosaurus. 

Having its own genus means that it is no longer a type of Apatosaurus. Think of it this way: Assuming this article is correct, we've been thinking your cousin is actually your brother since 1903. This doesn't mean much to most people, but is pretty important to a genealogist. 

Edit: Corrections via /u/KlingonAdmiral and /u/scubascratch  I think you have it reversed; according to Gould, Apatosaurus was discovered and named first by Marsh in 1877, with a very partial skeleton. Brontosaurus was discovered and named 2 years later (also by Marsh, who believed he had found a different animal altogether) with a remarkably nearly complete skeleton (no skull though). In 1903 a researcher (Riggs) at the Chicago Field Museum decided they were the same genus, and that the earlier specimen was the juvenile. He used the priority naming rule to declare Apatosaurus the proper name of the genus, with Brontosaurus being considered a redundant name, even though it was a larger and more complete specimen.
 Then it was determined that they were separate species, but were both a type of Apatosaurus. Now it's been changed to them being completely different types of dinosaurs that happen to look remarkably similar. The same *genus*. There are several valid Apatosaurus species: *A. ajax* (the type species), *A. excelsus* (aka Brontosaurus) and *A. lousiae* and *A. parvus* (currently believed to be the most primitive species of Apatosaurus) So now that Brontosaurus has been determined to be its own Genus, will that name change to Brontosaurus Excelsus? So can Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus finally get married? Remember that "species" is a fairly fuzzy concept at the best of times and when you're comparing different fossil dig sites, the animals found may have lived many thousands, even millions of years apart from each other. Spot on. I listened to Bob Bakker give an interview to Palaeocast from GSA 2013 where is goes through the history in a wonderfully meandering style and some unpublished current stuff. You can find it [here](http://www.palaeocast.com/the-geological-society-of-america-annual-meeting/), just scroll to GSA day 3, and start around 15:15.

Interestingly, what Bakker and Matt Mossbrucker (who also was interviewed above) had to say is that they've found what they believe is the (missing) skull of *Apatosaurus ajax*, which is quite distinct from *Apatosaurus excelsus*, aka, Brontosaurus. It seems like it will help distinguish these two as distinct species, which is different from what I understand is the teasing apart from the report in the OP. Actually, I think Bakker argued in the 90s that they should probably be different, but I think he was pretty much alone then.

Anyway, very briefly:

* Marsh names *Apatosaurus ajax* (1877)
* Marsh names *Brontosaurus excelsus* (1890)
* Riggs synomynizes it (1903) based on priority--they're not different enough to warrant assignment to distinct species.
* Now: Increasing evidence that they're distinct? Maybe? We'll see when the papers get published. &gt;  I should caution that it'll take a while for the rest of the paleo community to digest these results and they may not end up buying them anyway...such is science.

But the article stated "officially"? What the hell man? What am I supposed to believe now? In this case, it appears that "officially" means nothing, other than "+page clicks" "Officially" has been re-purposed to just be a term to add emphasis these days....just like "Literally." Worth noting that this particular controversy stemmed directly from O.C. Marsh's feud with Edward Cope; both of them notoriously rushed through naming their discoveries so they could say they found more species than the other guy. [deleted] &gt; I should caution that it'll take a while for the rest of the paleo community to digest these results and they may not end up buying them anyway...such is science.

I felt the article may have jumped the gun on the whole "Brontosaurus is officially a dinosaur again". I wish there was a more detailed article to read or someone else to support this claim. There's another great story about name confusion and dinosaurs.  In 1892 E D Cope discovered a single vertebrate and used it to describe a new species of ceratopsian he called Manospondylus gigas.  Fast forward 100 years and some scientists find his vertebrate in a museum and reanalyze it.  They find that it actually belongs to another already named species: Tyrannosaurus rex.  Now Tyrannosaurus rex was originally conceived as two genera, the other being Dynamosaurus imperiosis.  Only because Barnum Brown happened to use the name T. rex earlier in his paper than D. imperiosis did that name become standard.  Now it appeared that M. gigas was the real official name of T. rex, and that Tyrannosaurus would go the way of Brontosaurus (until today apparently).

So the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature had to do something, because they'd already killed Brontosaurus, there would be riots in the street if T. rex was announced invalid as well.  So they made up some new rules that allowed for an exception.  The rules were that a name that had been accepted as official for 100 years, and had been referenced 25 in peer reviewed papers by 10 different authors, would be considered valid over the original name.

And thus did Tyrannosaurus rex narrowly avoid being renamed Manospondylus gigas, which to be fair isn't a terrible name.  It just isn't suitable for the Tyrant King.  They really should recycle it for another genus.

[source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tyrannosaurus#Manospondylus) I've been wondering why they went and changed the damn name instead of just saying "Ooops, we had the wrong head for the brontosaurus". That makes sense. I still think it sucks, but I get it. 

I'm still not sure I understand the article. Are they trying to say that perhaps they *didn't* get the wrong head? The head has nothing to do with it. What they did is basically image the fossil and analyze its minute anatomical properties with a computer. This is a basically a sophisticated way of doing what's called "morphometrics", the quantitative study of morphology.

I haven't really had time to dig into the article much, but they seem to be saying that this type of analysis reveals subtle, but significant, anatomical differences between the original Apatosaurus and the original Brontosaurus which indicates they may be significantly different animals requiring different names after all.

Again, I need to emphasize that this is hot off the presses, and honestly, I doubt the rest of the paleo community will buy it. Just my two cents. Oh okay, so it's focusing on the *body*. Thanks.  My inner child really wants this to happen.  I feel like the paleontology community took a piece of my childhood away with downfall of the Brontosaurus.  Even though it happened way back in 1903... [deleted] I was still reading books about brontosaurus in the1980s.  While the scientific community may have abandoned the name much sooner, kids were still learning about brontosaurus.

I'm pretty sure the color kids pictures books I was reading were not from the 1900s either. The Flintstones brontosaurus burger had much to do with it for kids of many ages. But nobody seems to have made a big deal about it until the 1980s. It's not that nobody made a big deal about it; it's that teachers up until the '80s (when people started being able to gather information much more effectively via this newly popular Internet thing) taught whatever drivel was in the textbook, no matter how outdated.

I clearly remember being taught in the '80s not only that brontosaurus was a thing, but that it had to live in the water because it couldn't support its massive weight. No educated person had believed that for decades by that point. [deleted] I used to work as a docent at the Yale [Peabody Museum](http://peabody.yale.edu/), where Marsh's Brontosaurus is on display, and where they put on the wrong skull.


The [original skull](http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/brontosaurus-out-with-the-old-skull-in-with-the-new-skull-86047312/?no-ist) they put on was a model extrapolated from a fragment of the lower jaw and based off that of another dinosaur, Camarasaurus. They later found a more complete sample and updated the exhibit. (E: Apparently most museums at the time just directly popped on Camarasaurus heads, the Peabody sculpted its own. Some wiser people opted to leave it headless until a better sample was discovered.)


The reason Marsh thought Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus were distinct was because of the number of (IIRC) vertebrae. Later, paleontologists determined that ~~Brontosaurus~~ Apatosaurus was a juvenile ~~Apatosaurus~~ Brontosaurus, and that those bones fused with age (this happens in other animals, even humans!). Apparently there is now reason to believe there are enough differences to distinguish the two, however. It will be interesting to see how this plays out!


Edit: Added links

Bonus: Brontosaurus means "Thunder Lizard" and is a way cooler name than Apatosaurus (Deceptive Lizard), which is named such because it looked a bit like a plesiosaurus and confused people.

Edit 2: Strike that, reverse it. Thanks /u/scubascratch Thunder Lizard is def. A way cooler name! That should have been been reason enough to just go with that this whole time. What does Apato mean? Apatosaurus means "deceptive lizard," because people confused it for a time with the kinda-sorta similar set of bones of a plesiosaurus (think the Loch Ness Monster). There were so few bones in the first apatosaurus samples that it was an easier mistake than the brontosaurus, which had some ridiculous amount of its skeleton dug up (~85%).   It means deceptive lizard according to a comment above. According to Gould, and Riggs himself, Apatosaurus was the juvenile and Brontosaurus was the adult, as described here: http://books.google.ca/books?id=etKX2s6JgAkC&amp;lpg=PP1&amp;pg=PA79#v=onepage&amp;q&amp;f=false The article was full of typos, I would not expect to find any discernible facts therein. [Article.from BBC](http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-32205289) that might be better. (Voactiv.com won't load for me). Can someone ELI5 the difference between Brontosaurus, Apatosaurus and Brachiosaurus? Because my 6-year old daughter gets very interested in this stuff and would like to explain. The main Sauropod group (Neosauropoda) is divided in two big sub-families, Macronaria and Diplodocoidea. Diplodociodea includes Diplodocus and it's close relatives, the "Diplodocidae" (like Apatosaurus/Brontosaurus) as well as some more obscure groups like Rebbachisauridae. Macronaria includes everything else, Brachiosaurids and Titanosaurids. In comparison Diplodicids are very slender, while Macronarians were generally far more robust. Brachiosaurus was the heaviest animal in it's environment, which it shared with Apatosaurus/Brontosaurus.
tl;dr: Brachiosaurus is a huge, enormous mountain of flesh

Now to the Apatosuaurs/Brontosaurus question: Both were described during the "Bone Wars", a feud between the palaeontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Onothial Charles March. Many, many new genera and species were described, like Allosaurus, Triceratops, Stegosaurus, and as we know today even Tyrannosaurus (from an isolated tooth, dubbed Manospondylus gigas). Apatosaurus is a relative of Diplodocus, but much more heavily built.

Apatosaurus was described by March in 1877, Brontosaurus in 1879. Now, the problem with the "Bone Wars" is that both contestants often valued one-upmanship over scientific accuracy. Relatively quickly Brontosaurus was deemed to be just another specimen of Apatosaurus, belonging to a new species, *Apatosaurus excelsus*, and as the older name takes priority we call the animal Apatosaurus instead of Brontosaurus. The new study now argues that the new material actually belongs to a seperate genus, although one very closely related to Apatosaurus, which would make the name Brontosaurus valid again, as *Brontosaurus excelsus*.

NOW ACTUAL ELI5:

Both Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus are genera (basically one step above a species) describes in the late 19th century. Quickly people pointed out the Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus looked quite similar, and eventually *Brontosaurus excelsus* was deemed to be a variant of Apatosaurus, and thus *Apatosaurus excelsus* was born. Now, about a century later, we can look much better at bones and found that Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus might indeed be separate **genera**. So Apatosaurus would lose the *excelsus* species, which would become *Brontosaurus excelsus* again.

Brachiosaurus is not very closely related to Apatosaurus, but shared a habitat with it. Too dumb, didn't understand: They are distant cousins, Brachiosaurus is bigger. [deleted] Brachiosaurus also has that crest, which apatosaurus lacks This is more like ELI17. Still an excellent write-up. Thank you. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I don't know. 5 year olds get really into dinosaurs. Working in a library children's room, I know some 5 years olds that could and have given a lecture on dinosaurs at that level. And a hell of alot more who would understand and love it. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Macronarians are much cooler, and actually lived to see the asteroid. [deleted] [deleted] Old bones are all over the place. Researchers have a hard time deciding whether or not these bones should be with those bones over there, or if an ancient skeleton is finally complete or not - keeping in mind *all* evidence.

We are always discovering new evidence; there is never a story that you will hear that is final - that's what I would tell a child that age. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I remember reading that the original "brontosaurus" was just an apatosaurus skeleton with a diplodocus skull. Any validity to that? All early Apatosaurus skeletons were that, because no skull was known at the time (which is rather common for sauropods) It was a Camarasaurus(spelling?) skull used to replace the missing "Brontosaurus" skull. Also, I wouldn't argue that a pop-science article would have much to say in terms of a single paper published warranting it as a separate genus. The issue itself is that the name is rather being reused for a closely related genus to Apatosauruses. This isn't "official", ~~yet merely strengthens the case previously presented by previous researchers~~ (Edit: may not have been presented by previous researchers in the same manner - but still isn't official and universally accepted).

Experts will continue to argue over whether the differences between Bronto and Apato are indeed statistically significant, and these conclusions will vary depending on the methods chosen to measure these differences.

This is another of those poppy simplified "fun science" articles, replete with pop-culture references and silly jokes. I don't think that's quite right. I don't really work on sauropods but I do know most of the sauropod specialists (there's not that many of them) and I'd say that most felt that while there was a possibility that Bronto was valid, it would probably still best be thought of as part of Apatosaurus. I don't think they expected, even with a super-detailed analysis like this, that it'd pop back up or be so well supported. I certainly don't think this strengthens a previous case, since to my knowledge no one had really seriously proposed this with any good argument for decades. so, is that a yes or a no? [deleted] Fair enough, I certainly know less than you about the field, just bridled when I saw the "official" talk.

And from a cursory reading of the paper's conclusion, it seemed as if they were basing their new classification suggestions off previous work, at least in part.

Edit: I edited my earlier comment. [deleted] Specifically, the study is a proposed taxonomic classification, and it is appearing in the journal "PeerJ," which I had never previously heard of.  It is an open-source journal that describes itself as "The award-winning biological and medical sciences journal," which I think is a strange place to have a nuanced discussion of the taxonomy of sauropods.   Brontosaurus will always be a dinosaur in my heart.  Brontosaurus not being real hit kindergarten me hard, man.  It was my favorite dinosaur.  The reclassification of Pluto had nothing on what that damned Apatosaurus took from me... "Officially a dinosaur again"? No. That's not how this works.

Remember: this is only *one paper* saying they are separate genera. That is one paper out of hundreds of others that say they are the same. Perhaps they are different enough to each be accorded their own genus, but a single paper is not enough to determine that. It will, however, likely spark a new round of studies of extant fossils to determine if there is a *consensus* on whether they are one genus or two.

This paper is not the end of the old debate. It's the beginning of a new one.

And that is the beautiful thing about science. [deleted] [deleted] Someone able to break this down a little further for me, and can explain if it would have farther reaching implications?
&gt;Our use of a specimen-, rather than species-based approach increases knowledge of intraspecific and intrageneric variation in diplodocids, and the study demonstrates how specimen-based phylogenetic analysis is a valuable tool in sauropod taxonomy, and potentially in paleontology and taxonomy as a whole. Basically, instead of coding each 'species' in their analysis as an idealized species (namely, identifying specimens as belonging to a species, using that to see what characters each species has, and using all that information together to figure out what characters the species has) they simply inserted the coded characters from each individual specimen into the analysis.

It'd be like if you were coding the shapes of 20 leaves that (you thought) were five species. Instead of identifying each leaf and then coding 5 leaf shape characters into your analysis (resulting in a tree with five members), you coded every individual leaf, even if it was the same shape, as all the other leaves, resulting in a tree with 20 members. Thanks! So is this a "radical" new way of thinking, or simply a different methodology? I'm wondering how this jives with the general acceptance of the paleontology community. Is the Brontosaurus going to be back with consensus? It's not particularly novel, but a good application. Because most fossil species are only known from a single specimen in much of vertebrate paleontology, this opportunity doesn't show up too often. There's been many fragmentary remains recovered from dinosaurs of this group (which has historically resulted in the naming of new species which probably shouldn't have been named as separate, as they were based on very scant remains). So, they wanted to use this method to incorporate that material into the analysis; ideally, if two specimens are the same species, the analysis won't recognize a difference between them (called a 'polytomy' in these studies).

It's tough to say about the validity of this new naming procedure; I'm a vertebrate paleontologist but I don't work much with sauropods so I can't say how most workers in the field will take this. I've heard about this coming for a few years now, so I can't say this will be surprising to anyone.

I do know a bit about naming and taxonomic procedure in general, though, and it has little to do with phylogenetic analysis. A name is based on a 'holotype' or 'definition' specimen, which has certain diagnostic characters that are used to refer other specimens to that name. Because Brontosaurus is a name that refers to a holotype that does not exist in real life (the wrong head on a body), as I understand it that name could never be used unless we (impossibly) found a dinosaur with that head/body combination, as that specific morphology is what the name refers to. However, I could be mistaken, as I haven't followed it that much (it's out of my wheelhouse, I like small things).

EDITS: typos Don't know about paleontology but in modern taxonomy this is common practice (i.e. plot all individuals onto a matrix individually and see if they delimit into distinct species). It definitely removes alot of bias as you don't end up trying to shoehorn somewhat similar indivduals into a single group just to fit your hypothesis. [deleted] Ironically, Land Before Time didn't have to change a thing: long-necks remained long-necks throughout science's brief denial of the Brontosaurus. Have we eliminated that they aren't adolescent/adult versions of the same dinosaur?


Anyone seen this before? I thought it was interesting at least...
http://www.ted.com/talks/jack_horner_shape_shifting_dinosaurs?language=en There was talk a few years back that Triceratops was actually just a juvenile Torosaurus but I believe that ended up being incorrect.  All of these changes are getting hard to keep track of. You'd think the dinosaurs would be more stable than modern animals! The problem is, with modern animals, we have the whole thing to study, muscles, internal organs, coloration, behavior, etc.  We can get a pretty clear picture of living animals through studying them, it's usually only when we find new species and variations that things get shaken up in modern animals.  Dinosaur fossils usually don't leave us much.  We often don't even get a full skeleton to work with, and the only way we can really see what something ate would be with its teeth, or if there are remains of something it had eaten before.  We can look at where we found it, and what layer to get an idea of its habitat, but most thing are just educated guesses based on what we manage to dig up.  We rarely get awesome glimpses into the lives of these things like the Protoceratops vs. Velociraptor find mentioned [here](http://www.livescience.com/23922-velociraptor-facts.html).  It's also important to know that what we know about fossilization suggests that it's a pretty rare event.  Most animals that die don't become fossils, so we're only looking at a small cross section of dinosaurs who happened to die in just the right circumstances. This is still being worked on, I guarantee, and it's not settled.  Jack Horner also says T. Rex was a scavenger.  Because he hates kids.

I think he was guy who tried to ruin triceratops for me, too, which, oh look, skulls of triceratops during all stages of development:
http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/273/1602/2757 To be fair, trex probably did scavenge a good percentage of its meals. Much easier and safer to get food off a dead dino than a living one.  Oh yeah, but it also probably wasn't scavenge like you think of vultures. T-Rex probably waited until a smaller carnivore made a kill and then intimidated them out of it. Much like you'll see big carnivores today to. Horner says he used the "T. Rex is a scavanger" as a tool to talk about hypothesis testing and how you shouldn't make assumptions, as opposed to a result he advocated strongly for.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This can only be understood with reference the [Theory of Brontosauruses](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anne_Elk%27s_Theory_on_Brontosauruses) by Anne Elk [Miss]. *When was it not?*

For years now. The discovery of what was first called "Brontosaurus" was later determined (or, uh, thought) to be just another fossil of an already-known dinosaur called Apatosaurus. Hence, it was a duplicate name for the real dinosaur (Apatosaurus) that (unfortunately, it seemed until today) caught on in the media and with the public.

With this new finding, though (the fossils are *not* of the same dinosaur, after all), I can go through life without having to correct people who say "Brontosaurus". :-)

(For the people who prefer more detail, yes, I am aware that the finding says that the Brontosaurus is merely not part of the Apatosaurus *genus*. Didn't want to derail a simple explanation with that, though.) [deleted] Yeah. I heard they all moved to Pluto. [deleted] We don't know because the squishy bits of animals don't fossilize.

Logically either way it wasn't the most hung, since it's nowhere near the biggest Dinosaur. You're presuming a mammalian body feature. It's a feature not present in either reptiles or birds. I'm not a scientist (does a half finished bio degree count?), but since they're reptilian, they would likely have cloacae, which are the sexy bits of birds and reptiles. I'd be interested in knowing how [Jack Horner's TED Talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/jack_horner_shape_shifting_dinosaurs?language=en) could apply to this paper.

In short, some dinosaurs previously though of as different species could very well be the same species, but at different points in their life cycle (as dinos age, they change morphological phenotype, much like other present day birds). Part of the reason they were synonymized in the first place is that the original apatosaurus skeleton represents a juvenile. Brontosaurus was given to an adult specimen, which later someone argued was simply and fully developed apatosaurus. Wait, when was it never a dinosaur? Can someone explain? [deleted] Did sauropods have feathers? Some of the newer depictions show odd pin-feather looking structures. Not that we know of, although it now appears that feathers are a primitive feature of dinosaurs, so sauropods either had them or lost them. Those pin-looking things along the back are spikes (like an iguana's) which are supported in the fossil record for some species. I think it's thought (though certainly not absolute) that feathers evolved on the theropods (such as raptors, tyrannosaurus and birds).  An Ornithischian dinosaur (all plant-eaters apart from long-necks and a few rag tag theropods like Therizinosaurs and Oviraptorids) called Kulindadromeus was discovered with primitive feathers.  This suggests that feathers evolved on the common ancestor of Ornithischian and Saurischians, which would likely be the most basal form of dinosaur. They've found proto-feathers/quill-like filaments on ornithischians, namely *[Tianyulong](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tianyulong)* and *[Psittacosaurus](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psittacosaurus)*. The former is a heterodontosaurid, which are rather basal ornithischians (although this specimen from the Cretaceous, this type of ornithischian is rather basal to the group as a whole), and the latter is a ceratopisian. There's been a finding in Russia in 2014 (*Kulindadromeus*) which I believe is phylogenetically between heterodontosaurids and the more derived ceratopsians,

It is unclear if these are homologous, and even less so that these are homologous to the proto-feathers on theropods, and it's possible these lineages evolved analogously. But they absolutely could be, and the argument has been made, since the *Tianyulong* discovery bridged some of the cerotopsian/theropod gap. 

It's worth noting that theropods basal to coelurosaurs, namely *Sciurumimus* described in 2012, also has evidence of fuzziness, bridging the gap a bit as well.

Anyway, if we find fossils from earlier strata with preserved filamentous integument that bridges the ornithischian/saurischian gap further, then it's likely sauropods are either secondarily featherless or preserved something similar that have not been preserved in specimens using phylogenetic bracketing.


Indeed, it we ever find such evidence, it will support the hypothesis that proto-feather-like filamentous structures are basal to all dinosaurs. And if that's ever the case, I think we'll start seeing musings of feather like structures being basal to all avemetarsalia (that's everything more closely related to birds than crocodiles, including pterosaurs), since it's clear that pterosaurs had a filamentous fuzz called pycnofibers, covering their bodies. Indeed, [here's an article](http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/did-all-dinosaurs-have-feathers-719742/?no-ist) written by Brian Switek discussing just this topic.

So while we lack evidence right now, it's not unreasonable that sauropods might have had something filamentous going on somewhere, at least at some ontogenetic stage. For some reason this makes me happy. Because they revised their classification based on existing data and didn't just label a new discovery with an old name. Awesome. Now is triceratops and stegosaurus still real?  I understand velociraptors had feathers.  I just want to know if my basic dinosaurs are legitimate or much different in reality. [deleted] This is just as confusing as the whole theory that a triceratops is basically the rookie version of a torosaurus.  I will forever refuse to believe that.  That's OK. Most scientists don't believe it either.  12 year old me is ecstatic.  And now we wait for Pluto... It's only a matter of time.  I wondered where Brontosaurus had gone. I knew he was part of the family of the really big saurii (is that the correct plural?) and kind of assumed he had a fixed spot in that constellation.

Give a paleontologist a hug today! Sauropods :) I'll take sauropods! [deleted] That was my first guess but it didn't really sound scientific enough. We are speaking English, and so the plural would be "sauruses", if it were a word on its own.

That having been said: the word "saur" comes from "dinosaur", which is an invented 19th century word derived from the Ancient Greek words for "terrible lizard." So *saurus* is actually *sauros*, a second declension masculine noun. Its nominative plural is thus *sauroi*. Except we aren't speaking Greek, right? We're speaking English, right? So no one would ever say that.

But.

If you *were* going to be the sort of hyper-correct pedant who says things like "penes" and "octopodes" in casual English in a desperate and ridiculous attempt to appear intelligent -- I recommend against this -- you would have to agree that the choice of the *nominative* plural would be incorrect here, because your use was in *genetive* position. So really *sauroi* would not only not be correct in English, it would also not be correct in Greek. In Greek you would have to say *saurn*, making sure to properly elongate the vowel so as to distinguish between the omicron and the omega.

But then, even that wouldn't be correct! Because Greek doesn't use the Roman alphabet, after all. So really you should write **!

I think using standard English plurals is always a better option, personally. That's magnificently pedantic.  &gt; ridiculous attempt to appear intelligent

On Reddit? Ha! -No-

I was actually curious how to spell it properly. If sauruses is what we write in English I'll write sauruses, no problem.

And thank you for a very detailed description :-) Sauruses isn't actually a word, though, I think you're trying to say sauropods, which is the name for the dinosaur group with long necks and enormous bodies. To be utterly pedantic, it would be  -- first declension genitive plurals are always circumflex on the ultimate syllable. Actually,  couldn't even a valid word form in Ancient Greek, since the omega in the ultima precludes a circumflex in the penult. &gt;  In Greek you would have to say saurn

So pedantry leads to becoming an evil overlord and watching the ring containing all of your power be cast into a volcano. Good to know. [deleted] &gt; The scientific community unanimously agreed to classify each of these two dinosaurs as separate species under one genus: Apatosaurus.

How did that mean Brontosaurus wasn't a dinosaur anymore? Shoddy article?

1903 is when they were found to be the *same* ~~species~~*genus*, not a separate genus as previously thought, and therefore the later-discovered Brontosaurus was not a separate genus but another Apatosaurus.  The mention of "species" in the article was a red herring.

It's also weird that they said "scientific community unanimously agreed".

I think much of the linked article is more or less a re-write of this NPR article which explains it better:
http://www.npr.org/2012/12/09/166665795/forget-extinct-the-brontosaurus-never-even-existed

Edit: corrected more info thanks to further explanation from Evolving_Dore - article is technically correct but still misleading. &gt; 1903 is when they were found to be the same species, not a separate species, and therefore the later-discovered Brontosaurus was not a separate species but another Apatosaurus.

This makes more sense, thank you! They were different species, but paleontologists deal in genera.  Brontosaurus and Apatosaurus are both genus names, and Apatosaurus was found to take priority over Brontosaurus.  Thus B. excelsus became A. excelsus, alongside A. ajax and A. louisae. Thanks for the explanation. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] **Ah, here we go:**  

&gt; "The enzyme developed at UBC is seen as the first step in finding an economically viable way of overcoming that obstacle.
&gt; 
&gt; The big step here is that weve found a way to make these enzymes more powerful and potent, said Kwan.
&gt; 
&gt; Hypothetically, Kwan said the enzyme may one day be used in a clinical setting to quickly convert blood for patients in need.
&gt; 
&gt; But he stressed that future is still some ways off.
&gt; 
&gt; Kwan is the lead author of the study outlining the teams success, which was recently published in the Journal of the American Chemical Society.
&gt; 
&gt; The team included UBC associate professor Jayachandran Kizhakkedathu and staff at the Centre for Blood Research."
&gt; 
&gt; 

From: http://metronews.ca/news/vancouver/1355079/ubc-creates-enzyme-that-could-change-blood-types/ 

Seems like it's not yet economically viable, and still not perfect. &gt;The concept is not new but until now we needed so much of the enzyme to make it work that it was impractical, says Steve Withers, a professor in the Department of Chemistry. Now Im confident that we can take this a whole lot further.

You might have missed this part.  This round reduced how much enzyme is needed to complete the transformation.  That's a huge step forward. sounds like a breakthrough to me.  A lot of renewable fuel technologies aren't implemented simply because oil too cheap for them to be worth it, but they're not too unreasonable on a technology level.  Throw 5-12 years of R&amp;D at this problem and they might well find a way or two to make it realistically usable. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's refreshing to see a report like this that stresses the discovery's incipient nature. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's great news for us O neg people. We are few in number, everyone takes our blood, but it's not always available if we need it. 

Seriously, couldn't everybody get a tiny tattoo in an inconspicuous place that would tell your blood type? Done at a hospital after double checking for accuracy, if course. Then emergency rooms wouldn't need so much O neg. They could find out and use the person's own blood type and save the O neg for those of us who can't take anything else.  There are many other antigens on blood other than A,B, or D(rH) that can cause transfusion reactions.  C, c, E, e, K, Fya, Fyb, LeA, LeB just to name a few. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's not, at least in the US blood bankers, hematologists, clinical chemists and clinical microbiologists, colloquially called med techs or medical scientists all have the same certification, MLS(ASCP). Although, I have known a few people who are only microbiologists, M(ASCP).  Although rare they have also been known to change. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Emergency blood transfusions don't often have that luxury. But emergency transfusions, or at least the good ones, can adapt to the patient's needs. Start with 2-3 units of O negative packed red cells, start thawing AB plasma. Get an acceptable sample for a type and screen, then switch to type specific. Blood banks know how to manage their product inventory. I work night shift in the lab so do all the core departments, I know it's not their fault, but I hate when emerg cant get a proper sample before they start transfusing. I've had times when we had to stay on O even though we could tell the patient is A or B because of mixed field reactions. I feel like I'm  burning money... Wait...there is a use for AB?  I remember being told I could avoid a prick and still get a cookie and juice box because they didn't have any use for AB+ because we are universal recipients.  
  
ed:  I've avoided blood drives for years because I assumed it didn't matter if I donated.  Have I been wrong?  I'd love to go give blood and think it might matter.  Thanks! Not sure if your question has been answered. I'm an AB+ blood type. The big misconception about AB+ type is that we can take any type of ABO blood types while we are unable to give to other blood types. While for Red Blood Cells, this is true, when it comes to plasma, AB+/- types are actually very important. AB- can give their plasma and platelets to any other blood types without worrying about complications (baring anything out of the ordinary with the blood.) AB+ types can also give their plasma to every other blood type while their platelets are best left with the + types. While not ideal, AB types may be able to receive plasma from A or B types....but it is best for AB types to only receive plasma from AB types


Plasma and platelets are important for first responders as it helps burn patients and patients who are bleeding profusely on the scene, Plasma is also important as it is like the transporting "vehicle" for red and white blood cells.


[Just a few diseases and autoimmune disorders that would want to have plasma](http://www.bpositivetoday.com/uses-of-plasma)

[More information.](http://thebloodconnection.org/about-blood/blood-education/blood-types/ab-positive/) To the OP you were responding to. I'm one of those people who has a disorder that is treated through infusions that are plasma based. So yes please please donate and thank you for wanting to! :) I was told that in the late eighties, and having never thought about it, I didn't realize I had to re-evaluate that particular thing.  One of the joys of getting older, I assume.

This is very cool.  I'm giving blood soon.   All blood can be used. If they don't use yours, they'll use someone else's in a situation where yours could be used, thereby reducing the supply. Assuming there isn't something else that disqualifies you, all donations should be accepted and are appreciated. Also in addition to what has already been said about plasma and platelet donations, we always prefer to give type specific blood. So, unless it's an emergency or we are low on supply, we will give an AB pos patient AB pos blood. So, especially because AB pos is pretty rare, we'd love to have your blood!  Think of it this way. If someone can use your blood in a non-emergency situation where they already know the blood type is AB+, that frees up a up a unit of O- blood that can be used when the recipient's blood type is unknown. AB+ might have a lower demand, but it can still be useful by freeing up some of the types that have a higher demand. Which is why emergency blood transfusions are (usually) always O- which is /u/GAB104 's point But emergency transfusions where they can't afford to even take 5 minutes to check type are a very small part of the blood supply usage.
 And the amount of people who are O- are a very small part of the population which means there are smaller amounts of O- which are then used up in that small part of Emergency Transfusions which leads to a shortage for people who are actually O- and need blood. In fairness, I would say it's also done for transport and convenience issues for emergency transfusions in military situations and whatnot. Can't carry 2-4 units of each type all the time.  Yeah, that's a relatively niche subset, though. My understanding is most blood transfusions happen in hospitals. Oh definitely, sorry I wasn't meaning to contradict that point so much as to add a bit more anecdotal evidence towards the argument that most blood transfusions occur under very time restricted scenarios. I realize military engagements across the globe are still not a large source of blood transfusion - but I'd imagine it would only add to the statistic!  So the real solution is world peace. To bs fair hospitals are always short on blood of every blood type, and unfortunately O neg will always be used most because there is no reasonable way to determine blood type ahead of time in emergency settings. The only way this could be resolved is if more people donate blood on a more regular basis.  Obviously you've never heard of an aortic aneurysm and they roll in the ER, if not already dead, and get slammed with blood. You can thank policies, law suits/lawyers, for wasting your blood not our patient safety procedures.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Also they can give males O pos, not ideal but it can work in an emergency situation to conserve the O neg supply  True. Of course, females can get it too, but then you run into serious issues if they are Rh negative themselves and become pregnant with a Rh positive child. One nice thing about dog tags is they got all your vital information. For a low cost of $1500. US dollars of course. Or donate to the red cross, they'll send you a card with your type. Doesn't matter. Regardless of if you know your type or not, you still have to have a type (for ABOs) and screen (for other antigen/antibodies). The T&amp;S are done even if you have to release emergency uncross matches blood to the ER for a massive trauma. It's just done afterwards.

Source: I am the person typing the bloods in the lab. ASCP certified. 

Edit: These are universal FDA regulations. Ever unit of blood that goes out to a patient has to be typed and screened as well. It's VERY regulated because blood and blood product are considered prescription drugs. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I was just talking about finding your type. Red Cross does it for free. Yea but even if you know your type, if you go to the hospital even for routine surgery that may need blood, you still have to have a T&amp;S, and are paying for it.  Mainly because people remember shittily. Also, blood type can change on rare occasion, given a few medical conditions or the common cause of bone marrow transplant. The problem we run into at my hospital is that it takes 20 minutes at least to get blood delivered from the blood bank (I'm not sure why this is). When someone is actively bleeding, you may not have 20 minutes to wait, or even 5, so we give the O neg that is kept handy in the emergency department and operating rooms. We switch to typed blood as soon as possible, but O neg is what you have to reach for first in most emergencies (before scheduled operations, each patient is typed and the appropriate blood is reserved from the blood bank). This technology could be huge.  [deleted] Then why are they always so low on O neg? Is five minutes too long to spend typing blood, or do they just not wanna? Don't say that fewer O neg people are donors; they push us extra hard to donate regularly, so we probably donate more than our share. 

It's not just me I'm worried about. I've got a daughter with O neg, and I worry most about what would happen if she needed blood.  I work in an emergency room, this is how things go down at my hospital:

Ambulance calls in saying they have this type of trauma (we will use a traumatic 3/4 amputation of the left arm in a roll over accident as an example). We get 5-10 minutes notice that the patient is coming. So we call everyone. Lab (who does the blood type &amp; screen), X-ray, trauma surgeon, etc.

Patient shows up and we're all waiting for him. If EMS crews didn't get an IV, we have to establish IV access. Either way, we still need to draw the blood for the lab to test to get a blood type. Do we wait for the results to come back? Hell no. This guy is literally bleeding all over the damn place or did so at the scene of the accident.

At this point, depending how bad the patients injury and blood loss is, we just start infusing the 2 units of universal donor blood that lab brought with them, along with fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and normal saline. 

5 min is a long time when you're bleeding to death.  I figured that had to be the case. Thanks for explaining! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'd happily give my o neg blood but the gov't doesn't want the blood of a homosexual. They're starting to shift. Coming down to a [one year moratorium](http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/24/health/fda-lifting-ban-on-gay-blood-donors.html), shifting it from a lifetime ban to a "high-risk partner" ban. It's a good step, though not a lot of people would be willing to be celibate for a year just to give blood. To be fair, that has nothing to do with homophobia, it's simply a scientific fact that homosexuals are unfortunately much more likely to have HIV. If type 2 diabetes could be transmitted through blood obese people wouldn't be allowed to donate blood either. Has nothing to do with discrimination it's simply an unnecessarily risky practice to allow it. The problem is that the standards don't seem to be fact-based. Living with a person known to have HIV or even having sexual intercourse with someone who is HIV positive only defers you for a year.

But if a man has sex with another man one time, whether that man was HIV positive or not, he is deferred for life. [deleted] &gt; Is five minutes too long to spend typing blood,

I don't know, why don't we go poll trauma victims who are bleeding all over the OR to ask if they can wait 5 minutes while we run their blood type.

TL;DR:  Yes, it's too long. It's also a supply management issue, blood only lasts 41 days at best and we'd rather give it fresher. So it's a complicated game keeping good supply in stock constantly.  But all the types expire. It's always O neg they need more of.  Actually in emergencies we give O+ to men, because the +/- is only important for women of child-bearing age. It's to prevent mothers from potentially developing antibodies to their future babies blood. O neg is a rare commodity and reserved for those people. Next time you donate as an O-, just remember that you are not only saving potentially a women's life, but the life of their baby/future baby as well. I thought RH-negative blood was given so that RH-negative patients wouldn't have an immune reaction to the foreign blood cells? Surely that would be a problem whether the patient was male or female? It takes an initial exposure to the Rh antigen before your immune system is primed to recognize it, as far as I understand.

So it would only be an issue if an Rh- man was transfused with Rh+ blood on two different occassions. Or at least that is the theory. 

I found this that seems to back it up, at least in China:

http://regionstraumapro.com/post/16760871302 Still, if two transfusions cause a problem, it seems irresponsible to do it once. Sure, if there was no other blood and the man was going to die without it, it's better than the alternative, but I'd want O- if I was a man of unknown blood type given the above information. Well, at least you're not type h/h ("Bombay Blood"). Now they are truly screwed when it comes to transfusions. I'd probably preemptively cover myself in bandages every day, just in case. The problem with this is that per FDA regulations and AABB you have to cross match every donation unit with the patient. There are cases where you can transfuse the patient without crossmatch but from my experience that doesn't happen very often.  So you can't just say, this person is A pos, give her a point of A pos? No. I would never as a blood banker trust the word of somebody (patient, doctor, or nurse) about a blood type. I would always consult the patient's previous history and do a fresh type and screen on a properly labeled specimen. And in the blood bank I previously worked in, we were required to have a second tech do a retype to confirm if the patient had no previous history in our system. A mismatched unit can be devastating, and we take no chances. What if that person had official documentation of their blood type (e.g. a card from the governmental blood donation service)?  Doesn't matter. I have no way of verifying that record. Besides even if I did, things can change. Maybe they've developed some antibodies since their last type and screen. Interesting. I guess they issue those cards just for interest's sake then. Isn't this why blood type is on military dog tags? So they don't have test the person when they need blood?  I wouldn't be surprised if things used to be less strict. The military also might trust it's own records a bit more than a blood bank (for good or bad) Don't know about tattoos, but my blood type is all over my field gear/boots, hat..everything. ...do you need a band-aid? I'm guessing you are military, and that a system of pre typing seems to work for the armed forces?  Was. Now in Alaska where being far from medical attention means usually small problems like blood typing become very big ones by virtue of distance. I wonder if they can convert the blood still in your body into universal type by injecting someone with the enzyme. No That would present with...unfortunate side effects [deleted] Some divisions of the nazi's did this. It was later used to track them down after the war. Not related, just interesting. [deleted] Oh neg here too.

I donated once, and the nurse shouts: "Oh, we got one! We're calling you back honey. You're gonna hear from us."

Every 6 months I get a card in the mail from that center reminding me of blood drives.  I was called nearly daily for a couple months and it was extremely frustrating since it was an automated call. The calls stopped but the way they were hounding me to donate put a sour taste in my mouth. You're lucky, I'm the universal platelet blood type. They call every day some times twice a day until I make an appointment to give. Geese well... At least you are special enough to go through the trouble of calling you. &gt; Seriously, couldn't everybody get a tiny tattoo in an inconspicuous place that would tell your blood type?

I was seriously thinking about that idea after reading some other comments in the thread. I'm not sure where the best spot on the body would be, though. Armpit would be my first suggestion. Might not be the best place. More thinking a place that a medic would see  Putting it on a limb might be an issue if that limb (or lack thereof) is the reason you need blood... What about a giant forehead tattoo? A microchip would be better. You could put stuff like allergies on it too. Are you sure you want the government putting any sort of microchip in you? A giant problem with this is the absurdly large contingent of the American right who view things like medical data chips and national IDs as Signs of the Beast. It's why the US still lacks a real national ID.  Im an independant far from what you would call right. If anything i'm pretty close to a socialist. I would never feel comfortable having a stranger who works for other strangers (who seemingly live only for profits) put a strange device inside my body unless i'm dying. to make something like this mandatory is asinine. I can fully understand trying to influence people to get one but to require it is a pretty clear infringement on personal rights and here in America, we take our personal freedoms very seriously.  Well you can't donate blood a long time after getting a tattoo either I'm afraid.  Sure you can, if you were tattooed in a state that regulates their tattoo facilities. Which only omits District of Columbia, Georgia, Idaho, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, Utah and Wyoming (and some other states as well). Anywhere else and you can donate afterward just fine.

Edit: as I am discovering, this is not a blanket truth. I pulled this list off the Red Cross website but I am hearing from some people that different states limit it that aren't listed. I don't know if this is something with their Red Cross chapter or if there are other blood donation organizations (we only have Red Cross as far as I know in Oregon) with different rules. I guess that's what I get for living inside my local bubble my whole life. :) Also Ohio. I tried donating in Virginia and they denied me because I got a tat in Ohio. Some states have their own blood banks (I believe Colorado is one of them). I was told this in orientation for ARC anyway.  Canadian here.  6 months mandatory wait time after a tattoo.

We're kind of paranoid about our blood, given that we're tied with Japan for the safest blood banks in the world.  We won't ever let them get ahead! [deleted] Or a chip like dogs get This is actually huge news.   Completely agree. I was pretty surprised. Could mean a lot of saved lives, for sure considering so many people are A+ and B+ Wait, you mean there's no explanation in the top comment about how this is actually still ten years away, or was only successfully done in a small percentage of laboratory mice, or how the article's title was cherry-picked clickbait?

Now I'm honestly confused. This rules? Wasnt there a Romanian scientist that discovered artificial blood ? Another method of blood substitution perhaps? We've had various blood substitues come on and off the market since 1989 (I only know because my neighbor is a patent holder on one of them). Milk was used in transfusions until like ~70 years ago and blood was stored in re-usabled glass bottles until ~35 years ago.  Nah, it's the third comment. http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/34ft6e/vancouver_researchers_have_created_an_enzyme_that/cqul4gh  I liked that little background paragraph at the end explaining the differences in blood types. Kudos to the reporter for handling it like that. That solves part of the problem but completely synthetic blood that is biologically equivalent and can be cheaply mass produced in a lab will ultimately be superior due to quality control and being disease free, even if demand was met through normal donation then editing via the enzyme  Absolutely. But, for now, this is a huge leap forward!  Top rated comment is a pessimistic response to a huge life saving discovery... Classic reddit!

Sure synthetic blood would be the best, curing cancer would be nice too but can we celebrate this victory? [deleted] Also the article did point out that this technique isn't new or a final version yet. Still a huge discovery, but considering there's over 30 blood types there's probably a few more hurdles that need to be jumped before this is an effective method.  Out of curiosity, what's the main factor preventing the production of synthetic blood? 

  Being into tissue engineering, I could imagine bone marrow stem cells to somehow be induced into hemoglobin-producing red blood cells. These cells could be suspended in saline. Synthetic blood doesn't need to be perfect, since we could still keep blood banks for patients requiring big quantities of blood. Short version: producing whole blood is very complicated, so much so that the only effective way to do it is with bone marrow.

Which is itself complicated because we have yet to work out an awful lot of stuff regarding stem cells and the like. Weber got billions of factories walking around but no way to replicate the process outside the body. who is Weber? he sounds terrifying I was at first confused by this too, but I think it might be "We've". It was! Curse autocorrect!  Mostly its been cost. Donated blood is too cheap. Every time promising research comes along, it dies because they can't make it cheap enough to compete quickly. You sound like you think that that is something easily attainable and just around the corner. It isn't. I wonder how researchers in [Denmark](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/6517137.stm) are fairing after all these years. Does this only apply to A and B or to all the other lesser antigens in the blood? They're not as relevant but there are many more. Although the article only specifically mentions members of the ABO blood group system currently, it may be used to synthesize rare types as the difference between type O and hh is the presence of fructose in O.

 More on type hh can be found here: 
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hh_blood_group
 Normally I'm coming here to read why this isn't right, but this time I can post it as it's written in the article.

- This isn't a new process
- They've just made it more efficient
- It still doesn't actually work because it doesn't remove all the antigens, just some of them.("The immune system is highly sensitive to blood groups and even small amounts of residual antigens could trigger an immune response.") Can someone tell me why this is overhyped or is this actually something that's going to change everything? If it works, and it is cheap enough to actual just do to all donated blood, its pretty big. It wont effect people with common blood types, but it will mean that doctors can just give blood to people with rare types without care for running short.  It's help the average person too. A lot more O- blood for emergencies.  The word enzyme immediately makes me wonder how expensive this would be.  Enzymes can do some amazing things but they're often crazy expensive. It would really depend on demand. Getting a protein can be relatively cheap if you are doing large scale purification. Especially if you can get something like EColi to make it for you, like they do with insulin. [deleted] Would this actually remove the need for donations of specific blood types? When I was donating (AB+) I inquired about the need of my blood vs. O- and was told that O- is basically used temporarily before the proper blood type could be determined. After it is determined, the hospitals will switch to the proper blood type for surgery, etc. 

Also, does this have any effect on platelets and plasma?  This won't affect platelets and plasma. As far as the value of your blood as type AB, your plasma and platelets are universal because they don't come with antibodies against types A and B. So your blood is very valuable in a different way. [deleted] [deleted] How is this not bigger news? It just really was released (through a University press release) a couple of days ago. When we did our paper on the Science of Magic and our release came out, we usually had a bunch of interviews in the following couple of days and it really hit the mainstream news a few days later. I'd say give it a couple of days, this IS big news, it just hasn't hit the mainstream news cycle yet. [deleted] Does anyone know if this research was itself done with [donated blood](https://www.blood.ca/en/blood/blood-research)? This is monumental if scalable to the real world.  As a medical scientist, this is huge, and their research is solid. I'm hyped.  As a person who's naturally positioned to be a universal recipient, I say unto you, Welcome to the club... This makes me happy that science has found this, but I feel really good donating B- as only 2% of the US population has it. look on the bright side, only 2% of the population might ever need it. You donating blood is still a hell of a lot cheaper and more reliable than enzymatically treating blood. So you should still feel good. But B-, B+, AB-, and AB+ can benefit from your blood. [That's a full 14% of the US population](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blood_type_distribution_by_country), so keep donating! This is awesome to hear.  Is this type of process already in use, but for other types of cells? Reading this, my big concern is what happens to the enzyme after is has removed the sugars.  There's no way you could leave it in the blood: it's both a potential antigen and potentially harmful to the recipient's red blood cells.  Removing them probably skyrockets the cost.  I'm on my phone, so I don't have access to the paper... is this addressed?  Maybe they would bind and then elute the enzyme afterwards Like /u/jpoddweller (thanks!) said in another reply... you could absolutely do that - but then your cost is much higher and probably not worth switching. Enzymes have pretty short half lives. Why are you so sure you couldn't leave them (or their proteolysis products) in the blood? The proteolysis products still work as antigens. Hell, most of my successful antibodies were 50-100 peptide GST expressed fragements of my protein of interest. For whatever reason full length didn't work as well.

So you could do one or two transfusions with the enzyme treated blood, no problem, but after that you'd probably start getting a host immune response.

There is no reason, however, some sort molecular handle can't be put on the enzyme to bind it to a solid phase resin like your favourite recombinant protein purification method in the lab (gst, myc, flag, his tag etc.) but that adds cost. Especially when you consider that you'd be treating thousands of liters of blood to make such an application worthwhile in a health care setting. &gt; potentially

You could affinity tag it so removal is trivial.  Well, trivial until you consider the cost of industrial scale resins. But yeah, from a technical stand point feasible. Economically, not so much. There's a reason why biochemical engineers try to figure out large scale protein extractions that _don't_ require affinity tags purification like most of us molecular biologist do at a boutique scale for our experiments.  Potential antigen, but all proteins are. If it retained its function and modified the recipient's blood cells by cleaving off the sugar groups it should do nothing. If it continues to cleave off sugar groups the recipient's blood will look more like 0- and be non-reactive. Wow fascinating!  Does anyone know of more research regarding pregnancy environments and the result on babies?  I know I listened to a podcast about how babies born during the Dresden Firebombing were more likely to have have health concerns. Love Canal, New York. Really interesting stuff.

TLDR: Groundwater was so contaminated that 50% of babies were born with major birth defects.

In the late 50's Hooker Chemical sold an area of land to a school board for $1, who purchased it so they could could build a new school. Hooker told the school board  that they had been dumping barrels of chemicals there for years, knew that it had potential to be really bad, and basically didn't want to be accused of trying to profit from it. 

It should be noted that Hooker had put in a clay lining in the soil to contain any chemicals that leaked out of the barrels.

The school was eventually built, and not too long after low income housing was built around near the school. 

When running water lines, sewer lines, etc. holes were poked in the clay lining, and these contaminants started to spread through the ground. 

People in the community started noticing that their water had a neon greenish hue, but no one listened for a while. Eventually a local newspaper picked up the story, but the mayor brushed it aside. 

In the 70's about half of the new born babies were born with birth defects. Like extra rows of teeth, missing limbs, etc. 

This was really the first time that people realized ground water (not to be confused with surface water) could be super polluted and unsafe to drink. 

Typically ground water is really pure because the water is drawn through sand aquifers which filter everything like bacteria and parasites out. However, toxins from Hooker chemicals (particularly dioxin which is super bad news because we still don't know how to break them down and dispose of them) dissolved in water therefore were not filtered out by the sand.  This is where I'll bring up the cancer cluster in Toms River, NJ, close to where I grew up. ~~Toms River has the notable distinction of being the only town in the US with two Superfund sites within its borders~~ (edit 2: it appears there are now other towns with multiple Superfund sites)- the drinking water was contaminated both by Ciba-Geigy and Union Carbide. Many children developed cancer, and pregnant women gave birth to babies with defects and tumors. In fact, one of my parents' friends had a baby girl born with a neuroblastoma. Eventually there was a lawsuit, the the plaintiffs were represented by Jan Schlichtmann (edit: fixed the spelling of his name), who was played by John Travolta in "A Civil Action."

The groundwater is now safe to drink and there have been no further problems. The baby girl I mentioned previously is now 32 years old, healthy, and about to have her own baby girl, but it was a scary time in the 80s for families. Children died, and many suffered long-lasting effects. 

[Here's a New Yorker article about Toms River.](http://www.newyorker.com/tech/elements/a-town-plagued-by-water)  Union Carbide *again*?!? Not surprising though, given the blatant corporate-level disregard for worker and environment safety. Now known as DOW Chemical.

Probably the worst example of a corporation killing tens of thousands and ruining the lives of countless individuals (over a half million).

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhopal_disaster Although not necessarily what you meant,  your comment could be seen as saying that Union Carbide became DOW chemical,  when in fact DOW bought Union Carbide.  Just clarifying things :)  Dow bought UCC long after Bhopal, and has nothing to do with that incident.

Dow does not own the site associated with the Bhopal disaster, as it was sold by UCC prior to Dow acquiring UCC. &gt; Toms River has the notable distinction of being the only town in the US with two Superfund sites within its borders

Having two superfund sites isn't notable.  In Mountain View, California, there are five, in Sunnyvale (the next town east) has three, and Santa Clara (the next town east) has two.  There are 10 superfund sites in the Silicon Valle in about a 5 mile radius.

[Map](http://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/query/queryhtm/nplmapsg.htm?950) &amp; [List](http://yosemite.epa.gov/r9/sfund/r9sfdocw.nsf/WMAState!OpenView&amp;Start=1&amp;Count=1000&amp;Expand=2.10#2.10) And look at all the innovation going on there, must be something in the water! Ah, my mistake. I believe Toms River may have been one of the first, if not the first, town to have multiple Superfund sites. Clearly, other towns have caught up, sadly.  First thing I thought of. My mom's whole family is from Toms River.  Yep, I never realized what a problem it was until I was older- I grew up a little south of Toms River and my town had a different water supply. I eventually went to high school in Toms River, but by that point, the groundwater was clean again. I wrote a paper about it in college. Fascinating stuff.  And now they are selling land again. Residential housing. I am shocked it wasn't understood until the 1970's. My grandmother who was born in the early 20th century in a small town said that she saw a really high incident of cancer and health issues in her town (sorry vague, I was a kid), and swore it was the water making everyone sick. She used bottled water years and years before anyone else (going so far as only cooking pasta in bottled water) and would not allow us to do anything but bathe in untreated water. Despite being pretty poor she bought it anyway, and would make it the rule everyone in my very large family only use bottled. I wonder if people suspected but science didn't confirm it until then. Proud of her. Honestly, and maybe I'm bordering on conspiracy theory here, but I bet people knew, but others tried to cover it up. This was before the internet after all. Especially if some lady in a small town like your grandmother knew, I find it almost impossible some scientists, engineers, researchers, etc did not have documented evidence strong enough to believe it as well. Of course if they reported it to their superiors what do you think they would have done about it? This was caused by inaction, or action *against* fixing it, somewhere along that chain, likely in many different separate chains. Keeping things quiet is much harder now in the information age.  I very much agree. Unfortunately a lot of small towns are filled with ignorance even today. Not stupidity, they just really don't know and are very trusting. Not to mention when you're working so hard to make a living you probably don't have time to worry about causes and fighting against something which seems insurmountable.  The interesting thing is that Hooker Chemical didn't want to sell the site and the local government threatened to use eminent domain to acquire it. Hooker Chemical ultimately sold the land instead of waiting for eminent domain so they could include the chemical dump warning and liability limitations in the land transfer agreement. Got a source on that? I saw it in a documentary, but here is one:

&gt;About the same time, the district school board was looking for a place to send all of the baby boomer children entering school. Eyeing the large field, the board approached the Hooker Plastics and Chemical Corporation. Hooker was eager to get rid of the virtual wasteland, but did not want to give the risk to the public. The company went so far as to make test digs into the ground to prove the existence of the chemicals to the government executives. Despite the warnings, however, the school board prepared eminent domain cases. Reluctantly, the company gave the land over nearly for free, and in return was loosened of all liability.

http://www.onlineethics.org/cms/6534.aspx Thanks. So it turns out that specific claim in the article is sourced to a 1981 piece from reason.com that can't be found, and unfortunately isn't named. I'd be interested in reading the article itself: it's by Eric Zuesse, who's a pretty respectable journalist/writer, but reason.com has a pretty blatant anti-government slant, so I'm left ambiguous on how much salt to take the conclusion with. Similar stories were told by executives in the federal lawsuit

http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=12293232530108189628&amp;q=%22Hooker+Chemical%22+%22eminent+domain%22&amp;hl=en&amp;as_sdt=6,31

Several reasons for this sudden shift have been suggested. OCC insists that the reason for the transfer was Hooker's belief that the Board intended condemnation proceedings if the Company refused to convey title voluntarily. T. 670, 673-74 (Willers); T. 4177-78 (Wilkenfeld); T. 4560-61 (Bryant); T. 5118-20 (Chambers); T. 1178 (Schultz), Ex. 256. Willers remembered Hooker reporting to the committee that the Board "might have to insist in some legal way of having us give up the property" (Ex. 1703 at 100), such as condemning it for public use. Mr. Young reportedly told his assistant that because the School Board was insistent and had threatened to start condemnation proceedings, the Company decided to donate the site instead, making sure the Board understood the hazards and attaching clear language about the hazards in the deed. Bryant Dep., Ex. 1697 at 238. Jerome Wilkenfeld remembered someone telling him that the decision to give Love Canal to the Board was made because:

The School Board had threatened legal action ... to take the property from us under eminent domain.... And that Hooker is a good local citizen and was not going to get involved in that kind of fight with the School Board and would deed it to them for $1 and include some advisory on ... the fact that the site had buried chemicals on it.

Ex. 1702 at 595. Willers also recalled that the management committee members were indignant when they heard of the threat but did not think it had any impact or effect on the ultimate decision.[20] Ex. 1703 at 317. Thanks for the link, that was a fascinating read. A few things jumped out at me as showing the opposite side of the story, including this:

&gt;Within a month, however, at least some members of Hooker management had changed their minds. An April 25, 1952, memorandum written by Klaussen to Hooker's President, R.L. Murray, told Murray that he and Ansley Wilcox, the Company's attorney, had talked several times with Superintendent Small and a representative of the City Planning Board for Niagara Falls about the Board's desire to build a school on or near the Love Canal property. After noting that he and Wilcox had initially opposed the idea, Klaussen wrote: "The more we thought about it, the more interested Wilcox and I became in the proposition and finally came to the conclusion that the Love Canal property is rapidly becoming a liability because of housing projects in the near vicinity of our property." Ex. 119.

So while they were indeed threatened with eminent domain, it seems they gave in largely because they realized the site would be a liability to them if they continued to keep it, and handing it off for a dollar, with the understanding that they would not be liable for any problems that resulted, was in their best interest. Yep, and then they still got (successfully) sued by people for those birth defects. As a kid I wondered how Ninja Turtles and Toxic Avengers and all the mutagenic things became so memetic.  Well really I thought "Why ooze make monsters?"  Now everytime I hear about a town like this I want to draw a connection.

Also "love canal" is my new favorite thing to google that seems like it would bring you dirty results but actually brings tragedy. The [Dutch famine of 1944](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dutch_famine_of_1944) provided researchers with a lot of interesting data, because it was one of the few famines in a developed country: 

&gt; This famine was close to unique as it took place in a modern, developed and literate country, albeit suffering under the privations of occupation and war (other example: the famine during the siege of Leningrad). The well-documented experience has allowed scientists to measure the effects of famine on human health.

&gt; The Dutch Famine Birth Cohort Study, carried out by the departments of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Gynecology and Obstetrics and Internal Medicine of the Academic Medical Centre in Amsterdam, in collaboration with the MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit of the University of Southampton in Britain, found that the children of pregnant women exposed to famine were more susceptible to diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, microalbuminuria and other health problems.

&gt; Moreover, the children of the women who were pregnant during the famine were smaller, as expected. However, surprisingly, when these children grew up and had children those children were thought to also be smaller than average. These data suggested that the famine experienced by the mothers caused some kind of epigenetic changes that were passed down to the next generation. Despite this, a subsequent study by the same author failed to find a correlation between maternal exposure to famine and birth weight of the next generation.

&gt; The discovery of the cause of Coeliac disease may also be partly attributed to the Dutch famine. With wheat in very short supply there was an improvement at a children's ward of Coeliac patients. Stories tell of the first precious supplies of bread being given specifically to the (no longer) sick children, prompting an immediate relapse. Thus in the 1940s the Dutch paediatrician Dr. Willem Dicke was able to corroborate his previously researched hypothesis that wheat intake was aggravating Coeliac disease. Later Dicke went on to prove his theory.

&gt; Audrey Hepburn spent her childhood in the Netherlands during the famine. She suffered from anemia, respiratory illnesses, and edema as a result. Also, her clinical depression later in life has been attributed to malnutrition.

&gt; Subsequent academic research on the children who were affected in the second trimester of their mother's pregnancy, found an increased incidence of schizophrenia in these children. Also increased among them were the rates of schizotypal personality and neurological defects. Always nice seeing this come up.  Clive Osmond, the lead statistician on much of this work, has been working with me on the statistics on my doctorate.   I thought when a mother produces a baby girl, she also produces all the reproductive eggs of that baby as well. I thought this would explain why there Would be problems with the  2 nb generation as well. &gt;  Does anyone know of more research regarding pregnancy environments and the result on babies?

There is a lot of study going on regarding the topic of: Leaded gasoline and inner cities child development..  With the high volume of vehicles in a city, lead was coating everything....  It's difficult to *prove* that crime rates and other social problems are tied to it - but people are trying to understand the relationship. It is possible. Freddie Grey's behavioral problems are said to have stemmed from lead poisoning in his childhood home. Correlation doesn't prove causation (obligatory Reddit defensive statement), but [this image](http://www.motherjones.com/files/Lead_Crime_325.gif) is interesting. [Look at longevity vs solar activity at birth.]( http://m.livescience.com/49345-uv-exposure-babies-lifespan.html) Makes you think what the perfect baby is actually like. less pollution gave us heavier babies. What other factors would effect a change? radio-waves? junk/fast food? Take a look at [this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrifty_phenotype) - things like nutrition during gestation can have major impacts on long-term health. There is actually a fairly large literature on infant health and air pollution in economics, which is led primarily by Matthew Neidell and Janet Currie. Here are links to a few of the papers from Matt Neidell (you do need a subscription to access these but you could take the title and try to find a working paper version too):

[Air Pollution and Infant Health in California](http://qje.oxfordjournals.org/content/120/3/1003.abstract?sid=df503a1d-f849-456c-b75a-f20e551e5cd5)

[Air Pollution and Infant Health from New Jersey](http://www.columbia.edu/~mn2191/research.html)

[Recent review of effects of pollution on early child health](http://www.annualreviews.org/doi/abs/10.1146/annurev-resource-100913-012610) You can look up some info on the Sarnia/Lambton area of Ontario Canada.  One native reserve has 1 boy born to every 2 girls, which is believed to be environmentally linked. Not to mention cancer rates and so forth, but that's another matter.  Yeah they had health concerns. Cause they were dead.  I was born in Vancouver while Mt St Helens was erupting. This explains some stuff - lots of respiratory issues, although I don't honestly think the volcano is to blame. This isn't really something that should surprise many; farms workers that worked on farms which sprayed certain chemicals on their plants had an increased risk of birthing children with birth defects. Some of the times they were illegally exposed to too much of the chemicals. Note a lot of cases involve migrant workers who tend not to have citizenship, so they tend not to report many cases. The Chinese have done extensive research on their energy and pollution challenges (e.g. [IET](http://english.iet.cas.cn/aboutus/overview/)) and National Bureau of Statistics.

In 2013, they consumed 22.4% (US 17.8%) of world total energy and produce 23.2% while emitting 27.1% of world CO2 emissions. Overall, it's low on a per capita basis (1/4 of US/Canada). From 1990 to 2013, energy consumption increased 3.8x or 6% annually.

Problem with their pollution: 

1. Highly dependent on coal (67%) vs US (20.1%) for energy production while US has much higher use of oil and gas. China has higher hydro production, but lower in nuclear until a dozen or so new reactors come online this year or next. Other renewables are negligible. Their domestic coal reserves are high, but have recently started importing. Their gas reserves are low and fracking has yet to begin due to the remoteness of their reserves and deeper locations (requiring more scarce water). 

2. Their industries are energy intensive and many have yet to be fully modern and more inefficient resulting in 30%-40% more energy use. They produce 48% of world cement, 49% of world crude steel, are #1 in many other energy intensive industries. These are low profit margin industries with high pollution (1 ton steel requires 600kg coal and 3-6 ton water for 60 cent USD profit in 2014). China's metals, oil and coal, minerals and chemicals contribute 9.6% of their GDP, but 52% of CO2 production.

3. They have made some headway. They put sulfur scrubbers on 90% of their plants (from 48% in 2007) with 14% reduction from 06 to 2010. NOx and COx are still problems, but NOx is declining since 2011. At Copenhagen, they made commitments to reduce CO2 intensity by 40-45% from 2010 levels by 2005. The three main factors to CO2 production are economic growth, carbon intensity (inefficiency) and industry structure in their economy. On Jan 1st, 2015, the [new Environmental Protection Law](http://www.acc.com/accdocket/onlineexclusives/prcnepl.cfm) give their EPA more power and greater enforcement abilities and a shitload more. 

More reading: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544207001284

http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0360544215001966 http://ehp.niehs.nih.gov/1408795/ [deleted] [deleted] Hey I can kinda talk about this, I was in Beijing in 2008 two months prior to the opening ceremonies with a college study abroad group that travelled around China. Anyone who says China should implement this all the time doesn't understand this would not work long term. 

To reduce pollution they put restrictions in place like odd numbers on licenses plates could drive x days and factories could only operate x amount of hours days and so forth. They all prepared months for this. 

It was cleaner than it had been in a long time and the residents told me they had seen more blue sky days than they had in a long long time. They do need to figure out something quick and the worlds demand for quick output and so forth isn't helping. 

EDIT: a couple people pointed out they kept on the road rationing,I think meant more for industry such as factories and transportation. I am not against the idea, its wether we can still keep up without losing the industries that depend on transportation, fulfilling orders etc a whole slew.  A lot of the industrialized world *does* implement things like that long term, so it's not impossible. The issue is that a lot of the industrialized world went through a period of being just as pollution-intensive as China to get that way. It's politically and ethically touchy to urge China to tone down their industry. A big difference is those other industrialized countries did it with populations under 150 million, and China is doing it with a population over a billion. It's not like they're incapable of taking extreme measures because there's simply too many of them.

They just want to grow, and reap the profits of growth later on just like every other major power in the world is doing.

LA used to be a shithole. Manhattan during the US growth phase was a pretty horrid place. London had horse shit piled so high in the streets you had to *wade* through it, and until the birth of the coal economy the wood burnt smoke in the city blackened every wall.

It's not that China is "100 years behind", progress can't be measured in a linear timeline, its just they are at the point where they can choose hyper growth.  I remember driving through LA a lot during the early 90's and it was always smoggy.  They would say on the radio that it was a light smog outside and it was still like looking at everything through a brown filter.  I haven't been in a while but the last time I went to LA it was a lot cleaner than it used to be.  There are other ways to control pollution but China doesn't want/have the power to enforce certain regulations. Even Vancouver, which is only 2.4 million people, had huge smog problems in the first half of the 20th century.Now it's considered one of the best cities for clean air in the world.

Of course, partially, because we've offloaded all our manufacturing to China. I simply meant that because their population is so large the impact on the environment is much greater than other countries' industrialization processes. How is it ethically touchy? They are making their country and the planet uninhabitable, so it would be unethical not to urge them to reform. I think parent said it's ethically touchy because of mainly two points:

1) Like /u/ipiranga said, lots of OTHER countries didn't do that and grew and now we are urging just China to refrain from doing exactly what they did; and

2) We can always, you know, demand less. Buy less. Buy something that isn't Chinese, so maybe a little more expensive, but ethically "better", right? But people on rich countries would have to tone down their consumerism, or their demand for the cheapest possible price. Maybe THEIR growth would be turned down a few notches beacause of this as well, so... Are we willing to do that?

Don't know, just my current line of thinking. &gt; But people on rich countries would have to tone down their consumerism, or their demand for the cheapest possible price. 

A lot of people globally can't afford to pay more for things, they're barely getting by as it is.  Not demanding the cheapest possible price is an impossibility for many when they aren't paid a living wage. &gt;A lot of people globally can't afford to pay more for things, they're barely getting by as it is.

God forbid other countries have to reduce their living standards. But, y'know, asking China to stop growing so fast and improving living standards for the Chinese is perfectly fine. Because other countries already did these things that contributed to making their own country and the planet uninhabitable. Why are you just asking China to gimp their growth when you didn't gimp your own growth to save the environment? It's hypocrisy. It's not hypocrisy.  It's learning from past mistakes.  History is useless if you don't try to learn from it. It's not a matter of learning, it's a matter of someone coming up with a solution.  Even the First World can't come up with a decent solution to pollution - their major answer was to outsource it to the Third World.

China currently invests more into renewable energy than any other country but even so it's going to be a long process cleaning up their country - just as it was in the UK, US, Europe and every other industrialized country.

You can't just say "don't do what we did" without offering a viable alternative.  That may be true, but telling China to slow down can be construed as what the guy above you said.

You can't just tell a country to stop growing and expect them to comply, especially when that country sees themselves as an emergent superpower. Actually it is hypocrisy.  We'd be telling them to clean up while paying them for cheap, dirty manufacturing. Economist here, these results have substantive implications for long run economic outcomes for this birth cohort. Within the economics literature there is a bunch of work comparing differences in birth outcomes (pre-mature, birth timing during year, and birthweight) and long run income and educational achievement. Heavier babies are healthier and these children go on to have higher income and education in the long run. It's called the fetal origins hypothesis, I'll attach a paper link at the end.

The paper looks like it uses a diff in diff analysis. Authors are getting identification from comparing the same birth cohorts across years within the same region. This assumes that there is no substantive difference other than air pollution that could have an effect upon birthweigths. It's probably valid. 

Now I remember reading a story about Chinese numerology and how 8 is a lucky number. The story suggested that women were trying to give birth on 08/08/08. Now if wealthier (and thus healthier) women were able to plan their pregnancies to occur around the Olympics there might be endogeniety bias. Furthermore, if pregnant women came to these Beijing neighborhoods because the air was cleaner than other areas you will also have some uncontrolled for biasing factors.

Paper link: http://ehp.niehs.nih.gov/wp-content/uploads/advpub/2015/4/ehp.1408795.acco.pdf

Fetal Origins Summary Piece:
http://www.princeton.edu/~jcurrie/publications/Killing_Me_Softly.pdf

Here is a FOH paper from the econ lit (unpublished version, so it's a tad dated but still good). They use EZ pass implementation in NJ as an exogenous shock to pollution
http://www.nber.org/papers/w15413.pdf
 [deleted] &gt; Now I remember reading a story about Chinese numerology and how 8 is a lucky number. The story suggested that women were trying to give birth on 08/08/08. Now if wealthier (and thus healthier) women were able to plan their pregnancies to occur around the Olympics there might be endogeniety bias. Furthermore, if pregnant women came to these Beijing neighborhoods because the air was cleaner than other areas you will also have some uncontrolled for biasing factors.

Cool thought, though a bit speculative, but I appreciate it. Oh it's most definitely speculative. Couldn't China maintain long-term pollution controls with a carbon tax? I've seen some literature (e.g. http://www.nber.org/papers/w9152.pdf) that suggests returning the revenue as an equitable dividend is actually progressive (not regressive) and this progressive effect can actually [grow the economy](http://citizensclimatelobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/REMI-carbon-tax-report-62141.pdf) overall. Thoughts? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Has this been studied in the US? I would be super curious to see if there was a noticeable difference in babies born in the big cities (that have a lot of smog for the US) vs cities out in the country that have virtually no smog. Or maybe in comparison there is so little smog here vs China it's nearly impossible to tell. 

What an awesome study though! Sort of, but i mean, less air reduces birth weight (source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1380938/). I wonder if the root cause of the smog link has been nailed down. I.E. Less oxygen gets through which decreases weight. Yes, oxygen deprivation can severely disrupt the development of dendrites in the brain, leading to decreased synaptic activity.  One of my sisters chain-smoked nonstop while she was pregnant with my nephew and he was born premature with a cleft palette and was later diagnosed to be severely hard-of-hearing and legally blind.  Let's just say that she is very extremely fortunate that I live halfway across the country from her and I have the responsibility of a job right now.  :-) The pollution is truly insane when it can make a widespread difference, however slight, that quick. And, somewhat related, [here's Phillip Morris telling people that's not a problem.](https://youtu.be/VpwcF3Malj8?t=22)

And as we know now...

It's a problem. Genuine question: is there a reasonable chance that looking at only 3 years is problematic? Not for the study's conclusion, but just for its own validity? I feel like .8 ounce fluctuations might just occur every now and then.

Also, aren't babies usually born after nine months, not 8? If they're looking only at (slightly) premature births, isn't that a significant limitation?

Also, how do they get this data and ensure it's valid? Seems like fighting the bureacracy would be hellish. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Average baby birthweight = 3401 grams
Average gain attributed to pollution: 23 grams

Or a gain of 0.67%.  

 [deleted] I'm not completely convinced that reduced air pollution was the only factor in higher birth weight for 2008.  Direct and indirect effects of the Olympic year could have included numerous things that could have influenced pregnancy health.  For instance the very robust economy during the year, along with an influx of foreign athletes and workers, could have had a significant effect on availalbility of healthier foods.  
 Wow, completely ignored the fact that it was year of the dragon, 08/08/08, etc etc. Come on. This was the most planned pregnancy year of all time. I'm sure all women splurged and got the best nutrition, while pregnant.  Is 8 significant in Chinese culture? Otherwise, 6/6/6 (heh), 7/7/7 (heh) were all available options too. Honestly...wish I was born on 6/6/6. That've been awesome.  [deleted] the worst part is the fact that if they controlled the air pollution during the 2008 Olympics, they fully understand the cause and effect of their industries ~~and haven't changed anything much to prevent more smog~~ 


...are making advances but still struggling considering the amount of smog producing industries and factories throughout China.

[edit~ Interesting mix of responses. Most of the links that people have provided below point out changes being made in Beijing to reduce pollution. I was really thinking of China as a whole, although I do understand that it can be problematic to think that way considering China's sheer size. Someone else pointed out that Beijing before and during the Olympics, moved a lot of industries west and also limited the amount of smog producing traffic in the city during the Olympics. Then of course, there are people who said that I was jaded, misinformed, and presumptuous. The last thing I had heard in relation to pollution in China, was this documentary I just watched a couple months ago [Under the Dome](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6X2uwlQGQM) which briefly touches on changes made to prevent smog, namely overproduction ]

[edit #2~ I also want to point out that there are a lot of unregulated industrial factories in China, so even when there are advances made, they're still competing with things like that. I understand that change isn't made overnight, but it's like taking antibiotics while you still have a bleeding open wound] http://www.cnto.org/efforts-beijing-reduce-smog/

http://www.theguardian.com/environment/chinas-choice/2014/jan/23/china-beijing-authorities-measures-tackle-air-pollution

http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2014-03/19/content_17358093.htm

 http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/china-restarts-nuclear-power-build-up/

http://www.worldwatch.org/node/6255

http://oilprice.com/Alternative-Energy/Solar-Energy/Why-China-Is-Leading-The-World-In-Solar-Power.html

http://www.businessinsider.com/big-dam-resources-2014-8

Nuclear? Wind? Solar? Hydropower? You thunk it, China has it. If they're not already leading the world in that category, they are well on their way with plants being built everyday. While many Western nations are sitting on their butts shitting on China, they're reforming the energy system every single day.

Come on, just from a purely logical standpoint, most high ranking government officials live in Beijing and are subjected to the smog. You'd think even by some perverted reason they *really* don't care about the health of citizens, they'd still have ample reason to fix it for themselves. China is at the point where they are even [trying to build thorium reactors](http://fortune.com/2015/02/02/doe-china-molten-salt-nuclear-reactor/). You don't just build these because you can, they have [a long list of drawbacks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquid_fluoride_thorium_reactor#Disadvantages).  Don't forget the advantages though!

&gt;*LFTRs differ from other power reactors in almost every aspect: they use thorium rather than uranium, operate at low pressure, fuel by pumping without shutdown, entail no risk of nuclear meltdown, use a salt coolant and produce higher operating temperatures.*

[**Detailed List of Advantages**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquid_fluoride_thorium_reactor#Advantages)

-----

^(Also I know nothing about thorium reactors) The top two drawbacks listed are mothballed technology and start-up fuel.  The tech is mothballed because it didn't fit with the economic motives and start-up fuel is all over the place.  We could decommission a couple ICBMs (we're already into that sort of thing) and there's plenty if kickstart inside each one of them. &gt; The tech is mothballed because it didn't fit with the economic motives and start-up fuel is all over the place.

Also, they don't produce material which can be used in nuclear weapons, which was a large benefit of uranium reactors. It's not a molten salt reactor though, that's still a little while away maybe 10/20 years.

In the mean time a whole host of other Gen III stuff will be online but it's exciting none the less.

I'm still not sure about the benefits of a molten salt Th reactor but I'm eager to see what they come up with.

It's all very secret but some people believe they could have an operational one by the end of the decade. And yet the air quality is still garbage.

One of the things you neglected to mention is that power supply in China often falls short of the demand. I have seen many a factory shut down for the day due to a scheduled blackout in my trips to China for work. China may be adding environmentally-friendly sources of power generation, but that's more about filling the gap between the supply and the demand in a manner that won't further exacerbate the already terrible environmental conditions. 

Let's not lose sight of the fact that the air quality in Beijing has, at times, been described by residents as "post-apocalyptic", and that the air index scale had to literally be expanded to account for toxicity levels of Beijing's air. The previous scale had been 0-500. Beijing's air quality has reached as high as 755! When you have to add the category "Crazy Bad" (since renamed "Beyond Index")...well, that's really, really not good. 

http://mobile.nytimes.com/2013/01/13/science/earth/beijing-air-pollution-off-the-charts.html?referrer=&amp;_r=0 And then there's the reality that China is **still building coal and gas plants at a much faster rate** alongside the "green energy" plants. So the situation in China hasn't improved.

Source: Lived in China, visit regularly You just gotta hate when people jump into conclusion without just researching a little.  [deleted] When you live in China for a few years you learn to take 'evidence' from the Government and locals with a pinch of salt. They did just try and bury a train full of passengers after is derailed so no one found out how bad the train line was kept. I also loved reading that the bbq smelling air I was breathing is actually "fog" not the left over straw the farmers burned after harvesting.

" Beijing once again suffered hazardous levels of air pollution prompting the city's mayor to announce an "all-out effort" to tackle the smog."

That was the best bit from that article, I was there then and 5/7 days was above toxic according to the US embassy app. Then they blocked it.  Then again I'm not sure you can trust what China says it's doing about pollution when the media is controlled by the government/corporations. Reddit is mainly visited by Americans and I can't honestly say that Americans have much interaction with the Chinese, besides when they sell off their trademark companies. So it's understandable that the average American Redditor is going to have assumptions on China and not actual facts. As an American who has spent extensive time in China for work (~6 months total over the last 3 years), the pollution is pretty damn bad, to the point that it actually gave me bad headaches and mild nausea for the first couple days of my first two trips. This is not unique to me; I have a number of coworkers with similar experiences. I still cough up some shit for a couple days each time I return to the U.S. These experiences were in travels to Shanghai, Chongquing, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Gaoyou, etc., all of which generally have markedly better air quality compared to Beijing. Hell, the air pollution index actually had to be expanded at one point because Beijing's numbers were literally off the scale! 

One of our vendors relayed a story to me of a European colleague his who moved to Beijing for work. This guy was an avid distance runner in his early 40s, never smoked, and who was the picture of health. He ran 10 kilometers a day in Europe, and he continued that routine in Beijing. He started not feeling right a little less than a year after moving to Beijing. He went to the doctor and found out he had terminal cancer that started out in his lungs. I don't remember how long he made it after the diagnosis, but I believe it was a matter of months as opposed to years. Yes, this is just one case, but that shit is scary shit. 

I'm not saying that people with little-to-no firsthand knowledge don't come on here and present their misconceptions as fact. I'm also not saying that the initial comment was entirely correct. Let's not, however, lose sight of the fact that air quality is still terrible in China. Yes, some steps have been implemented and there has been some degree of improvement, but the situation remains dire. I've actually worked with one of the guys who was a key figure in establishing China's emission reduction plan. He readily admitted to me that he is concerned about enforcement of the regulations. Chinese officials have a tendency to enforce regulations when the economy is doing well and they can afford to but look the other way whenever the economy hits a rough patch. I have seen examples of this firsthand. 

Again, you aren't wrong about misinformed commentary as steps have certainly been taken, but the environment is still getting bent over for the sake of China's economy.  How was the pollution in Hangzhou? I will be there this summer and am getting a little worried.  Compared to the rest of China it's not too bad. Air quality varies significantly with weather conditions, production cycles, time of year, topography/geography, etc., but I'd say Hangzhou is average to slightly better than average. That still leaves it pretty bad by US and European standards, but that's more-or-less a given anywhere in China.  Ok, thank you! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] "Ignorant American" here. I've been to Beijing and environs on a week long work trip, and to Hong Kong. Both places have insane air pollution problems, far worse than anything I've experienced anywhere in the US (although not as bad as what I experienced in India).  Headlines of people ruining things are much more attractive over here There is more than "a little" research linked in posts below that view their measures a hell of a lot less lightly than Gozujohn2k is presenting.....  This is Beijing, not [China](http://aqicn.org/map/china/#@g/32.6424/113.7881/5z). Here is what is actually happening in China:

1. Beijing moves factories to surrounding Hebei, causing Hebei to be one of the worst polluted provinces in China. The capital, Shijiazhuang, is nearly always heavily polluted.

2. Cars inside the city are restricted on certain days by license plate numbers. Families get around this by buying a second car so they can drive weeklong. This or they put a CD over the restricted number to prevent getting a ticket.

3. [Beijing only got "serious" about it's AQI after throwing a tantrum when the US Embassy began monitoring and reporting PM 2.5 levels in 2008.](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-18327865) [They have since banned the reporting of the US Embassy's levels on popular AQI monitoring apps.](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/nov/10/apec-china-blocks-access-us-air-pollution-data-beijing)

4. And yet, China rumbles on, [relying on energy imports to maintain it's GDP growth,](http://www.eia.gov/countries/cab.cfm?fips=ch) and [although the US is still leading China in it's Energy consumption,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_energy_consumption_per_capita) the [US has slowed or maintained its total energy consumption](http://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/IEDIndex3.cfm?tid=44&amp;pid=44&amp;aid=2) including [per capita](http://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/iedindex3.cfm?tid=44&amp;pid=45&amp;aid=2&amp;cid=regions&amp;syid=2005&amp;eyid=2009&amp;unit=QBTU) and [per GDP,](http://www.eia.gov/cfapps/ipdbproject/iedindex3.cfm?tid=92&amp;pid=46&amp;aid=2) while China continues to climb in all three categories. This means, as the US becomes more efficient in generating its GDP per capita, China is becoming less efficient.

5. [Although there are 26 nuclear reactors online in China with 23 under construction,](http://www.world-nuclear.org/info/Country-Profiles/Countries-A-F/China--Nuclear-Power/) [China is planning and working on damming the rivers of Tibet](http://www.indiatvnews.com/news/india/chinas-reckless-destruction-dam-projects-harming-brahmputra-47585.html) and [extracting natural resources, including solar and natural gases from Xinjiang](http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-09/06/c_133625345.htm) in an attempt to increase energy production. These are a couple of reasons why China controls the two fringe regions with a heavy fist.

6. In light of al this, it would be prudent for Beijing and China to build its infrastructure with efficiency in mind. [Yet, this newly establish Soho Galaxy building](http://divisare.com/projects/214917-Zaha-Hadid-Architects-Galaxy-Soho/images/3500731) stands [mostly empty with all the lights on.](http://www.failedarchitecture.com/zaha-hadids-galaxy-soho-back-from-the-future/)

6. In a similar vein, [China continues to build ghost cities](http://www.businessinsider.com/chinas-ghost-cities-in-2014-2014-6), malls, and apartment complexes, all of which sit mostly empty. So much energy use to build such useless infrastructure.

So when there's a glaring inconsistency between official rhetoric and the facts on the ground, the question of "why" has to be raised. The answer lays in how the Communist Party of China manufactures its legitimacy as the ruling party of China. 

During Mao Zedong's time, the CCP earned its "legitimacy" by defeating ["the reactionary Kuomintang government backed by U.S. imperialism"](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/mao/selected-works/volume-5/mswv5_01.htm) as Mao himself put it in the opening of his "New China" speech on September 21, 1949.

[After a series of devastatingly foolish and destructive campaigns by Mao,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_campaigns_of_the_Communist_Party_of_China) the CCP had a severely tarnished image in the eyes of the Chinese people. Left with a desolated economy, [Deng Xiaoping decided on advancing economic reform as China's savior,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_economic_reform) claiming, "let some get rich first." 

Over the past 30 years, China has flourished and the CCP has taken all the credit for China's successes. However, much hasn't changed politically during Mao's time, as the CCP has built itself on a singular idea: the CCP is the savior of the Chinese people against foreign aggression during Mao's time and the CCP is the savior of the Chinese people against poverty under the economic reform period. 

GDP growth and the CCP are so inextricably linked at present, that any change in the economic status of China might spell the demise of the Communist Party through "social instability" (rioting and demands from the populace). Why does the CCP care so much about being in power? Because the rampant corruption in the system in China ensures that [being in power is extremely lucrative.](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-07-01/chinese-families-pay-16-000-for-kids-to-pass-army-entrance-exam)

Energy is the supplying force behind the entire socio-economic-political apparatus in China. In order for the top brass to continue lining their pockets, the CCP needs to stay in power. In order for the CCP to stay in power, GDP needs to grow. In order for GDP to grow, energy is required. Despite what Beijing says, China is not even considering reducing its energy consumption at present. The measure taken back in 2008 was almost a total shutdown of all industries and automobile traffic in and around Beijing. Not something you can do every day. It's not like you flip a switch overnight and fix pollution with a population that more than doubles NYC and is 5x as much as LAX.  They're changing things but it takes time.  Usa didn't fix its pollution instantly during our industrial revolution  I wouldn't say that they *fully* understand the cause and effect, but I think that the effort was likely to make themselves look better to the international community.  Kind of a "hey, let's clean up the place a bit when friends come over" sort of idea.  

I'm not surprised by this paper at all, though.  There are plenty of studies showing that pollution causes all sorts of health problems, include lowering IQ and increased risk for stroke. I am certain they know. I attended elementary school in Bejing and I can tell you we had basic environmental science at age of 8. 

The problem China have is the same as America: The Political will to pull it off. Unlike Washington DC, Bejing is a Industrial city--It is surrounded by heavy industry. Shutting them off is very expensive.   

Plus, It is also one of the most populated city in the world, and all those cars on the road definitely add up.  &gt;"hey, let's clean up the place a bit when friends come over" sort of idea.

Don't forget the mass killings of stray animals too. 

http://www.catcahelpanimals.org/53.html

Russia was just as bad. How is killing some strays bad? Feels. Feels are why. indeed, surely they should be doing at a consistent pace like the US It's EXACTLY this.  When anything goes down, Beijing gets cleaned up from top to bottom.  All they begging gangs are kicked out...all the drug dealers and pole dancing places are closed down in Sanlitun, etc, etc, etc.  As I mentioned in another comment, it's all about saving face. It's a bit tough to enact regulations on the environment at the cost of the economy when there are more peasants in the country than the entire population of the United States. right now, there is an economic and an environmental problem, and it is only possible to solve one at a time.  I'm not an economics expert, but I think the issue is *a lot* more complicated than one or the other and they could certainly be doing more in both areas. The problem with developing countries like China is that they sacrifice environment to build infrastructure and grow their economy. While it isn't exactly "one or the other," it is much much harder to be environmental when you are building infrastructure from scratch. 

Take the U.S., for example. During our industrial revolution, there was rampant pollution, and very little protection of the industrial laborers. We destroyed mountains and countrysides to build railroads, we dammed rivers, and we polluted the air. Now, since we already have roads built, we can actually do environmentally things like recycling 99% of the asphalt we use. If we didn't have those roads in the first place, we wouldn't have any asphalt to recycle.

In 1900, the U.S. had [76 million residents](https://www.censusrecords.com/content/1900_Census). China, on the other hand, has 1.3 billion people. Given our history and the fact that China is much bigger population-wise than we were when we were rampantly polluting, it is understandable that are polluting so much.

However, I concede that they *do* have more tools than we did, such as nuclear energy, which would do a lot to reduce pollution. 

e: a word If anyone here has ever read "Last Chance to See" by Douglas Adams, there's an interesting section where he muses about China's environmental policy. To summarize, because government parties keep in power for long periods of time, they can act on a longer time scale than western democracies that change policy every few years. In addition, for better or for worse, the government can enact policies such as one-child, which sacrifice short-term personal rights for long-term societal benefit.

Of course, this sort of thing can go both ways. Well they are heavily investing in renewables and nuclear power, so I don't think China will be smoggy for much longer.  Yes it's an improvement, but it will still be a long time. Be a little bit more realistic. I understand you are jaded, but the world is not black/white. Its a nice weird mix of grey. 

Anyway, think about it logically, can the elite ruling party of China escape the pollution? Or is the pollution ubiquitous? Well since the pollution is everywhere and effects everyone then they are inclined to find a solution.

Furthermore, is this pollution hurting the image of China significantly? I would definitely say yes and ergo the people in charge are pressured to fix the problem.

China has been around forever and they are definitely a prideful civilization. They don't want the world to think of them as weak/corrupt/ or stupid. They want the world to view China as a world leader. 

Keep in mind China literally turned the schools back on in the late 1970s. So in about 40ish something years they went from no public schools to the world powerhouse they are today.

 I live here and they just recently did the same think during the APEC meetings...it was all over the news as being "APEC Blue" days because the air was so clean.  They don't do it because they care about the people, they do it for face.  Face runs this country and the capital city being absolutely disgustingly air polluted is a loss of face.  So they clean it up when important/lots of visitors come, as soon as they're gone, right back to days so bad you can't see the next office building.

Fun fact (or not so fun for those of us who live more out west), beginning after the Beijing olympics they decided to "clean up Beijing"...but all they did was move all the heavy industry and coal plants out west.  When I first moved here a few years ago the air in my city was MUCH cleaner than Beijing...not any more (it averaged about 170 on the AQI today...and was actually a pretty decent day).

There are laws requiring scrubbers on all the coal plants and whatnot...but they simply don't turn them on.  If they don't get ignored completely (99% of the time), then the fine they have to pay (because they didn't pay off the right person, or didn't pay them enough) is MUCH less than the cost of running the plant without the scrubbers.  

Edit: Reading the comments below, the very first article you link says "will move 300 companies out of the city", exactly what I'm talking about.  They didn't clean them up...then just sent them out towards my area, because hey, it's just poor farmers out here, what do they care?  And sadly, no one really even notices it out here.  I wear my mask when it gets above 150 (hazardous) and people ask me why I'm wearing a mask, because if you look directly up (through the thinnest layer of smog) you can see the blue-ish sky on "clear" days.  And my fiance wonders why I won't raise children here. Do you think it's easy to control smog production by over a billion people? I'm sure everyone is willing to just turn off their A/C during 42 degree summers if the government just asked nicely. You're correct to distinguish between industrial China and rural China. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Could it also have been that because the olympics were held there that the economy saw a boost and the people had more money to buy more/better food? The olympics have a trend of creating lots of jobs.. being born heavier is not necessarily a good indicator for health. many conditions such as diabetic mothers produce much heavier babies who obviously do much worse This is what I find most concerning about pollution, personally. Climate change is very real and very much a threat, but I cannot begin to imagine the health complications from constant exposure to heavy smog. Even climate change deniers can't try to claim that smog isn't bad for you. More Olympics means heavier babies
 Obesity in the US is up due to the EPA? It seems like they made a real leap of logic  to assume that it was the lack of pollution that caused the babies to be heavier. 

For one, the mothers were still exposed to pollution for most of the 9 months, so the heavier babies were due to some fast-acting effect in that final 47 days. So it's not like they're comparing babies that developed during no pullution vs. heavy pollution, they're comparing a difference only in the final month and a half.

Secondly, if China shut down the factories during that time, wouldn't that mean that more people were sitting around? Isn't it possible that many of these women who would be otherwise working ended up gaining weight (and therefore baby weight) by staying home? Or what about their husbands who were staying home?

It just seems to me that there are other possibly stronger causes such as increased weight gain due to increased eating and decreased activity. Besides, we're only talking about a .8 ounce difference here. 

 &gt; For one, the mothers were still exposed to pollution for most of the 9 months, so the heavier babies were due to some fast-acting effect in that final 47 days.

Did you read the [paper](http://ehp.niehs.nih.gov/1408795/)? the whole point of the study was to isolate effects on all months in gestation. It explicitly does not limit itself to women who gave birth immediately following the Olympics. They found an connection between particulate pollution in the last month, but the study covered all periods of gestation. In fact, it was published **specifically** because it served as an improvement over a previous natural experiment, where the interruption in pollution was too long to isolate specific months.

&gt; Secondly, if China shut down the factories during that time, wouldn't that mean that more people were sitting around?

It might, though that would make it difficult to explain why the largest weight gains were among children whose mothers had college degrees--probably not a lot of them working in factories. Or that they saw increases in birth weight across multiple districts (3 out of 4 included in the study).

&gt; It just seems to me that there are other possibly stronger causes such as increased weight gain due to increased eating and decreased activity.

How do you square this with the previous literature? This study was published because it provided a useful natural experiment, but it's certainly not the first to investigate the link between air pollution and birth outcomes. The paper does a good job of explaining previous estimates and showing that their results are consistent with those. Are all of those studies just tracking decreased activity and increased eating?  [deleted] &gt;  the largest weight gains were among children whose mothers had college degrees

Could this have been because wealthier families wanted to have their kid's birthday on 8/8/2008 which is a lucky day in Chinese culture? Because they are wealthier they would have the resources to get proper nutrition leading to heavier babies?  &gt;Could this have been because wealthier families wanted to have their kid's birthday on 8/8/2008 which is a lucky day in Chinese culture?

The paper collected births for the years before and after the olypmics to control for seasonal/month effects (Which are [non-trivial](http://www3.nd.edu/~dhungerm/w14573.pdf)). IOW, 8/08 births compared to 8/07 and 8/09, rather than to other months in the year. If there is some planning involved and parents able to plan for that date had better birth outcomes, it should be netted out.

&gt; Because they are wealthier they would have the resources to get proper nutrition leading to heavier babies?

The effect of pollution on birth weight is higher for mothers with more education (They actually split out BAs and technical colleges), not the birth weight itself (well, it probably is, but that's not what they're reporting). There's a possibility that using some regression techniques they could be picking up on higher variation because the birth weights are higher to start with, but I doubt it (they're using local regression methods).

Edit: just realized that you meant 8/8/08 is lucky. In that case yearly comparisons wouldn't catch it, but I'd be pretty surprised to see that as a major factor.  You mean like the article discussed?

&gt; Professor Chen Yuyu of the Applied Economics Department at Peking University, who was not involved in the birth study, said it was interesting but not conclusive because there could have been other unobserved factors during the Olympics that contributed to the results.
&gt;
&gt; Chen, who was the co-author of a 2013 report that linked heavy pollution from coal burning to shorter lives in northern China, said more research is needed to "improve our understanding of pollution's impact on people's health." It's not really a leap of logic. You see the same effect with smoking mothers as their offspring are usually underweight and underdeveloped. And studies have shown that even quitting smoking for a short period of time in the second or third trimester can cause a dramatic weight gain for the baby. Yes, if smoking leads to premature birth, stopping the chemical assault can allow more full-term births which tend to be heavier.  This is on top of the growth retardation caused by lack of oxygen carrying capacity in the blood from CO or inflammation in the placenta. The last two months of pregnancy is where the baby gains most of its weight Good question. They are using variation in pollution

Also in the economics literature, .8 ouces mean difference is huge in the literature. We are talking about population averages. Think about it. It suggests that there are less premature births or those underweight births are substantially heavier. You should be thinking about what is happening at the lower end of the weight distribution.

.8 ounces could mean the difference between survival and death for a premature baby. It would be nice to see a table of birth weights for a couple dozen years, rather than just 3 years worth. 

.8 ounces might be huge, I agree, but I don't think it's out of the question that something other than the pollution might have caused this. If we had a bigger table of information, we could know what's what with more confidence. Kernel density plots of birthweights for the same month cohorts across years would be nice think to look at. Agreed. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] That's a damn nice natural experiment (or maybe quasi-experiment). This type of methodology is clever and really key for teasing apart correlation from causation.  I believe they call this a [natural experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natural_experiment).  Another example would be how they found a overall average increase in US sunlight when all US and Canada air traffic was grounded for 2 days following 9/11. What does "global increase in US sunlight" mean? Sorry, I knew that would confuse people.  "Global" as in "overall average".  I'll change it now so people aren't confused. David Q. Rich (author) came to my college, DIT (Dublin Institute of Tech.) and spoke about this paper around 2 years ago. It was a weak conclusion, no real controls in the experiment, and the physics lecturers here kind of dissected it, wasn't a fantastic study to say the least. &gt;physics lecturers

With greatest respect to their abilities in the field of physics, they are not epidemiologists.

edit: not to say they aren't able to have valid criticisms, of course - just that the fact they are physicists does not necessarily make their critique of the paper accurate.  the opposite was seen in NYC after 9/11 bombing
 [deleted] [deleted] I live in China and see the pollution here everyday. It is bad if not worse than what most people living in the west imagine, however I think the real reason the babies got heavier is because they kicked out a ton of peasants during the Olympics. Peasants tend to be less healthy and much thinner than the middle class here. [deleted] If I had to guess it would be people asking, in jest, if pollution is a solution to our obesity problem in the US. [deleted] tl;dr from the article:

* Researchers at Duke announced that their studies of Alzheimers in mice had thrown up a new process they believe contributes to the diseases development.
 
* They observed that in Alzheimers, immune cells that normally protect the brain instead begin to consume a vital nutrient called arginine.
 
* By blocking this process with a drug, they were able to prevent the formation of plaques in the brain that are characteristic of Alzheimers disease, and also halted memory loss in the mice.

Everything else in the article basically restates those points in different ways. So what is the role of arginine in the process of plaque formation? Are the immune cells too consumed with consuming arginine to protect the brain? Does the consumption of arginine cause the plaque? Would reducing or increasing arginine have an effect? Arginine is an important amino acid for providing positive charge to proteins.  I'm currently working on a project looking at the importance of different amino acids substitutions in amalyoid beta proteins (sometimes precursors to Alzheimers).  Removing arginine could *potentially* affect the correct processing of these proteins but I'm not sure and in fact that's something people are looking into.  It's nice to see a study that discusses things in a more holistic way, related to immunology. Beta amyloid isn't necessarily a precursor to Alzheimer's, it's just the hallmark sign of the disease--and has been for the last century, ever since Alois Alzheimer first classified the disease in patient August D. Specifically, he noted her beta amyloid plaques upon autopsy, as well as the significant brain atrophy that occurs (specifically in the hippocampus). In fact, the only true (gold standard) way to diagnose AD is to perform a brain autopsy after death and look for the standard beta amyloid plaques that accumulate extracellularly (in the spaces between cells). That being said, our diagnostic capabilities have vastly improved with the use of fMRIs and such, and when used in combination with tests for cognitive decline (ex: ADAS-Cog), it allows for an almost definitive diagnosis without the need for a brain autopsy as confirmation. 

However, we are still unsure whether the amyloid plaques are the actual cause of the dementia, or whether they are simply an artifact/consequence of the true underlying cause (i.e. the true cause leads to both an increase in beta amyloid accumulation as well as leading to the actual clinical implications of dementia--memory loss, cognitive decline, etc.). It would be an incredible development in Alzheimer's research if this arginine connection can be substantiated, as there are currently zero drugs available on the market that can reverse (or even slow down) the progression of the disease. Current treatments can only improve the cognitive symptoms of AD by altering neurotransmitter/receptor activity, but without affecting the underlying cause of the disease as it inevitably progresses. So what is your opinion on the all of the genetic evidence suggesting a pathologic role for Abeta? (i.e. APP mutations, presenilin mutations, extra copies of APP gene... all of which result in early onset Alzheimer's) Not to mention a number of animal models that suggest that genetically altering APP levels or introducing Abeta oligomers can cause cognitive dysfunction and Alzheimer's-like pathology.

To me this seems strong evidence that dysregulation of APP cleavage CAN result in Alzheimer's pathology, although it doesn't necessarily mean that all Abeta accumulation is the causative factor in all cases.  Yes, I would agree with your conclusion. There is definitely strong evidence that dysfunction in Abeta cleavage can result in "stickier" oligomers, resulting in a greater accumulation of plaques. This could very well be the actual source of the resulting cognitive dysfunction, so my original statement could be updated. Essentially, I intended to say that the underlying cause (U) could be causing the cognitive decline (C) as well as the amyloid build up (A) extraneously, just to point out that we do not definitively know Abeta is a precursor to Alzheimer's. However, as you have pointed out, due to the extensive evidence we have accumulated on the essential role of Abeta in AD pathology, it is more likely that U--&gt;A--&gt;C in a causative cascade. Since we do not currently have any drugs that can clear out these beta amyloid plaques once they've formed (BBB issues among others), the focus has been shifted toward preventative strategies and earlier diagnostic detection to improve prognosis, as well as the search for that illusive, potential underlying cause (arginine hopefully!) Actually, it's been shown that clearance of plaques doesn't result in cessation of disease progression, and, some percentage of patients don't present with plaques. I always thought that plaques would play a beneficial role in sequestering the toxic species of Abeta away from neurons. That's why I was surprised [by this paper](http://stm.sciencemag.org/content/7/278/278ra33). Actually, there are alot of reasons that paper surprised me. In short, 'it's complicated'. 

There's a 'chicken and egg' thing that gets thrown around a lot - it's possible the plaques are beneficially sequestrating toxic stuff away, it's also possible that in doing so they're soaking up endogenous, normal stuff, leading to a *loss of function* phenotype. Long term, for example, maybe plaque clearance isn't repairing the problem that led to plaque formation in the first place.

That's a big theme in all these proteinopathies - misfolded or marked protein is bad, but maybe it's protective, but maybe it's actually soaking up good protein... etc. Yep, a number of different theories that are in direct opposition to each other, I don't envy anyone who has to write a review on the molecular pathology of AD. 

The upshot seems to be that plaque burden may not reflect the levels of toxic Abeta oligomers. (Or other pathological processes for that matter) Check http://a4study.org/ - Its goal is to test whether decreasing amyloid with antibody investigational treatment can help slow the memory loss associated with amyloid buildup in some people. 
 Yes, thank you for linking the study, and I'll just use this as a quick PSA: volunteer for Alzheimer's research! Other than lack of funding, the lack of research participants (minorities in particular) is the largest hurdle we need to overcome in AD research. Even if you don't have the disease, most studies are moving towards earlier detection/preventative measures (like the a4 study). Meaning, that even people with entirely normal cognitive function (or Mild Cognitive Impairment) can still participate and provide meaningful data on the development of AD--particularly on how it compares to the development of a normal, healthy brain. Mutations in these proteins explain disease symptoms of early onset alzheimers pretty well but not late onset.  Some mutations have been identified as being associated with late onset alzheimers (namely the APOE genes), but not realy those in the APP gene.  Other evidence of a possible ABeta independent mechanism is the fact you can see pathological symptoms of alzheimers without the presence of Abeta plaques.  Many scientists seem to think now that it's a range of diseases with different underlying causes but the same pathologies.  So in short the genetics suggest that APP and related pathways arent the only causes.

Refs:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21068297
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22891628
http://www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/publication/alzheimers-disease-genetics-fact-sheet &gt;  pathological symptoms of alzheimers without the presence of Abeta plaques

you mean AD patients WITH plaques show pathology in brain regions without plaques? or do you mean that some patients get AD without plaques at all?  if you mean the second could you please link me the direct source for that?  I know vascular and other types of dementia occur without plaques but those are entirely different diseases with different symptoms and progressions.  &gt;as there are currently zero drugs available on the market that can reverse (or even slow down) the progression of the disease. Current treatments can only improve the cognitive symptoms of AD by increasing the amount of neurotransmitters available to the neurons

Memantine works by preventing neuronal excitotoxicity.  Yes, you're right, I was just trying to simplify it to the main point, which is that we currently have no drugs that can reverse or even slow down the progression of AD. Memantine, though, is still working to effect the activity of neurotransmitters, namely glutamate (excitatory for neurons). It binds to NMDA receptors to prevent neuronal excitotoxicity, as you said. The other main class of drugs we have to mask AD symptoms are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine), which prevent the the neurotransmitter acetylcholine from being degraded, thus increasing both the available amount as well as the duration of receptor binding.

TLDR: Memantine effects glutamatergic NMDA receptors to prevent neuronal excitotoxicity. AChEIs (donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine) increase the activity of acetylcholine. Neither can slow disease progression, just mask cognitive symptoms Thanks for this, started typing and you beat me too it. Wonderful comment. You know this stuff well.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I hope my protein folding is actually helping research like this, and not just giving the illusion of helping. For sure!  I feel like Baker's made a really amazing step foreward in crowd-sourcing of science work when they developed FoldIt!  You'd be surprised how important it is! Good to hear, the use of distributed computing and crowd-sourced data gathering is an impressive addition to our toolset. I'm looking forward to big innovations in these areas, since they still seem to be doing the frontier work. [deleted] I don't know much about that sorry.  There are other processes that your sleep cycle regulates so I think it'd be a bit more complicated than that (like everything in biology :p) [deleted] Hello! I have a question for you; arginine is a precursor for nitric oxide synthase. Certain NO species can lead to oxidative stress which can be damaging, so is there any evidence of increased NOS activity/NO production in these plaque formations?? 

 Arginine promotes the growth of herpes viruses (invaded cells use that amino acid in the manufacture of new viruses) .  Persons carrying these viruses show an increased risk of Alzheimer's.  I wonder if there's a connection, or if it's just a coincidence?  Also related: these viruses invade nerve cells, and brains are made of nerve cells. I recall hearing last year herpes simplex antibodies can double the risk of Alzheimer's... just to make sure, Alzheimer cannot be a virus, can it? a virus can lead to alzheimer's symptoms, but current data shows no known virus that causes the disease. &gt;just to make sure, Alzheimer cannot be a virus, can it?

Alzheimer's is a neurological disease, not a virus. Alzheimer's is almost certainly an auto-immune disease, as this research indicates.

There is a significant amount of literature on the role viruses play in auto-immune diseases.  So it could be that the immune system is targeting cells infected with a virus (either a known or unknown one), or worse, targeting cells that have high levels of the arginine.  

It could even be as simple as our bodies developing an allergy to a key amino acid.   Maybe the immune system somehow "discovers" that removing arginine improves the herpes situation? Can I just take more arginine supplements? No, as the article mentions, the blood brain barrier limits the amount of arginine that is allowed into the brain. The excess arginine would simply go to waste.

edit:spelling BBB would block it unless it was attached to a metabolize-able carrier, which would be expensive find and to synthesize.  

Or you could try intra-nasal arginine (it currently looks promising in a delivery method for insulin to the brain as well).  

http://archneur.jamanetwork.com/article.aspx?articleid=1107947 Even then, wouldn't you just be feeding the disorder? The immune cells would keep eating arginine. Seeing more of it they may even escalate immune system activity so you've got inflammation on top of memory loss.

Hmm... maybe that's what the plaques are. Cholesterol plaque is a response to inflammation in blood vessels. Are Alzheimer's plaque a response to inflammation among neurons?  I'd need to read the paper, but it seems like they're hypothesizing the problem is a lack of arginine making it to cells because of destruction by immune system activity.  

I'm also cautious because at this point plaques seem to be secondary to late onset Alzheimer's (there is a lot of disagreement on this in the research community however).     Just stopping plaques doesn't do much on it's own, we've been able to get rid of them for years with anti-amyloid therapy.  I'd like to read it and see the measure they're getting memory from the mice.  http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe1313943

The plaques themselves are layers of Amyloid beta which is created by cleaving Amyloid Precursor Protein, which itself is part of lipid rafts.  

Levels of A Beta and APP seem to be modulated by Cholesterol content in the membrane and other factors.  http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20580937

Increased inflammation is seen in AD brains, but the cause is unknown I'm curious as to how it would exhibit specificity, which would seem rather important in a drug that blocks uptake of a "vital nutrient" and that is in drug trials for cancer, i.e. it poisons dividing cells? Yeah, treating the symptoms is less ideal than treating the cause. Intra-nasal arginine, and L-arginine in general, are ineffective for immune supplementation in a chronic Th2 activation state. Although L-arginine transport into the cell is slow, Arginase has a huge catalytic turnover rate which immediately destroys intracellular pools. Couple this with extracellular Arginase, released by granulocytes, and you have very very little L-arginine being available for standard signaling events.

Actually, deprivation of L-arginine could have such far-reaching effects as modifying soluble G-protein signaling - which have been demonstrated to be modified by s-nitrosylation. This would lead to an apoptotic fate, as it is central to cell behavior. I'm a statistician, not a chemist, so all I know is what I've read in papers - but what about supplementing something downstream like agmatine to shift the equilibrium to the left and favor the retention of more arginine?  Or does that run into the same problem? It probably runs into the same blood brain barrier problem, but I'm not sure.  

If it could get through, possibly.  

I'm still waiting for the actual paper to drop so I can see if they've elucidated the pathway at all, or if this is just a "we found something that seem like it does something, but we don't know what it is doing" sort of situation.   In the cellular environment, and especially in the case of L-arginine, its reactive products are quickly utilized elsewhere so the reactions are always kept very far from equilibrium. iNOS converts L-arginine to gas-phase NO, which quickly reacts to form s-nitrosothiols, nitrite ions, or nitrate ions, while Arginase catalyzes formation of polyamines and reduces the amount of NO in the environment.
 Most likely metabolized by the liver and still be hindered by BBB. &gt; agmatine

This rat study indicates that agmatine may help prevent or treat Alzheimer's. It is known to improve memory in humans.

[Agmatine improves cognitive dysfunction and prevents cell death in a streptozotocin-induced Alzheimer rat model](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24719136)

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] So how do we fix this then? Is there a drug to block the plaques forming in the brain? Plaques probably are a secondary symptom.  Imaging studies have shown that a large majority of elderly of pass away have plaques, healthy and not.  

They have also found about a quarter of diagnosed AD patients *do not* have plaques.  

 THIS!

The way we diagnose Alzheimer's is still by means of checking whether or not a patient has senile plaques at the time of death. The problem is, not everyone with Alzheimer's has plaques, and not everyone who has plaques has Alzheimer's.

Further confusing the issue, there are several other forms of dementia that get "lumped together" with Alzheimer's, inflating the number of diagnoses and limiting the amount of samples that are actually relevant to research. [deleted] Actually, intranasal insulin is showing some promising results.  

The actual method is just snorting, and a small amount passes through to the brain
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24997277 I haven't really dealt with this stuff in a while, but if I remember correctly, arginine has a big role in dictating the phenotype of macrophages.  Basically, the amount of arginine present tells the macrophage to go into the M1 or M2 phenotype.  One is a killer macrophage and the other is a repair macrophage.

To specifically answer your questions, I would imagine the macrophages that digest arginine block certain parts of the brain by going into the phase of macrophage that is biased towards repair.

edit; it is interesting to me that arginine's "next" biochemical step is into L-ornithine, which through ornithine decarboxylase is converted into putrescine and subsequent polyamines.  Polyamines, at least to me, look a lot like neurotransmitters.  Perhaps these plaques of macrophages release too many polyamines into the extracellular space and screw with the neurochemistry of the brain by acting as pseudo-neurotransmitters.  This is a fascinating finding.  I wonder if some forms of alzheimers might be a sort of metabolic feedback loop between neurons and immune cells. Maybe that's why a quarter of alzheimer's patients don't form plaques. Again this is not my field of  expertise so I could be sounding completely ignorant.
 Source is supposedly: 

Kan MJ, Lee JE, Wilson JG, et al. Arginine Deprivation and Immune Suppression in a Mouse Model of Alzheimers Disease. The Journal of Neuroscience. 2015.

It isn't up on pubmed yet Looks like the actual publication date is April 15th, so it hasn't been released yet. That would explain why I haven't been able to pull it up.  I'll give it another go at midnight EST.

With all of the articles on it already, it seems they are pushing this full force.  I wish my lab had that sort of media pull :) Here you go bud, http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969 Talked to one of the authors, the article should be released tomorrow. 
 The article is up now: http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969.short
 Quick question. How would I go about explaining something like this to my dad. He doesn't keep up with any of this and doesnt believe that this happened becaus we can't communicate with the mice. Tell him that we test their memory based off of training them to perform certain actions or teaching them solutions to puzzles (i.e maze with cheese at the end). Then once Alzheimer's has been induced we retest them to measure their performance. You can then determine whether they've forgotten portions of their training or not.

Not only that, but we can analyze their brain to determine it's physical health using disections/imaging (MRI, etc). So we can both observe the symptoms and the physical condition of the disease without talking to them.

Tell him that he's right to remain skeptical, but excitement really is justified because this is a significant discovery that paves the road in the coming years to being able to test for and innoculate against Alzheimer's before it begins causing damage. A future is rapidly coming in which the disease can be cured and possibly even prevented from ever happening. Some of the therapies that are currently being worked on are very promising as affordable and simple treatments. For example with this recent discovery, it could be possible that the day you go to your doctor claiming your memory's felt a bit "fuzzy" in the last few months, he can give you a bottle of pills to take daily that will stop the disease in it's tracks. Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but how is Alzheimer's induced in mice if the cause is still not understood? They induce it through tansgenic mice, specifically PDAPP mice.  Essentially they insert genes into the mouse to overexpress the human V717F beta-amyloid precursor protein  

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7845465 &gt; it could be possible that the day you go to your doctor claiming your memory's felt a bit "fuzzy" in the last few months

There's a promising [non-invasive diagnostic procedure](http://www.kurzweilai.net/noninvasive-retinal-imaging-device-detects-alzheimers-20-years-in-advance) that claims to detect Alzheimer's 15-20 years earlier using simple curcumin and a retina scan.

Aside from earlier diagnoses, if this works, the big win will be much faster results when new drugs are tested. Researchers won't have to wait decades to see what works; they'd just see the retina spots shrink or disappear, and before any brain damage is done. 
 Wow. So now that we know a (potential) cause. We know what to do with prevention: 

&gt; By blocking this process with a drug, they were able to prevent the formation of plaques in the brain that are characteristic of Alzheimers disease, and also halted memory loss in the mice.

~~Is this drug available for human consumption?~~ Yes

&gt;difluoromethylornithine (DFMO)  is already being investigated in drug trials for certain types of cancer and may be suitable for testing as a potential Alzheimers therapy.

**What about what I'm equally interested in - Treatment for those who already have Alzheimer's?**

 Is this a treatment for those who already have it and wish to reverse it? No :( but it could prevent it from progressing. Does this breakthrough have potential to lead to the reversing? Probably not :( To even begin restoration we have to create methods of removing the plaques that are created, and then restoring the neurons that the plaques destroyed. Neither of these have solutions at the moment. The Paper:

Kan MJ, Lee JE, Wilson JG, et al. Arginine Deprivation and Immune Suppression in a Mouse Model of Alzheimers Disease. The Journal of Neuroscience. 2015.

http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969.short Are the plaques you/they refer to Beta amyloid plaques?  Yes I wonder if this drug would work for other neuro plaque diseases ie. The amyloid plaaues formed in huntingtons disease. 

Also, seeing as the therapy influences arginine, would it have an effect on blood pressure?  Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think huntington's is caused by plaques. To my knowledge, it's caused by destruction of neurons in the neostriatum. The only other disease (I know of) that causes plaque buildup are prion diseases, which are a whole different class than Parkinson's.  You're great for doing this.  http://today.duke.edu/2015/04/arginine?utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+duke%2FaSRA+%28Research%29

Journal article isn't out yet, but here's the press release from Duke. Key things the Independent article doesn't mention:

-The 'immune cells' are microglia, and in this AD model they seem to be proliferating more but expressing genes that suggest the immune system is suppressed, which is contradictory and unexpected since they are immune cells.

-The microglia aren't exactly consuming the arginine, they seem to be producing (or at least correlated with) high levels of an enzyme that breaks down arginine

-The drug they tested blocks that enzyme's activity As someone working on Alzheimer's, I would like to see people being more skeptical of articles like this. This one is a textbook example of a clueless reporter overestimating results that may or may not exist originally, with no source or link to the original article.

The role of arginine in Alzheimer's is surely worthy of investigation, but seeing people call it a "potential cause" is terribly misleading.

EDIT: wow, thanks for the gold! That's a first! =) The journal article is being mentioned by other science reports.  It isn't published until tomorrow.

Kan MJ, Lee JE, Wilson JG, et al. Arginine Deprivation and Immune Suppression in a Mouse Model of Alzheimers Disease. The Journal of Neuroscience. 2015.

http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969.short Really glad to see research is continuing. Alzheimer's is a devastatingly horrific way to die. Thanks for the source. I'll have a look tomorrow. =) Journal article is up now: http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969.short From what I understand, it's not the plaques themselves that cause the damage, but they are more of an artifact of the pathology (although I'm not sure this has been totally settled). Instead, it is the soluble oligomers that are what's really doing the damage. While having plaques is probably not a good thing, I would hypothesize that preventing plaque formation probably means very little if you can't stop formations of the oligomers to begin with. Not to mention Tau is gumming up the works intracellularly.

It's probably been a good 2-3 years since I've looked at any papers on this; anyone with more expertise care to comment on this? We still don't know whether plaques are a cause or consequence of the several phenomena we see in AD. To this day, we are still not even sure the the Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) actually does.

We all have A to some degree. Is it good? Is it bad? Would clearing it completely cure the disease? I don't think anyone can answer with certainty at this point.

Add Tau to that equation, and it all gets a lot more complicated, as we still haven't found a way to link both these mechanisms together.

In the past couple of years there was a lot of advance in our knowledge of APP and Tau processing, but this is still "basic research" that may or may not have future applications. I've been exploring the recently proposed Inflammation Hypothesis as a potential causative theory of AD. This review by Knuesel et al. (Deciphering the mechanism underlying late-onset Alzheimer disease) provides compelling arguments for the step wise progression from chronic neuroinflammation -&gt; hyperphosphorylation of tau -&gt; axonal microtubule instability -&gt; formation of axonal swellings/varicosities -&gt; APP transported along microtubules as a protective response getting stuck along these swellings (along with autophagolysosomes/mitochondria) -&gt; leakage from these APP filled swellings -&gt; AB plaque formation / intracellular components entering the ECM further driving a viscious cycle of chronic neuron-inflammation
Also this review by Krstic et al 2013 provides some interesting ideas about some non-conventional APP properties as an  anti-inflammatory/oxidant/excitotoxicity mediator (The airbag problema potential culprit for bench-to-bedside translational efforts: relevance for Alzheimers disease)
I'd be very interested to hear your thoughts on these recent developments /u/wingedotter The Inflammation Hypothesis certainly has its merits, but as with all other hypotheses we arrive at the same chicken-egg problem: which one comes first? Does inflammation generate A? Does A cause inflammation? Does either of those factors affect microtubule stability?

The answer to all of these questions above is **yes**. This is the main problem nowadays, there are so many concurrent factors in AD that is practically impossible to determine which one is the starting point for the disease. All AD patients utilized for research have already had the onset of the disease, so it is virtually impossible to evaluate predictive factors without a long-term study with a big enough sample size. The best we could do to this day is apply knowledge obtained thus far to add these factors to AD model mice, and while they work beautifully within their own limitations, they're highly artificial: we know exactly what we're putting in there.

APP and A are certainly observed after traumatic brain injury (which makes the "airbag" analogy clever), but whether this is a response to damage or simply the consequence of the damage itself is still unknown. A as an inflammatory mediator... plaques certainly tend to colocalize with pro-inflammatory factors, but whether or not this is caused by A itself or simply protein aggregation I unfortunately cannot say. As an excitotoxicity mediator, I'd have to say the same. Energy deficits and A generation are somewhat related, but the relationship is not yet clear.
A as an antioxidant, as the review you linked suggests, is certainly novel to me. I can consult with a colleague working with antioxidants and A, please remind me in a couple of days if you'd like a better response to that one. &gt; This one is a textbook example of a clueless reporter overestimating results

I'm guessing it has more to do with the fact that "BREAKING NEWS: CURE FOUND" garners a few more page views than "News Alert: Something we were already studying continues to be studied". &gt; "BREAKING NEWS: CURE FOUND"

but come on that's exactly what this headline is not. "potential", "may have". I'm the first one to complain, but here I was rather amused by the overly careful phrasing. I feel like "breakthrough" and "potential cause" really doesn't go well together to be honest. How do we know it's a breakthrough if we're not certain it's the case... Any opinions on this as a researcher? http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2769828/ The link between Diabetes and Alzheimer's is quite interesting and there are groups working on it, specifically concerning the Amyloid Precursor Protein in the pancreas.  It appears that in Type 2 Diabetes, obesity can trigger increased amounts of amyloid protein aggregates that are also found as deposits in Alzheimer's patients

http://www.jci.org/articles/view/71981
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24879150
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20814419

Why is this interesting?  Well, there is a growing school of thought that the protein deposits seen in virtually all neurodegenerative diseases [may actually be transmissible from cell to cell](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24504409).  This means that if amyloid deposits started in the pancreas, they could actually travel up your nerves and into your brain.  In fact, there are some [experiments that have demonstrated this using the synuclein protein in Parkinson's](http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00401-014-1343-6).  Perhaps neurodegenerative diseases can start in the gut. Coincidentally I did a short seminar based on this topic a couple of months ago. =)

The similarities are interesting and the use of insulin sensitizers for diabetes-related dementia is promising, but this is still a very fringe area within Alzheimer's research. Not all results from animal experimentation can be extrapolated to humans, and not all AD patients have diabetes or any metabolic impairment.
To me it seems both are a collection of individual "micro-diseases" that we end up diagnosing as a whole. This. Alzheimer's runs in the family. Almost exactly every six weeks theres a new potential cure. Since I've been passing attention to it, um 15 years now. Very very few of these breakthroughs ever pan out. Aricept is what 10 years old now and it's our best drug? So sick of the kiddie futurism here. This is a non trivial problem to solve. There are breakthroughs in science every day. In this sort of field, things take YEARS to go from in vitro testing to the market. One of the articles you've read may well be the cure, its just that results won't be absolutely conclusive and deemed safe for usage for years after we first see promising research  This is why I think that drugs for terminal diseases should allow for human testing sooner. As someone with Alzheimer's in their family, I would gladly volunteer myself if it meant I wouldn't slowly lose my mind as I watch monthly news reports of potential cures slowly enter new testing phases... Depends on the drug trial. I know of a few that actually seemed to speed up the Alzheimer's degradation. In my opinion the word breakthrough is an inappropriate way of describing what happens in scientific research, *especially* biomedical research. I think "advance" is much more appropriate.  I don't think it's fair to call these breakthroughs "kiddie futurism". Their point is to open new paths to follow, that may or may not lead to a cure. Arginine could very well have a key role in said cure. Or it may not. Whatever the case, the breakthrough had to be done to better understand the disease - a disease that is seemingly non-trivial, as you say.

I say hurray for the study and the involved researchers. I agree. This is just how science and research works. It's extremely unfair to characterise any display of optimism as childish futurism. I can understand being frustrated by the way that the media reports on it though. Clickbait is annoying. The article is more highlighting a new avenue to go forward with future research. A shift in the thinking and approach to Alzheimer's could be what's needed to break ground in the future. Hey, my great-grandma died of the disease, my grandma has it in its early stages, and my mom carries genes putting her at high risk. I do not share your skepticism. 

Earlier breakthroughs did not lead to a cure, they led to Alzheimers being detected earlier and drugs allegedly causing symptoms slower to progress. Recent breakthroughs have yielded insight into potential prevention strategies for source of the problem, which I don't think has happened before.

I hope and believe that if research keeps progressing at this rate, we're going to have a cure in our lifetime. Yep, Alzheimer's research is one of the best examples of promising results in basic science but disappointing clinical studies. Especially every time we learn during clinical trials... that we aren't mice. The research into the cause is typically fairly simple. Affecting change without destabilizing the rest of the system too much (safety vs effectiveness) is considered the bigger hurdle in developing the cure. Assuming for a moment that this research was that magic bullet (cause), further studies to prove it will run into the next 5 to 10 years depending on funding, researchers time (this specific group and others), and review of each subsequent non-clinical study. Then, if we're very lucky, it's another 5 to 10 to get the right drug and/or biologic to affect it, with similar studies for non-clinical safety. Then we'd probably see an approximately 1 to 2 year small-scale study for clinical (safety only), followed by 2-3 years of a larger scale safety and efficacy trial. Finally, it's another 1 to 3 years for an even larger scale study before it can hit the market. 

Assuming a lot of luck and an intelligent research group who does parallel work, you're looking at 15 years before you'll see a drug hit the market. In reality this is more like 25-30 simply because this is still preliminary research, science isn't well funded these days, and the FDA would scrutinize the dickens out of anything that wasn't longitudinal in nature. 

If you're the average age of a redditor, the time you start to see signs of Alzheimers and/or dementia in yourself is when you'll see this on the shelves. Your older family members should still look towards standard care for the foreseeable future.  What's your opinion of the recent Australian study that proposed using targeted ultrasound to break up plaque? The technique itself has potential, but I see some limitations in their approach, though this does not diminish their achievement or discovery.

- Humans are considerably larger than mice. How powerful would the ultrasound need to be to affect humans? And wouldn't this affect other things?

- Microglial activation per se is not necessarily a good thing and can cause serious damage. My uncle was diagnosed with (forgive me if botch the name) Frontal Lobe Aphasia.   I have done some research but I am not learned enough to come to a proper conclusion.   He is currently being given free medical care at a university in San Francisco.  The treatment is free because my uncle is donating his body/brain to science after death.  So my question is...Would this be something different that Alzheimer's?  and if so is the catalyst of the problem similar to an immune system problem? Can someone explain why I shouldn't be overly excited and tell grandma she's cured? Doesn't sound like it makes it return back to normal, just not get worse. That still seems too good to be true. Being able to eliminate alzheimer's from the future is huge.  Yes, this is a fantastic discovery. No reason to not get excited about it, every bit of information helps!  [deleted] Yeah, for now it's just an important step/discovery that should be praised. I don't understand why people are so skeptical. It's not like they said they're curing it yet. They said they might've discovered a cause. How is that not good?  It was also in mice and not humans.  Like everything else it is unlikely to get to a pill form. Also, though this has been proven in mice, it has not in humans.  This makes me wonder how many drugs may have worked on humans but we never got around to testing because they failed in mice. **THIS IS THE ULTIMATE FACTOR OF THIS STUDY**

I had to capitalize that to get your attention. /u/Cookiedoh is right. Just because it's happened in mice does not mean it will work on humans. It possibly may work, but you have to unders
tand *both sides*.  You're right. But as with **anything** you do tests on lower animals. Just because it only seems to be working on mice right now, doesn't mean that it wouldn't work in humans.

Yes it hasn't been proven, but many successful drugs worked in mice and "hadn't been proven" to work in humans until the necessary clinic trials were conducted. We can't dismiss this just because it was in mice.  True, but for conditions that involve the inflammatory response, [mice are not a good model](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/02/12/science/testing-of-some-deadly-diseases-on-mice-mislead-report-says.html). Many drugs that work in mice for immune-related problems don't work in humans. Whether microglia (the immune cells of the brain) are included in that finding, I don't know. I don't know if I'd go so far as to say that mice aren't a good model for the inflammatory response.  They are quite useful for studying the inflammatory response, particularly in autoinflammatory &amp; autoimmune responses - we just need to recognize their limitations.  Humans are just much more complex, are not identical to mice, have way more environmental factors and just in general have way more variation but we've learned and will continue to learn a lot from mouse models, especially for the immune system-related topics.

This said... I don't study the neurological system so I can't speak for how well things translate from species to species in that field... This has only been shown to happen in mice, and while they are one of the best mammalian model organisms for diseases since there are laws against the use of primates, there are obvious differences in the way that the human and mouse body reacts to different treatments. 

Another issue with these mouse models is in the fact that they don't accurately represent the human form of Alzheimer's. While they typically exhibit some of the characteristics of human Alzheimer's, in this case the ABeta plaques, the same mouse model often does not exhibit the tau pathology (another characteristic of human Alzheimer's). Therefore we have no idea whether the treatment would work the same way in humans as it does in mouse models since it's possible that there are other interactions that are actually responsible for the human symptoms of Alzheimer's. 

These are just some of the many points that I can make, but overall it's still great news, just that we still need to test it on human patients before we can accurately judge how useful it will be.

Source: Researcher in developmental neuroscience  Do you believe we could have cured Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases if we could use non human primates for testing? We can and do test things on non human primates.  The issue is that we don't understand the disease well enough to make a good model in any animal.  There is no point in using primates if our best models to date are in mice.   I'm not sure whether or not it's legal where you're from, but in the UK (where I'm from) I don't think modelling diseases using primates is legal. I also think that the reason that our best models to date are mice is because we aren't allowed to experiment with primates enough to produce good models. 

However, you do make a good point saying that we don't understand Alzheimer's well enough though. If I remember correctly a major proportion of humans suffering from Alzheimer's are sporadic cases (meaning we don't understand the genetic mutations responsible for these cases). This forces us to model Alzheimer's using known genes which are only responsible for a small percentage of Alzheimer's, so that even in the event that a cure is found found for the disease, it may only be effective in these patients. That said, this argument can be made for mouse models as well.  Using primates in the UK is legal for research. The reason why they are not used as much is money. Primates are more expensive to house and neurological studies that are done in mice take 1-2 years whereas in primates it would take decades. Not many labs have the funding for these long term experiments. Well it would definitely streamline the process of developing and testing new drugs. Given the similarities in ape and human genetics, the pharmacological effects of the drugs are more likely to work in humans once they have been found to work in ape models. 

However there are obvious ethical issues to using apes in drug testing, and the current laws are in place for these reasons. As a result we've settled with working on mouse and rat models which are somewhat less accurate, but still acceptable models for the diseases. Oops I forgot to answer the question. TLDR; It's difficult to say, since we haven't actually developed a treatment for Alzheimer's yet. I do believe that our understanding of the disease would be accelerated if we were allowed to work on primate models, however there are ethical concerns with that, so we make the best of what we have.  Well, you should get really excited if your grandmother is a mouse. Does this mean that Alzheimer's is an autoimmune disorder? Nah. An autoimmune disorder involves your body's immune system actively turning against your body's cells, recognizing its own cells as foreign. If this is a main driver of Alzheimer's-- and that's a *huge* if-- then it's just the microglia malfunctioning, but they're not actually attacking the neurons, just starving them of arginine. That's how I understand it, at least. As a younger guy with Rheumatoid arthritis, I'm not thrilled. My immune system is already an asshole. I don't need it getting any more ideas. It would be interesting to see if there is an increased risk for people with RA, crohn's, etc. "The number of people living with dementia in the country is set to rise to above one million within 10 years". why is this? aging population

 I would think the aging population, and a higher rate of diagnosing certain diseases like dementia that would have been attributed to just aging in the past. There was a big spike in population growth back in the 40s to the 60s, which you can see in [this graph](http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databriefs/db60_fig1.png). Those people are now reaching the age where dementia becomes a more common problem. Well, dementia is actually just a broad term for neurological conditions that involve serious mental impairment, e.g. memory loss, but Alzheimers is actually a specific disease. While a certain percentage of dementia cases are treatable, Alzheimers is one of the majority that has no viable treatment, coupled with early onset makes it a particular nasty disease.  Alzheimers typically has a much early onset than what is just considered typical senior dementia.  At a certain age the mind, like all the organs, just begins to fail. That isn't necessarily a result of a specific disease though, and even some of these dementia cases are still treatable to a degree. So, this is why aging population contributes to increase in dementia, but doesn't necessarily mean increase in Alzheimer cases. am i wrong or is everything being whittled down to inflammation and immunity? I was suffering regular seizures and mental health issues until I stopped eating grains to which it seems I and many others am intolerant. It cured my lethargy and chronic sinitus as well.

 There is a growing amount of anecdotal evidence that diet plays a far greater role in poor health than previously believed.
 Original article doesn't link to paper but here is info for anyone that cares:

"Arginine deprivation and immune suppression in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease," Matthew J. Kan, Jennifer E. Lee, Joan G. Wilson, Angela L. Everhart, Candice M. Brown, Andrew N. Hoofnagle, Marilyn Jansen, Michael P. Vitek, Michael D. Gunn, Carol A. Colton. Journal of Neuroscience, April 15, 2015. DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4668-14.2015

I don't think it's actually available yet though, but probably will be within a day or two. I doubt the author of the article read anything or understood a single word said to them. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What about tangles formed by tau? Could arginine's role in nitric oxide production be relevant here? I wonder if long-standing vasoconstriction could impair the clearance of amyloid deposits and therefore facilitate the deposition of senile plaques in the brain. 

Regardless, I am very interested in seeing where this goes! &gt; They observed that in Alzheimers, immune cells that normally protect the brain instead begin to consume a vital nutrient called arginine.

Herpes simplex virus is correlated with Alzheimer's disease, and it relies on arginine for reproduction. Perhaps this is an immune response to prevent HSV-1 from reproducing? (That could be triggered by a variety of other causes of course.)
 Random question, does sleep have to do anything with Alzheimer's? Absolutely! The exact role that sleep plays in Alzheimer's Disease is being study by many different groups coming at it from many different directions. 

A little over a year ago, a [paper in Science](http://www.sciencemag.org/content/342/6156/373.long) suggested a role for sleep in clearance of metabolic waste accumulated throughout the waking phase. One specific metabolite examined was amyloid-beta. Additionally, multiple studies have shown that Abeta levels increase progressively in the ISF throughout the day and with sleep deprivation. In this regard, one could hypothesize a potential role for sleep disruption in exacerbating AD symptoms/pathology, but more research is needed in this area. 

Others are approaching the sleep/AD question from a more symptomatic perspective. That is, examining the sleep disturbances associated seen in patients already diagnosed with AD (or suspected AD), and attempting to develop therapies to help with those disturbances. Behavioral disturbance, including sleep disruption is one of the most common reasons for institutionalization of dementia patients given by caregivers.

This is really only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the connection between sleep and Alzheimer's. I didn't even begin to talk about circadian disruption or brain pathology. Good question! Good question! Sleep is thought to be an important part of the process of forming memories. So, ensuring quality sleep for people with Alz, like my mother, may really help them remember to the best of their abilities.

See this explanation for more info....

http://healthysleep.med.harvard.edu/healthy/matters/benefits-of-sleep/learning-memory My dad has Alzheimer's. Can anyone tell me if the likeliness of actually being able to get my dad cured within the next, i don't know, 5 years or so ?  I'm sorry but an actual cure to Alzheimer's is a long way off. We still don't really know what causes it.  I find it much more likely we will come up with a way to prevent it from starting before we come up with a method to reverse the effects once it has, and even then it is unlikely you will ever get the original person back in the same way.  Brain damage is nasty. Very, very low.  We have a much better understand of cancer, HIV, etc and we still don't have a cure.  Alzheimer's is a terrible disease to have. Does this mean my great grandma will remember me again? Now we just need some way to track this info and get regular updates on it. Don't let the public lose this in the news cycle! That is how information gets abandoned and suppressed! The unfortunate part of these headlines from 'breakthroughs' in mice studies is that patients come in the next day asking when the drug will be available.  I hate to say it, but there is a 1-10% chance this will end up being a useful strategy or treatment in 10-20 years. I wonder how many people die of things their children will have cures for. Please see:  Smallpox (not technically a cure, but a vaccine), Polio (same), Plague, etc.

Answer:  A massive amount in the past.  We can't be sure in the present, but it is likely the case.  We have reached the point where while we can't defeat HIV we can keep it contained for several decades, are starting to figure out some cancers, and may actually find the cause of Alzheimer's this century, and if we do we may just be able to figure out how to stop it.  Right now the primary issue is we really don't know the cause and are taking shots in the dark at things correlated to it hoping it will help. So basically it just helps it not get worse? That's the best we can hope for with modern medicine. Reversing brain trauma is leagues above where we are right now. [deleted] Please don't ever get your hopes up on something that was only just discovered in mice.   Especially Alzheimer's mice. Alzheimer's does not occur naturally in mice, so to create mouse models of the disease, they induce it. If you cure it in mouse models, it could mean that you found a cure for Alzheimer's... or it could mean that you inhibited the method that the designer of the mouse line used to induce it in the first place. Guess which is more common!

I'm skeptical that this will lead to an effective treatment in humans. Does anyone know if this same process is what may cause general age dementia in older adults? Or is Alzheimers a completely different beast? Completely different in the sense that the mechanisms are not fully understood for all of them, but dementia is just a general term for describing conditions with severe mental impairment, e.g. memory loss, so in that regard they are in fact related (all Alzheimers is dementia, but not all dementia is Alzheimers). Some forms of dementia are treatable, but Alzheimers is a specific disease with no treatment and the mechanisms are not yet fully understood. man oh man oh man do I hope this is legit. My mother's side of the family suffers from Alzheimer's hard and I'm so not very looking forward to dealing with its slow and painful drain on everyone around her in the next 8-12 years... or my own inevitable struggle in 30-40 Unfortunately, the way the medical system works, if you already have the disease, you will not live long enough to be helped by the breakthrough. It will take at least 20 years of testing to be sure the side effects are not worse than dying from the disease.  I just lost my grandmother to Alzheimers a couple of days ago. By the end she was barely able to speak. It's a horrible way to go, may the world be rid of it soon. Anyone have a link to the actual study?  Just came out today
http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/15/5969.short I'm selfishly angry that I'm reading this mere weeks after my grandmother who suffered with Alzheimer's until the day she died is gone. Can't be the only one.  You aren't the only one, believe me.  I can understand your pain. But at least you can reconcile in the fact that most likely there will be a cure by the time your parents are in the age range that it might affect them.  [deleted] It is not.  But it is related to it in ways we do not understand.  There has been no research that I am aware of that has shown any particular diet has any effect on Alzheimer's.

Also those food pyramids are outdated. Currently working in a lab doing research on Alzheimer's and diet/metabolism is another interest of mine, so I can answer a couple of questions here.  The reason why there is no big picture is because no one exactly understands how the disease works.  Each researcher has their ideas that sometimes conflict with each other.  

A diet pyramid is oversimplified and doesn't apply to diabetics at all.  Not all bread, pasta, and potato are created equal.  Pasta generally has a low GI for a carbohydrate.  Sweet potatoes actually have a low GI as well.  The diet should also be different for Type I vs Type II as well.   Anyone have a link to the journal publication? Not released yet. Closest thing I could find right now is the Duke press release. http://today.duke.edu/2015/04/arginine?utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+duke%2FaSRA+%28Research%29 Thank you! &gt; "Arginine deprivation and immune suppression in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease," Matthew J. Kan, Jennifer E. Lee, Joan G. Wilson, Angela L. Everhart, Candice M. Brown, Andrew N. Hoofnagle, Marilyn Jansen, Michael P. Vitek, Michael D. Gunn, Carol A. Colton. Journal of Neuroscience, April 15, 2015. DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4668-14.2015

Typically Journal of Neuroscience is released on Wednesday, but I don't see their website updated yet. Probably tomorrow or Friday it will be available. Save the above and you should be able to find it once it posts. Thanks! I believe [FDA requires fish on sushi served in the U.S. to be frozen first.] (http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/08/nyregion/sushi-fresh-from-the-deep-the-deep-freeze.html)  Thanks this is a really pertinent article [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Requires, maybe. I had a partner that worked at a  high end Sushi bar. They would send him to the airport (air freight) to pick up freshly caught  fish. Yes, it would be packed in a Styrofoam box that was set inside another Styrofoam container that held dry ice. But the fish wasn't frozen. They'd use it the moment he brought it back. 

Your article supports this too:

&gt;But because of health concerns and growing demand, **50 to 60 percent of sushi in the United States is frozen at some point in its journey from the ocean**, according to wholesalers.  That's misleading. The FDA does indeed require that, but the FDA doesn't govern restaurants. Any raw fish sold *with the intent to be consumed raw* needs to be cold processed. I can still sell a fresh fish to a restaurant, who can then serve it raw to customers. That's perfectly legit.

In practice most fish is at least frozen, if not fully cold processed, but it doesn't have to be. A restaurant has the right (unless limited by local codes) to sell fresh fish intended for consumption raw. Wholesalers do not.

Edit: Even the caveat in the article is misleading. "The Food and Drug Administration does not enforce the frozen-fish rule, leaving that to local health officials." Yeah, they don't enforce the rule because it's outside their jurisdiction. This makes it sound like they have the option of enforcing this rule. FDA doesn't inspect restaurants. They have no power there. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Naomichi Yasuda of Sushi Yusuda, a world renown sushi restaurant in Manhattan, says fresh fish has no flavor.  He says the thawed product is better than fresh, and freezes fresh fish as soon as it arrives.

edit: spelling [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Sushi "Freshness" isn't a simple function of time, but rather timing the process so the fish tastes best when on the plate. Most serious sushi places put lots of effort into timing this and often "age" primals of tuna and such. Well, according to this study he is wrong as well. *Among 120 rounds of discrimination testing involving the consumption of 240 pieces of mackerel sushi, unfrozen sushi was believed to taste better in 42.5% (51 dishes) of cases, frozen sushi was thought to taste better in 49.2% (59 dishes), and the participants felt the taste was the same in 8.3% (10 dishes).*

*For squid, unfrozen sushi was believed to be superior 48.3% of the time (58 dishes), and frozen sushi, 35.0% of the time (42 dishes). They were felt to be the same in 16.7% (20 dishes)*

The study supports the idea for mackerel.   To me those percentages looks like random guessing. That's the point. It supports the idea that the participants were unable to tell the difference between frozen and unfrozen foods. There seem to be a lot of people who look down on frozen foods and talk about how they are able to taste the difference; no surprise it turns out that they're probably full of it. Anyone got a study about this but for steak? That's the point of the study, but the point being made in this thread is that the chef saying frozen sushi tastes better is also wrong. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's likely though that great chefs like Yasuda have a more refined sense of taste and smell than the general population. He might be able to sense something others can't. &gt; He might be able to sense something others can't.

What difference does it make if you can't sense it anyway? It's not like he is going to eat your food for you. How about the other chefs that swear that frozen fish tastes much worse? Put them to the blind test as well.

Simple testable hypothesis with a study that wouldn't be too expensive.

Go. Do it. Now. It would be interesting to take a survey of opinions from the most highly regarded chefs around the world and see where their opinions diverge and where they converge.  Survey? I'd rather see them do the double-blind study on these chefs. 'Expectation' is an interesting thing and can have a strong effect. Wine is another good example. If you tell your dinner guests that they're drinking a $150 bottle of wine when you really just bought one for $15, you'll get a few tell you that it was the best they've had. I remember Penn and Teller did a funny segment called 'The Best' staged in a restaurant setting where they served well-presented meals talked up by a a waiter that were made with the cheapest possible ingredients (a lot of things from cans, almost expired stuff etc). All the diners said the food was amazing and some remarked the best they'd had for a long time. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] That's the point.  That's why this research should be repeated. It's a worthwhile effort as it could have a number of direct benefits for consumers, the fishing industry, the environment, and overall health.  Is 53.35% vs 46.65% over 120 dishes statistically significant?

[There's a 26.1% of 120 random coin flips hitting heads 64 or more times](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%09++Probability+of+getting+64+or+more+heads+in+120+coin+tosses) The point is that there's no statistically significant difference in taste, so why not freeze it and prevent some people getting sick? That's a perfectly valid conclusion (the numbers show little statistically significant difference from a random coin flip).

However /u/contraryexample is arguing more than that - they are taking the small numbers the other way as strong evidence that frozen tastes *better*. That would be an incorrect interpretation, given the small sample size. [deleted] If you read the article itself (which is freely available) you will see that it does indeed address this:

&gt;For mackerel, only 13 of the 40 participants demonstrated con-
sistent answers on their evaluation: 5 favored unfrozen sushi 3
times consecutively, 7 favored frozen, and 1 participant answered
that they tasted the same all the time. For squid, only 7 partici-
pants answered consistently: 6 favored unfrozen sushi and 1 fa-
vored frozen. Only 1 participant showed consistency in all 6
dishes, and this person favored unfrozen sushi all the time. Mackerel Sushi is one of the hardest for non-sushi eaters to like because of the immensely strong fishy taste (my fav part). Perhaps the freezing is destroying that taste making more people "like" it because it doesn't taste as intended. Most mackerel, notably Spanish and King, gets even fishier (and much softer) when frozen.  A lot of people around here will throw their mackerel back unless they plan on eating it that night. Is there a statistically significant difference? They did do a stat. analysis, right? They wrote that the p-value is 0.11 So not statistically significant, then.  Correct me if i'm wrong, just trying to make an educated guess as a former stats students. The p-value is related to the area found from a test statistic, correct? Wouldn't we need the alpha to compare the p-value state our claim? There are only three real alpha values of note: 0.1, 0.05, and 0.01. Obviously you want to shoot for 0.01, but values bellow 0.1 are still significant. Anything above 0.1 is generally considered to be insignificant. Shame p-values can be somewhat misleading if you are not careful. I've read a few studies relevant to their research where they saw and effect then discounted it because the p-value wasn't low enough. In reality their experimental design wasn't great, but they did see a real effect.  The p-value was 0.45. The p-value for squid was 0.11. Absolutely not! The population studied in this experiment did not consist of master chefs; the findings are not necessarily generalizable such experienced people. They used medical students. In fact, take a look at one of the main exclusion criteria:

&gt; Individuals who eat sushi more than once a week were also excluded from the trial, as they were judged to be gourmets, beyond the average Japanese palate. 

They specifically excluded people who might have a developed palate and a more discriminatory ability.

What this study shows is that this practice of freezing, which greatly enhances the safety of the food, has a negligible enough effect on the taste that most people won't pick up on it. That does not mean there is NO difference or that people with refined palates would not perform better on a similar test. That may indeed be true, but it would take a separate study to confirm. [deleted] [deleted] All and all, a good study.  There are a few issues with generalizing this study to say "the quality of sushi is not ruined by freezing."

1. I didn't see any measure of how frequently the subjects consume mackerel or squid sushi specifically, and only 11/40 were frequent consumers of sushi in general (more than once a month).  Frequent consumers may be more discriminating.

2. The sample was primarily young men, limiting the study's ability to be generalized.

3.  The study only looked at two types of fish.  It's possible other fish react differently to freezing.

4.  The experienced sushi chefs were not told which fish was frozen, but that doesn't confirm that they were not able to tell. Also depends on the freezing process. 

The freezer most people have at home... not good for freezing fish. Those are OK for keeping stuff frozen but not good for the freezing activity it self.  

Industrial processes such as flash freezing etc really wont affect the quality. I know that all local (caught where I live) blue fin Tuna is all flash frozen same day and flown to Japan for sushi. Mackerel and squid are *terrible* choices to test. Neither is a soft texture based nigiri. Hell, mackarel, or saba, is usually served lightly pickled, similar to western pickled herring.  Your number 3 should be in all caps bold. Not only just two types, but two very distinct types... 

-- Mackerel (could be "saba" or "aji") undergoes a kind of [curing and pickling process](http://www.sushiencyclopedia.com/sushi_menu/mackerel_sushi.html) before serving, to help preserve this fish that goes off quicker than tuna, salmon etc. 

-- Squid is not even a fish, it's a cephalopod.

I am curious whether the most common completely-*raw* **fish** would pass this test (maguro/tuna, sake/salmon, hamachi/yellowtail...) and the experiment seems to leave them conspicuously absent. Maguro is frozen after being caught.
Salmon is always frozen to kill parasites. Very true. [Just look at this map showing the distribution of effort for big-eye tuna in the Pacific](http://www.earthtimes.org/newsimage/pacific-conservation-measures-big-eye-tuna_121012.jpg). There's no way a fish is going to be consumable if it's not frozen immediately.  I live in Hawaii. Fresh tuna is very consumable. Nice try, we all know you just eat SPAM. &gt; -- Mackerel (could be "saba" or "aji") undergoes a kind of curing and pickling process[1] before serving, to help preserve this fish that goes off quicker than tuna, salmon etc.

Sanma is also a variety of "mackerel" in English although it's a different fish.  FWIW. &gt; -- Squid is not even a fish, it's a cephalopod.

That's not really the point.  Actually I think it is stronger because they used two different types of raw sushi ingredients instead of just multiple kinds of fish. -5. Figure 1 shows a picture of a parasite in the stomach lining of author K.I. in 2006 - seems that he has a potential bias towards freezing raw fish [Anisakiasis is really unpleasant](http://www.cdc.gov/parasites/anisakiasis/). If it happened to me, I'd be freezing my fish, too. 1 and 3 are big things for me.  Mackerel is a very strong, distinct fishy taste and not quite as 'subtle' as many other types of sushi, in my opinion.  If there were a fish to be least affected by freezing, I'd have started with mackerel as my educated guess.

And of course 1 is correct that frequent consumers of sushi (aka, the only people who would actually bother to care about whether their sushi is frozen or not) may be more discriminating. &gt;Individuals who eat sushi more than once a week were also excluded from the trial, as they were judged to be gourmets, beyond the average Japanese palate.

Direct from the study. I officially judge it useless if they excluded people who actually LIKE sushi and just picked random joes on purpose. &gt; in my opinion. If there were a fish to be least affected by freezing, I'd have started with mackerel as my educated guess.

Yep...I was thinking...why pick one that has to be soaked in vinegar for 24+ hours? &gt; All and all, a good study.

*All in all Any study with only 40 people in it should be taken with a grain of salt. A lower sample size makes it *harder* to get a significant finding (p&lt;.05). The real weakness of small sample sizes is the difficulty in capturing small effect sizes. With a moderate effect size a sample size of n=35 is perfectly acceptable. If your effect size is r=1.00, samples of as little as n=12 are sufficient.  Thanks for bringing some statistical sense to the discussion. Depends. In this scenario,  as it's looking to see if someone can tell the difference. Between previously non frozen or frozen fish, 40 is an acceptable number. If it were which fish was more liked,  or trying to draw non boolean conclusions,  yes,  it would be low.  You're right.  For a discrimination test like this, 40 people is usually enough for significance.  However, you can only generalize the results to the population those 40 people represent.  In this case, that population seems to be young male college students who occasionally eat sushi. &gt;  In this case, that population seems to be young male college students who occasionally eat sushi.

WEIRD problems

http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2013/05/weird_psychology_social_science_researchers_rely_too_much_on_western_college.html

http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2014/06/developmental_psychology_s_weird_problem_children_from_rich_educated_families.html Maybe young male college students are the only ones willing to eat free sushi?  I dunno. When I took psyc100 in undergrad I was forced to participate in 2-3 experiments without compensation.  Because it's unethical to force someone to participate against their will, the opt-out is to write a bunch of long essays on current psych research. No one opts out and researchers get free research subjects. And all of these research subjects are college students. That's not all. A lot of research is conducted by grad students, who have connections with universities and thus have ways to get other college students to participate in their research. Universities are just common places in general to find people to participate especially if compensation is provided. It's even better if it is conducted on campus because it's something that a bored college kid might be willing to do in between classes or whatever. They aren't all forced to participated because of classes they take.

I know when I was in university I had a bunch of emails from this professor or that professor about different studies. There were always a bunch of fliers up for them, too. I participated in one actually (no compensation but it was really fun so I considered fun to be my compensation). The fun trick is to opt into the studies and then immediately withdraw from them. It's unethical to punish/discourage someone from dropping out of a study, so they can't make you write the essays instead at that point and you get full credit for signing a piece of paper basically.

Maybe not a great idea if you're a psych major, however... That's is something a lot of people with some knowledge of statistics miss - 40 **independent** data points can be enough, but 40 people in a study are rarely independent data points. It's possible for 40 correlated data points to be worth less than 10 (or 5 or 2) independent data points. [deleted] [deleted] Or a drop of soy sauce Not true. https://youtu.be/mkr9YsmrPAI And a little wasabi What would be a number that should not be taken with a grain of salt? 40 is actually a very large sample size given the design of the study. If there was an effect, you should be able to detect it with 40 subjects.   That's not true. 40 people is PLENTY for this.  If the selection of data points was truly random, yes.  [deleted] I thought pretty much all tuna was flash frozen the minute it was caught. No chef would buy fish that was rotting on a ship all day if it was going to be sold raw. Usually it is iced down and put under an insulated space blanket while onboard the boat (small rod and reel or stick boat(harpoon). This cools it, as they heat up during the fight. It can stay this way for all day, no problem. When the fish is sold to the distributor at the dock, they check the temperature to make sure it is nice and cool. Once at the distributor it is flash frozen. Maybe this is different for ships vs small boats somewhere?. Massachusetts it is all small boats, ICE and space blankets. There is nothing wrong with this practice/method Aren't the fish still alive with that method,  just barely?  From my encyclopedic knowledge of tuna fishing gained by watching Big Tuna for ten minutes a couple of weeks ago, they have to spear the fish dead just to get them in the boat because they're so damn big and strong.  The fish is killed by driving a spike into its forebrain and running a line down its spinal cord (similar mechanically to checking the oil in a car). If they do not lobotomize/kill the tuna immediately the fish releases enzymes and other chemicals while it is freaked out which change the taste of the fish. Tuna intended to be sold as sushi are expected to be not only killed immediately, but to have their spinal cords destroyed, in order to minimize rigor mortis. Keep in mind this is flash frozen, not take it home and toss it in your freezer frozen... Considering that the very best tuna is always frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after it is caught and kept frozen till after it is sold I am surprised that it took a study to show this.  I believe that tuna must be frozen for a certain amount of time in order for it to pass food tests. In order to make sure any parasites die. I could be wrong but I know specifically that one type of meat must be frozen first. If I'm remembering correctly I'm pretty sure tuna is what I'm thinking of. You're thinking of salmon, not tuna.  I looked it up after I posted. You're right. Nope. Not tuna. Its the only fish that ISNT under this law. I'm pretty sure the freeze it like that to keep it as close to just caught as possible, the fact that it kills parasites is a bonus...

The liquid nitrogen freezes the fish so fast that there is no noticeable damage to the flesh.

 Isn't all fish sold as sushi in the US frozen?
 Yes. ITT: Americans with little knowledge about FDA regulations.  http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/08/nyregion/sushi-fresh-from-the-deep-the-deep-freeze.html

everything except tuna. And who are religiously attached to the notion that somehow sushi is better in coastal cities - never mind the fact that half the species you're eating don't exist in that ocean! Jiro from "Jiro Dreams of Sushi", regarded by many as one of the finest sushi chefs in the world, buys his tuna frozen. 

Good enough for me. Is there even a fishery of any significant scale that *doesn't* flash freeze right on the ship, immediately? Short of small catch, lower volume, hobbyists, smaller boats that don't go as far etc, it's virtually impossible to buy fish that has not been frozen. Certainly not on a commercial scale. I worked in a Japanese restaurant for eight years. I've eaten a hundred pounds of fresh tuna cut straight off the slab and another hundred from frozen blocks. I guarantee you the difference, at least for tuna, is significant.  This sounds cool but... there's 3 big problems which may keep this from living up to its billing. I feel like they're obvious enough points that the authors couldn't've failed to notice it, but I don't see them addressed in the key section, ["Ingredients Preparation"](http://cid.oxfordjournals.org/content/60/9/e43.full#sec-2):

&gt; Mackerel and squid were selected as sushi material, as both are known to possess Anisakis and are used frequently for sushi. One week prior to the experiment, both mackerel and squid were purchased at a market in Osaka prefecture, and they were frozen in a freezer at 40C. Two days prior to the experiment, the same mackerel and squid were purchased at the same market and were kept in a usual refrigerator. The frozen fish were moved to the refrigerator on the night before the experiment and were defrosted there overnight. For mackerel, Masaba, the vernacular name for Scomber japonicas, caught at Wakayama prefecture was selected. For squid, Kensaki-ika, the vernacular name for Photololigo edulis, caught at Tottori prefecture was selected. The species and the site of the fisheries were identical for both the frozen and unfrozen ingredients. On the morning of the experiment, 2 sushi chefs cut mackerel and squid into sushi-sized pieces. They also cooked sushi rice (brand name, Koshi Hikari, made in Ishikawa prefecture), and the same rice was used for every piece of sushi for the experiment. 

Two red flags here:

1. If they merely bought all the ingredients from the same market, how do they know for certain that the ingredients hadn't *already* been frozen and defrosted at some point in the supply chain? Obviously, if they had, then they are not measuring the taste difference between frozen and unfrozen, but frozen once &amp; frozen twice. They don't mention verifying the non-frozenness all the way back to the original fishing boat, or any verification; it sounds as if they simply assume there is no freezing, which may or may not be reasonable, but is something that should be checked as it is plausible and completely destroys the study if they're unlucky.
2. The methodology doesn't live up to the billing as a blind randomized experiment. If they bought on different occasions, then they're *comparing entirely different catches*, aren't they? They're comparing catch A (which was frozen) with catch B (which was fresh), not the frozen half of catch A with the unfrozen half of catch A.

    This is being advertised as a randomized trial, but doing it this way destroys the randomization! The difference between groups is now not due solely to the intervention, but reflects the day to day variation in tastiness of catch as well as any causal effect of freezing; perhaps the batch that got frozen was from a good catch, and the fresh batch was a worser batch, and that's why no difference appears to show up.

   (It would be like trying out a new drug on the patients sitting in your clinic at the moment, then waiting a year and trying placebo on the current batch of patients; comparing the two groups of patients' outcomes may be relevant info since they have the same diagnoses and come from the same neighborhood, but it would definitely not constitute a randomized trial because your patient groups will systematically change over time and this confounds the comparison...)

    It would have made more sense to buy one big batch, freeze half of it, immediately defrost it, and eat it. (Waiting a few hours/weeks doesn't add much, since all chemical reactions slow down considerably at 40C and most of the damage in freezing/thawing is done immediately; if you freeze fish badly and ice crystals shred it, then the fish is bad the minute it hits the icebox, it doesn't take another day to suddenly go bad.)

&gt; Individuals who eat sushi more than once a week were also excluded from the trial, as they were judged to be gourmets, beyond the average Japanese palate.

This also isn't helpful... If you're trying to make the case for *mandatory* freezing for *everyone*, restricting your sample to ordinary eaters is irrelevant since they probably wouldn't notice in the first place and it's the gourmets who will suffer. Such a range restriction also reduces the sensitivity of the study further; if you showed gourmets don't notice then it follows that average sushi eaters won't notice either, but if you show average sushi eaters (probably) don't notice then you still don't know whether the gourmets will notice. (Might've made more sense to include any gourmet subjects and include that as a covariate in a regression.) sushi is usually served quickly so the accelerated degeneration of the flesh caused by membrane disruption of sharp ice crystals does not come into play I was unaware that the damage caused by ice crystals isn't immediate. Do you know how long a peice of meat needs to unthawed for for it to start displaying a change in taste or texture?

I also believe that sushi grade fish is flash frozen in order to minimize the size of the crystals that form. That must have a huge impact on the quality of the meat after it is thawed. The damage is actually more about how fast it's frozen than how long it stays frozen. If you let water cool slowly, the crystal growth process has more reversibility and larger crystals form, which rupture cell membranes and generally ruin the texture. If the fish is frozen very quickly the water has no time to grow crystals and just stops moving like a glass, and the texture is well preserved. it takes 36 hours to freeze a 500 lb tuna.

http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/08/nyregion/sushi-fresh-from-the-deep-the-deep-freeze.html [deleted] How often do people get sick from parasites from sushi? Just wondering how common this problem is.





 Very rarely, regardless of it being overseas or in japan itself. Fish going overseas are all frozen, but sushi fish that is consumed in japan, is not. The fish for sushi in japan though, is tested though. Every catch is tested so the actual risks, are extremely small. It happens, but the risks are very low. This is probably true for most, but I'd wager that someone that makes sushi for a living and as an art form can tell the difference.  Please freeze your sushi-grade fish to specified temperature and duration.

I pulled a six-foot tape worm out of my butt before.  It was not pleasant and I still wonder how many little egg/cysts that dude left in my innards.  Please tell me you sought medical help for this? Fresh frozen. Just like Gordon Ramsay likes it I guess that kind of makes sushi the food you cook by freezing it.  [deleted] we wouldn't even have salmon sushi if it wasn't for freezing to kill the parasites. ALL salmon sushi is previously frozen Aquaculture engineer here. We know this and cattle and swine industries do it, too. 

AMA Like hell it isn't. Eat sushi at a restaurant near the west coast then eat sushi from a place further inland. The taste difference is night and day.

 "sushi" is a very general term.  I would assume they would have done a study on Ahi, which has always been frozen at least once by the time it gets to your plate. Unfrozen tuna has a markedly different taste and texture than thawed tuna. It melts in your mouth fresh... it's simply amazing. This is double blind taste test obviously used people without discernible palates. -Sushi Chef

I am all for freezing the fish and killing the parasites. But to say it doesn't alter the flavor and texture is patently false. They didn't use tuna, though.  They used squid and mackerel. True. The title is pretty whack... considering sushi means "vinegar seasoned rice" In a New York Times article from 2004 that /u/contraryexample linked to elsewhere in this thread, ("[Sushi Fresh From the Deep...the Deep Freeze](http://www.nytimes.com/2004/04/08/nyregion/sushi-fresh-from-the-deep-the-deep-freeze.html)") both the late Shin Tsujimura, sushi chef at Nobu, and Masa Takayama, owner of Masa, routinely and unapologetically use frozen fish. 

Tsujimura was very clear when he said that in blind tests, he simply couldn't tell the difference. This was a man with nearly three decades of experience in developing his palate for fish. I can tell the difference. A business owner that says he can't doesn't mean anything to me. I came to the comment section super triggered, but realized the study was done using only mackerel and squid. There's no way in hell frozen tuna comes anywhere close to the fresh ones.  Hasn't Jiro been saying that for decades?  I've had tuna that was messed up, I believe due to it being peppered and treated and then frozen.  Could there be a way to thaw the fish or freeze it that would ruin it? If you flash freeze it. That is freezing really really quickly. It stops large crystals from forming in the frozen water. Smaller crystals do less damage to meat. The faster you freeze it the less damage happens to the meat. If I put a thawed fillet in my freezer, it would have a good chance at ruining it though, right? What kind of fillet? My dad makes his own sushi at home and if he doesn't use all of it he'll refreeze it. Depending on the fish you can't really taste if it's been refrozen. Ahi tuna and then salmon.  The ahi tuna was really bad, like inedible bad. If I'm not wrong, home freezers can't freeze it fast enough, allowing larger ice crystals to form and ruins the texture of the fish. yes.  if you put a raw fillet in liquid nitrogen you may be able to keep it for years. Atleast in Massachusetts the fish must be frozen for 7 days before it can be declared "sushi grade" Freezing prepared sushi or just the fish before preparing? I mean they freeze all the fish anyway to kill parasites. I'm asking this only because killing parasites was mentioned in the title. more importantly, considering in the comments above-- all the fish gets frozen after capture, what about freezing left overs? is it ok to take the sushi home and  save for a later date by freezing?  No. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Which is why this part of the article is really important:

&gt; In addition, most of our Facebook friends tend to post about the good things that occur in their lives, while leaving out the bad. If we're comparing ourselves to our friends' 'highlight reels,' this may lead us to think their lives are better than they actually are and conversely, make us feel worse about our own lives.

Besides it being a highlight reel of a person other studies have shown that the people who post the most on facebook are in general more unhappy than the other users. By which it is also suggested that these people who actually feel bad/depressed about their lives use facebook to create the version of themselves they would actually want to be and not the person they are. In other words, when you compare yourself to facebook profiles you are comparing yourself against an idealized picture someone created of themselves. When you don't take this in to account it is really depressing to yourself. But when you do take it into account it gets a bit sad when you realize that this trivial profile you are reading is an actual idealized version of a person. But that might depend on the profiles have on your facebook. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Its the same for self confidence. If you base your own self worth on the external validation from others you will never be happy. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Has anyone studied Reddit like this? Reddit is mostly anonymous so it removes the direct comparison to people you know.  Not to mention the quality of content is generally superior and actually informative/interesting, depending on what subreddits you follow. The downvote function would also be a big point of difference, allowing for the better posts/comments to get to the top and keep the crap away. &gt; depending on what subreddits you follow. 

That's a huge caveat here. On most of the defaults it's an exception to the rule. :-D There is so much misinformation to wade through, even on the front page. I mean seeing a lot of low quality things on facebook is probably correlated to low quality facebook friends. Reddit would have a totally different effect. Actually, I realise that the more interesting my life gets, the more boring reddit is. But life isn't interesting all the time. So the feeling comes and goes. 

But it was very interesting how during those more busy moments in life where I would go to reddit our of habit, and suddenly everything on here looks really boring and uninteresting and I stop surfing very quickly. 

And when my life gets boring and stagnant, reddit suddenly becomes the most interesting thing ever and I can't leave.  [deleted] [deleted] That's why I'm only friends with 12 year olds. What's that? You got an A on your spelling test? Well my company matches what I put into my 401K. What's up now, bitch?

I'm one of the greats.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] But what if you're the one with the good life? Does that help fight depression?  Yea, that was my thought. I'm really satisfied with my life. I love my job, make good money, am happily married, get to travel all over the world. I've never felt bad looking at Facebook and seeing what others are up to. I enjoy the "wow, time, crazy. look at what these people are doing" sense of things, but I never feel inferior. 

My guess is that for people who are already dissatisfied with their lives then facebook reinforces and accentuates those feelings. But I highly doubt facebook is likely to produce those feelings when they are not already there. Not comparing oneself with others...comparing oneself with only the best of all their friends.  Rarely do I see someone post something that shows their vulnerability.  If I were to compare my work troubles, women troubles, weight fluctuations, etc with my friend's professional family portraits, world travels, date nights, etc, I'm going to get pretty depressed [deleted] [deleted] And when you do reply, the likelihood of being horribly misunderstood is almost 100%. Uncountable numbers of arguments, ending friendships or even marriages, have probably started just because someone misinterpreted someone else's post.  [deleted] [deleted] Yeah but people who are in a good place in life don't spend excessive time on facebook comparing themselves to others - They post their pictures, give a few thumbs ups, and continue having a good time in real life.

The qualifier for this test automatically filters out people who are winning.

It's like saying "Trolling others on the internet is linked to having poor social skills". One doesn't cause the other; they're connected.

edit: yes I know the article mentions they're linked. leave me alone. &gt;It's like saying "Trolling others on the internet is linked to having poor social skills". One doesn't cause the other; they're connected.

What exactly do you think "linked to" means other than "connected"? They're literally synonyms. 

The author of the paper even says "It doesn't mean Facebook causes depression". Being "linked" doesn't connote causality. Having a bookshelf in the living room is "linked" to good grades in school, but putting bookshelves in everybody's living room isn't going to turn every kid into college-bound geniuses. However, bookshelves are clearly linked: parents who value books enough to get bookshelves and books and keep them around are the parents who tend to push their kids to learn and do well in school.  Yeah, this is a really important point. I don't think it makes any sense to try to claim that using Facebook has this effect on everyone. That's clearly not the case, although you sometimes do see people making that claim. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Goffman's *Presentation of Self* (1959) in a nutshell and applied to the cyber generation.  Anyone know a way to strip down Facebook use to just Messenger? Now that this whole concept has really hit home after multiple independent studies, I'm making a change.

I want people to be able to contact me through Facebook, but that's it. Thinking I might just have to brute force it and uninstall the main Facebook app on my phone and have some plugin for the browser that drives me away from Facebook. Edit: Found a plugin, it's called Anti-Facebook. Just immediately closes the tab when you try to go to Facebook. You can link your Facebook to skype. I use skype as my main source of contact with other people so it is convenient for me. [deleted] [deleted] Or perhaps depressed people are attracted to Facebook? &gt; "It doesn't mean Facebook causes depression, but that depressed feelings and lots of time on Facebook and comparing oneself to others tend to go hand in hand," said Steers.

The study doesn't aim to establish causation. More research is needed for that. from their discussion:

&gt;    Finally, in both studies, we tested the possibility that the predictor
&gt;    (time on Facebook) and the outcome (depressive symptoms)
&gt;    might be reversed. That is, highly depressed people might spend
&gt;    more time on Facebook, perhaps in an effort to bond with others,    and therefore, might be more prone to making social comparisons
&gt;    However, after testing this alternative model in Study 1, we found
&gt;    that the mediated effect of nondirectional social comparison was
&gt;    nonsignificant. Likewise, in Study 2, the reversed indirect effect was
&gt;    marginally significant for nondirectional social comparisons with    Facebook time as the outcome variable only (but not for Facebook
&gt;     logins as the outcome). Moreover, upward and downward social
&gt;     comparison indirect effects failed to reach significance. These results
&gt;     render additional support for our hypothesized process model that people who spend more time on Facebook on a daily basis people
&gt;     are more likely to compare themselves to others and in turn report
&gt;     greater daily depressive symptoms (regardless of gender). [deleted] [see this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/31oacu/facebook_use_linked_to_depressive_symptoms/cq3myz3)

when you develop models of indirect correlation, you can develop a model that is the reverse.  ie

model:

facebook -&gt; comparing yourself to others -&gt; depressive symptoms 

reverse model:

depressive symptoms -&gt; comparing your self to others -&gt; facebook

they are saying that based on the data that the model is more strongly supported than the reverse. I think there is a little more to it than that but thats the best i understand it.

 According to [this article](http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/ppm/3/4/206/) its both. People with lower trait self-esteem spend more time on Facebook, and people exposed to Facebook profiles that lead to upward social comparisons led to lower ratings of state self-esteem and relative self-evaluations. [deleted] It said "linked to".  Not "facebook causes depressive symptoms" [deleted] I think that's almost what the title is saying.   It sounds like the title is saying that happy people begin to feel inadequate when comparing their lives to others on facebook leading to depression, while the poster seems to state that people look to facebook once in depression as a solution and seeking human connection. I've seen this with a few people I know. I've had to tell them it's really unlikely that everyone is fine dining every night, lavish vacations every month, their kids are perfect, they are always happy, etc...  well that's just part of life. You're not gonna post every bad thing that happens.

If I have something worth sharing then I will share it. We live next to the beach and love it, so we share photos. I don't share photos from my recent long hours and long commute times or my gut [deleted] 
This quote is so true. 

'The reason with struggle with insecurity is because we compare our behind the scenes  with everyone's high reel'..  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] comparison is the thief of joy [deleted] Christ, what the hell happened in this thread? Was wondering the same. No one wanted to be associated with Facebook post? Just a normal day for /r/science mods [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Of course it does. Facebook reinforces your brain's nagging assumption that the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence. [deleted] Same with Twitter, Instagram and basically any social media site. It's just another way people compete with each other. &gt; Facebook linked to depressive symptoms

Chicken or egg situation? Everyone commenting here seems to think cutting out FB could help depression. Could it not be that people who have low self-esteem seek out things like FB to seek approval and end up feeling even more miserable? So FB is a result rather than the cause of their depressed feelings? The trouble with using Facebook for social comparison is that you're comparing your behind-the-scenes footage to everyone else's highlighs reel. I honestly can confirm this. For a while I lived on Facebook. This actually made me really, really sad because I kept feeling like other people's lives had more meaning than mine, simply because they post highlights of their weeks. After I finally faded away from Facebook I started becoming happier and more confident in general. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Is the same true for imgur i wonder? [deleted] Perhaps because looking at people's trivia,  and their egocentric and narcissistic behaviour is depressing. Also people use the platform to make their lives seem much better than it is really is, people start using it a comparison point.  [deleted] [deleted] Deleted....same effect from reddit??....deleted....deleted....deleted.... I'm very curious why everything is getting deleted Because this is r/science, not a place to air unfounded opinion or anecdotes about what happened when someone deleted their FB account. Mods enforcing the subreddit rules. Oh OK good to know I was curious I deleted my Facebook five months ago and it was the best decision I ever made I feel so much more mentally healthy and the amount of time I save is huge! Well it's not just Facebook though, is it?  It's always been said - you stop buying trashy magazines with 'Celebrity puts on 5 lbs in massive binge eating session - the fat slag!' headlines and you really start to feel good (and honest) about your body again. 

Facebook just happens to be another way to do it.   Half of the comments are deleted? :/ Depressed feelings are correlated to spending a lot of time indoors.

Spending a lot of time indoors is correlated to spending a lot of time on the internet.

Spending a lot of time on the internet is correlated to spending a lot of time on Facebook.

**Publishing correlational studies is not difficult.**  Put "Facebook" in your study title, and it gets more publicity. The jumps in this study that spending time on Facebook accurately assesses level of "comparing oneself to others" is... not good science. 

We're upvoting this because of our views of Facebook, not because of any scientific merit. Depression has no correlation to being indoors or outdoors. That is just plain generalisation. You can be outside the whole time and be sad, and vice versa. It's very much correlated to being indoors.  From an evolutionary perspective, it's a mechanism that constrains your energy usage when our ancestors had to hold out in caves for long periods of time.  There's loads of artifacts from our evolution that we question but make perfect sense given the context within which those traits were favorable. [deleted] [deleted] My old alumni just got a few hundred K NSF grant...I cried a little inside...we struggled for funding while I was there. Sadly, a majority of it will go to the medical center/hospital, leaving little for the actual uni. That may all be true. From my unscientific observations, people today, thanks to smartphones are glued to social networking. Buss ride? Facebook. Elevator? Facebook. It's all day long for a lot of normal non depressed people who have real jobs and don't spend all their time indoors. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I did the same thing about a year ago. I couldn't stand all of the false perceptions people felt they had to portray. The people that were my "friends" were just numbers on a wall. We never socialized, never talked on the phone, never really shared experiences in life. They were just a number and a picture on the internet. I dunno, maybe I'm just some weirdo that prefers face to face human interaction. So I guess what I'm trying to say is, don't feel bad about the loss of social networking on a dumb website like Facebook. There are far more interesting people there to share life with. I can see this. I get upset when I see all my friends buying houses and new cars/second cars and the likes.

But then I also delight in seeing those things getting repossessed and getting divorced, and other hardships. It's the only reason I keep facebook around. I really enjoy misery. Cars? Houses? Try children. I looked this article over.

1)  Small numbers, poor statistics, poor age-match (the control group was substantially older), no multiple-comparisons corrections, dozens of nonsignificant results for every p&lt;0.05.

2)  The hypotheses proposed were tested via proxies.  Examination of the bibliography reveals that the evidence for these proxies relating to the actual entities under study was established solely by referring to papers in which the study authors were involved.

3)  There's no medical consensus that EEG is useful in the diagnosis of cognitive performance; indeed, there's substantial medical consensus for the inverse.

4)  "Chemotherapy" is not further defined, other than to note it was "adjuvant" in all cases, which is redundant and not particularly informative when the procedure it was adjuvant to is not defined.  The cancer survivors are noted to have included people "from stage I to IIIa."  Chemotherapy regimen A is not chemotherapy regimen B; if the effects under study are proposed to be the effect of one drug, or if the proposal is that multiple different drugs produce similar effects, those facts should have been made explicit.

5)  No effort to monitor for medical PTSD, which is well known to contribute to post-chemo cognitive difficulty.  Tests for anxiety are not adequate to rule this out.  To my mind this is the fatal flaw of this study.  A cancer diagnosis is incredibly stressful.  A more appropriate control group, if the effects of chemo were to be investigated, would have been a group of breast cancer survivors who did not receive any chemotherapy.

6)  No effort to check bone density, which is well known to be changed by certain breast-cancer adjuvant therapies and which is well known to influence the electrical permittivity of bone.  Since scalp EEG is profoundly influenced by permittivity of bone, this was an unforgiveable error.

**TL;DR:  Bad science.**  

I don't mean to suggest that chemo brain doesn't exist or that investigation of its causes are unimportant.  Chemo brain does exist and investigation of its causes is very important.  I don't think this article gets us anywhere though. Thanks for the comment. It's a commonly vocalized problem amongst people that have had chemotherapy that their brain is different. Loose studies are loose studies though. While I am a layperson that suffers from the side effects of neurological issues following chemotherapy, it's not exactly clear if it was high sustained stress, ptsd, or actual neurological changes associated from doxorubicin or taxol. I AM different however, so it was nice to see a study on it at all. Considering the route response by oncologists is that "chemo brain" goes away after about a year. It didn't for me, but there are probably innumerable factors that go along with this outcome not included in the study.  hate to pry, but different how? (if you don't mind saying) My mother's just finished chemo and if it's anything serious beyond just lack of concentration I'd sorta like to know what to watch for. In my case, my short term memory has suffered, I have intense fatigue, my short term memory is worse, my focus wanders, my short term memory has deteriorated, I have trouble analyzing large amounts of data, and something is up with my short term memory.

[Look, for all I've gone through, I need to be able to laugh at it.]

I was a software developer who worked on intense software: pharmacy/medical data, the 911 system, scientific software, military, etc. the high-level functioning needed for these is gone. I've lost my career, my livelihood, and a part of my self-identity with it. 
 Hey, thanks for the comment.  If you wouldn't mind, could you elaborate at all on your experience?  I haven't read into this at all before and I'm curious. Hey, thanks for posting this. You seem scientifically literate, I thus urge you to check the databases you have access to for Chemo Brain or 'Chemo Fog' as it is more often called now. Literature on the condition identifies the causation of Doxorubicin to neuronal oxidative stress and ETC complex 1 leakage. We also know that 5-Fluororacil and Cisplatin are much more effective at killing oligodendrocytes than cancerous cells. The causation and literature have been established. This article is by far not the first to divulge the issue, though I agree there's some sloppy science going on there. None of those agents would be used in treating Stage I to IIIa breast cancer. Actually, I was treated with Doxorubicin for Stage I breast cancer, as part of the AC+T regimen. Christ, really?  Goes to show that chemo isn't chemo - it's not one size fits all.  What was your tissue diagnosis? Good point. I had Grade 3 Her2 positive, weakly estrogen positive. Herceptin had just been approved in my province so I received it as well.  

I was 25 at diagnosis, and that will be 10 years ago in June, but being so young they treated it aggressively. I don't know what the current treatment protocols entail...

I really appreciate your scrutiny of this narrow study!

(edited for punctuation) I'm currently being treated for grade 3 her2 positive, weak progesterone positive bc.  I'm 32 so they are also trying to be aggressive.  Unfortunately I'm also pregnant so right now I'm only on the a/c regimen.  Once the baby's born I'll be given taxol and herceptin.  Just to give you some insight on what they're doing these days (although it's slightly turned around given my circumstances).

Very happy to hear you're still going strong! The one good reply buried in non scientific replies. I believe the other people in this thread that say that they have the chemo difficulties described, but I greatly appreciate your ability to critically analyze a study. A second study on this problem that addressed your points would be greatly beneficial. It needs more than one more study done. Try dozens of other study showing the same result before anything conclusive can be said. There needs to be a consensus on the subject before any conclusions can be drawn from it. To put it simply this paper on its own means nothing. This paper plus a dozen more would be of interest but as pointed out it has some serious flaws.

I know it sucks to hear people talk about their problems but from my experience people are all to quick to lie even to the person they profess to love. People are notoriously bad at being reliable hence the need to rely upon evidence instead of the confessions of a person. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] can confirm. It gets better over time though and i suspect a psychological component. It feels so unreal for a while and after chemo your mind tries to find a way to cope with everything.  Yea I would suspect that whole "I might die" thing would be distracting.  That, and depression would be a big part of it. I had testicular cancer a month before I turned 20. All of this hits pretty close to home. I'm 25 now and the whole being infertile thing still fucks up my day now and again. Damn, dude. I'm sorry to hear that. But thank you for sharing.. I'm 25... Maybe I should make a deposit in a spermbank just in case.  I got a couple samples on ice, but they were also lower count cause Luda, my left nut, is no longer with us. Just got a couple samples from RZA. Then it's like, extra scary cause I really really need to be sure about which woman I'm trying to wife up, making sure she ain't a future ex wife. It's kind of silly, and I'll be the first to point it out, but it makes the whole thing a lot more, idk, intense and stressful for me. You named your left nut Luda...any woman not wifin' you is gonna regret picking the boring uncreative shmuck they marry after you. I bet his right one is named Chris He called it RZA in the same comment already. o my bad. i didn't understand that at first
 I recognize my opinion is in the minority, but as a divorced two-baller with no kids I think it's more important to **not** bring a kid into a dysfunctional environment than it is to procreate. I'm almost 40 and recognize that my chance has probably passed, and I'm okay with that. The point is don't let fertilization anxiety spoil other life pleasures. Could always adopt, get one that's been pre-potty trained. Indeed. At this point I figure either adoption or meeting someone with a kid will be the only way I become a father. But it's important for OP and others in our situation to know that having children isn't the only marker of success in life. Humans have outgrown existing purely for reproduction. personally i'd go with Method Man but to each their own.  Doesn't start with R did i woosh? Not really, he just named them **L**uda and **R**ZA for **L**eft and **R**ight, so Mef wouldn't fit. &gt; . It's kind of silly, and I'll be the first to point it out, but it makes the whole thing a lot more, idk, intense and stressful for me.

Not at all man. Its a legitimate life concern, and don't let anyone downplay it either. You have every right to think about it.  I don't know if this will relieve you of any stress or give you a hope boost, but scientists have made *a lot* of progress on turning stem cells into sperm and eggs over the last few years alone.  [Here's an article on it.](http://www.nature.com/news/rudimentary-egg-and-sperm-cells-made-from-stem-cells-1.16636) Fellow ball cancer survivor... DO IT.  Absolutely.  One of my big regrets is I never did it in time.  Now I have to wait for cloning technology, or just hope the woman I marry doesn't mind adopting or doesn't want kids. Keep a close watch on advances in fertility technology.  While it's not likely that your ability to reproduce naturally can be restored, I'd say it's a near certainty that you'll be able to have children that are genetically yours.  The research is pretty far along on producing gametes from adult stem cells.  However, it will initially be very expensive and not covered by insurance, so if this is something you really want, focus on building a well-paying career and living beneath your means. [deleted] had testicular cancer shortly after my 26th birthday, freezed up some sperm, not technically 100% infertile now, but chances for "normally" getting a women pregnant are grim. 

That beeing infertile stuff comes up in mind my from time to time, i am 31 now, no desire for kids makes it easier to cope with it. That beeing said i often feel uncomfortable at the thought that my gf might want children some day and i can't "deliver". [deleted] I totally hear you there, but I'm glad you're ok. In the end, that's the most important. 

Watching my BIL die from something that was basically incurable was the hardest thing I've ever done. Your "i might die" quote needs to be changed to "fuck, i am dying", at least thats what was going through my mind at the time.  Indeed . . . I dealt with renal cancer, and there was no chemotherapy available because kidneys are basically filters -- throwing drugs at them doesn't result in a lot of medicine finding its mark.  Fortunately it was caught early in an unrelated scan, so I was a good candidate for cryoablation.  However, the first treatment was unsuccessful, so I went through two spans of time when I knew I had an especially deadly sort of cancer growing in my body.  That alone is a seriously mind-altering phenomenon. Can also confirm. Still in chemo brain phase. Having A.D.D. also doesn't help with the mix. A lot of the times if you ask me what you said just a few minutes ago, I won't remember. This. My last chemo was in '97, but I can't tell what is chemo brain and what is ADD. My wife - bless her - has had to get used to repeating herself a lot. 

At work though, I'm still pretty good. Maybe not all I could have been but doing better than most. But I ain't gonna start writing any novels soon.  When you were on chemo did it feel like being really drunk or was that just me? I wasn't fully conscious for most of mine. It was like being on pre-surgery anesthetics for 6 months straight. It felt like  having the flu and a bad hangover at the same time.
 For me it was like having a fairly bad hangover without the fun of the drunk. OMG when does it get better? It's been 21 years and I can't remember shit. I try so hard and I feel like I have to work ten times harder to remember 1/4 of what's currently going on. Before chemo I was sharp, like crazy sharp, I never forgot things. But now, I have lapses of time, entire weeks that I have no idea what the hell I did at work or home unless I reference my planner or email to jog my memory. Even then, the details are still sometimes fuzzy. I hate it so much.  [deleted] [deleted] I'm glad there seems to be some sort of actual study to 'prove' it, but when I started chemo 6 years ago, they seemed pretty well aware of it.  The doctor explained it to me, gave me a pamphlet with more info, and gave me the impression that it was accepted as fact.

However, I haven't heard anything definitive as to when it goes away - I'm 5 years in remission and I still get hit with bouts of chemo-brain.  It's somewhat unnerving (bordering on actually worrisome/scary) to not be sure if it's still minor traces of chemo coursing through you, or if you're actually just scatterbrained, and that's simply your natural state.

Good luck to all you survivors out there.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Nowhere in the article is an assertion made as to why chemo brain exists or happens. This is a purely correlative study with some physiology.  I heard about this at my first chemo session, and assumed it was a joke among the people, just using chemo as an excuse for forgetfulness. i mean we have a very good excuse for being a bit forgetful, and I just assumed that this was the source of the perception that our minds and memory suffered. But after my first round, I called my doctor in a mild panic, demanding a neuro consult and afraid that it had spread to my brain, because I was not just distracted, I was genuinely confused and having trouble with complex tasks that I used to breeze through. He gave me my consult, although he suspected it was just chemo brain, and he was right. I was still on short term disability at that point, and I began to genuinely fear that I was losing my ability to do my job. My last job with the company was a promotion based on self taught coding skills that involved me producing very complex reports that could basically boil things down to the level that a 6 year old could read them, so naturally they wanted me to produce these reports for the senior leadership. It was extremely stressful too, because I got the job for work I had done and taught myself, their demands quickly blossomed into much more complex stuff, and I felt like a teacher who was only one page ahead of the students in the textbook for the longest time. But now I was genuinely panicked because I did not think I could recreate it any more. I called my boss, and begged him to save my code on a drive somewhere, or to not turn in my laptop (too late), or to burn it onto a CD for me. After all, this was my resume now, if I chose to stay in that field of work, and I did not get my old job back. He did not do any of the things I asked, and I have not been able to return to work yet, and it has been 5 years. Many people do not understand my fear of this, because they assume that since I created it once, I can do it again. But much of it was complex stuff that I created, and I had a set of basic templates that could be adjusted to apply to so many different things. That is where you get true efficiency in a job like that. It is chunks of code that you save and build on and nurse into powerful stuff over months or years, plus one-off oddball things you may only need once in a blue moon, but when you need them, there is no easy substitute. Well, the asshole did nothing to save it for me, not even keeping it on a server somewhere for me if it violated company rules for me to have my own copy of it. If he had just done that, I could at least use it again in a different position in the company, if/when I return to work. Now I have nightmares about returning to work, and just staring at a screen unable to do anything. I tried to recreate some of it, but it felt like it was gone. Plus, it is not exactly something you can practice on your PC at home. I feel like I have lost IQ points from the chemo, and it is frustrating as hell, and leaves me wondering what I will be able to do when I am able to work again. As I was reading this thread I was thinking that chemo brain sounds like it would completely ruin a software engineer's ability to do their job. I hope things work out for you man. I'm not surprised there are negative effects, basically they're poisoning you and hoping it kills the cancer first. [deleted] [deleted] Come to think about it, I guess my uncle was pretty spacey after receiving chemo treatment. 

 Thing is, the cancer didn't actually kill him.. The medication made him dizzy &amp; he fainted in the bathroom, smashed his head against the toilet on the way down. 

  Seriously, fuck cancer.  Dealing with this firsthand. I was diagnosed with cancer in my mid-20s and did some pretty heavy duty chemo. In my life before chemo, I started reading before I was 3, was never below the highest percentile on any standardized test I ever took, graduated with highest honors from one of the best colleges in the country, was accepted to one of the best graduate schools for my field in the world, had my undergrad thesis courted for publication in more than one academic journal, and was overall pretty smart. I had to defer my admission to my grad program for a year to do cancer treatment. 

It's five years later and I've never been the same. I still graduated my program and have what most people would consider a very successful career, but I'm slow, tired, constantly confused, and always feel like I can't keep up. Sometimes I'll be looking at the microwave while wondering if anyone fed the cat, and will ask out loud whether anyone has microwaved the cat. 

Worst of all, my cancer recurred anyway and is now stage 4. I'm doing hormonal treatments instead of chemo for now and can hide the recurrence at work, but I can't believe that I basically lost the core of my being, and it was all for nothing. Sadly human medicine can only go so far... when it comes to CA treatments, it is like how we viewed medicine in the medieval times.  100+ years from now, people are gonna look at how barbaric our chemo-therapy was... but this is our best tool in the box until more advances can be done. :(  I've seen this happen first hand, a woman we tried to hire as a server. She seemed lovely and competent but after working a day with her we quickly realized something was not right with her. She would forget conversations we had minutes ago. She reminded me exactly of Dory from Finding Nemo, it was disturbing. It's unfortunate that we couldn't figure out a way to work with her because serving requires an immense amount of multitasking and she wasn't able to handle it. If we hadn't known about the chemo we wouldn't have known what was wrong with her. I teach meditation and mindfulness, and I've worked with dozens of chemo patients over the past decade...I didn't even know this was something that was a question, I just thought it was a generally accepted side effect. I can see the frustrated doctor: "God dammit, why can't my patients just pay attention...o because I've been nuking their brains" I have MS, and difficulties with concentration are a common part of it. I'm curious if what chemo is doing looks at all like what MS does to the brain/nervous system. To those interested about *why* this happens:

**Collateral Damage in Cancer Chemotherapy: Oxidative Stress in Nontargeted Tissues**

http://triggered.edina.clockss.org/ServeContent?rft_id=info:doi/10.1124/mi.7.3.6

And 

**How chemotherapy damages the central nervous system**

http://jbiol.com/content/7/4/11 I don't think I had/have anything as bad as what's described in the article but we definitely made fun of my chemo brain a lot when I was going through treatment. Inability to pay attention and lack of memory in my case, which might have been purely psychological. I was diagnosed with testicular cancer the day before Thanksgiving last year and finished chemo late February. My father was always a reader, writes and sharp as a tack. When he began to get chemo for his prostate cancer, I unfortunately saw that man waste away. I would continue to read to him when we were together, but he couldn't concentrate and books he once lover were foreign entires to him.  That's really sad and unfair. I'm sorry. I finished my last round of chemo in June of 2014 for breast cancer. My mind has been in a fog since. Went a psychiatrist for help. She has given me Vyvanse a ADHD drug and I feel like I did pre-treatment. I have only been on it for a week and I feel like a new person its amazing.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Same with anti-psychotics here, a year on and still a problem and headaches, inability to concentrate and balance issues. Random question for the experts here: Is there any connection between "chemo brain" and "pregnancy brain"?  I've never experienced either, but the descriptions I've heard seem similar, and I know there are some similarities in immunologic privilege and angiogenesis between pregnancy and some cancers. It also has a tendency to increase cancer rates 10 years down the line. We are farrr from any kind of cure for cancer. My mom has been in remission for five years after conquering Stage-Four Colon &amp; Rectal Cancer - she still will constantly attribute her absent-mindedness and slip-ups to "chemo-brain". She's in great spirits, but sometimes it's really unsettling. It's real. I've been told chemobrain  goes away after a year. It never did and I am 5 years out now. I'm on 15 mg of adderall XR currently. It helps quite a bit with concentration and just staying awake during the day. 

It's like bad vision. Once there was a sharpness to the world and after chemotherapy everything seems muted and hazy. Like your head is stuffed with cotton. Memory is squirrly, recall of words is often difficult and I am tired most of the time. Working became difficult as I would be simultaneously antsy and exhausted. It was effecting me so much I finally gave in to my dislike for drugs and asked my GP for adderall. Still embarrassed by it though.  I used to be able to read a book in a day or two, now it's a month. Watch a movie? Can't do it... 

Yep, this is real.  Had cancer when I was around 3-4. Chemo treatments worked, and thankfully I got to celebrate my 18th birthday earlier this year. I've had issues concentrating my entire life. The doctors also warned my parents that due to the chemo, I may be sterile.  Fun times.  Suddenly things make a little more sense to me! I had chemo after surgery for testicular cancer. The cancer I beat just fine, the chemo itself almost killed me. I was delusional for several days on top of half my organs trying to shut down. Afterwards I have been diagnosed as ADD when I was not before. This helps me understand why! Thanks OP  For those saying 'it goes away over time' id like to tack on 'if you're young' my great aunt had lung cancer that metastasized to her brain (12 TUMORS IN HER BRAIN AND SHE SURVIVED) and after the intensive chemo she developed dementia which does not occur in our family at all. Youngins May be able to bounce back but the older you get the harder it is, Just like everything else I suppose  As someone with crippling attention and focus deficit, people often underestimate how horribly debilitating that can be.

Worst of all, it appears as laziness to others. 

I hope these people get prescribed stimulants to keep them able to work. So instead of funding research into curing cancer, they decided to study why people on chemo get a little loopy.

Well done. One of my friends got diagnosed with cancer when she was 11. She came back to school a couple years later at 13 after apparently she had been "cured" and you could tell she was different somehow. At 14 she started smoking, we were really good friends and after what she'd been through I didn't want to be a downer on her so I didn't really mention to her it was bad. 

At 15 she started drinking (while the rest of us also did I remember there was a thought it the back of my mind at the time going "She went through cancer, she should not be doing this at our age, it could come back". At 16 she's still the same that is until we get back from the school holidays.

First day back and my friend says "Did you hear? Georgia's dead!". I went "that's not funny man". Well it turns out she did die, her cancer came back and she died 4 days before she was meant to start sixth form.

It's now 8 years later and I still think about her. She wasn't a bad person but I definitely felt that after she went through what she did at such a young age it changed her. She wasn't as interested in school and went from being very bright to not-so. Your story is an example of how extremely difficult it is to separate the effects of psychological trauma and disruption of normal life routines and expectations, from the effects of chemotherapy (not to mention the effects of other cancer treatments, including surgery, which is often followed by use of narcotic painkillers, and radiation).  In the case of your friend, it's also hard to tell how much of her behavioral change might have been the effect of knowing that her cancer had returned and was almost certain to kill her.  She may have made a decision that if she was going to die young no matter what, she might as well "live fast", and she might well have made the same decision if her treatment hadn't included chemotherapy. is this new?  the side effects of what i'm on (interferon, not actually chemo - but the side effects overlap quite a bit) are memory loss, trouble concentrating, confusion It's just starting to be formally accepted I think in the literature. I'm on a few cytotoxic chemotherapies and some TNF-a blockers and that all together screws me up a lot.  As someone who went through chemo in 7th grade, this would explain a lot. Barely made it through high school due to focus troubles. It could be partially genetic though; my brother (one of  4 of them) has some of the same struggles and he hasn't gone through it (the way he described it sounded just like me). Or maybe it brought about the genetic trait that was passive until then (idk if that can actually happen though).  I remember the first time a nurse asked me if I was experiencing chemo brain for the first time I was like wtf is she joking? Nope. It's real but not at all the worst thing about chemo. Imo the pain from certain types of chemo are far far worse than these side effects. For me, Peg is hell. Interesting, I went through about 10 months of chemo at the very tender age of 9. Was considered in remission when I was 10, and I don't remember whether or not I was ever affected by "chemo brain." I am deathly afraid though that I may be infertile, but I sure hope not. I tend to forget things a lot, but sometimes instantly remember as I'm walking away from said place "oh shit, I forgot this there" for any of those interested I am going on 28 yrs old. 18 yrs in remission, not bad. I may be wrong, but I'm almost certain this isn't the "first study to explain" now I'll have to find it My dad is 76, finished chemo over 2 years ago. He was completely absent minded and confused during chemo. He was very irritable as well. Took almost a year for him to start gaining weight and focus better.  My mom is stage 4 breast cancer, and has, and continues, to undergo therapy. She has had chemo brain hit her hard.  My father is currently undergoing chemo.  While he is foggy brained, he's had more problems with being emotionally unstable.  He goes into rages at the drop of a hat.  It's scary, sad, and hard to deal with because you don't want to come down too hard on someone with cancer but at times he really deserves a serious kick in the ass. 

Part of it might be stress but it only really started after chemo started. 
 confirming this. my mom got this during her first heavy round. only lasted a little while.

we laughed about it, it was kinda like she had a buzz going. would do funny things like microwave ice cream because it was TOO frozen. apparently 30 seconds seemed like a good idea. 

shes had other rounds over the years, seems like it's not as bad nowadays for her.  My mom is currently going through this right now... This worries me because it sounds so close to Alzheimer's... She's fighting stage 4 lung cancer and recently had a bowel re-sectioning after they found an abscess and a tumor. She's recovering but she says that her mind is pretty damn foggy and even mentioned the Chemo brain...  It kinda explains alot, my doctors referred to my forgetfulness as "chemo brain" 10 years ago but made it seem like it was a short term effect. Now that's just depressing. I think I would be OK with severe ADD if it meant no cancer. My mom has Cancer, and I can confirm chemo-brain is a real thing. It's so hard to watch :/  I went through a cycle of chemo when I was young child and I have suffered from ADHD my entire life...the stigma behind that diagnosis makes people not take me seriously, it has truly affected my life and I am relieved that I have a study to back this up. Degrassi did a storyline about this last season. Does the research touch on if a lower dose of methotrexate might produce a similar effect? (Or has anyone heard of similar side effect?) Thanks for any input.  Interesting. I also learned this week that it's strongly suspected that giving children under 3 general anaesthetic treatment is neurotoxic and may lead to learning problems in later life. I've been looking into it as our 10 month old was due to start multiple treatments that would require it but we're weighing up the option of waiting  My dad has cancer and to help alleviate the stress, when my dad acts funny we blame it on "chemo-brain"...but we didn't know of an "in-use" term prior to this. Does it make you wander off and disappear for a while only to be found later walking naked around a store?  Has anyone read the study, and if so can you say which chemo drugs they tested?  I'm specifically interested to know the results if they tested methotrexate, and if the results apply only to chemotherapy level doses or if low-dose methotrexate causes these side effects. My 9th grade son has ulcerative colitis and is getting weekly doses of methotrexate to control flares.  It's moderate level, about the equivalent of the treatment for other autoimmune diseases like arthritis, but he still seems to have chemo brain. Compounding the problem, he also has dysgraphia. Better than the alternative. We learned in nursing school that chemo-brain goes away eventually usually about 2 years after the chemotherapy.  Chemo-brain has been known for quite a long time now. Thank you for posting this. My brother finished his chemo in December and has had some difficulties getting back into the area he studied (computer science). With this post we can identify a potential problem and find possible solutions to help him get back into it.  This took research to prove. Stupid, arrogant oncologists  Millions upon millions of pieces of anectodal evidence and we decide to study this now? Are we idiots?  I've had APL 5 times and 2 allogeneic transplants as an adult.  I'm a professional software engineer.  I had really bad chemo brain when I went back to work full time after 4 years of treatment.  After about 1.5 years of programming full time it went away completely.  I'm not saying that programming is a cure for chemo brain, but actively using your brain for problem solving certainly helps.  

EDIT: I wrote a lot of bad code the first 6 months. One thing though: I wonder if they tested for depression. Because these are also symptoms of depression, and I suspect there's a strong correlation between cancer and depression. When my daughter was 4 she was diagnosed with brain tumor.  Tumor was removed  completely, still had to under go 30 doses of radiation to brain and spine and 8 cycles of intense chemo.  She's 7 now and she has problems remembering things and processing things.  Fuck cancer......... I didn't have chemo, but I did have brain surgery to remove a benign tumor a year ago, and I've noticed problems like this since then, albeit probably not as bad. 

Maybe I'm just imagining it, or I'm a wimp looking for an excuse, but it really has felt harder to concentrate, harder to remember things, and harder to be "in the moment" sometimes. I'm pretty sure the causes of whatever I'm experiencing aren't the same as "chemo brain," it just intrigues me that my symptoms sound so much like other comments here. Yeah, this is more or less true. My mother forgets things very easily, can't keep up with current news or pay attention for anything. She's like a kid with ADHD nowadays. Chemo messed her up ;/

I mean, she's still the same person, but a harder person. Well it is better than dying of cancer. Not trying to be funny here. My son's oncologist had to stop her explanation of the possible side effects for the chemo that we would be giving him to remind me of this. Nor am I trying to trivialize the problem. Knowing what you are in for is always a good idea. Wow... very interesting. I had ALL when I was 4 and I went through heavy chemo (I was very high risk). I've been in remission for 24 years now. 

I've had problems focusing since I was in elementary school. But I was diagnosed with ADHD at that age and I always just assumed it was that. But this makes me think
 maybe not... 

I have horrible memory and lose track in the middle of conversations. It may be a combination of both ADHD and chemo brain..but this is news to me. Maybe I should go back to a doctor and discuss this. And this is still the best thing we have for cancer treatment? My god. One day our children's children will be saying "what the hell were they thinking back then?" Of course it's anecdotal, but for me a reality. During chemo I could not concentrate at all. I could only read magazines, not books.  I felt absolutely fine otherwise. It was 10 years last month and I am only marginally better. I was a pilot but had to give it up because I could not multitask and maintain situational awareness.  My routine desk job is challenging because sometimes I can't recall a complete task I did just the day before. Even my husband notices the cognitive changes I have had and blames chemo. But hey, I am still here. I went through Chemo 15 years ago and have searched enough on the internet to make me think it was a purposely hidden side effect. I used sticky notes for years to recall important things and can remember numbers (clock card, pagers, phones) pre-chemo to this day. Only started to regain new numbers in  the last few years. Need a study to prove? How about the patient and families words. Stress also leads to an inability to concentrate. Stress like having cancer. Also, being from dead from cancer can also impair your cognitive abilities, so I'd say, go with the chemo.  My buddy currently is dealing with this, he just finished his treatment, the doctors did tell him that it would go away after a year or so I can attest to this personally. In some ways this and the many other side affects makes you second guess whether taking chemo was worth it. But for most people the risk of not taking chemo just isn't worth it. Welp, if I didn't take chemo, I'd have died over a decade ago. While I do struggle to stay focused, I'm happy to be alive. ;) there is not enough of this sentiment in this thread. I'm happy that you not only survived, but have such a good outlook on it. Cheers, mate! Right before I got my first massive dose of a 3-year-long chemo protocol,  I was handed a whole list of side-effects. The last side-effect of each chemo drug I was on--death. I mean, you name it, it was a side-effect. Huge paragraphs of awful stuff. But what're you gonna do? Say no and die? Might as well try to fight it.  I wake every morning and giggle and say damn, I am alive. It has changed me and made me better, dumb as a post and hiding how dumb I am, but man, it beats being dead. I love being alive. My use of the double negative may have confused some people but I meant that most would gladly accept the side affects if it meant their survival.

If you're out of options, there's no doubt you take chemo with a lusty laugh and ask for more. But to add to the conversation here's something to think about. Some chemotherapy treatments increase chances of survival by up to only 3%. If your chances of survival are already over 80-90%, do you proceed with treatment?

That was my situation with stage 2 colorectal cancer. I accepted chemo to increase my odds because there's always that "what if" scenario lingering in the back of your mind. What if I need that edge no matter how slight?

I'm absolutely happy that I'm alive. Watching my kids grow reminds me how fortunate I am. But I dropped out of medical school, suffered crippling depression for years, and still have lingering affects of neuropathy and mental fugue. I sometimes wonder, was that extra 3% worth it? Father definitely had that after lung cancer and onset into full blown dementia one day we're going to look back at chemotherapy like we looked back at other primitive forms of medicine 

its such a crude, and scorched earth, way of disabling cancerous cell growth - but we're so basic and lacking finesse to surgically approach it any other way

we're mutating the mutations just to make enough of it (hopefully) benign, and theres collateral damage Not really, but we'll look back at non-targeted chemotherapy as primitive.  The technology to deliver chemotherapeutic agents selectively to cancerous cells, instead of basically the entire body, is galloping along very fast.  But much of this is using, and will continue to use the same chemotherapeutic agents that have been used in non-targeted chemotherapy. people should understand the TYPE of cancer mutation and counter it with an algorithmically determined counter-mutation, specific for the kind of person

aswell surgery and containment of cancerous part should improve; and afterwards healing and replacement organs if needed We're a long way from "replacement organs if needed", and also a long way from being able to treat cancers reliably based on the type of mutation(s) they display.  A big part of the problem is that they continue mutating, often in response to a treatment designed to target a particular mutation. mapping the genome and understanding the exact components of human beings would go a long way to this

haphazard, and 1 size fits all radiation blasts, has too many costs at the moment - but atleast we know where we are SUPPOSED to go in terms of tackling this cancer menace

it wont be a pill that "cures" cancer Yes, I took a pass on radiation, even though it was recommended.  I did my homework, and for my particular situation, there was virtually no benefit for long-term survival, in spite of a statistically significant reduction in risk of local/regional recurrence.  An emerging theory that explains this is that radiation can convert ordinary cancer cells into much more aggressive cancer stem cells, so that while risk of recurrence is reduced, if there is a recurrence, it's likely to be much more aggressive if the area was treated with radiation.  I do think that radiation will eventually become totally obsolete in cancer treatment, along with non-selective chemotherapy.  If I was medical student, I wouldn't consider going into radiation oncology, because it may be well on its way to oblivion by the time the long training period is completed. [deleted] Is this true?  Any citations? Lucky me, went through chemotherapy and radiotherapy at age 4 ( retinoblastoma), never had any problems at school or focusing, even enjoyed lots of mindfulness meditation back then... My dad certainly was not himself the weeks that he did chemo.  I had never seen him like the way he was.  Wandering is precisely the right word to use when describing how he was. I thought it was due to neuron death caused by penetration of the chemo drugs to the brain. My mother experienced chemo brain as well..  she was sharp as a tack, before, and completely absent-minded during treatment.  It's a frightening thing to experience..  I'm glad science is showing that this side effect fades over time.   Considering chemotherapy is a pretty barbaric concept,  we should be kind of grateful there are not worse long-term effects.  You are pumping your body with poison in hopes that it kills all the bad cells before it kills all the good cells. Anyone who has worn any suit can tell you this. Especially if you live somewhere where it isn't common.  

I think it has to do with the confidence aspect. You tend to carry yourself a bit higher when you look sharp. Plus it probably has to do with the idea of power and wealth too, people tend to assume you're more important if you're dressed the part. Wearing a modest suit around, taking pride in how I presented myself caused a huge change in how others treated me. Suddenly store clerks were nicer,  strangers were friendlier, and women would approach me to talk more often. It was a lot different than my usual jeans and a tee-shirt.  

Results will vary. I live in a pretty high end suburban area with very low crime.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I live in country/city where suits are the norm. If I go to the store in anything but nice jeans and a button up I get weird looks. Hell, if I do my laundry in my building in basketball shorts and a t shirt, people assume I'm sick or something. So when I go home to the states and wear a suit outside, or nice slacks, shirt, and tie, it's like another world. Here if someone sees you in a suit at the supermarket it's whatever. But like you said, in the states people treat you completely differently. Personally, I enjoy dressing well in my day to day life. Maybe not a jacket, but shirt and tie with sleeves rolled up is casual to me now. It also helps when you have clothes that fit well though. &gt; I live in country/city where suits are the norm. 

Where is that? Ecuador/Ambato It sounds terrible that there's so much pressure to wear suits there because it's hot there. Ehhh not really. It all depends on where you live. If you live in the coast or the next to the amazon, then the dress code is much more lax. I was in the rainforest on Thursday and was dripping sweat in shorts and a t shirt just standing. A suit would be miserable. But I live in the mountains, roughly 9,000ft above sea level, so yes it's warm but it's almost always a constant 65 during the day. Sometimes during mid day when the sun is out it can get pretty bad, but nights and mornings are really cool. Average morning and night temp is roughly 45 degrees.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Complete opposite response here. I live in Portland, OR. You never wear fancy clothes here. If you do, you stand out of place. Not really in a good or bad way, but leaning more bad. When you go to a fancy restaurant here, you don't wear a suit or nice clothes. You wear your every day attire. Every one does. A suit will most likely be seen as snobby.

Edit: So many hipster comments. 1. You're not clever. Many others have already made the joke. 2. In all reality, hipsters are confined mostly to hawthorne street alone in Portland. Most of the portland metro area is indeed, not hipsters. They aren't the ones that set the social expectations any way. In my immediate neighbourhood, if you are seen wearing a suit, people will normally ask if you were at someone's funeral or if you were on your way to court.  Seriously. Yeah I grew up in PDX, but was living in DC for a while. In DC you wear suits and look otherwise "professional" at all times. Moved back home to PDX and wore my DC clothes to work. Didn't go for the whole suit, but I only lasted a week of being gently mocked before switching to jeans.  My IT coworkers mocked me into buying jeans. They had a jeans day which I had to specially purchase jeans for. Midwest. 1/3rd of the staff had grown up on farms. Only ? Must have been on the fringes of the Midwest.  Must be one of them city slickers.  [deleted] [deleted] One of our major hospital chains in town doesn't even have a dress code beyond not getting called out for unprofessionalism by your boss. Half the time it looks like a metal concert, the rest is scrubs and business casual.  I dunno man, I live in the area as well, I think you'd merely blend in if you wore a suit around here. I should point out that I live in SE, but this same thing applies to NE and downtown around pioneer square. If you're on the south side of downtown, you'd blend in. I'm a lawyer in the SF bay area.  Nobody wears a suit to meet with the engineers, so as to be taken seriously. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It does make sense.  If you show up in a suit when everyone is wearing casual wear, you feel a bit silly, but you take off your jacket and just move on.  If you show up casual and everyone is wearing a suit, that's it, you're going to be noticed and uncomfortable the whole time.  Better to show up overdressed than under-dressed.  You might feel silly, but you won't feel weak. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This happened to me. I showed up to a job interview in a suit and tie and without exception, every other applicant was in jeans and tshirt. I felt really out of place and a bit silly but really confident. It was absolutely no shock to me when I was offered the job. I work for a very casual tech startup with no dress code. There is a very strong correlation between candidate age and casualness of their dress. People right out of college almost always show up in suits, those with 10+ years show up in business casual (heavy on the casual) or just jeans and a t-shirt. Never once have we cared and if the suit helps with then younger candidates' confidence then all power to them.  That is mostly because you are in a field of talent and expertise that is in high demand and low supply. Dress code is a social thing more valuable in sales or public speaking heavy side jobs where presentation and appearances are part of the the business. Absolutely. I live in the Bay Area and the standards of recruiting can be very different. If you're hiring for tech roles there's a lot of searching around involved rather than sifting through resumes unless you're a company like Google with lots of applicants. There's not as much luxury to care about appearance especially when it doesn't affect their job. It's interesting to see how people's hiring philosophies totally differ from one industry to another. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] One time in high school, toward the end of the school year when it was basically summer even in the northeast, the vice-principal told me that I had been nominated and given an award by the local Kiwanis (little more than a participation ribbon, really) that would be presented at a special lunch. Right now. So, it was all these older guys in suits and a bunch of kids who either had been given decent notice or were just preppy to begin with, me in a ratty T-shirt and shorts, and a restaurant that was chilled like a meat locker unlike the non-air-conditioned school. I've never felt so underdressed before or since.

I never found out whether something had been mailed home and tossed away without reading by my mom because it looked too much like it was asking for money, or whether the mistake was in the school office. I work as a B2B contract and sales consultant, so I meet with several CEOs and CFOs everyday, which necessitates a full, expensive suit and tie everyday (unless you're meeting with a labor leader, it's better to go more casual so not to give off a shitbag 'better than you' air)

At first I hated it; now I love it. I feel great before and after work, if I need to stop for food or go shopping, etc. Not only are you likely seen as successful and desirable to others when you're dressed sharply, you feel that way about yourself; more attractive, more on the ball, more confident.  I dress professionally for school/work and usually scrubby T-shirts and jeans on my off-time.

People treat me MUCH better when I'm wearing "formal" clothing, even if my tattoos are visible.

Something about a collared shirt and tie says "respect this person". I find this study interesting, because I have read the psychology before, and the research for a while has said there is some attached perception of power or importance to suits, which can reflect in how you behave, etc.

But in my life, where I was both: forced to wear suits through my last years of schooling, and moved into a field where no one cares what you wear at all. 

Being forced into wearing suits during my Sixth Form at school made me hate them at all costs. Since leaving that school I have worn a suit less than ten times (this was five years ago), 7 of those were for job interviews (graduation, meeting the Duke of Edinburgh, and a funeral are the others), and never get any of the positive feelings from whenever I wear it. I don't feel powerful, or confident, I just feel like a child in adult clothing, because that was how it was when I was made to wear a suit. My friends my age have the opposite reaction, but they very rarely get to wear them growing up, so they still only have the attachments that society has of suits.

And then I went to a field where wearing a suit (or any formal wear) is a generally dumb idea. In experimental physics a suit is super impractical for doing your day job, some of the older guys where shirts and the like, but they never look 'smart'. Most people below thirty dress as you would expect of people on the weekend, and I have spoke at conferences wearing my normal clothes, which seems very common. As less people here actually wear formal wear or suits, people seem to care less, and those wearing suits or other formal wear stick out like a sore thumb. 

*I also hate wearing a suit because it is far less comfortable than what I usually wear, and I have no interest in wearing less comfortable clothes when it confers no other benefits to me* [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] you absolutely feel different when you dress well, not necessarily just suits either.  When you feel comfortable and you know you look great, it changes your entire presence.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I love how we can be manipulated by absolutely everything; even by our clothing.

Goddam but humans are a nutty species. It's surprising to me that people believe so strongly in free will when these types of studies come up. And this isn't even the most compelling on that front.

You are not in complete control of your behavior no matter how much you want to believe it. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Maybe wearing a suit makes people think differently - in the contexts where a suit already has meaning. It would be interesting to compare this to dress codes in scientific and technical labs. I've worked in orgs where people are all super smart (rooms full of PhDs etc.), and many (although not all) folks would come in dressed casually, sometimes very casually. Most PhDs I know (myself included) are lab/experimental people, we dress good, but not suit-everyday tier. 

Suits are for weddings, funerals and big events. 

I've got some job interviews coming up, I'm not gonna put on a suit. If asked, I'll say that I prefer to feel comfortable for the interview.  Put on a suit for the first time for my college graduation.  A very nice pinstripe with a red power tie and a double Windsor knot.  Went to Target because my wife thought everyone would want to play Mexican Train at the afterparty.  I don't know.  Anyways,  I'm walking to the checkout line and there's a lady in a power chair speeding perpendicular to me.  Iy thought she was going to hit me without even seeing me.  I sped up a bit so she'd miss.  She turns at the last second and tries to cut me off, hits the hanger with bags of pretzels going 5 mils an hour and knocks it off, sending bags of pretzels going everywhere.  I pick up the pretzel bags and put them back up.  She sits there staring at me.  I asked her if she wanted to go first, and she replied, "Oh, no.  You go right on ahead" with a sneer.  I offered again, she declined again, then said, "I know all about your type.  You've got your place and you expect me to take MY place.  I went to reform school, I know when to bow down to people like you.."  I was flabbergasted.  Honestly I don't know to this day WTF she was talking about.  But I'm pretty sure it was the power suit.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I specifically don't wear suits or ties to work, and I teach computer programs to adults.  I don't because dressing formally gives it an institutional atmosphere where the students are seeing me in a position of power, which makes it more intimidating to ask questions or be natural.  It makes a huge difference. I am a teacher and I wear a suit and tie everyday to show respect to my students. What we are doing in school is important. I want them to know I think it's important, so I suit up. My students are there because they pay to be there and want to learn the subjects.  They need to feel comfortable in asking me questions and don't need a reminder of its importance.  Honestly, I don't care if they learn anything at all.  It's not my job that they learn anything, it's that they're happy with the class and feel they got their money worth.  It's a much different environment than in school, where kids are there not because they want to be, but because they have to. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] People organizing protests should request that everyone wear suits. It may keep things from turning violent. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] While this study and it's effects on a suit making people feel powerful are interesting, it definitely highlights a very powerful effect that I see dismissed often on reddit. Our clothing really helps define and shape out mental process, how we see ourselves and interact with the world. It's very obvious on say, Halloween, where people enter into a costume and specifically change their entire personality to match it, however, it also happens no matter what 'costume' we wear. People act and treat each other very different in different sets of clothes. It is one of the defining features of a 'uniform', is not just to provide people with clothing, but rather to foster a sense of cohesiveness as a group, designate rank, and show social status. Your appearance and clothing are one of the most powerful indicators of your personality and position, and typically the first thing people see and use to make determinations about you, and also influences how *you believe people see you and therefore how you should act accordingly*.

 [deleted] it better be a tailored fit suit. whenever i see someone wear a suit that doesn't fit well, i just want to shake them Not when you begin to associate the suit with being treated like garbage by the people who make you wear it. Why the hell are there so many deleted messages ? [deleted] [deleted] 