This is one of those moments where, upon happening. You just have to pack it up and go the fuck home. To get to uni in time I sometimes have to take a short-cut down a fairly steep hill on a golf course. Had a full day ahead, 9-5, lot's to do, everything planned out. I underestimated how wet it was however, slipped, and slid about 20 yards down a muddy hill. That was it, day over, completely written off. I went home and didn't leave my bed for about 24 hours. Happened to me too but the winters where I live are brutal and everything turns to ice, i went to run to the truck, slipped and slid under it. Got up and had little bitch fit then went back in the house and slept This reminds me of an incident where one of my co-workers was late to our Tuesday meeting late winter/early spring.  She parked directly across from the window to our meeting room, jogged from her truck straight across a what had until recently been solid ice, sunk about a foot and half into a lake of mud-water and epicly face planted hard enough to splash the window about 10 feet away.  I swear she swam out.  Headed straight back to her truck and went home.  I couldn't stand her, and I still felt bad because we all laughed at her.   &gt; I couldn't stand her, and I still felt bad because we all laughed at her.

What are you?   Human?  Of flesh and blood he's made. I too have fallen in this way. However, I had a suitcase as my backpack and when I tried to get up I broke my leg. :/


All for a math make up test. If it was icy enough for that to happen, it was probably a good thing that you didn't drive that day.

*[edit] ITT: people taking their snow and ice conversations very, very personally.* Never mention cold/ice/snow on reddit. It instantly turns into a dick measuring contest. *"Oh, you live in an area where you see serious snow once every three or four years? Let me tell you about how well my area that sees months of snow each year has developed the fundamental infrastructure to handle the conditions, despite the fact it would be an almost entirely redundant waste of money where you live..."* *Are you mother fuckers telling me, you don't have ice trucks on standby in Texas?* Let me guess you are from a southern area? If that was the case no one would go anywhere for 5 months out of the year here in Sweden. Yeah we don't have studded snow tires. Ice is bad. A month ago I was running for the bus in the morning, slipped, and broke my leg. Then the bus pulled away. This was the best thing about uni. If everything went wrong you could easily just do nothing for any given day. The problem for me is NOT finding a reason to to nothing  You've identified one of three reasons I'm a university dropout. I woke up feeling flu-ish...said screw it got in the shower hoping id feel better after..shower runs out of hot water..and the  switches to hot as fuck volcano water and burns me...I get out..feeling a bit better..but pissed at the shower...go to walk back downstairs to my room..fall down my stairs..towel goes flying...whole family in the living room at the bottom sees me naked..tries to help me up..still naked...and I get up..go back to bed..fuck school that day.. https://i.imgur.com/0am3aWj.png That might have actually worked with McDonald's coffee in the mid-90s. McDonald's coffee can melt steel beams 9/11 WAS A MINIMUM WAGE JOB I think it's pretty much common courtesy now to let you know that I lol'd til I cried :) It's so hot outside! *How hot is it?* **IT'S SO HOT I HAD TO POUR McDONALD's COFFEE ON MYSELF TO COOL OFF!** Damn....that's fucking hot..  Coffee and Paint Remover I'm glad you included the trademark Their apple pies still stand a pretty good chance of lighting it. There are apples in those pies? I thought it was just lava. Technically, when it's still inside the crust it's _magma_. As a future plaintiff's attorney, seeing jokes NOT about how "frivolous" that lawsuit was is refreshing. Not as refreshing as McDonald's coffee, but thank you. I'm guessing it's because "we've" seen the video documentary and/or the graphic photos of the 3rd degree burns. Not so funny anymore. That woman was mutilated and she was turned into a joke for decades... People still talk about it like a joke I've had professors rant about how ridiculous it is.  It saddens me.  The Hot Coffee documentary is definitely worth seeing.  Hopefully it's still on Netflix.  Millions of dollars in propaganda convinced the public that it was a frivolous case.  The victim didn't even want to sue, and her family initially just wanted McD's to pay for her surgery and medical bills.  Third degree thigh and crotch burns are not a joke.  The pictures are horrifying. Thank you based insulated cups lol corporate negligence I like how visually it doesn't even make sense. The bullet would've had to go sideways to hit the horse, but because of the perspective the aimer was on his head And now you realize that the game is not programmed to have the bullet actually come out of the gun Best example of that is [Gears 1 Backpacking](http://youtu.be/P7TYFsphXqk) What in the world am I looking at here?  The bullet in Gears of War 1 always heads towards the center of the screen. So even if they're standing behind you, you can headshot them by lining up their head with the center of your screen  For anyone still confused, he's talking about third person view. The origin point that the game logic uses for the camera, and also for his bullets is way off from where the character model actually is. The player sees himself getting up in the enemy's face and shooting him point-blank, but in third-person he runs past him and shoots over his shoulder which somehow kills him. This doesn't seem like it would work well for 3rd person since you can look around corners. Wouldn't you be able to snipe people from behind walls and stuff? Yes. Precisely why bullets should come out of guns, not out of cameras, and that reticles shouldn't be static and should be determined by the gun muzzle orientation. At least in third person view anyway. That explains so much frustrating bullshit I saw in that game when playing online. Had no idea it was naive aiming out of the camera not the gun. To be fair, gears 1 and 2 were both frustrating as hell when it came to online stuff. Epic basically ignored the general lag and bullet lag issues until gears 3 Game developer here. Most the time the bullets come out of the camera, not the barrel. Why you might ask? Ever play a game where you could see around the corner but when you go to shoot it gets blocked by the corner? That's what happens when the bullet comes out of the barrel. If it comes out of the center of the camera (or known as the camera's forward vector) then it will go exactly where your crosshair is at all times. Making the game feel more fun in this case is more important than making it realistic for most games.

Someone mentioned ray casting, also known as line (or other shape) tracing. Bullets usually aren't ray casted unless they are INSTANT. No reason to ray cast if you are just going to be spawning a particle or bullet anyways which most games do. So simply they just spawn a bullet actor at the start, send it on the camera's forward vector and make it go SUPER fast. Like real bullets. Why? Well when the actor hits something you can just tell it to cause damage them from the server. Because its an actor it exists on the server and clients. Ray casts can be ran on the server and clients as well but it's useless for the clients to run them because they are never the authority and the clients would get nothing from running them.

So when would you run a ray cast vs spawning an actor? Well simply when you want that gun to be INSTANT. ray casts basically happen on the same tick if not the moment you left (or whatever button) click. Meaning the bullet literally has 0 travel time. Where even fast paced games like counter-strike and call of duty have bullets with travel time. Although one game that doesn't have bullet travel time would be like Unreal Tournaments instant gib gun. That is an insta-kill and only lag stands in the way of the winner.

Which brings us to the other issue of guns. What do you do if the player gets killed on the server but sends the button to shoot. What if that packet to the server is dated before the player died? A major issue of ray casting is that you die quickly. Very very quickly. With bullets you have a chance of killing each other because both of you are spawning bullets and sending them at each other. So after you die those bullets could be in the world still. Essentially you could kill each other. While rare, not impossible (unless the game deletes all bullets that belong to your gun on your death, looking at you Counter-Strike!) So a major issue with ray casting is what do you do with people who simply have better ping. Do you delay kills on the server? Do you rubber band the players every few moments? Do you tell the clients to predict what might happen but never let them do key things like kill people or make others shoot? Most games go with the last. Let the clients predict movement and allow the clients to shoot at others but NEVER kill any player on the client unless it comes from the server. Thats why when you feel like that guy should have died about 2 bullets ago, its most likely because he should have and the server decided you didn't make those shots. Frustrating but less so than actually killing a player just to have them come to life again and shoot you. Counter-Strike uses raycasting, it doesn't delete bullets on your death. hmm, haven't played it much recently but I thought they spawned actors in the newest one. I thought you could pause the game demos and actually see the bullets in the air. Perhaps not? Those are just visual effects. As with most games, the projectiles come out of your camera.  
That's why most FPS games have issues with players firing bullets from their eyebrows even though their guns are below cover. That pisses me off so much. ARMA.

Too bad it feels clunky. Never really felt like that to me.

It felt like I wasn't some tweaked out supersoldier with robot legs. Which was nice.

Can't really jump in expecting to be YoloSwaggins. Ray casting Raycasting can start at the weapon's barrel..... And it can end where your cursor is - on the horse. In that situation you just raycast from the center of the camera to it's forward direction, which is what is usually done I believe, no point in using the gun's barrel as a starting point

 [deleted] which happened a lot in gears of war [deleted] It's surprisingly tricky, especially for 3rd person games!

http://forrestthewoods.com/adventures-with-guns-in-a-third-person-shooter/ Tom Projecting Joe Disseminating cyberdemon crotch rockets In most first and third person shooters you shoot bullets from your eyes like lasers. The gun and firing animations are all just pretend.

Edit: I suppose "eyes" is a poor descriptor for third person games, center of screen in more accurate. I like when games like Arma take it to the extreme and have actual bullets coming from the gun's barrel which have a velocity and ballistic trajectory.  I want to see a shooter where this is the case, and once in a blue moon, two guys' bullets are perfectly lined up and hit each other mid flight.  There was a video posted recently to /r/arma where a player using a sniper rifle fired at an AI who happened to turn at exactly the right moment. The bullet  hit the stock on the AI's rifle and bounced.

EDIT: [found the video!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r0FN7AVbWyc) That's so friggen awesome! Thanks for posting! One of my favorite Arma videos is the guy who demonstrates The terminal and exterior [ballistics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cix07R1vlhI) models. Amazing detail went into Arma. Arma 2 FTW!  It's like that in BF4 now also and it was about time. It's an important feature in multiplayer fps games so I'm glad they made the change  Something interesting happened in Planetside 2 (or was it MWO) due to this. They had the bullet origin from the tip of the gun, and people would exploit it, because some large gun models would clip through buildings so you could shoot people through walls and obstacles. Lol you could do that in planetside 2 by landing a lib on a bio lab. The belly gun would clip thru the shield and you could pelt people with your weapon of choice. I never did it because it was extremely frustrating to experience and extremely satisfying to finally kill the exploiter. Not Moviebattles 2/Jedi Academy! It's a big part of the gameplay that you can intercept slower moving shots as a jedi/sith to defend your gunner on the ground, or just dodge them. Snipers are much faster, and disruptor/laser rifle is instantenous. YOU STILL PLAY THAT?

Edit:  I may be overly excited.  I spent many thousands of hours on MBII. &gt; most

There are plenty of games that actually do use bullet "physics". We'd be here all day if we mentioned them all I think the firing mechanics in the Fallout 3 and New Vegas fire out of the gun. The only reason i think that is because you cant peek over the edge of a rock with a sniper rifle and shoot. The bullet hits the rock. I loved fallout but the bad hitboxs on the scenery was a bit of a pain sometimes  This can happen pretty easily in third person games and is really obvious in rockstar games.

GTAV makes it pretty easy to see with its ability to switch between first and third person.  Wait, he shot his own horse? I assumed there was another player across the way and they happened to fire simultaneously, but because they horse reared it was hit instead of the rider where his opponent had been aiming.

EDIT: Just noticed the kill notification. [deleted] A hero indeed. *A real equine bean.* And a real stallion.  Horsebro The dude on the other side of the river was perfectly safe. OP wasn't accounting for bullet drop.

edit: Here's your proof people: https://youtu.be/iSEZ8D3-oSA?t=55s

Even the sniper rifles don't have a perfectly straight path. He also forgot to account for the bullet slowing down or changing direction after passing through the horse's head. One of the funniest gaming moments I ever witnessed was in this game.  I was playing with a friend but we were in the Free Roam mode where you can't kill other players.  You can, however, kill their horses.

We were getting griefed, so we griefed back.  I shot a guy's horse with the exploding rifle.

It caused him to fly forward and hit the ground with such force that the game decided he must have fallen and he died.  I was credited for the kill.

I got a kill in a mode where it should have been impossible to kill someone.   He stared at me then quit without saying anything. The funniest thing that ever happened in that game for me was in online as well.  

My friend and I were repeatedly clearing Pikes Basin and it became night time so we turned around and started riding away.  Well, he got off his horse and ran to a spot in an open field and just stood there.  What I didn't know, was that in his game there was a campfire with ammo and deadeye, but I didn't see it.   Anyway, I dismounted and stared at him.  He wasn't saying anything.  And then, I see his leg catch on fire, his character starts yelling and he starts sprinting and hopping with flames all over his legs and I straight fucking lost it.  
Fuckin cowboy just standing in an open field and his leg just starts burning.  That was probably one of my favorite memories from that game.   My hardest laugh from an online game also came from Red Dead Redemption. 

I was waiting for my friend as he was riding a sickly, starving, decrepit looking horse which was no match for my purebred. I decided to stop on a cliff and admire the sunset while I waited.

Suddenly, my friend and his horse arrive in full gallop at the edge of the cliff. He proceeds to "ghost-ride" the horse right off the cliff, himself just barely staying on the cliff.

My view was such that I watched the horse tumble for a solid 150-200 video game feet to it's virtual death. 

We stood there on the cliff laughing for a good 10 minutes. Ahh, what fond memories... Haha awesome.  It never ended like that but it was always odd when my friend (with DLC) could see things that were invisible to me (without DLC).

In fact the only way I could even pick up the fateful exploding rifle was if he grabbed it and killed himself while holding it. That reminds me of the glitch in L4D2 (before they patched it), where you could fly if you kept switching weapons after getting hit by an explosion.

If you played in Survival mode on Heavy Rain, you could glitch yourself into the giant building, then glitch yourself onto of the gas station, and enter the saferoom. It made it so you won survival, a gametype that never ends.

Also in a similar vein, to your story, I died in a cutscene where I couldn't move. I was playing Hotline Miami, and after about 30 minutes of trying to defeat a boss, I finally won. It enters into a semi-cutscene, where you are controlled by the computer after dialog. The boss decides to kill himself, and the bullet goes right through his head and kills me. I couldn't move because of the cutscene.

Needless to say, I stopped playing for a few days. Ahahaha what the fuck That was my standard unmounting technique, I'd run full speed towards the tavern and blow my horse's head off as I got close, launching my cursing body into the tavern doors, but more often into the wall or whores standing out side. The whore landing pad is a skill mastered by few. Congratulations! Kind of reminds me of a simulation when I was in the Army.

There was a room with a huge screen set up with modified weapons connected to a computer, the screen had a projector displaying a scenario and all the weapons when fired would show on the screen and shoot them.

The scenario we were doing was a van approaching a barricade and insurgents file out and start shooting us up.  There was NPC MPs in front of us with the barricade helping shoot back.  Our 2nd or 3rd time through the scenario, I ended up on the AT-4 (a rocket launcher) and thought I'd just shoot the vehicle while it was approaching, kill them all inside with 1 shot and get high score!

So, the van starts to approach, I line up my shot and fire, the moment I pull my trigger one of the NPC MPs sidesteps right in front of me and my round explodes on the back of their head.  Dumbstruck, I had wasted my only round (AT-4 are single fire, non-re-loadable) and waited out the rest of the scenario.  When the score came out on the computer it showed AT-4 1 Kill under the Friendly Fire category.  I hear First Sergeant bellow out "Who the FUCK is on the AT-4" and people shout back my name, and First Sergeant shouts back "Pleasejustdie son, you're fucked up, you know that."

I took pride in the fact though I had the only kill with the AT-4 that day, and the only Friendly Fire kill that day too. The Battleship USS Alabama saw a fair deal of action in WWII, yet took no damage from an enemy ship or plane. Its only casualties in the whole war (5 dead) came when one of its 38-cal guns accidentally fired on another one of its guns. There's people who shoot themselves in the foot...And people who shoot their horse in the head. I did that in cougar country once. Tried top get the angry ass cat and accidentally brained Mr. Ed right out from under me.  Posted, https://xkcd.com/37/, as is tradition.

Ass-Cat NSFW: http://s2.favim.com/orig/32/ass-cat-cute-Favim.com-259236.jpg dose goosebumps God I love this game. So many memories made with friends. I just wish Rockstar had the time to fix all the hacking and glitches that plague online nowadays:/ It was fixed for a while last year, but then it fell into decay pretty quickly once again. Last time I checked, online is pretty much unplayable (never-ending load screens, abundant hackers, etc.). The sequel needs to come out ASAP &gt; had the time

I'd be willing to bet that there's at least one person at Rockstar who is perfectly willing to fix RDR / work on a PC port but some executive doesn't see the value. I had this happen to me once. Except, instead of a horse, it was my cat, and instead of shooting a gun, I was taking a piss.

My cat liked to look into the bowl if it was left open, and picked the wrong time to try it

Headshot I did the exact same thing. He didn't understand at all. Just started running.   Such a shame this never got ported to PC, I'd even be happy with a shitty port like GTA IV just so I could play this game. Best game I played on the 360.   Played?

I still play it.  I keep my 360 because of it. I hope 343 releases a Red Dead collection series.  (That was painful to even write out) 343? It's a number So is he 343 Guilty Spark... That fucking level.. The Halo people. OP was making a Master Chief Collection joke. Thinking about aquiring 360 once again just to play this game. Yep, best last gen game for me, too.  You're beating a dead horse at this point Hold your horses with the puns [deleted] Hay, that's enough with the puns. [deleted] something something Jessica Parker Red Dead was an awesome game. With everyone bitching about a currently un-moddable GTAV, we should remember that Rockstar has actually done some pretty cool and ballsy things in the past 5 years-- who else has attempted an open-world western game or noir thriller?

Edit: I was previously unaware of Gun, I've never played it. Forgive my ignorance. And then do a zombie expansion pack? Undead Nightmare was awesome, I really hope they bring a PC Red Dead out, I miss that game so much. at this point,  your giving yourself false hope http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gun_%28video_game%29 

Bad ass game, emulate it if you can There's a PC version though... Still my fav game of all time.  GTA V is moddable the ENB guy lied because he cant use his mod. I remember hearing that code-wise the game was designed so badly that a PC Port would have been impossible. But people are also saying the next one will be available on PC as well as XBox alternatively, it was so *well* developed to maximize the use of the platform API to push performance to the absolute limits. RDR looks better on 360 than GTAV does. That's always going to be *subjective and while I personally like the look of it better, RDR "looking better" is due to the vast difference in the amount of content that the games have. Empty wilderness with a couple of wandering people and some animals works great for a western game but can you imagine the wasteland GTA would be if it could only render that many characters/objects on screen? with gta5 selling over a million copies day 1 on PC, i think that's likely in the cards. let's just hope its not a year and half after the console release this time.  Even though everyone is saying it's impossible to code. As a wise man once said

&gt;nothing is impossible to mod. There are better chances of a working ps3 emulator than a PC port. There's a better chance of a GTA V mod that recreates the whole of RDR, than there is of either of those. There was a [pretty good map mod for GTA IV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hIgV0RZ0CSE). It barely resembles southern messico part.

Also, jesus how poorly he drives :V Just wait until your standard PC will be able to emulate PS3. Seriously, I don't understand why out of all their games they chose not to port this to PC. I miss the atmosphere of wandering along dusty roads in the multiplayer and just killing anybody I come across. They said they want to. The code is a jumbled mess though and would be near impossible to port. Are they using teemos as a unit of measure? 

Is everything coded as a minion?

Rockstar pls. I really felt like this, of all games, should have had a body tracking system.  Good guys, bad guys, random people around town, all tracked and monitored in the game.  One of them dies?  They stay dead.  The 100 bandits you just killed, 100 less bad guys to deal with.  John Marston must have had the biggest body count in the west.  I don't think it would have been too hard to do.  A simple database could have kept track of where people were killed, if they'd been recovered and buried yet, or become vulture food.  Would be really interesting seeing the decaying corpses of fallen enemies when you passed back through some remote area where you were ambushed 7 missions ago. Who do you think you are, Peter Molyneux? Skyrim, Oblivion, and every Fable game was supposed to be like this, but it never turns out the way it sounds. I always get hyped up for realistic shit like that. Skyrim NPCs forget half a town is dead, but at least the characters stay dead unless its random bandits or forsworn that respawn. Hopefully a game will do this soon for realz. &gt; Who do you think you are, Peter Molyneux?

This man lmao. I love hearing about him, but at the same time im like... "Fucking Peter Molyneux. "

 "alright......line up the shot aaaaaaaand"
"hey, what you doin', let me loo..."
*bang*
"GOD DAMN IT!" What video game is this? I like cowboys and shooting.  Red Dead Redemption. Came out for the Xbox 360 and PS3. Seriously fun game and very well made overall. &gt; Seriously fun game and very well made overall.

Understatement, this game made you buy a console for it, Rockstar's best imo. [deleted] Also has one of the best stories told through a video game. Great soundtrack too [For sure.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7IkvAb6THQY) I got lucky, and when this first came on I was literally riding into the Mexican sunset. It was amazing. Easily one of the best gaming moments I've experienced. That is the only time the song plays in the game, when you first get to mexico. I think he meant sunset time in general. In my game, it was midnight by the time I got to Mexico. I... I'm pretty sure they programmed it to play at that moment...

EDIT: Actually, I think the time of day is completely independent of when that happens, so that part would be lucky, yes. and yet my first time when entering mexico I got off my horse, which causes the song to never start playing. I always liked this one myself.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0cXsoRRYf5A

So evocative.  I can still remember galloping across the desert with this song playing.  Amazing. With the absolute worst epilogue in history. I wish I could be you right now, you have such an amazing time in front of you. Lucky you. You get to play Red Dead for the first time.  It also has zombie mode which is seriously fun!!! It's a new campaign, more than just a mode. A whole new world A new fantastic point of view No one to tell us no or where to go Red Dead Redemption

One of my fav games on the PS3.

Rockstar essentially made a wild west GTA.

I remember lassoing hookers and dragging them around behind my horse.

It was awesome. Yeah that game was awesome. Looking back, I'm a little concerned with how many people I would tie up and leave on the train tracks. Looking back, I'm concerned with how few people I would tie up and leave on the train tracks.  You get an achievement for it at some point.  I highly recommend you play it. One of the best games I've ever played. You'll fall in love with the characters and the setting. Red dead redemption. One of my favorite games.  I've been through the desert on a horse with no brain. dont feel bad, 
T.E. Lawrence "of arabia" did the same thing in real life: http://www.cliohistory.org/thomas-lawrence/akaba/

 Damn I almost forgot about this game. Such good times online, everyone rushing the gang hideouts. I didnt even play online until a year after I had it. The story was just too good.  Ah, The Old General Custer:

"During his first campaign against the Cheyenne in 1867, General Custer galloped off after a herd of buffalo, aimed his revolver  and shot his own horse through the head. On foot, bruised and totally lost, he had to be rescued by his own men." /r/unexpected Poor OP, you shot your horse for no reason. That shot wasn't going to hit him. From that distance you would need nearly a full body length between your reticle and target to hit with a repeater. Was there bullet drop in rdr? Yes. The hand guns veer left and right as well at a distance, but the repeaters and normal rifles both have infinite range as long as you account for the drop. Wow it's even weirder to realize it's been what, 6 or 7 years since it came out? Not quite. It came out May 2010. It's been out for just under 5 years. May huh..? So what you're telling me is...maybe, just maybe they'll do a five year anniversary event and release a port to PC? hah. I wish :( A man can dream though... a man can dream. Is it bad that I wanted a RDR port more than gta5?  
RDR @1440p 60fps would be amazing.

 Haha. One time my horse completely fucked me on catching someone because of the patching, called his ass to chase someone down and the motherfucker spawns like 100 yards away!

I shot him right there. Called the replacement and shot him and just watched him slide towards my feet.

The next one never had any issues for the remainder of the game # Red dead was an amazing game. I wish theyd make another one like it.  Did someone else shoot him in the head? I &lt;3 grand theft horsie And that would be why you step off the living animal with a mind of it's own before taking the controlled shot from half a mile away. /r/Unexpected 

Also, I wish this game was ported to current-gen consoles and to PC, the RDR multiplayer community would be so alive again. The first time I shot my horse in that game I was shocked and disturbed. Stood over it wondering if I could do anything.




After the fifth horse I resigned to hunting small game from a distance. I did the same thing, and then a button prompt to skin it appeared.. When in Rome! still better horses than skyrim  Obviously? Yeah, considering they were a gameplay staple, there was a lot more effort placed on their form &amp; function. Lol what was going through his head when he wrote that down? 

"aw man, if you think about it, and put all factors into consideration, given all this and furthermore, there is only one way to reach the complicated conclusion that the horses from skyrim were bad, and that even though the horses get shot in the head accidentally, it is only obvious to presume and conclusionly smart words, that red dead redemption horses, ARE STILL BETTER THAN SKYRIM HORSES! YES! KARMA TRAIN HERE I GO IM SO FUCKING SMART WITH MY WORDS" You having a bad day over there buttercup? Yeah, but this wouldn't happen in Oblivion due to my horse's armor! And the fact that you can shoot a horse 30+ times in the face with a bow and it won't die.  I purchased horse armor after I saw all the comments saying how good it was, I realized after I bought it that reddit was being sarcastic. RIP in piece 400 Microsoft points  Still worse than shadow of the colossus. Skyrim is like 1% horse though.  Yeah well can these horses defy the laws of physics? I don't think so. Arent you a cheeky bastard? Why dont you go and compare forza 4 cars with those on gta vice city?  I'm pretty sure that Skyrim came out after RDR anyway. /r/unexpected Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DC0lKwttOj0&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=118 Am I the only one who noticed that it's Ben Buja?? Used to love watching his GTA IV vids. That is a game with so much potential as a massive online players universe.  Hunting, trading,bounty hunting, robberies. Stage coach and pony express, etc. 

Too bad it never happened. God damnit they better make a new red dead Been playing video games for 25 years. Never seen anything like this.. wow.. If you haven't experienced Red Dead Redemption yet I implore you to go do so immediately. It's that good?  I'd say it ranks in my top 5 games of all time. What makes it stand out from other games?  It's got an extremely detailed world, great story, great soundtrack, fun action, good multiplayer (though I don't know if many people are still playing it).

 It also has some of the best graphics to come to the 360/ps3
 God i  miss  that game. Rockstar needs to either up-convert for XB1 or make a dam sequel! Yeah, I'm all about the sequel more than I'm about the rehash of old material that devs seem to be all about these days.

Goddamn trends. This game and it's damn horses.

I got into the habit of just throwing a knife into my horse's head when I wanted to dismount into a *tactical* roll. It's in the family lore the story about an uncle who killed his horse by accident just like this, ashamed by his own clumsiness told everyone his enemies did it, and dragged half town in a quarrel with the neighbor town to avenge that horse's death.

Southern Mexico is bizarre to say the least. god I wish I could still play this game I used to do this on purpose. I called it the organic hand brake. As much as i'm not liking all these remasters that's been happening the past year i wouldn't mind this being remade for PC and for console. holy whiplash, Bethesda just barely put out their statement standing behind paid mods

https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/342quk/bethesda_why_were_trying_paid_skyrim_mods_on_steam/

http://www.bethblog.com/2015/04/27/why-were-trying-paid-skyrim-mods-on-steam/ Bethesda updated the blog to reflect the "mutual" decision between them and Valve.

&gt;[Update: After discussion with Valve, and listening to our community, paid mods are being removed from Steam Workshop. Even though we had the best intentions, the feedback has been clear  this is not a feature you want. Your support means everything to us, and we hear you.](http://www.bethblog.com/)

Edit: To be clear, the above update is a quote from Bethesda, it does not represent my opinion or words. I've updated it to a link to their blog for further reading for those inclined.

Edit2: Oh shit today I learned how to put a quote as a quote! Thanks /u/newpong I really agree with a donation button.  If it was a relationship such as twitch subs.  Valve gets 25%, the modder gets 75%.  Another implementation should be a minimum donation amount (for instance $1.00) and a maximum amount (such as $25.00) to stop payment refunds.  This would promote better mods because those are the ones getting the donations, but allows people to make sure the mod actually works and runs well before putting any money into it.  This would be well received by the community I believe, would let the modders receive payment (I guess have an option to turn it on or off for the modder too?), let the users make sure everything works, but would allow the modder to drop off the map if need be since it is an optional payment plan.  The only issue that arises that was also an issue with paid mods is not quality control since again it is optional, but content originality.  You guys would need to find a way to keep someone from copying code and getting paid for someone else's work.  That part I am unclear about what options are available.  This is my opinion completely, but I believe many others share this view as well. Bethesda/the developer deserves a cut too don't they? Even if he mod is patching a shit UI it's still their product and base engine.  And more importantly their IP. Your using their characters, stories, environments, art elements, and music to monetize your mod. You might alter any or all of these elements, but it's ultimately still their IP.  errr, no where they said it wasn't a feature they wanted, just that it isn't a desired feature for skyrim.

They'll still push for paid mods on newer games, they saw their potential earnings if anything now they have numbers to crunch, If they made 10k in 2 days from a 4 year old game they can easily assume they can make 10-100x as much to a 2 month old game. It'll also be a covert way for game developers like bethesda to have first day dlc that will simply be called mods, that is why they want 75% bc that is the end goal. This was a trial and they liked what they saw they just need to ease into it. Weird, does this mean Valve pretty much said "We are not doing this now, end OF discussion". It's possible. I'm not pushing favorites, because I think both parties made a devastating decision, but Valve, through Steam, is a distributor. If the product is not selling, or the customers are unhappy, the distributor recalls that decision. That said in a nutshell, because I'm sure there are hundreds of legal things in this, Valve was overwhelmed by the negative attention from paid mods, and made the decision to pull back on it. This affected Bethesda too. Skyrim went from 98% to 84% in less than two days. I wonder if it'll go back, honestly.

I mean, I don't think everyone who voted it down will bother to vote it back up.

Not that I care. The reality is probably much worse for Bethesda - they were a company for whom their customers felt a LOT of appreciation, and they blew darn near every speck of good will they had earned in one single day. For Valve it is even worse. Like, we've got active hatred going on toward them. One would think that a reversal within days should be to their credit though. My guess is that this will all blow over soon and no one will really be too upset. Bethesda and Valve made a bad decision, and they quickly overturned it. That's how I want companies to act! The North remembers. I don't know. I'm kind of leery about their wording in their statements. Not that they're ending it completely, but for now. and

&gt;but stepping into an established, years old modding community in Skyrim was probably not the right place to start iterating. We think this made us miss the mark pretty badly, even though we believe there's a useful feature somewhere here.

Meh. Trying to withhold judgement and/or forgiveness for the time being. Well, the outcry was about *how* they tried to monetize modding, not really *that* they tried to. Personally, I hope they come up with a different way to allow modders to make money, and I'm excited to see what comes of it in the future. If they want to monetize modding they can pay them from corporate profits. Honestly this is the right way to go about it - if Bethesda wants to make money off quality mods they should have a program where they purchase rights to, distribute, and support the quality mods (in which case their revenue share model actually makes a lot of sense). It's what Id did with Final Doom and it's what Valve has been doing with TF2 and Dota 2. Both Valve and Bethesda were trying to have their cake and eat it too. More likely the people who sent out that release were not involved in the higher-level discussion about ditching the entire project, and just timed things poorly. "Now that you've backed a dump truck of feedback onto our inboxes..."

I think we broke their stuff. Well and /v/ decided to flood their fax lines with pure black papers, I think they might have got the message we're unhappy.

EDIT: [Here's](http://imgur.com/a/K14fJ) the link, thanks /u/Chasem121 I'm surprised.... Actually, no I'm not. Of course Steam has a fax, and of course /v/ found it, and of course they sent black papers.  actually most business still have a fax, its the only standard that most businesses still use hence why it wont die anytime soon It happens to be one of the few ways that business documents can change hands while still holding their integrity. Certified PDFs my friend  I agree. But a good 95% of the people who control the budget and operations of these systems/processes have no idea what that means :) So true, so true. My mum is only now finding out things that she took as standard because I showed her how to use it like 15 years ago, such things as zipping an unziping files, most people have no idea how to do/use. Trying to explain to my boss what a PDF was was one of the most infuriating things I've ever had to do. We still use a fax. And Valve probably just unplugged the machines. Or removed the paper and muted it. It's probably a digital fax line. That kind of influx would be enough to crash their email servers, though. 8chan is so hostile, it's hilarious.  Sometimes they get shit done, other times they send Taylor Swift to a deaf school and save pictures of sad frogs.  Is there a story to that first one? They rigged an online poll to have Taylor Swift play a school for the deaf, she denied the poll was official. They rigged a poll to send Justin Bieber to play North Korea, he denied the poll was official. They rigged a poll to send Pitbull to play a remote island off the coast of Alaska. He actually did. I'm so glad Pitbull followed through with that, actually. I'm not really a fan of his music, but I'm sure there were a lot of really excited people in that town and I'm sure he made a lot of people there really happy. You've gotta respect him for that. That and his PR team were probably like, "bro, people will love you for this and talk about you on the Internet for it, you have to do this". Pitbull actually researched the area and everything. Made it super awesome for the locals Mr. World Wide Web.  In Taylor and Justin's defense, they were kind of justified. And if I recall Taylor Swift did make an appearance or donation or something to the school for the deaf. As far as i remember, she totally either went to see the excited deaf children, or threw some hush money at them or something.

And North Korea?  Those poor saps, Biebs might actually be better than whatever they listen to.   &gt; Biebs might actually be better than whatever they listen to.

Endless operas about the Kim family's lives and the national anthem.  And the work of Hyon Song-wol which includes classics like  "Excellent Horse-Like Lady", "Footsteps of Soldiers", "I Love Pyongyang", "She is a Discharged Soldier" and "We are Troops of the Party."

Your hypothesis may actually be correct. Should've sent a black hand " we know" [deleted] What?  I thought it was a series of tubes! Not a great initial decision, but at least they had the balls to realize they made a mistake, or at least realize they were running the risk of immensely pissing off their customers, and decided to make the change. Props for that. Just like Microsoft, and everyone was really nice to them afterwords. Yeah - I can guarantee there won't be "$team" bandied around for long, even if it is for a bit.  

PR works, and Valve knows how to do solid PR. It's how they've built the Steam community. 

Comparing with 'M$', their downfall is that even if they do the right thing no-one cares since they're shit at PR, and on the flipside if they do the slightest thing 'evil' they everyone shits on them for the same reason. Google and Apple can both weasel their way out of far more outright evil abuses of the market - why? Much better PR all round. 

It IS all about the money, nothing wrong with that, but they made a major misstep here without considering the obvious implications, and the press release isn't *wholly* apologetic - that's a *really* bad sign going forwards. &gt;PR works, and Valve knows how to do solid PR

Yesterday the CEO was answering questions to anonymous customers for 2 hours. Yeah, this community just had a frank conversation with the CEO of Valve.  The next day, they implement the community's wishes.  I don't think you can ask for much more than that. &gt;  I don't think you can ask for much more than that.

Ice cream. I would like some iced cream. For immediate consumption by me. I have half a quart of rocky road left in the freezer. Want me to grab a couple spoons? And provided better customer support than customer support. It is always easier to provide better customer support when there are relatively few people above your level to tell you that you *can't* do/say/promise certain things. The CEO has the authority to make answers he gives valid. The Customer Support reps can only parrot what came down from above. He wasn't exactly answering questions....I read that entire thread...he put stuff up that sort of kind of mentioned something relative to the question askers. 

 I got the gist that the main reason he was there was to hear* the complaints of the community. There were several excellent posts that went unanswered, and I don't think it was because he was ignoring those, but rather because he wanted to read, absorb, and consider them.

EDIT: a word* Yeah, it was strange to see so much hate for Gabe for not answering the "tough"  questions, even though he wrote that it was a thread to read the complaints firsthand and not an AMA. Even if he is a CEO he can't go around and give promises he is not 100% sure about.  On what basis is an apology owed, though? Valve made a decision, based on evidence and reason, that they hoped/expected to generate increased revenue, increased quality and potentially more new IPs in which to invest. 

The community responded, both via messages and with its collective wallet. 

Valve recognized the miscalculation on their part and dropped the project, and this response took days. This entire episode was good for everyone, and provided a lot of insight. 

To feel entitled to an apology infers that you were wronged or injured which is an awfully bold claim to make. A private business, even moreso than a publicly traded business, is entitled to operate as it sees fit (to the extent that breaking the law, obviously). Valve (and Bethesda) made a bad call, but they didn't kick you in the balls and take your money.  Exactly. Valve is a data driven company. They have data on everything. They have economists working for them. They are constantly tweaking things, messing with prices, seeing what works and what doesn't.

This didn't work. They saw that. They ended it.

Good on Valve. &gt;PR works, and Valve knows how to do solid PR. It's how they've built the Steam community.

True, but just because it's PR doesn't mean it's not genuine. Companies make mistakes all the time - they're built by people, after all. Not everything is a dirty cash grab (I'd wager this was more on the mark with a me-too of Apple's App Store model, but I won't fault anyone for disagreeing). They tried something, got a ton of negative feedback, and quickly acted on that feedback by reverting that change. The fact that they were willing to a) acknowledge that mistake and b) take steps to rectify it says a lot about them and their values.

I agree that there's something to be said for paid mods - I'm more than happy to give money to people that have added value, and many mods do exactly that. Were the payout ratios right? Not to me. Do they need to solve the problem of quality control? Absolutely. Paid mods will be back but on newer games and probably in a slightly different disguise. They pretty much said as much.  They still think it's a good idea, but Skyrim in 2015 wasn't the time or the place. I think the introduction was very flawed, the reason why other games did so well was because Valve picked and chose which item(s) were up to par for selling. Bethesda on the other hand went full retard and let anyone and everyone sell their mods for however much they wanted. This resulted in mass poor quality mods flooding the market as well as copies and plagiarized mods. That's the recipe for instant regret. Forgiven, not forgotten! It's all about $$

Gabe himself said in the AMA that the email being generated by the issue was costing them more than the mods sold in the same amount of time.

This has nothing to do with the love of the modding community (lol 25% cut) or any sort of empathy.   This is backpedaling as quickly as possible because their greed was spotted out. &gt; This has nothing to do with the love of the modding community (lol 25% cut) or any sort of empathy. This is backpedaling as quickly as possible because their greed was spotted out.

Yeah, probably. But at least they're backpedaling instead of saying "fuck it" and plowing ahead anyway.

I'll take doing the right thing for the wrong reason over doing the wrong thing for any reason any time. I don't see how making money is a wrong reason. If it were economically viable to continue paid mods they'd do it. They found out it wasn't. This is how the world works.  There is a concept known as business ethics. Making money as a business is not some altruistic act. Yep, I'm with you. 

Making money isn't bad, and I'd be happy to pay for a really good mod... I just want my money to go to the creator, not to the original guys I've already paid for the game. 

With all of that said, I want to give Gabe the benefit of the doubt on it... I liked having a personal deity and I want him back. 

Edit: It's been pointed out to me that I probably should have said that I'd like the majority of the money to go to the creator of the mod, but the original devs should be getting a piece of pie too. Valve must really love the great PR that they have. When people on the internet literally treat your CEO as a god then the PR team has done their job Yeah, but what's important is that they CARE about staying in the Internet's good graces. Ubisoft and EA would've just plowed on ahead with this if they were in Valve's place.

A good relationship benefits everyone. It's not that. EA/Ubi just sees the PC market as a lost cause. Hell Ubisoft thinks we're all pirates. Console gamers tend to take the shit more because consoles have a larger market share and are lockdown as a platform. 

Valve's market are PC gamers, they understand how we work. If you getting people pissed enough to say "fuck hl3" then you're in a dangerous spot.  It's a mix of that and PR. You act like the money aspect is some appalling thing. What do you think the point of a company is? To make money. What happens when a company does something that losses them money? They stop it. One minute, you are up in arms about how horrific paid mods are. The next, you flip your shit about how greedy their intentions are for cancelling it.  People often forget that a company like Valve employs hundreds of people to go there five days a week and try to be productive for eight hours straight. I'm pretty sure these people wouldn't accept a pay reduction just because "lol sorry, we're losing money now", so of course they made the most sensible choice money-wise. Paid mods will be back, but it sounds like valve will implement it better where it will be more healthy for the mod makers and the community. I think the idea has potential, valve just fucked it up badly this time.  Which is totally fine with me.  Terrible idea to throw the feature up unannounced in the middle of an already large community though.  Launch a game with it and do some curation on the part of the developer and it's a cool concept, as far as I'm concerned. And I would bet a year's salary this is how it'll be done. A new mod-friendly AAA title will be released alongside a revamped "modder-friendly" pricing scheme, and it'll be praised as the second coming. I'd expect the same 30/70 split that every other digital medium tends to adopt. The problems that everyone raised with Skyrim's modding scheme are nullified if the game and mods are brand new and developed alongside a paid scheme. Yeah seriously. The majority of opinions were not against paying for mods or modders, they were against a rushed, unfair, poorly implemented, community disregarding, shambles of a system which nearly everyone saw for what it was immediately. 

Hopefully they will take on board the constructive criticism and implement something fair for the modders and good for the community. 

Hopefully...  &gt; The majority of opinions were not against paying for mods or modders

I did see an awful lot of people with an awful lot of upvotes in the thread a few days ago saying that modders should do their work for love of the game and not for money.

It seemed to be split between those who thought the system sucked because they think mods should be free, and those who thought the system sucked because modders got too small of a share. I would also argue that people in the "donations are fine" camp were in the "mods should be free" camp given the donation stats. The last couple of days, what i've seen is a lot of "it should be a donation button, so I can maybe donate if I like it", which is the same thing pirates say when they say "i'll pirate this game, and buy the product if I like it, but if I don't then I don't want to waste my money on it".

There was also, like you said, a lot of people who were saying that modders shouldn't get paid because "they're not game developers" and because "they should do it because they love the game" and other really stupid shit like that. I mean, really? So now it's bad to profit off of a hobby? The fact that people think they're entitled to something for free for no reason at all makes me angry. Amazing news! 

Although, I'm slightly concerned about the wording. 

He says, that adding paid mods to an established modding community wasn't a good idea to start off. 

Reading between the lines I'm hearing   'we need to be more intelligent on how we implement paid mods in the future'. 

Reminds me of an old adage,  not to cook a frog by tossing him into he boiling water you need to incrementally raise the heat so he never notices.

Also,  they keep saying that they did this for the modders to make a living.  Nothing else.  Then why the hell would you take 45% of their income and leave them with a measly 25%?  If you *really* want modders to make a living add a donate button that gives majority if not 100% to the creator.  The battle for Skyrim is over. The battle for Steam is about to begin. Fallout 4 is going to launch with a more locked down form of modding, maybe workshop only and it'll be monetized. Bethesda had a part in this so I'm expecting it to come back when it's not an 'established community' 

When this happens my heart is going to be broken.  If that does happen it'll be interesting to see how it turns out. 

One of Bethesda's biggest hurdles to switching to that kind of system is they can't be nearly as reliant on the mod community to fix their problems. So if Beth isn't prepared to properly QA their game then more restrictions on modding are going to hurt. 

I don't think it will be as universally poorly received as this was. But I promise you most of the modding community is still going to hate if it's the same exact system just with Fallout 4. And god help you if you the modding tools are restricted and limited to the Steam workshop only.   Yeah...just imagine a group of users releasing an unofficial patch that fixes bugs and asks for $10.  Of which, $4.50 goes to the original game creator.  So, essentially, the game creator is earning money to have someone else fix their game instead of them actually spending money to fix it themselves.  It unfortunately creates the wrong economic priorities. Yep. I fear this is not a victory. What has happened instead is that a very visible problem that was obviously wrong to almost everyone, has now gone under the radar.

It's certain they will try to get money from mods in another way, and it is certain it won't be ethical the next time either, but it will probably be more inconspicuous, and thus it will be more difficult to gather support against it ...

Valve and Bethesda revealed their true colors now, we know what they want and there is no going back. I know I wont be able to trust any of them ever again. Many people buy Fallout for the mods, something that big would make a ton of noise, especially since after a game is released those games are all around the web. 



They pull something that fishy and it'll be everywhere, pretty sure it would dim other positive traits it may have. Kind of like when you see a pretty person with crooked teeth. Damnit, I'm pretty and I have fucked up teeth and now I feel self conscious. Probably. At least it will not entirely ruin an established modding community. That said, it'll be the first Bethesda Game Studio game I won't buy, should your prediction come true. Which is sad, because I own every RPG by Bethesda (back then Bethesda Softworks proper) since Arena. Absolutely agree with you here. It seems that they're backing off only because of the public outcry against it, not because they realized it wasn't accomplishing their goals. I wouldn't be so sure that Valve is totally redeemed in my eyes; this seems like a retreat, not an apology. They will come back for sure, but in other shape and, I hope, in a healthier one for the modding comunity.  Which isn't necessarily a bad thing if done correctly. Totally correct. If they take time properly doing QA it could be good. I wouldn't mind paying a few bucks for mod like Falskar if I knew they had it fully implemented into workshop. Knowing a part of the small hassle is removed from an install and knowing that is a good mod with good ratings that adds a lot to the game I would gladly give some cash to the dev and a little bit to steam for hosting it and and to Bathesda for ensuring it is integrated into the game. The problem here was having unstable/ just bad mods with no assurance it will work as advertised, or it just adds a tiny thing. Also, the way pay was ditributed seemed of. Anther issue is that there needs to be price control. No mod should cost more than a core game expansion that add hours of game play and new mechanics like Dragonborn or Dawnguard. Something like Falskar may come close but it is still clearly far less intricate and more amateurish than the true expansions. 4 bucks for a new set of armor? Fuck off. 4 bucks for what is basically a fan made expansion?  Sure. You will never, ever see something on the scale of Nehrim, Falskar or the upcoming Endereal for sale.

The creators of Endereal and Nehrim actually wrote a column in one of the biggest gaming magazines in Germany about charging money for mods.
http://www.gamestar.de/spiele/the-elder-scrolls-5-skyrim/artikel/enderal_entwickler_zu_bezahlten_mods,45309,3085218.html

They concluded that if they started charging 30 euros (25% of that is 7,50) for their mod, they would have to pay a 6 digit number to voice actors, studios, external artists and for software licensing before they even released anything. Then they would have to pay other modders whose assets they use. 

In the end, whatever remained (probably nothing) they would have to split between at least 15 people on their team (there is always a lot of others too that leave before they finish.). All in all around 20000 work hours. Then you would have to pay taxes, healthcare etc. too. Germany is quite strict regarding that.

Now, let us assume that they would actually make a profit (they would not). They would have to have the money required to pay for all this before they actually started selling... Good luck without having a publisher.

Also, there is a lot of legal questions regarding this whole system that are incredibly risky for any bigger projects. And let us not forget that Valve and Bethesda could suddenly change their mind about selling mods again (like they just did) and you would sit on a mountain of debts.
Just look at the creator of SkyUI. He started working on it again because he wanted to sell it. Now he cant anymore.

No, the only stuff you will see for sale will be small projects (in terms of team size and external resources used). Stuff like armor skins, houses and horsecocks. Most of it not really unique.  Midas magic being an exception.

Oh and want to see what the community reaction is to modders wanting to start a paid project? Look in the comments here: http://steamcommunity.com/app/72850/discussions/0/611704730328215676/?insideModal=1
Good luck selling anything to them. They mentioned receiving a ton of feedback to sift through, so let's hope. Yeah, I'm sure death threats and fat-fuck comments are going to be really helpful. Your percentages are off.  They take 30%, just like with everything else (which is a very common percentage in the industry).  The game developer gets to decide how to split the remaining 70%, Bethesda decided to take 45% and give the modder 25%.  Other games could take 10% and give the modder 55%. &gt;If you really want modders to make a living add a donate button that gives majority if not 100% to the creator. 

Can people stop repeating this sentiment? It's so blatantly self-serving that it's downright embarrassing to even suggest it's in the interest of the modders.

Do people really think that if modders wanted to make a living off moding, their best bet is through donation? Really? Seriously. Donations for modding communities have been around a long time, and no one's making a living off of it because we're all cheap fucks. Can confirm, I've ran loads of services in my spare time, giving too many of them too much of my time. The end result? The ones with donate buttons received between $0 and $50 a year, with one exception being a rather rich person donating so I could pay for some software we needed.

People who honestly fucking think donations work, even in the slightest, for a consistent, let alone livable revenue stream really need to get a tighter grip on reality. Even for normal charity work, I remember listening to it on Freakanomics, they asked someone who works in charity, and said "Let's assume you send out 100 mail-ins for your chairty. What's a good response rate?" and they said 1/100 is what works for them.

People like the sound of charity, but the reality is much different. &gt; People like the sound of charity, but the reality is much different.

People like the sound of "Others will donate for the mod, but not me!  I'll get stuff for free!" &gt;Do people really think that if modders wanted to make a living off moding, their best bet is through donation? Really?

No, but they want free shit. Nobody donates without an incentive, imagine if Kickstarter didn't have stretchgoals or merchandise, imagine if buying the International's compendium did nothing other than raise the prizepool.

Saying "they should just add a donation button instead" simply sounds better than "this is fucking bs wtf why can't I get this shit for free". &gt; this is fucking bs wtf why can't I get this shit for free

A lot of it came down to that, and that's why doing this in an 'established' market was a bad idea.  People were afraid things which they had for free were now going to be taken away. I'm okay with paying for mods in the way they are describing as long as the following criteria are met:

1) It's built in from the beginning.  This way the shit like "pay me to add a character" is less likely to occur.

2) The ability to 'lock-down' version of the game.  One problem with MODs is that once there's a game update there's no guarantee that your mod will work anymore.  If we can lock down what version of the game we're running we can stay on an older version with the mods we like.

3) Better steam reviews, and vetting of the reviews to prevent astro-turfing.

4) A review process for the mods so that we don't get shit added to the market that promises X, but once you download you get Y and are out Z dollars.

5) Pay the modders a bigger cut.

I think they have a point in allowing people to create MODs like counter-strike or DayZ and get paid directly for that work.  It just requires a very well thought out process to make sure it doesn't alienate a game group.

For examples of 'pay for player modding' look at a lot of MMORPGs.  Players create cosmetic items and then sell them on the open market (I know EQ2 did this.  I'm sure others).  It's worked in the past without being a massive fail.  It just needs to be handled a lot better with a more directed scope at first. Yes, but there's a big difference between overhauling mods and smaller ones. I'm against cost entry for smaller mods, which covers 95 percent of skyrim mods. In general I've just always loved the elder scrolls modding communities, and its so distateful to monetize it &gt; Reading between the lines I'm hearing 'we need to be more intelligent on how we implement paid mods in the future'. 

why is that bad?

&gt; Then why the hell would you take 45% of their income and leave them with a measly 25%

because the curator program on steam gives the same cut to the creator, and they apparently make lots of money. for some mods, more is definitely deserved (25% would not be enough for a mod like falskaar, for example). maybe if a system to make a dynamic cut was implemented (so big expansions got 35%, whereas things like single weapons got 10%), then it would be a lot better. that would certainly reward effort. Watch their positive PR go to the moon. 

Still, kudos to Valve for listening to the community. That's the bottom line.

They did something they thought would be cool. They fucked it up. They realized it. They backtracked and gave everyone their money back. Would've been better to NOT have done it in the first place - or maybe ask for input... But, they fixed it. Its easier to ask for forgiveness then it is to get permission. 

That principle works both ways.  Yup. I'm more than happy to consider methods to reward mod developers. Maybe a minimum optional donation amount that also nets you a free game ( ala Humble Bundle) or stuff for the Steam metagame, something that is an incentive to donating. Anything that makes the current process (mods are free, donations are welcome) better for developers. 

Anything BUT the system that was shoehorned in, really. Glad they listened. The gaming community can really move the industry if we set our minds to it, it's just that our minds are usually occupied playing games :P Give out trading cards for donating to modders. People will sell then on the community market. Valve will take a cut. Valve solves the problem of modders not getting supported and makes some money on the side from the sale of the cards. With all the negative PR they received from implementing it in the first place they wouldn't even have fully dug out with the positive PR. hah, fair enough. Maybe it will take them back up to the surface then. SKYRIM BELONGS TO THE NOR-I mean... THE GAMERS! Every night I walk around the Steam Forums and tell those dirty moderators what I think of em! I wish reddit cared this much about NSA surveillance or ending the war on drugs. The war on the Constitution you mean. I still care :C Its not a war on drugs, its a war on personal freedom its what it is ok. Keep that in mind at all times. Thank you.

-Bill Hicks We dothere have been *huge* shitstorms over itbut the government is not a business, can (and does) take our money by force, and therefore doesn't give a fuck about our opinions. Yeah, good luck ending those by breaking someone's fax machine and sending them a few nasty emails. ha! you beat me to it well enjoy your thousands o' Karma. Sorry, dude! Here, have some gold as a condolence prize. No comment shall be left ungilded. This guy is the real hero of the thread. I only have [upvotes](http://i.imgur.com/Izx8egT.gif), but I'm using them very liberally in this thread. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think the idea of letting people support modders good, they just went about it in a real shitty way. Good on Valve for fixing their mistake.  This needs to be a larger sentiment. Paid mods are not a problem by themselves. And i am also ok with valve and the game making some proffit. It is a service they provide.  Servers cost money.  The sofware for auto installation and updating costs money.   The background structures for billing and charging credit cards and producing invoices all cost moeny. 


We are moving to a time when pc mod support is becomming more rare.  It is a feature that is greatly under rated and giving the community a way to support the feature directly could have helped game producers see the value.


All that being said, the way they went about this was all wrong.  Personally, for now, i woud greatly support a humble bundle style donation system for mods.   You pick the ammount you pay, with the ability to select how much money goes to each person.


going forward, the main problems i see are pirated works ( as in people stealing other peoples mods and selling them as their own).  People keep saying donations, donations. How much really do people donate to modders, and is this really enough for them as a full time worker? Do we have any data on this? If not, then we probably shouldn't keep saying that over and over again. http://www.neogaf.com/forum/showthread.php?t=1034533&amp;page=30  
  
&gt;Fun fact: in my experience, less than 0.17% of all mod users donate. If you actually want to make a living or even just support yourself with modding (which I think is a bad idea, but I wouldn't want to stop anyone from trying!) then donations are entirely unsuitable.  
  
Background info: Durante is the creator of DSFix, a mod that according to people in the thread "practically everyone who plays darksouls uses" This is what gets me. People are so against paid mods and are saying "put a donation button instead", but in reality, are they going to donate? Probably not. They're just using that as an excuse to still be able to get something for free. They're thinking more about themselves and not about the modders who spend time and effort to make these mods, and maybe would like to earn a little bit of money off of them through the a huge marketing platform. 

They, the modders who work hard to give us the mods we love, essentially got fucked by the vocal minority who just want free shit with the possibility of "maybe paying if I like it". People use the same excuses all the time when discussing piracy, but it's all just done to try and justify not paying for something in the end :(

 Legally alone a donation button wouldn't and shouldn't work. On what planet should a modder ([myself included](http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/32448/?)) be entitled to 100% of the revenue built on the back of clearly copyrighted work? I'm going to be 100% honest. I know for a fact that I would never use the donation button if it were implemented.

I would, however, pay for mods if it required and was a really good mod. People say donations because they want the mod for free and for other people to donate.  http://www.bethblog.com/2015/04/27/why-were-trying-paid-skyrim-mods-on-steam/

&gt;There are certainly other ways of supporting modders, through donations and other options. We are in favor of all of them. One doesnt replace another, and we want the choice to be the communitys. Yet, in just one day, a popular mod developer made more on the Skyrim paid workshop than he made in all the years he asked for donations. That's not where the anger came from though.

People just don't want to have to pay for free stuff. It's easy for everyone to go "They should just add donation buttons and they'd get tons".

Yup, sure, which is why Wikipedia never has to ask for donations.

***

*Edit: I don't blame people for wanting stuff to stay free, it's a perfectly healthy selfish reaction. Just don't pretend it's some moral high-ground.* Modders have had donation links on mod sites for years, no modder has ever made enough in donations to go full time.

Not once.

Only hope for modders to go pro is to use their mods as portfolio material to get hired by game developers. Or recently, use Patreon to blackmail users into supporting them as a group or getting new content. Because that's more healthy right? You will never, ever see something on the scale of Nehrim, Falskar or the upcoming Endereal for sale.

The creators of Endereal and Nehrim actually wrote a column in one of the biggest gaming magazines in Germany about charging money for mods.
http://www.gamestar.de/spiele/the-elder-scrolls-5-skyrim/artikel/enderal_entwickler_zu_bezahlten_mods,45309,3085218.html

They concluded that if they started charging 30 euros (25% of that is 7,50) for their mod, they would have to pay a 6 digit number to voice actors, studios, external artists and for software licensing before they even released anything. Then they would have to pay other modders whose assets they use. They got all this for free before.

In the end, whatever remained (probably nothing) they would have to split between at least 15 people on their team (there is always a lot of others too that leave before they finish.). All in all around 20000 work hours. Then you would have to pay taxes, healthcare etc. too. Germany is quite strict regarding that.

Now, let us assume that they would actually make a profit (they would not). They would have to have the money required to pay for all this before they actually started selling... Good luck without having a publisher.

Also, there is a lot of legal questions regarding this whole system that are incredibly risky for any bigger projects. And let us not even mention that Valve and Bethesda could suddenly change their mind about selling mods again (like they just did) and you would sit on a mountain of debts.
Just look at the creator of SkyUI. He started working on it again because he wanted to sell it. Now he cant anymore.

No, the only stuff you will see for sale will be small projects (in terms of team size and external resources used). Stuff like armor skins, houses and horsecocks. Most of it not really unique.  Midas magic being an exception.

Oh and want to see what the community reaction is to modders wanting to start a paid project? Look in the comments here: http://steamcommunity.com/app/72850/discussions/0/611704730328215676/?insideModal=1 Now put your money where your mouth is and go donate to the people whose mods you use. Chances are 90% of you (or more) don't. Don't make this whole event pass by without something to show for it.  My boyfriend's mod has over 80,000 unique downloads and he's made less than $10 in donations from 3 people. Nobody wants to pay for something they don't have to.

Edit: 3 people want to pay for something they don't have to. The real reason people got mad was because they don't want to pay. They don't really care about modders. I care about modders. In fact, I'm going to donate $5 to the people that put 8 nipples on my Khajiit. Nobody's going to do it. Valve's only error was in presentation. This is absolutely correct.  More like 99.9% I think the number was 99.83%. I guarantee it's not even close to 10% of people who donate. Frankly I doubt it's over 1%. Donations will never make modders anything more than a pittance. That's the irony of the whole thing.  The modders income just went down to zero until they can produce a new mod and everyone is acting like their bellyaching saved the kingdom. Donations were still an option when paid mods were a thing. We all know nobody was seriously going to donate. This was never about the modders getting paid, but about us getting free shit. Even if it happens, it still would be just ripples from current events. Community won't change by itself. Many of those who used donation as an argument are usual internet warriors who took something said by somebody else and use it to win an argument for the sake of it. Nothing will change if people are not forced to change.  I'm seeing a lot of people saying "if you want to monetize your mod, why not go to Patreon or Kickstarter?"

Isn't that like.. a *massive* breach of copyright, and all kinds of illegal? Yes. Nope. Patreon works buy paying for the work, not the product. One of the main things about Patreon is that the product is available to the people who can't/won't pay.  There is a city skylines modder getting about $800 per building. Say he sold his mods for 1$ each (lowest Patreon amount), he would still get sales,  but far fewer would use his mods.

It's like how some livestreamers can afford to livestream full time even though only like .1% of the people watching actually donate. "We've done this because it's clear we didn't understand exactly what we were doing."

Takes balls to say something like that. Kudos "Fus Ro Darn" - Valve "Oh, heeeey Nexus Mods, how's it going? Remember when I removed my mods and told you to go fuck yourself because I thought I could make some coin? I was just kidding about that."

-All the ex-Nexus mod creators Remember when Microsoft owned up to their mistake and everyone still hated them anyway because "they just did it because of the backlash, not because it was better for gamers." Let's see how the reaction is different when valve does it. Which mistake? I wasn't here when that happened. I think he's referencing the push for the Xbox One being always online, you cannot play games if offline and you can't borrow games from other people. They backtracked on that pretty quick when everyone hated it. My memory of all of that's somewhat fuzzy, but didn't they also spend a bunch of time (and PR effort) telling people that they basically couldn't turn off all of the DRM because they built the whole console around those "features"? ye it was a few week long debacle as they hummed and hah'd about it. This has been what? 3 days? and it's been shut down entirely. Please remember that they also said that they cannot undo always online, it's implemented in the system. Which was a lie ofc. Valve and geben said with their first reactions that they will look at the feature and if they think it doesn't work out, they will change or remove it. That is a hell of a difference.  We did it reddit! Now lets go find those bombers! The riots can stop guys!  We did it! I don't think Baltimore heard you. Gamer lives matter ...And we haven't killed anyone! ...Yet...  http://imgur.com/FogISjm http://i.imgur.com/wYheWDU.gif http://i.imgur.com/7axHJIO.gifv This is the only response. The one true ~~king~~ response. Now I can spend my money on something important, like a fleshlight! &gt;We talked to the team at Bethesda

right after we dug them out of the 50 meters of shit reddit threw at them in one single day Wait, we actually won? Yeah I'm confused, I thought we were just going to keep complaining  until everyone forgot about it. If they waited a week it probably would have. Hell the only reason I saw this post was because I came to this sub specifically because i wanted to see no one talking about paid mods anymore and get pissed. Then do absolutely nothing about it and seethe in anger calling all of you lazy bastards who don't give a damn. Then I was gonna run a young whipper snapper off my front lawn. A week was giving you assholes too long. Removing them and refunding purchases. Classy, even in the face of overwhelming negative feedback. Some companies try to take the "we know whats best for you" attitude. Valve didn't and for that they have earned back a little respect.  &gt;Some companies try to take the "we know whats best for you" attitude.

\*cough\* Blizzard \*cough\* Blizzard flipped on the forums RealID thing after 3 days of summer rage i wonder if any modders are pissed that the community just cost them money  And the modders are probably thrilled they at least made enough for a burger combo from those few days of getting paid.   Modders had to pull in $400 before being paid at all, and the money is being refunded. &gt; We're going to remove the payment feature from the Skyrim workshop. For anyone who spent money on a mod, we'll be refunding you the complete amount. We talked to the team at Bethesda and they agree. 
&gt; 
&gt; We've done this because it's clear we didn't understand exactly what we were doing. We've been shipping many features over the years aimed at allowing community creators to receive a share of the rewards, and in the past, they've been received well. It's obvious now that this case is different.
&gt; 
&gt; To help you understand why we thought this was a good idea, our main goals were to allow mod makers the opportunity to work on their mods full time if they wanted to, and to encourage developers to provide better support to their mod communities. We thought this would result in better mods for everyone, both free &amp; paid. We wanted more great mods becoming great products, like Dota, Counter-strike, DayZ, and Killing Floor, and we wanted that to happen organically for any mod maker who wanted to take a shot at it. 
&gt; 
&gt; But we underestimated the differences between our previously successful revenue sharing models, and the addition of paid mods to Skyrim's workshop. We understand our own game's communities pretty well, but stepping into an established, years old modding community in Skyrim was probably not the right place to start iterating. We think this made us miss the mark pretty badly, even though we believe there's a useful feature somewhere here. 
&gt; 
&gt; Now that you've backed a dump truck of feedback onto our inboxes, we'll be chewing through that, but if you have any further thoughts let us know. Thank you from mobile users I can really respect a company that are honest and owns up to their mistakes. I feel like we are just going to be fucked down the road when it comes to mods for new games (Fallout 4 ahem) What's wrong with certain people being able to charge money for their hard work? It seems it was up to the person who created the mod whether to charge or not. If you didn't like the mod then don't purchase it, it should send the message that their work isn't worth the $$ instead of telling them they can't charge at all like a dictator  75% would have gone to Valve/Bethesda, while support for the mod was totally on the modder(the only recourse after 24 hours was according to the FAQ was ask the modder politely about it) So, there should be better negotiations with reasonable compensations for the modders creates, but free is 0%, was that much better?  the thing is by being free, it avoids some very stressful things(IP issues, issues with permission for assets used in mods, issues of people taking free mods from the nexus and uploading them as paid mods on steam) Soo.. If I don't want an STD, I avoid the opposite sex completely right?

It's a free market, people are fucked and will do fucked up shit, TF2 and Dota 2 are no different, China is just as fucked and likes to steal work, that doesn't mean we should just give up on ever selling our content.

"Boo hoo, someone will upload something that's copyright."  Sure, then it gets removed as soon as someone notices, but at least the content creators are given a chance to make money off of their work instead of completely cock-blocked and fully resort to HOPING we get that small chance of a studio position for $13/h after spending upwards of 10 years of our lives learning how to make said content.

As a content creator, I unfortunately feel stabbed in the back, as though my work isn't WORTH anything to you people, it hurts..  This whole thing wasn't about defending content creators, it was about people too reluctant to pay for someone else's hard work.  The only reason we work for free, is because it's all we are capable of doing unless we have a team to create a full game or we're picked up by a studio. Donations don't work, we've tried them.. Nobody pays, I'll earn MAYBE $60 a month from work that has taken me thousands of hours. Your content may be worth something, it may not. But simply creating a pricing system overnight and suddenly making everything chargable is not the way to go. Quality control and ongoing support are huge issues for people. Something that is put up with when things are free but not acceptable if people are paying.

None of this is anti-modder. Quite the opposite, it's about protecting the thriving community that is there. If there is a better way to support modders with donations or charging then I think that's a noble effort, but it has to be far more thought through and managed than what this was - which was a basic cash grab by Steam and Bethesda with no additional services to justify it.  I agree that maybe they shouldn't have charged AFTER there were a ton of free mods.  We will get charged mods, it'll happen.. Maybe not this platform, but soon.

A lot of people have issues with paying for mods in general, this is what's irritating, they believe that because 'mods' are typically free, or haven't had the ability to earn money without donations, that it should always be that way.

The % wasn't an issue, they're taking a cut by allowing easy access to their playerbase and valve is taking a cut by us having access to Steam.  This is just business, it's as if a store sold my product while also licensing from another company to create said product.

Edit: Also, you shouldn't worry about Quality Control, that'll typically come when they're capable of giving people the position of overlooking the mods, which come by us being capable of pulling in money.. It's a little more complicated than just having someone watch every single mod, but there at least is some form of review process.
We know this because it's something Valve already does for TF2 and Dota 2.. It works. Mods for Skyrim are a lot more extensive that Dota 2 etc. There are also complex compatibility issues. 

As for the cut. They already provide the service for free. What's the justification of charging for it? Why get mods through steam instead of through other community sites unless Steam decide to DRM and force everybody to come through them and pay the cut?

There's a lot of complexity to this which concerns people, it's not an issue of whether or not mod makers deserve support. It's the knock on implications to the status quo which are so concerning. And not because gamers are conservative and immature, but because this is a big change to a hobby many people love, which is in the hands of corporations, not the community. Corporations have different agendas.  Because as soon as you charge for something through steam, they automatically take a 30% cut..  If you're not making money, then it's not in their interest to take from you.

It's in the best interest of both the Corporations as well as the Content Creators, no this isn't there to specifically help the players.

The % was fair, I've sold content through several other platforms, this was no different. Did steam take away the ability to mod the game through outside means? So that if you want to mod your game you can only go through their workshop?  Not as far as I know, but if you are charging for your mod you can't also make it available on another website which doesn't charge. 
And you need some way of avoiding people taking mods and hosting them "illegally" on other sites.  Now 25% of nothing goes to the mods. Yup, we saved the modding scene.  The modding scene needed saving? I think it's thriving, and this approach by valve risked putting a division right through the middle of it. People aren't objecting to supporting modders. Just the community has done it in other ways. The objection is that Valve and Bethesda felt it was their responsibility to step in and "save" it by putting a marketplace where one was never needed in the past.  So instead of 25% it seems 0% will suffice. Seems fair. I just hope everybody realizes what we've done here. Valve and Bethesda were only going to give modders 25% of profits!

But we did it internet! We convinced Valve to give modders absolutely nothing instead! That's kinda the way I feel. A lot of the mod developers deserve some cash.  Then donate. [deleted] And how many mods have you donated to? How many people do you think actually donate? Do you even know how much work too notch mods like Gary's Mod is? No one asked them to mod, the moment they stepped into the modding world they knew it wasn't for money.  Articles have been written about many modders who are behind paid-for-mods. Garry's mod, a paid-for-mod is one of the most played games on steam! 

http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2015/04/27/gabe-newell-garry-newman-defend-steams-paid-mods/ You do understand the system was flawed, and badly planned at best, right?

It was possible to make mods that included other people's mods and skins. And sell them. Essentially making money off other people's work, with no permission needed.

It was possible for a modder to sell a mod without any guarantees that the mod is stable and crash-free. No strings attached.

It was possible to release a mod with tons of features advertised, and only a few actually in the product, because it's a "work in progress". Again, with no guarantees that the product will ever be finished. A lot like many games in Early Access. 

While I agree that some developers deserve a buck for their excellent work and I agree that Valve's intentions were noble, the execution of it all was so poor that I'm afraid even I would do better. 

Perhaps a donation button would be more acceptable. You could choose to support the modder, not essentially purchase a product with no guarantees of quality.  You just described the entirety of Steam.

Elaboration: Copyright infringement as your first point is something we both agree on.
It is possible for game developers to sell broken games on steam. (DayZ, Dino beatdown etc)
Games are released on steam with features that are not advertised. But it's still a work in progress (early access, beta, alpha games).

I don't think these were reasons to completely remove the system entirely. Maybe change the copyright issues, but that could have been the main focus of Reddit's hate, not the entire idea itself. It was a great idea. We literally gave it two days, for one game. I see where you're coming from. The copyright issue is something that should've been thought about when the feature was shipped, not just "hey, you can sell mods now". How do we solve this issue...that I do not know. I'm not sure if mods are exactly bound by copyright laws, someone would have to explain that to me. 

While a game and a mod are products in their own right, I believe a mod's goal is to test a game's limits, expanding the game's potential and adding more to the experience of gaming. It's a bit different from an expansion pack or a DLC pack. The latter most of the time doesn't go beyond the boundaries of the game. A mod theoretically does not have these restrictions. Heck, a mod can even fix bugs the game developers couldn't, or chose not to, fix. Imagine if the developers of Skyrim Unofficial Patch chose to monetize the mod? Do I have to pay to fix bugs? 

I still stand for the donation button idea. Mods and full games need to be addressed differently.

(I must salute you. You're the first person on Reddit not calling me a complete retard when it comes to this discussion) Elaborate your argument.  Elaborated in edit &gt; While I agree that some developers deserve a buck for their excellent work and I agree that Valve's intentions were noble, the execution of it all was so poor that I'm afraid even I would do better.

This is what I've been saying. But people like you and I are unfortunately sitting in the middle of two extremes. On one end you have the people who think modders shouldn't get paid anything and on the other you have people who think Valve was doing something good despite how horrible the entire system was. The latter group refuses to see any problems with the system and only looks at how modders are now getting paid while the former looks at the price tag on a mod and thinks there shouldn't be a system at all.  It's just not that simple, stop over simplifying the issue 
 Please elaboratr Paying for bug fixes, end of story  Alright so when a company tries something new, everyone hates it. When that company is decent enough to know that everyone hates it they end up removing it. Then it turns out it was a good thing all along, and the people were wrong?What the fuck?  I never supported the community's decision in the first place [deleted] I'm afraid you'll need to elaborate on that one! Yes, I'm very curious to hear more words of limitless wisdom from /u/Luxangel7. [deleted] Oooh! Oooh, do me now! I wanna feel the tingle of your impotent rage!  YES FINALLY WE DID IT!!! Now about Silent Hills... One victory at a time. In the mean time we gotta find Kojima a new home. I vote for Sony. While that would allow the game to be made it would also suck to have it be platform exclusive. sony could definitely fund his projects though. *definitely

And yeah, they most likely could. I'm sure EA would take him with the Silent Hill franchise. Quiet yourself! What if someone less understanding saw you say that? You'd be burned alive! Like I said! Kickstarter him a home! Then the game! 
Let's start a petition to recruit him with From Software and hook him up with some Del Toro and The Walking Dead guy. Konami still owns the Silent Hills trademark but I'm sure we could get a spiritual successor to PT up and going. Fear us, Konami We've got momentum!  You mean Silent Shills. Oh come on. That game was never going to be good.  I expect we'll see alot of donations to mods then *amirite*... 

Don't be a Scumbag Steve that fights for donations and then doesn't give one. In my experience it's around 1 out of every 100 who says they will. We'll probably see a "massive" spike to 3 in 100 for a month, and then it will go back down but everyone will say "don't blame ME, I donate to modders (2 bucks.. that one time last year..)" Am I a scumbag Steve if I said paid mods were fine and could be justified? Personally, I like the idea of mod creators being able to sell their work, being able to support themselves. While in the beginning we'll get tons of crappy, half-baked, incompatible mods, we'd soon see the community sifting through these and pushing quality mods to the top.

Valve gave mod developers a choice to make money. They could have put their mod up for free if they wanted. I think Valve and Bethesda handled this fairly badly, had conflicting strategies that ultimately resulted in some fairly poor moderation decisions. Hopefully, if this comes around again, we'll see a better system and a better plan, and with a 'Free, Donate?' button. The problem with the idea of a donate button is that NOBODY DONATES unless they get perks for it. Have you ever donated to a mod? Because I haven't. I've donated to a mod (Silent Hunter 5 modpack), and yeah, you're right, perks or nobody donates is already an established thing.

Some people will donate because they feel like the developer deserves it. I think that's great, and one of my games has a donate button on the menu screen, and it's distributed for free. No donations yet, but maybe we'll see some if the game picks up more users. Your honesty I like it. How's that community working out for greenlight?  It'd probably be a bit easier to filter mods since the workshop offers 'Plug and Play'. Greenlight involves a bit more work on the user, and many people can't be bothered. THEY SHOULD HEAD TO THE NEXT OLYMPIC GAMES FOR THIS LEVEL OF BACKFLIPPING They did a complete ~~360!~~ er,  180! Just like the gaming community.  Judging by the wording of valve's release it's possible that they are doing a 360.


first a 180 to take it down and look at where they went wrong, then another 180 later when they've figured it out. More like a 1080 cork They did a 360 and walked away? If someone changes their mind because you ask them to, it's pretty immature to then give them shit about it. 

This is one reason politicians behave like shitbags when they make a mistake - they can't admit to their mistake or they cop shit for backflipping. This community is so fucking toxic, people kick and scream until they get their way, and all this proves is that it works. so sad. Oh no, a company listening to criticism and actually undoing something people saw as a mistake, the horror! If only valve could be as bad as Nestle or BP! 10/10 it's basically exactly what we wanted
 Are you seriously complaining that they changed their stance due to criticism and an opposing opinion? Jesus fucking Christ this community is awful.  I thought it would have been kinda nice for some Mod makers to make some money for their work. But that's just me.
 I am not sure if I like the donation button... I've tried that with open source game development, and made almost no money. I really hope the community and valve can come to some middle ground. I would love to try and monetize a dlc for something like Skyrim... it would be a hell of a lot more fun than android apps, and less difficult than attempting to get an indie game to make it. But that's where the problem is. This could have turned out like shitty mobile game market with advertising and "lite" versions.  Perhaps those gents in Baltimore will calm down now Awesome. Now if only we can get Nintendo to remove their Anti-Youtube Policy and we shall be golden! I'm a Nintendo fanboy when it comes to their games-- not ashamed to admit it --but holy hell, I will never defend their business practices. As a Nintendo fan, I get burned more than anyone else by them. 

Would you like a Majoras Mask 3DSXL? All you have to do is find a scalper on day 1.

Would you like to buy SNES games on the 3DS? Keep your money. We'd like to keep those on home consoles.

You want that really cool collectors edition with the statue and the extra goodies? Well, you're probably going to buy the game anyway, so we'll give them all to Europe.

**Edit:** As a reward for being such a loyal customer, you can have a free download of any of our SNES games... Except Earthbound. We are out of stock of digital downloads of Earthbound. Choose something else. &gt; but holy hell, I will never defend their business practices. As a Nintendo fan, I get burned more than anyone else by them.

Give them a few more years and they're going to be a handheld only company. I really don't see them putting out another console after the Wii U.  It's kind of sad, but I can see this happening.

The wii u was a series of unfortunate events, but it's so much fun! All they need to do is create a modern GameCube.  None of that annoying motion control stuff.  Create a platform with pretty graphics that has a bluray player. It really seems a lot of the "traditional" gamers have moved away from Nintendo products. The name has lost any edge it had (and I base that assessment on absolutely nothing.)

Kids today, they need edge! It is sad, I don't want to be in a world where Nintendo doesn't make a home console but the Wii U has been a big flop for them. Their handheld market has always been strong. It's really a no brainer. 

The casual gamer is going to buy their handheld. The die hard or more "modern" or hardcore gamer is going to want their home console but their home console doesn't have great online play or any of the hot or popular games. So they hardcore gamer is going to Sony or Microsoft for their gaming needs.  &gt; Would you like a Majoras Mask 3DSXL? All you have to do is find a scalper on day 1.

You're welcome.

http://www.amazon.co.uk/New-Nintendo-Zelda-Majoras-Mask/dp/B00SFMM0BW/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1430197991&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=majoras+mask+new+3ds Awesome. I'll just buy all my games in the EU region from now on ;) &gt;Would you like a Majoras Mask 3DSXL? All you have to do is find a scalper on day 1.

There was a port strike that limited shipments. These are actually really easy to find now and the price of them online has gone down dramatically. Don't let people make it sound rare when it's not.

&gt;Would you like to buy SNES games on the 3DS? Keep your money. We'd like to keep those on home consoles.

Nintendo sprinkles their games to help software droughts and to keep VC sales healthy. If they released all their VC games at once, they'd be ignored for the most part. It's a business decision.

&gt;You want that really cool collectors edition with the statue and the extra goodies? Well, you're probably going to buy the game anyway, so we'll give them all to Europe.

I have a Majora's Mask Limited Edition sitting next to me. 

&gt;Except Earthbound. We are out of stock of digital downloads of Earthbound. Choose something else.

They fixed this a day later. How is this a point? Sony and Microsoft don't even give away free games as a thank you for purchasing them. It's so silly how everyone is entitled.  I more hate nintendo's archaic Online system. To not be allwoed to log into my friends wii to play together on a console designed for couch coop is soooooooo annoying. Want a wii u in bedroom and living room? make a separate account. &gt;There was a port strike that limited shipments. These are actually really easy to find now and the price of them online has gone down dramatically. Don't let people make it sound rare when it's not.

That totally stopped them from making more after it was resolved, I'm assuming. I guess I should settle for buying from a private ebay seller for about $100 more? Sounds like fun.

&gt;Nintendo sprinkles their games to help software droughts and to keep VC sales healthy. If they released all their VC games at once, they'd be ignored for the most part. It's a business decision.

That's not really what I was talking about. I was talking about their decision to keep SNES games on the Wii U, because that is somehow an incentive to buy one.

&gt;I have a Majora's Mask Limited Edition sitting next to me.

I'm pretty sure Hyrule Warriors, Mario Kart, Majoras Mask, Bayonetta and a few others all had collectors editions that either did not come stateside or were only sold to the first customers in their New York Store.

Maybe it's just small things like a statue, or an artbook, or a scarf. Again, for people who aren't big fans, probably doesn't even register.

&gt;They fixed this a day later. How is this a point? Sony and Microsoft don't even give away free games as a thank you for purchasing them. It's so silly how everyone is entitled.

I payed $50 and got a $5 download (which is now a discontinued service.) I'm pretty sure PS+ and Live have their free games of the month club going on.

I play PC games mostly, but running out of digital downloads has never been a problem for me. It didn't surprise me when Nintendo did, though. As with most of these problems, it seems, the problems appear when I am interested, and somehow "resolve" after I could not give them my money.

And I don't get how wanting to buy things that they are already selling on other platforms/regions makes me entitled. &gt;That totally stopped them from making more after it was resolved, I'm assuming. I guess I should settle for buying from a private ebay seller for about $100 more? Sounds like fun.

Did you not even read what I wrote? Many people are reporting their stores being flooded with these 3DS systems. I visit many gaming websites to get Amiibo and rare Nintendo devices and there's a ton of reports about this. 

&gt; That's not really what I was talking about. I was talking about their decision to keep SNES games on the Wii U, because that is somehow an incentive to buy one.

It is what you're talking about. Nintendo focuses on specific software and tries to keep sales moving of the VC service.

&gt;I'm pretty sure Hyrule Warriors, Mario Kart, Majoras Mask, Bayonetta and a few others all had collectors editions that either did not come stateside or were only sold to the first customers in their New York Store.

Majora's Mask was sold at all major retailers.
Bayonetta didn't really need a limited edition here. All copies in the US come with both games while only the special version in the UK came with both copies. True on Mario Kart and Zelda, but it's not a big deal to me. I'm not really upset over a plastic shell or a scarf.

&gt;I payed $50 and got a $5 download (which is now a discontinued service.) I'm pretty sure PS+ and Live have their free games of the month club going on.

That "Free Game" requires you to pay $8 a month. You also lose access to the game once you end the subscription. With Club Nintendo, I got Pikmin 3, Pokemon X, and Mario Kart 7 for free. I also got a $30 eShop credit. I also got Game &amp; Wario as a Platinum Reward. Not only that, but I've gotten countless digital downloads of classic games. I own an Xbox One, PS4, PC, and Wii U. I'm well aware of how it all works. 

&gt;somehow "resolve" after I could not give them my money.
You couldn't wait 24 hours? Cry me a river.

&gt;And I don't get how wanting to buy things that they are already selling on other platforms/regions makes me entitled.

Getting upset over a service that has given away hundreds of dollars worth of games for filling out a survey and being upset a website ran out of digital keys after large demand is pretty entitled. Or complaining that there was low shipments during a strike that severely limited supply. Or that you didn't get something Europe didn't get, even though America got the better end of the stick by not charging extra.  &gt; Many people are reporting their stores being flooded with these 3DS systems

Flooded? I can't seem to find new ones online at major retailers, and according to the people who work at the gamestops around here many of the stores in my area didn't even get them in store, they only got a certain number to place orders for. And I live in the central Texas area, so I am not in the middle of nowhere.
&gt;It is what you're talking about. Nintendo focuses on specific software and tries to keep sales moving of the VC service.

So not offering a game that is already for sale on a different platform that they own is somehow getting people to spend money? Wouldn't the people who want it on the Wii U buy it anyway? I've never understood this defense, but okay.

&gt;Majora's Mask was sold at all major retailers. 

Not the same bundle, but you don't care about that stuff so what's the point of talking about it.

&gt;Bayonetta didn't really need a limited edition here.

[citation needed]


&gt;but it's not a big deal to me. I'm not really upset over a plastic shell or a scarf.

I'm noticing a trend where things that don't interest you are not supposed to be big deals for anyone else either...

 &gt;That "Free Game" requires you to pay $8 a month.

Paying $8 and getting multiple free games each month, as opposed to spending at least $50 and filling out surveys for a single $5 download. Neither of these things are free in the pure sense, ~~but then again you said they were free not me~~ I said it was free, but I was talking about the Platinum/Gold rewards, not the survey. Even so, I would not say one deal is better than the other.

&gt;Getting upset over a service that has given away hundreds of dollars worth of games for filling out a survey and being upset a website ran out of digital keys after large demand is pretty entitled.

If you're  filling out surveys, I wouldn't say that its completely free. A reward? Sure. Not charity, though. Besides, that service is gone. Also, I just thought it was amusing that Nintendo would be the first company I've seen run out of a digital product that (presumably) they supply themselves.

&gt; Or complaining that there was low shipments during a strike that severely limited supply. 

Very limited supply seems to happen to them a lot. If all these things were 1-time problems, I wouldn't even notice. It's a pattern.

&gt;Or that you didn't get something Europe didn't get, even though America got the better end of the stick by not charging extra.

You're telling me I'm getting a better deal because I'm not getting something, while they turn around and charge the EU extra? This stick is shitty across both ends. &gt;I can't seem to find new ones online at major retailers

Check Bestbuy. Their store was next in line for the major restock. Gamestop just got a major restock a few weeks ago but it's selling out. Bestbuy is easier to find.

&gt;Not the same bundle, but you don't care about that stuff so what's the point of talking about it.

What? Stop putting words in my mouth. I own Special Editions of a majority of my games. I have Majora's Mask, The Order 1866, Pokemon, Persona, Bravely Default, etc. It's not that I'd never have any interest, it's just that I can accept it's not a big deal if I don't get it. Also, we got a full figurine while Europe got a shitty pin. Are you seriously that jealous? You just sound silly to me when you're getting upset that we didn't get a shitty pin in favor of a high quality figurine.

&gt;Even so, I would not say one deal is better than the other.

Are you kidding me? You pay $50 for games on Xbox and Sony too. That's an ADDITIONAL $8 a month you're paying, not in comparison to the $50.

&gt;Also, I just thought it was amusing that Nintendo would be the first company I've seen run out of a digital product that (presumably) they supply themselves.

Because that's how digital keys work? They don't have an unlimited number of them. I'm sure they make a set number of them and then make more when they run out. You said you've never had this issue, but I've seen this issue countless times in redeeming digital goods on PC.

&gt;Very limited supply seems to happen to them a lot. If all these things were 1-time problems, I wouldn't even notice. It's a pattern.

The Wii was a massive seller. The 3DS is selling almost half a million units every month. These products are in demand.

&gt;You're telling me I'm getting a better deal because I'm not getting something, while they turn around and charge the EU extra? This stick is shitty across both ends.

Yes. In Europe, Bayonetta 1 &amp; 2 are sold separately unless you pay extra. I'd rather have both games come together for the same price than pay extra. 

I'm going to say it again. You sound incredibly entitled when you're demanding special editions of every single game to come to America. Sometimes we get them, sometimes they don't get them, sometimes we don't get them. But to say a company is practicing bad business when they don't bring everything over just sounds entitled to me. Big whoop, we didn't get something.




 That's a much bigger challenge. Nintendo doesn't seem to (please) understand what YouTube can do. The premise of the *mod creators* making money was good. The execution of it very sub-optimal. Let's be honest here. I bet 99.99 percent of people who complained about it not for the "execution" part, but because they want free shit. I know mods used to be like this since the dawn of pc gaming but this saddened me because I thought about the potential when modders get paid for their work, tons of talented people will jump I'm and I bet the modding scene will explode with much higher quality mods (and more frequently) than it ever was. Now back to the donate button, where only feeeeww people donate anything worthwhile. Sure. clearly it's more optimal now that they can't charge at all, right?  Yes all the problems are fixed we get to be cheap fuckers and still get all the mods that would have been made for free. What execution?  Gamers threw a hissy fit over modders being able to go legit and it got taken down before anyone could actually utilize it. But don't you get it, reddit won! Now modders can get pennies thrown at them for donations, maybe in three years they can buy a beer... DING DING DING. Hmm, I wonder how much of this hate is from the content developers themselves...  It's easy for the downloaders to be upset, but what about the people making the mods?  

Considering the payment feature was *optional* I can't think of why a modder would think, "Valve wants to help me get money for my time and efforts? Screw them!"  

I, for one, look forward to the day when the initial game devs work closely to support (both technologically and monetarily) the third party content creators and their contributions. 

EDIT: Do I think the intial Steam/Bethesda approach was perfect?  No.  But it was an encouraging step toward changing the PC landscape in a meaningful way, imo. The people making the mods who wanted the new system to be given a chance were silenced.  Anyone who went against the Reddit hivemind was downvoted so hard that they were effectively silenced.  I myself had to wait 5 minutes in between posting in the Skyrim subreddit because of how badly I was downvoted.  I was not disrespectful.  I just stated my opinion.  That was enough for people. If you are looking for Gabe's Comments you will need to look at his profile as he is getting downvoted so much.
EDIT: or [click here](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33uplp/mods_and_steam/?sort=qa) That's something I never thought I'd hear on reddit. It's been building up for a while: the delay with Half Life 3, the really crappy customer support service on Steam, the general lack of communication from Valve, and the fact that Steam is an extremely restrictive DRM system by design. The only reasons they've been let off the hook is because of their regular sales and the large library, but otherwise they were far from infallible. The paid mod thing was the tipping point that caused all those little frustrations to pour out. The crappy customer support would be my biggest beef. Their DRM has never been an issue, especially after the family-sharing, my buddy may want me to try a game and now I can play it all I want. This might be a good chance to try out a new sort type we're piloting - [you can try out viewing this thread with Q&amp;A sort here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33uplp/mods_and_steam/?sort=qa)

We'll be releasing this soon. [More on Q&amp;A sort here](https://www.reddit.com/r/modnews/comments/2z913o/moderators_new_features_for_testing_before/) for those interested. This was literally the absolute best timing for such a pilot. I was able to read all the questions as well as all the answers Gabe replied to. The only suggestion I have would be automatically enabling all the OPs responses to be seen without having to click on the 'expand' button. You know, if that is possible in any way.

But really, out of the majority of updates I've seen you guys pump out; this is probably one of the more impressive ones out there. Thanks! I wish all subreddits had this... sorting through rampart AMA was so hard.  It would just be nice if people didn't downvote OP in Q&amp;A sessions so much.

The whole point is to get answers to questions. If you disagree or dislike the answer, then respond with why, but don't bury the answer so no one else can find it. A part of the problem with that is that they aren't all downvoting because they disagree. Sometimes, even the OP of a Q&amp;A makes posts that don't contribute to discussion. If I recall, the rampart ama was a good example of this. What sort of quality control can we expect from Valve aside from those enforced by the emerging community?

EDIT: With this time gap, I guess I can clarify my question. What's the approval system going to be for turning a mod into a Paid Mod? What is the role of Valve in getting a mod approved and what is the community's responsibility? Is Valve or the community combing through mod files to verify originality or plagiarism? (And I mean texture files, hair files, original assests, etc.) Seeing as there is currently a $100 mod for horse genitalia, I'd expect none.  If it's solely on the community to determine things, I worry about any sort of mob mentality or abuse to the system from troll groups. Bad Rats. &gt; What sort of quality control can we expect from Valve

http://i.imgur.com/Jbj8ISC.jpg This is the most relevant question. Paying for mods on its own is not a bad idea, as long as its done in a reasonable fashion. I would gladly pay for mods that actively add value to my gaming experience.

HOWEVER!

In a world where Steam can not be trusted to keep quality control over full-blown games and early access titles, can we trust that this system won't be abused?

The answer is plain to see already, only a few days into this matter: People stealing mods from each other, and posting horse genitalia at unbelievable prices. And let's not even talk about the actual quality of the mods - hell if anyone checked compatibilities / incompatibilities with the current game version / other popular mods. Or if the mods work in the first place, which is an entirely different matter - who's to say whether or not I deliver on what I claim my mod does? Or how smoothly it accomplishes it?

Again, if we can't trust Steam to do Quality Control on full-fledged games, we can't even begin to fathom to trust Steam to do Quality Control on  mods. Hi Gabe,

I worked on Eternal-Silence, which was a HL2 space combat mod released many years ago. We even got to present our mod to Valve many years ago (2006-ish), and suffice to say, I would not be working in the games industry now if it wasn't for that opportunity and experience with Valve back then, so thank you to all of the team at Valve for everything over the years. Also, I want to add that I'm viewing the workshop changes through the lens of my own experiences working on a total conversion mod.

Now, I do think offering content creators the option to have the ability to create revenue for themselves is an extremely noble goal. I'm not completely sold on the current direction, but I believe your north star is true. After all, it's the dream of many modders of total conversions at least, to be able to create enough interest where they one day can devote the massive amount of resources required to turn their mod into a full retail game, which is not cheap by any stretch of the imagination.

However, there are two tweaks which I would consider:
- Publisher/developer education on appropriate revenue splits for mods. I think it's fair that there should be a split, but with Skyrim, I think the pendulum is not enough in favor of the developer of the mod, who were the ones to devote their time to build on their game. Yes, Valve and Bethesda created the platform and tools inside of the game to allow mods to happen (which is why I think the split is fair), but the actual developer(s) of the mod may have spent a lot of their time and resources working on a mod. Previously, yes, they would get nothing, but as of now, it's tough to imagine anyone to be able to count on the Workshop revenue as something that they could live off of. For smaller mods, let's say a new sword or armor, you likely would need to achieve a large volume of mods and sell those cheap and overall you could make a decent amount of revenue especially compared to the time investment. However, if you work for 3 years with 10-20 people on a total conversion, getting 25% of potential revenue would be extremely rough because you will only have a single mod to sell, and thus can only bank on your mod being extremely successful (which let's face it, statistically is unlikely).

- Two-tiered system of content creators. By this, I mean that if you are a new author to the workshop, you have certain limits on what you could charge, until the author can develop a sense of trust with their customers. Let's say that at the beginning, I can only use Free or Pay-What-You-Want. Once I have X amount of downloads/payments, or perhaps if there were an author rating system where I could achieve 4+ stars out of 5 from the community, I would then graduate to have the ability to be able to create a static price mod. Maybe this would be too unfair, but the root of my concern is that there needs to be a trust relationship between the mod author and their customers. If a game update breaks the mod, and I had $15 for the mod, I want to have trust that the mod author would help their customers and fix the mod.

The root of that two-tier system is from a very old Valve presentation on surviving modding. In the presentation (which I can not find unfortunately), the general advice was that if you created a mod that was able to sustain 5,000 players on a consistent basis, you would be considered to be "successful" or at least have a fun mod, and Valve may look into helping you become a retail title. Having a structured system in the workshop like that old advice may be something worth investigating.

- Finally, I wonder if it would be feasible to have a humble-bundle style slider system when you do payments. Perhaps create a floor for which category, and it would of course require buy-off from the developer/publisher, but it would be interesting if as a customer, I could influence where my funds went. Most of the time I may just leave it at defaults, but if I thought the developer deserved more, that would be my choice.

If you read this, thank you, and I hope you are enjoying your coffee. As I live in the Bellevue area, I would be more than willing to talk to you in person to have a larger discussion (private message me). However, as I said, I think your north star is true, and I'm glad you are soliciting feedback from the community and open for changes to make this a good system for all parties involved. This is a really mature solution to the problem. It's refreshing to see a thoughtful discussion on how to improve the system rather than just pointing out what's wrong with it or hiding behind odd ideological notions (like how a successful artist somehow can't be authentic anymore). 

A friend of mine made note of the difference of expectations between a donation and a purchase. A purchase has an expectation of continued support (though that doesn't always happen in AAA titles even). He suggested a disclaimer like Early Access games have, "Due to the nature of mods this mod may function correctly with other mods, and may not function in the future due to changes in other mods."

Specific requirements versioning in programming isn't anything new, and would alleviate -some- of the maintenance problems mod users face. At least then if a framework mod does change there's a known good set of mod versions that can be restored to until mods are updated. Mod management is really something Valve needs to invest in in general though. But that's not really related to the topic of funding mod devs.

I see some parallels with Kickstarter. People paying for something that isn't concrete, but with the expectation of a working or finished product. I think some sort of commitment from the developer as a requisite for charging more for a mod might work in addition to a good history. As I'm about to write "to give users some sort of legal recourse if a large mod doesn't fulfil it's commitment." I feel that's pretty darn harsh compared to what we both expect and receive from commercial development teams. I wonder why continued support is so much a concern (at least to everyone I've spoken with) with mods when the support we get for the games we buy is often so much worse.

It's a complex issue for sure. I'm glad Valve had the balls to do something really dumb instead of just sitting on it forever so we can get thousands of people thinking about it.
 What do you think about a donate button for mods? That would be good, that way if the MOD is bad or broken you lose nothing and if it's good you can donate after downloading. With pay what you want you still have to decide upfront. I've heard they have a 24-hour return policy when purchasing mods. I would still prefer a donate button though. Realistically, though, a 24-hour period is not long enough to determine whether the mod is functional or if the quality matches the money you paid. I'd rather this over a pay to play feature. It'd work a lot better. "You have to stop thinking that you're in charge and start thinking that you're having a dance. We used to think we're smart [...] but nobody is smarter than the internet. [...] One of the things we learned pretty early on is 'Don't ever, ever try to lie to the internet - because they will catch you. They will de-construct your spin. They will remember everything you ever say for eternity.'"

-- Gabe Newell That Gabe guy is one smart dude! Why was it that a "pay-to-download" system was used over a "donate" button, such as the ones seen on the Nexus website? Or even a slider from free to whatever with the ability to decide where the money goes similar to Humble Bundle? http://imgur.com/leg7jVQ That's not a donation.

DONATION:

Hmm this mod looks interesting, but I'm not sure if I should pay for it.  Oh right! Mods are free!  Can't wait to play!

*A few hours later*

Man a lot of work went into that mod, it works really well.  The creator should get a couple of bucks for his or her work.  *Goes to mod page, and donates whatever it's worth*

---------------------------------------------------------

STEAM MODEL:


Hmm this mod looks interesting, but I'm not sure if I should pay for it.  Oh the minimum is set to $0!  Great I'll test it out.

*A few hours later*

Man a lot of work went into that mod, it works really well.  The creator should get a couple of bucks for his or her work.  Oh...I already paid the $0.  Well I can get rid of it, unsubscribe from it on the workshop, then do it all again.  Nah, fuck it.

**OR**

Man a lot of work went into that mod, it works really well.  The creator should get a couple of bucks for his or her work.  Oh...I already paid the $0.  Well I can get rid of it, unsubscribe from it on the workshop, then do it all again.  Great, I gave the creator 2 bucks for their work! 

*Creator receives 50 cents* &gt; Great, I gave the creator 2 bucks for their work!

&gt; Creator receives 50 cents

This part really put it in perspective. Well... not quite. More like
&gt; Creator receives 50 cents *Steam wallet money* if the mod makes 200 sales (for a total of $100) or more during one cycle, otherwise Valve and Bethesda eat that part of the cake too This, Gabe! THIS! Considering valve is a company that owes many of its early games to mods, do you think that if you had to pay 5 dollars for the original Counter Strike, or Dota mod, would they have ever taken off?

Edit: Also, whos decision was it to start this system? Bethesda, valve, or the mod makers themselves?

Have you approached any other companies regarding this? any plans on reviewing the system? Sure.  We review stuff all the time.  I'm here as part of that process. Man, just remove it and save pc-modding.  Hiya Gabe,

I think this [forbes](http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2015/04/24/valves-paid-skyrim-mods-are-a-legal-ethical-and-creative-disaster/) about the paid mods issue does a decent job creating a case against the monetization of mods. Primarily they are that:

* The split is completely unreasonable. The fact that 45% of the profit from a mod goes to the developer of the game only encourages the release of broken and unfinished games because **the developer will get paid when a member of the community fixes it for them.**
* There's no way to prevent people from purchasing a mod, and reselling it at a cheaper price or even giving it away for free. 
* People mod games for the love of the game and not to make money from it. Not only will "$5 sword skins" stigmatize the modding community, but they can overshadow the quality mods that actually expand games in a meaningful way.

What was the rationality behind the current implementation of mod monetization?

EDIT: The point about already-happening mod-piracy is partially incorrect, but the end-result that it will be rampant still stands. your first point is hugely relevant to community code patches like UKSP. there are literally *thousands* of bug fixes in that "mod". 

imagine bethesda getting paid from it o_O They should get a cut from the Skyrim sales .. how does 75% sound? I'm unhappy that Bethesda is getting a cut at all. These mods wouldn't work if a person doesn't own Skyrim at all, they're double dipping by selling a game + getting paid for a mod they had nothing to do with and aren't going to support. &gt; What was the rationality behind the current implementation of mod monetization?

$$ The rationale for monetizing is money. Go figure. Isn't the 75% cut seen as a bit high?

Also, there were reports of discussions of mods being deleted or not being accessible, are negative discussions being censored?  The pay-outs are set by the owner of the game that is being modded.

As I said elsewhere, if we are censoring, it's dumb, ineffective, and will stop. Well mods like SkyUI cost a dollar and the majority of that should go to the modder. 

It makes no sense to *reward* Bethesda for designing a horrible UI.

What's stopping them from releasing a new game with numerous bugs and little content and just wait for the modders to fix things? Make bank twice for less effort?

EDIT: *Exaggerating* of course. The point is now Bethesda doesn't need to fix their bugs, their fans will do it for them and they'll get paid more than before. Hell, Bethesda should be paying the modders, not the other way around. &gt; It makes no sense to reward Bethesda for designing a horrible UI.



Out of all the problems listed from people on the matter, this ONE assertion reaches out to me the most. It gets even better. Let's assume we're in charge of the awesome upcoming Bethesda game. We are aware our current UI is kinda shitty and would need more work.

* Option 1) Invest more development time and money into improving it to give the paying customer (let's assume he will pay 60$ for it) the best possible experience.

* Option 2) Do *not* invest more time and money into the issue but make it easily moddable. Advertise that things people won't enjoy will be easily moddable. Let's assume the best UI mod that everyone will love (and will allow other mods to use it freely!) will cost 3$. Bethesda would get 1.35$ from each sale with the current figures. If we now assume our mod is so awesome (and the vanilla UI so shitty) that ~50% of all people who purchased the game will buy it... our game now costs 70 cents more.

...Option 2 will cost Bethesda less money and increase net profits by more than 1%.

What did we learn from basically every game any of us ever played? If a shitty mechanic is effective it's going to be abused. This approach *will* be abused, the only question is how much in which timeframe. This is my #1 worry. I said recently that I was okay with Bethesda games being flawed in major ways, as they usually are -- as long as Bethesda continues to offer amazing mod support.

When Bethesda can monetize mods, that really changes the equation in some very bad ways. They'd be walking the razor's edge with that strategy. Let's say Fallout 4 is going to be the flagship paid-mod title. Bethesda has set it all up to work out perfectly for them. Large obvious issues with the games that could be easily fixed with mods, several prominent modders contracted to release game fixes day 1 on the paid mod workshop.

Firstly only a portion of the playerbase plays with numerous mods. So the ones living in ignorant bliss are going to buy Fallout 4 and see it as a barebones broken turd and just that. Then all the people that were traditionally heavy mod users are probably not going to be buying mods let alone hundreds of them and either pirate the fixes or do without. So then at the end of the day only 10-5% of your playerbase has a good Fallout 4 experience and everyone else thinks it's a steaming pile.

And that's even if the modding community will support Bethesda in the future. The Elder Scrolls modding community has always been one of if not the biggest modding communities in existence. Generally if you royally fuck with your mod community they're going to vanish more and more as time goes by. See Tripwire and Red Orchestra for a textbook example.

So now Bethesda's left with a typical Bethesda release game and no one's around to fix it or add in the swaths of content that most people buy the game for in the first place. I wouldn't put it past Beth to be that stupid but I don't see it happening at least not anytime soon. Too much risk with too little reward. You've brought up a point that seems to me, the only logical next step to all this. The Pirate scene now will include a strong and fanatical mod base. 

The only thing this has done is create another black market.  Ship a broken game to cut costs, sell at full price, outsource the rest of the work to the community, and make even more money from the resulting improvements. So this is the next stage of bullshit in the video game industry, huh? &gt; What's stopping them from releasing a new game with numerous bugs and little content and just wait for the modders to fix things? 

Have you every *played* a Bethesda game? That's pretty much exactly what they do now, minus the content part. If anything, it's a testament their designers that they can basically release broken games and people will still eat them up (myself included).

Fallout 3, New Vegas, Morrowind, Oblivion and Skyrim all have unofficial patches to fix bugs Bethesda never got around to, even years after release. And not just one or two bugs. Thousands of them. [Here's the changelog for the Unofficial Skyrim Patch.](http://afkmods.iguanadons.net/Unofficial%20Skyrim%20Patch%20Version%20History.html) If you try to print it, you'll notice that it's 400 pages long. Now, imagine the scenario where *that* becomes a paid mod. I think that this whole debacle has created a split in the Skyrim community with modders angry at each other for "selling out" and the players mad at the modders because we see it as a cash grab, and *everybody's* pissed at you and Bethesda. The community plus the mods have kept this game alive for *four years* and now we're all mad at each other and I feel this will be a clusterfuck to the end. Whenever that will be. However you end this, I hope you do it for the right reasons. [This](http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33nxep/steams_new_paid_workshop_content_system_speaks/cqmw1qq) comment by /u/Martel732 raises five well thought out points that I think capture the essence of our concerns accurately.

&gt;1. It is changing a system that has been working fine.  Modders aren't an oppressed class working without benefit.  Modders choose to work on mods for many reasons: fun, practice, boredom, the joy of creating something.   And gamers appreciate their contributions.  While, some gamers may feel entitled most understand that if a modder is unable to continue the mod may be abandoned.  Donations may or may not help but they are an option.  This system has for years made PC gaming what it is.  Modding in my opinion is the primary benefit of PC gaming over console.  Changing a functional system is dangerous and could have unintended consequences.

&gt;2. Now that people are paying for mods they will feel entitled for these mods to continue working.  If a free mod breaks and isn't supported that is fine because there is no obligation for it to continue working.  If someone pays though they will expect the mod to be updated and continue working as the base game is updated.  Furthermore, abandoned but popular mods are often revived by other people; if these mods are paid then the original creator may not want people to profit off of updated versions of their mod.

&gt;3. Related to the above paid mods may reduce cooperative modding.  Many mods will borrow elements from other mods; usually with permission.  Having paid mods will complicate things.  Someone who makes a paid mod will be unlikely to share his/her work with others.  What if someone freely share's his/her mod and someone incorporates it into a paid mod?  Does the first mod's owner deserve compensation, does the second modder deserve the full revenue.  This makes modding more politically complicated and may reduce cooperation.

&gt;4. This may reduce mods based off of copyrighted works.  There is a very good chance that any paid mod based off of a copyrighted work will be shutdown.  Modders could still release free mods of this nature but it complicates the issue.  Many mods based on copyrighted materials borrow (usually with permission) from other mods to add improvements.  If these other mods are paid then the original creators likely won't let them use it.  Additional many modders may now ignore copyrighted mods in order to make mods that they may profit on.

&gt;5.  Steam/the developer are taking an unfairly large portion of the profit.  Steam and the Developers are offering nothing new to the situation.  Steam is already hosting the mods and the developer already made the game.  They now wish to take 75% of all profit from the mod.  If the market gets flooded by low-quality paid mods, the modders will likely make very little and the quality of the game will not be increased.  However, Steam and the Developers will make money off of no work on there part.

EDIT: So this got a lot more attention than I expected and someone even gilded my comment. I usually dislike edits like this BUT if you agree with the concerns listed here please note that **I didn't originally write them**, so if you want to show your appreciation also go to the original comment linked at the top and upvote/gild that guy! &gt; Steam/the developer are taking an unfairly large portion of the profit. Steam and the Developers are offering nothing new to the situation. Steam is already hosting the mods and the developer already made the game. They now wish to take 75% of all profit from the mod. If the market gets flooded by low-quality paid mods, the modders will likely make very little and the quality of the game will not be increased. However, Steam and the Developers will make money off of no work on there part.

I'm a senior technical business developer in the game industry, and a former core engine dev for PC/console games. My thoughts on this to Gabe and Valve, from elsewhere in the thread:

You should give a fair share back to the people building the mods then. Right now [Valve+Bethesda] are charging like a [platform+publisher] combo, when you (combined) are only functioning as a platform.
[Amazon + book publisher] or [console + game publisher] take 75-80% or more, but a publisher also fronts the cost and risk of building the content, promotes the content, advertises the content, and so on. If Bethesda wanted a publisher's cut from mods, they should front the dev cost and risk, buy or fund some mods, and package them up on Steam as paid DLC.

Mods requiring Skyrim to exist does not make Bethesda a special snowflake. Sony built an entire console and operating system (and ongoing live ops cost) in addition to their marketplace, and they only charge 30% despite all of that foundation required to consume the content in that ecosystem. Same for Google+Android, Apple+iTunes+iOS+iDevice, and on and on.

The value proposition to modders here is pretty fucked. Good for you guys if you can get away with it, but this is literally the Worst Deal for content creators I've ever seen in any digital marketplace, and I sincerely hope the effort fails in its current form. This cuts right to the core of a huge issue at hand. Very well said.

There are quite a few people out there who are going as far as to argue that the revenue share in its current form is *generous* and far better than the norm. This is a pretty excellent summation as to why that isn't necessarily true. &gt;...If Bethesda wanted a publisher's cut from mods, they should front the dev cost and risk, buy or fund some mods, and package them up on Steam as paid DLC....

This.  I said nearly the same thing in another post. Does any other publisher do things that way?  Point 3 is most important. Seriously the beauty of modding in Skyrim is the fact that we can run more than 100 mods at a time. If modders stop collaborating with each other because of this pay/free divide, that's it. We'd be trading this unique experience for maybe a quality increase?

And this quality increase is completely suspect. Skyrim ain't like DOTA2. There's mods ranging from weapon mods to gameplay mods to quest mods! And even an amatuer quest mod is far more complex than the most professional weapon mod. The problem we have now is that people don;t make quest mods. Paying them isn't solving this because it's more efficient to get paid doing weapon mods than quest mods.

So ultimately this whole thing solves nothing but wrecks everything. It's not just collaboration, it's also about "sum greater than the parts". [Wyre's essay on Cathedral vs Parlor modding](http://wryemusings.com/Cathedral%20vs.%20Parlor.html) explains that a lot more eloquently than I can.

Paid mods really inhibits re-mixing of mods to build bigger, better mods. On top of that, taking apart existing mods is a way how beginning modders often figure out how to mod in the first place - again, much harder.

Finally, legacy support: sometimes, modders disappear. With freely available mods, other people often pick up "abandoned" mods and fix them, update them and more - which is especially important for a game like Skyrim that was launched years ago. YES! Legacy support! Skyrim wouldn't be as popular without the mods, and not many will support a mod for years as a hobby. Some take over after others leave and the community gets better as a result of it! Impossible if mods are charged for. Why should Bethesda all of a sudden make money off of mods when they already released their final dlc? They are already working on other endeavors. They're done with Skyrim. They don't need more money on a phenomenally successful game. This just lumps them together with Activision and other greedy companies that milk their consumer base to astronomical levels. This is a test for the up coming game, that every one believes to be Fallout 4. If this stays around, then you will see it in future games. Point 3 is already increasingly the case, several creators of modding resources have hidden their files from the nexus due to their worries over the setup of this system. 

It should be emphasized that this is a very real consequence, if possibly temporary (theoretically.) The competition problem could be big. Worse are people who just sell other people's mods. (Then come people who rip others' mods, then have the original taken down by Steam.) This is what I know is going to happen.

Just look at the play store or iTunes to see how many variations of the same game are on there with the only difference being a skin change. Frankly I don't care about one-off weapon / armor mods going paywall.

It's the gameplay mods that scare the fuck out of me.

Anyone who's modded Skyrim seriously at all knows that when it comes to gameplay mods, you sort of need to 'build a house of cards' of mods. One mod might enhance weather, another mod might improve snow effects, then you have seven or eight different mods that improve textures, static meshes, visual effects, lightning, etc.

Nobody *just* installs 'wet and cold' and one texture improvement pack. You install **all** the environmental effect improvement mods, and **all** the graphic improvement mods. The mods together are greater than the sum of their parts. That is how you have to mod Skyrim.

The vanilla game is like a fired bullet. You have a used primer, a dirty casing, no powder, a mangled jacket, and a destroyed bullet. If you want to fix this bullet, you have to fix all of this. The way Skyrim modding works now, you have one guy who decides he wants to fix the primer, so he does. Another couple of guys work on cleaning the case, and maybe they have their own personal take on how to do so. One guy adds powder, another shapes the bullet, and the last guy reforms a jacket.

The guy forming the jacket can't form the jacket unless he knows what shape the bullet is. The guy shaping the bullet can't get the weight right unless he knows how much the powder dude is adding. The powder dude can't get the powder right unless he knows the case's volume and pressure threshold. In order to fix the bullet, people need to work together towards a common goal, and you cannot just buy the 'new primer DLC' and 'repaired jacket DLC', because you still are left with a non-functional bullet.

The end result is a bunch of mods that do stuff so subtly that you don't notice - they become part of the game. Vanilla Skyrim is an outrageously shitty game by every possible metric you could come up with, but I don't care because I could fix it with these gameplay mods. 

Not only does paywalling destroy the collaborative incentive for modders to 'split up the workload' (ie: you work on cold effects, I work on weather, he works on graphics), but it would basically kill heavily-modded installs completely, because there's almost nobody that would fork over the ***hundreds*** of dollars it would take to buy all the fucking mods that comprise the Skyrim mod base. In addition, paid DLC from literally every other source whether it be LoL/DotA2 skins, map packs, gun skins, expansion packs, etc. Are all expected to work both by themselves AND with each other. Imagine if in say, the sims 3, you bought expansions X Y and Z because the three appealed to you. A few days after purchase your game starts crashing and you learn that it's because expansion X is incompatible with expansion Z. Imagine the fucking shitstorm that would bring. Based on the current setup for paid mods, this WILL happen and it is NOT acceptable. Paying for content should always mean that it WILL work in conjunction with any other paid content for the same game and it is expected that when paying for a product, the consumer does not have to handle QA testing.  This point highlights why paid mods are not a good idea better than anything. If the developer makes a change that negates a mod usefulness, does everyone who purchased the mod get a refund? Can the Mod creater sue the developer for stealing his product?  

The whole premise of paying steam and the games publisher for someone elses work seems ridiculous. If anything Steam or the publisher should be paying the person who made the mod, and is promoting their product.  Regarding 2, they will not only feel entitled, but also ARE entitled. A seller has a responsibility to make sure that the product they sell work at the time of sale and for a reasonable period that is expected for the type of product. For software, this has generally been ruled to be about 2 years, meaning that mod developers if they wish to stop, they would have to pull the mod, and then STILL CONTINUE supporting it, for two whole years after that. Or repay everyone that bought it in the last two years for anyone that wishes it. Basically, the legal system surrounding sales, goes directly contrary to how modding communities generally work. All the great mods I know are made by multiple modders working with eachother. With money involved modding becomes competitive scene and cooperation will be pretty much dead. gabe dude i don't think people like this idea Valve: Eh, they'll get over it. Hi Gabe, Robin, owner of Nexus Mods here. Sorry to hear about the issue with your eye.

Can you make a pledge that Valve are going to do everything to prevent, and never allow, the "DRMification" of modding, either by Valve or developers using Steam's tools, and prevent the concept of mods ONLY being allowed to be uploaded to Steam Workshop and no where else, like ModDB, Nexus, etc.?

Edit, for clarity in the question:

For example, if Bethesda wanted to make modding for Fallout 4/TES 6 limited to just Steam Workshop, or even worse, just the paid Workshop, would Valve veto this and prevent it from happening? Thanks mate. I'll continue using nexus just for this [deleted] Valve's never, in 10 years, required exclusivity of games or DLC on Steam. Why would they require it for mods? Exclusivity is a bad idea for everyone.  It's basically a financial leveraging strategy that creates short term market distortion and long term crying. Like when people use Steam exclusively. Then when they pull shit like this we have no one else to turn to because the rest of the companies are even bigger assholes!  &gt; Like when people use Steam exclusively.

Wait... is that Valve's fault or, our fault for using Steam exclusively? Our fault Honestly, if there was a 3rd party client that would connect me to Origin, Steam and the others which takes care of being able to buy from multiple stores, keep friendslists together and installations, I'd roll with it almost instantly.

Right now the major issue is that I as a consumer have pretty much no choice but to *mostly* use steam and *occasionally* other, company specific, platforms with the only major exception being DRM free things like GOG.

Kind of how using Trillian over ICQ+AIM+MSN was the way smarter choice back when those things were a thing. But what you've done in essence is create an 'exclusive' pockets deep Skyrim modding community. 

I remember growing up as a kid spending days going through sites like Armada2files and Bridgecommanderfiles.etc searching for fun new additions to my game to augment the experience.

Now as I'm sure you're aware, most kids don't get a lot of money. If filefront had made it so developers could charge for their mods I wouldn't have been able to have half the experiences I did have. While now I am an adult if I really wanted to pay 5 for a different colour of horse I could, those younger than me (and many people here) cannot afford that.

The big reaction to this isn't that it's a bad idea to compensate mod creators for their hard work. It's that it's a slippery slope and if Valve who is usually praised for it's good business practice begins doing it it won't be long before we see other develops take what you've done and twist it further so we get things like Battlefront Stormtrooper skin 5 .etc 

By enabling this 'charging for mods' process you're creating an exclusivity market, exclusive to those that can afford to pay and as said it's an extremely slippery slope and nobody  thought Valve would be the first to step down it. 

I also just don't see why you're doing this, you've said yourself that the modding community is a key part of PC gaming, hell Valves reputation for cherry picking the best talent from emerging communities and making them full time developers for titles such as Team Fortress speak for itself. 

But charging for mods puts an end to all that, it creates a further incentive for the developer sure but it takes yet another incentive away from the consumer and many mods that may have been ground breaking may never push 100 downloads because of it.  I've always been using Nexus (way more flexibility than Steam workshop), and will continue to use it to show my discontent with Steam Workshop. There are really a few issues I have with this, but these are the two most pressing:

1: Adding a profit incentive will discourage collaboration on the large scale that currently exists in Skyrim. 

Modding skyrim isn't about one mod, or even a dozen great mods, it's about 50-100 small mods working together to create a new experience. The only reason this was able to happen is because of the open collaboration between mod authors - helping eachother create patches to prevent conflicts, to even creating entire patchers designed to add new functionality to the game. Will this happen in a system where paid mods are the norm? Will people be as willing to share information when they benefit from using it only exclusively in their mod?

2: The community wasn't brought in on this discussion at ALL.

According to Chesko, this all started with an email from Valve with a Bethesda employee CC'd, and he had to sign an NDA - this was the exact wrong way to roll out this change. People are surprised, there's confusion, certain modders have become almost hated and had their reputations ruined overnight. You really needed to bring the community in on the discussion of monetizing mods. 


All in all, I'm most worried about the pandora's box this opens with regard to future bethesda games - if a motive for profit exists from the beginning, will the mod scene for Fallout 4 or the Elder Scrolls 6 be as inventive and high-quality as the one for Skyrim is? My only question is:  

Did you guys really not see the backlash coming?  Like really, not at all? *"We're going to take something that was free and make it not free and there will be zero negative ramifications!"*

You can make the argument that SkyUI updating to 5.0 wouldn't have happened without being compensated for it and that 4.1 is still for free but look at the mods like Skyforge Weapons / Shield. Unchanged mods that were taken off the Nexus and put onto this Paywall system. That is definitely taking something that was free and charging for it. So does this mean mod piracy is about to begin? I'll bet there are already torrents all over the internet for some of the paid mods. And the worst part is now authors are encouraged to abandon the Nexus so someone can't upload their mod to Steam for profit. http://www.imgur.com/JcqxXqh.jpeg Two days ago there was no demand for paid mods. Outside of your little secret meetings and emails the idea of paying for mods was considered absolutely absurd. This has been proven time and time again with things like Mod Donations as well as The Sims. Nobody donates to modders because nobody wants to pay for mods. Nobody buys the Sims paid mods because **nobody wants to pay for mods**. In fact, where the Sims is concerned, there is a large piracy movement in place specifically to steal the paid mods so that the demand for free mods is filled.

So here we have a community that is so adamant about mods being free that they are willing to steal them to keep them that way. And then suddenly, under the guise of "Making Modding Better!", you begin supplying something for which there is literally a negative demand. And upon doing so you generate a backlash so big that you've got a petition with 100,000+ signatures on it saying "Stop this now!", along with multiple threads in multiple forums with thousands of participants also saying "Stop this now!", and yet your decision is to keep it in place and "see how it works out"? 

And on top of that massive negative backlash, you've also got people stealing other's mods and putting them behind your workshop paywall. So not only have you begun supplying something for which there is no demand, not only have you driven a wedge into PC Gaming, but you've opened the door to piracy, theft, and fraud. 

How, exactly, are these the actions of a good or generous person/entity? 


 &gt;Two days ago there was no demand for paid mods. Outside of your little secret meetings and emails the idea of paying for mods was considered absolutely absurd. 

It is a dying shame that we are only allowed to give one upvote sometimes.  Some posts just really deserve a lot more than they will likely ever get. I agree. The people from /r/all are upvoting the posts about revenue splits and what not, but they don't understand the real problem.
It's not about money. [It's about this](http://i.imgur.com/HkwFSPZ.png) Very excellent post and image. Can you just... change it back? Just to add my 0.0437 cents to this massive AMA.

If you do happen to read this, as a long time Bethesda game modder and someone that has been part of the modding community for a long time. I wanted to say that I appreciate the idea of attempting to help modders gain greater reward for the great work they do.

But, conversely, if I was modding for money, my incentives would be all wrong. When I make mods for Skyrim, or Fallout or Oblivion or Morrowind, I do it because I see something I want to have in the game or something that I feel needs to be fixed about the game that I have the capability to fix. And I make those fixes or add the new content I've made because I want the game to be more enjoyable for me. And conversely because I feel the content I've made makes the game better for me, I've shared it on various mod community sites so individuals that might enjoy the content can use it too and largely its done fairly well. I've got around 75000 combined downloads on the Nexus alone for all the stuff I've done over the years...I'm certainly not the biggest modder nor the best modder I know but that aside my content has been enjoyed by a small amount of other people.

Now if I start modding for money, my incentives get switched. Its not really about what I think I want in the game any more, its about what I think people will pay for....that limits my developmental scope quite a bit. There might be an issue that I think really needs a fix, long ignored quest AI bug that most people are happy to ignore because it doesn't break the entire game, but would be better if it was fixed...well why would I fix that and share that fix with others if there was no incentive for others to pay for it? 

So you end up getting a bunch of really talented people having to work in a very limited scope of content that is "worth money" and anyone outside of that area...makes no money so they end up feeling as if they have a disincentive to create their mods at all.

There thousands of top quality mods of course, but you know what really makes the mod community the most fun? Its the million other mods that are literally just there to fix problems with the game or to put a top hat and a monocle on a mudcrab that really make game modding truly great.

Who's going to make a mudcrab with a top hat and a monocle if theres no incentive to do so when modding becomes about money and not about expressing your creative talents in respect to games you love and enjoy? Simple answer to that is no one is.

So overall, this system goes against the grain of how PC game modding really works. Because while there are some top tier mods made by some outstanding developers that might be worth a few dollars to have, its really not worth losing all the inconsequential mods and content due to the fact that everyone will spend their time working on projects they expect to get paid for, rather than spend time on projects they simply make because they can, or because they love what they are doing.

That aside, it appears you've taken a lot of what has been said into account and I appreciate that, hopefully this situation can be dealt with in a way that still remains beneficial to all parties involved, but doesn't end up harming the very communities its supposed to benefit.

I'm sure you have people familiar with modding culture on staff, or at least on contract, to be honest, the fact that no one appears to have seen this coming is a bit surprising to me. Anyone that has been part of the TES modding community for the last 15 years would have been extremely familiar with how badly this would be received in its current form.

Anyways, thats my piece which can now get lost in the middle of thousands of others. Thank you for taking the time, Mr. Newell.  Gabe, what is Valve doing to address the issues of people ripping mods from places like Nexus and putting them up on the Steam Workshop, even though they didn't make the mod?
 The paid Workshop banner is [gone from the front page](http://imgur.com/ayToALE), then if you actually navigate your way to the mods, you will find the [discussions censored](http://imgur.com/fGXM7Kx). 

There is also multiple screenshots of people getting **banned** from making any negative comments towards this system. (*I won't post those for the sake of sticking to facts and screenshots I personally took or know to be true.*)

So tell me, please Mr. Newell how ~~"open"~~ is this supposed to look to us gamers?

Edit: [more](http://imgur.com/1B4l0BZ) [pics](http://imgur.com/a/nn47B) There was so much spam and vicious insulting going on, I have a hard time believing most of the people who got banned weren't acting up in other threads. yo when is steam going to get 24/7 dedicated customer support? &gt;yo when is steam going to get ~~24/7 dedicated~~ customer support?

FTFY. lol * 25% cut and no remittance until $100 is made. That doesn't sound like it's to support the modder now is it?

Adding in from my previous post below: To put it into further perspective. Somebody over at Bethesda forums made a approximate of the sales on day one. Taking into account the price of the mods, number of current subscribers and assuming that each subscriber paid the least amount possible. Bravo, I can see how this is all about supporting the community.

$5777.08 Total Revenue

$700 paid to 6 content creators

$744.27 content creator revenue being withheld

$1733.12 Profit for Valve

$2599.69 profit for Bethesda

* Respected modders have sunk into money grabbing leeches. Pop up adds in a mod of all things!

* A lot of known modders are leaving and being replaced by money-grabbing opportunists.

* Modders issuing take down notices on fellow modders that used some assets from their mod. Most mods are co-dependent. Already, big names of Skyrim mods have been sullied.

* Content theft. What's to stop a random user from going over at Nexus and re-uploading them in the Workshop?

* Mod piracy has become a thing. All paid mods listed at the Workshop have already been re-uploaded somewhere else. 

* Mods in Nexus being pulled because of said piracy. Or re-uploaded to the Workshop for money.

* Censoring. Bans, removing the ability to rate paid mods, locking out paid mods' threads.

* No support when a mod breaks the game. We have to ask the author to please fix it.

* A 24 hour refund, really? It takes a whole lot longer to see if a mod breaks something.

The community is now a wreck.  "Respected modders have sunk into money grabbing leeches. Pop up adds in a mod of all things!"   Pop ups? Your joking right? Please tell me your joking.... The Midas Magic mod. Some spells have a chance to pop up a 'buy the paid mod' message when you cast. I shit you not. Oh fuck that bullshit The fact that mod piracy is now a thing is absolutely INSANE to me. This whole thing has just divided a community that was tight knit and self sufficient in its moderation. I'm worried that it's going to turn into the xbox live indie arcade, where there was literally a thousand cheap minecraft ripoffs smothering everything. Community is a wreck?  More like cleansing by fire, we need to kick the shitty money-grubbing pop-up modders to the curb. Back in 2006, the concept of DLC was new and people didnt know what to think when a thing like "horse armor" was introduced and publishers were saying that they will provide "worthwhile additional content" that will be totally great and "expand the game" over time: http://www.gamespot.com/articles/oblivion-horse-armor-now-available/1100-6147013/

There were many people warning others not to buy into it, because it will have far-reaching consequences and won't end well for consumers especially. Many of the responses were that they are over-reacting and they should wait and see how it develops. The natural greed of corporations took root, especially in light of minor resistance from either the "gaming press" that could hold them accountable and gamers at large not considering the consequences and over the next decade or so, this happened: http://i.imgur.com/dm4dPKU.jpg

Who could have ever guessed, right?

Around the same time Mobile "Freemium" games with "Microtransactions" gained popularity and the same thing happened. Oh this is actually a cool idea, this will probably be great, it'll obviously have no long-term influence on how such games will be designed and built or marketed to incentivize people to pay the most instead of having the most fun, and its just a nice option to make some money for developers on the side.

The same people were saying that others were over-reacting and they should wait and see how it develops. Time and greed took its course and we now have the mobile gaming market of today, that was recently parodied in South Park: http://webmup.com/37883/vid.webm

There are even GDC speeches on how to extract the most money out of compulsively obsessed people and I'm afraid that Valve sees this as a roadmap for their existence: http://www.gdcvault.com/play/1016417/-100-000-Whales-An

Valve wants to turn what has been a cornerstone of gaming for over two decades and has given us things like DOTA, Tower Defense games and Counter Strike into a monetization scheme. What were supposed to be hobbyist passion projects will be corrupted and turned into greed, weve already had people using others content without permission, Modders trying to employ Pop-Up Advertising to get others to buy their Mod, removal of Mods from sites like the Nexus after there was no Updates for ~3 years to add them to the Store and some other rip-offs in the first few days of this. It would be great if PC gamers could come together and do to this what they did to Subscription-based Online gaming services like GFWL or more recently "cloud gaming" on the PC:
http://www.informationweek.com/software/operating-systems/microsoft-drops-player-fees-on-games-for-windows-live/d/d-id/1070253

http://money.cnn.com/2012/08/18/technology/onlive/ http://toucharcade.com/2015/04/03/onlive-shutting-down/

This decision will have far-reaching consequences into what happens with the Modding scene and possibly the entire PC gaming ecosystem as a whole into the future.

Frankly, this is just such a monumentally stupid decision and a red mark (putting the writing on the wall of what is to come) that it makes me feel unsafe to continue using Steam as a main Digital Distribution platform into the future (and Ive used it for 9 years and have over 700 games). I tolerated items in Team Fortress 2 and DOTA 2 because they were F2P and just cosmetic, I tolerated the badges and cards and Community market updates because they were tangential to the actual games and I didn't have to use them, I tolerated the regional price restrictions, but this goes too far. I will likely switch to GoG with their Galaxy release beginning with The Witcher 3 Retail as my main platform. I also planned to buy a Valve Streaming box and VR headset when they come out, which is going to be put on ice for now.

This isn't going to end anywhere beneficial for PC Gaming or gamers at large and Valve needs to be taken down a peg, it already has a very worrying share of the PC market and instead of making new games, fixing bugs and thinking of better ways to use Steam and add new wanted features they are just using that market position and thinking of various ways on how to further monetize features that have been free or didnt need monetizing. 

You essentially want to turn Modding into an effortless free "DLC scheme".

Theres nothing to say that in 2-3 years from now companies like ZeniMax or similar will start DMCAing and suing sites like the Nexus and consider it as Copyright Infringement/Piracy that they allow people to download "free Mods" and they get no cut off of it similar to how Nintendo already does with YouTube videos after they recognized that there might be a market to extract some money. This will be an absolute Nightmare in the long run. http://i.imgur.com/bajNgyU.jpg As someone who was on the fence, I have to say, your comment changed my mind.
Paid mods aren't really a problem right now. The problem is that if we let this continue, then just like DLCs, exclusives, and micro transactions, it will eventually be abused, toning the community. "If you don't like our, don't buy it" is what people said about DLCs and Micro transactions when they first came out. Look how that played out.


Thanks for the insight. Have an upvote. Gabe. This system is not working. The implementation is completely idiotic and needs a complete overhaul. Cancel the experiment; it's already lost you a ton of money and goodwill. Your actions have already killed tons of popular mods, and more to come -- SkyUI is becoming paid-only, which is a mod that thousands of other mods rely on. We are losing uncountable content overnight.

And you are answering softball questions on /r/gaming.

This is utterly disappointing.

Now, for some questions and specifics.

PROBLEM 1.

* 1) 75% of the revenue goes to Valve and the publisher.

This is one of the most important problems people have with this. People already bought the game, mods (and the existence of mods) help sell the games just by existing, and now you (and Bethesda) want to dip into the wallets of consumers years after the game has stopped receiving any kind of update.

And you do this by completely shafting the people who want to make content, by offering a measly 25% for doing - let's face it - all of the design and artwork most of the time.

Why? Why this, instead of a donation button? Why this instead of a Patreon model? If you want to get people used to the idea that paying for mods is a thing they want to be doing, you should nudge them in the direction of the guy who is making money off of modding Cities: Skylines right now. *That's working.*

This isn't about making modders get paid for their work. If it was, a Patreon system to get people into the idea would be much, much more effective. This isn't about wanting modders to get paid. Valve and Bethesda take a MASSIVE cut off the work of someone else, and you couldn't justify that under a Patreon model.

Is this just because you want people to get used to paying for mods ahead of time, so that when the time comes - and it is fast approaching - where, for certain games, ALL mods on the workshop will be paid-only, that practice will be much more accepted?

PROBLEM 2.

* There is zero quality control. It is currently buyer beware, and Valve is offering refunds for obvious and immediate scams or abuses of the system -- *within a 24 hour period after purchasing.*

This is another problem. Your laissez fair attitude towards content in your workshop, however laudable you may think it is, means that most of the content on the store will be shitty skins, useless trinkets, or - as we've already seen - *early-access mods with benefits given to people who buy them early*, and *in-game popups asking players to pay for and use the paid version of the mod they are using*.

We are seeing a lot of mods that used to be free, but now aren't -- and we are seeing mods that were uploaded without the consent of the original creator. And the only thing we can do about this is report it, that your legendary customer service may occasionally take a peek at it?

That's what you're selling us?

**Intermediate and longevity problems:**

PROBLEM 1.

* Mods have all sorts of compatibility issues. When modders come together to work on things for free, you get the Nexus, a place where modders collaborate and offer solutions to compatibility issues with other people's mods.

There is no such system in place on Steam, and modders are under no obligation to make their mods compatible with anyone else's, nor offer support for people who have these issues. They are not required to fix anything broken.

Once the game updates, will the mod remain compatible? Frequently the answer is no, as API changes are frequent and things break on a regular basis. Like the above situation, modders are under no obligation to patch their mod to work with the latest game (and it would be unreasonable to expect it). You are buying something that may be entirely transient.

Like with point one, when mods are free, modders are much more likely to collaborate with each other, offer patches, offer compatibility updates, and generally rely on each other's content. Very frequently, mods have other mods as requirements and dependencies. SkyUI is the most prominent example right now.

SkyUI is a mod that has been around since the beginning. It is a UI overhaul that adds a lot of accessibility and functionality.

Thousands of mods rely on SkyUI to work.

And the creator just said SkyUI will now be paid-only.

Under this new system, content creators will be tempted to scramble for air time and popularity. They will be better off if they do not promote or rely on other mods at all, or do anything that can hurt the sales of their own content. They may even engage in anti-consumer practices. *That is what is happening here.* This limits the overall quality of content and hurts the consumer.

What happens if SkyUI refuses people to make money off their work for free? What happens if paid content depends on free content from elsewhere when they are under no obligation to share their revenue with their dependencies? I don't think Steam has any idea what is going to happen here.

Also, how will you determine the legality of not only the actual mods, but of the games themselves once mods are front and centre as a selling point on Steam? How will you deal with mods using unlicensed names of people, vehicles, guns, or other gaming characters? How will you deal with regional problems with mods introducing (or reintroducing) cut content that is illegal in some countries, but not others?

This is not a stable environment.

I think this is a humongous misstep from Valve. PC mods being free is a large part of why so many games have enjoyed such longevity for so long, and putting everyone on an even playing field so to speak is why I love the PC platform on the whole. Additionally, I have problems with the heavily abusable system to the incredibly skewed monetization (with 75% of the revenue going to Valve and the game publisher rather than the person who did the work on the mod).

Everyone completely hates your system, Gabe. Shut it down, come up with something better. This should be near the top comment.

You have managed to hit most of the key points.


| Key concerns                          | Expanded                               |
|:------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------|
| Community                            | destruction of goodwill, altruism, collaboration.  (existing and future team/group/community projects and derivative works potentially ruined)    |
| Legal                                    | legal compliance, copyright, licensing, liability, theft, and dependency issues |
| Quality assurance                   | issues with short/long term compatibility of mods, incentives for main publishers to release broken products|
| Financial                               | heavily skewed revenue distribution (publisher reaping profits off 3rd party development). Bethesda's share should be near 0% as mods create incentives to purchase the publisher's game. |  I'm not a huge gamer anymore (I will still be playing a couple of big games that are coming out soon) so I'm a bit out of the loop but looking through his responses you are right. He's dodging all the legitimate questions, which, to be honest, is completely expected. Valve didn't corner most of the PC market by not business savvy. Now whether this will pay off in the long run, who knows. http://i.imgur.com/sTr546k.gif http://i.imgur.com/t0tCWdb.gifv http://gfycat.com/CarefreeVariableChrysalis http://i.imgur.com/weVfTIW.gif http://i.imgur.com/dbmBe0U.jpg Mods are works done by the community of their own volition without expectation of payment. A game's value is increased by the presence of a robust modding community, as its longevity and re-playability are increased at 0 cost to the developer. 

Now you want to take these mods, give 45% of the money paid for them to the developer for something that was already enhancing their game and thus making it more attractive to people who might have not yet purchased it. 

Example: 

Crusader Kings II was released by Paradox Interactive. While it does has some paid DLC (made by the developers) it is also open to non-paid mods. One of the most popular mods out there is the [Game of Thrones](http://www.moddb.com/mods/crusader-kings-2-a-game-of-thrones-ck2agot) mod, which transforms the game from a game about Europe to the fictional world presented in the novels. 

To a person who doesn't really care about Medieval Europe, but who might be a fan of GoT, this mod has suddenly made this game a more attractive purchase option. Thus, at no cost to the developer, the potential market for this game has increased. 

The moment you put payments into a mod, then fights over whom is using who's assets begin. Many mods are created using derived and shared assets from other mods. They aren't done to steal from the original, but merely add to it. 

Say I make a custom shield mod, and somebody makes a custom shield store mod, that uses my shield (among many other assets). Can the shield store mod be sold without my consent? On the flipside, can I object to the entire shield store mod on the basis that a small portion of it borrows my asset? When you consider the hundreds of different assets that can be used between mods, ownership issues become a mess. A mess that does not exist if mods are free. 

Please: Reverse this policy, and add a donation button to the mods. See exactly what Nexus is doing for the mods hosted on their site. That would make things right in my opinion. 

(Edit: A letter)

 Once they start charging for that mod, watch GRRM jump in for his slice of the pie. Hi Gabe. In [this thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/skyrimmods/comments/33qcaj/the_experiment_has_failed_my_exit_from_the/) mod creator Chesko detailled how Valve has taken away his control over his own creations.

He used stolen content from another mod in his paid mod, and claims that Valve told him that this was okay to do. The backlash from this has made him try and take down his mods but he reports Valve will not let him do this, to his own mods (albeit with some of other people's assets in them). 

Just to be clear, the conversation reported by him was as follows:

&gt;[Valve] Officer Mar 25 @ 4:47pm
&gt;Usual caveat: I am not a lawyer, so this does not constitute legal advice. If you are unsure, you should contact a &gt;lawyer. That said, I spoke with our lawyer and **having mod A depend on mod B is fine--it doesn't matter if mod A &gt;is for sale and mod B is free, or if mod A is free or mod B is for sale.**

So my questions are:

1: Does Valve indeed condone the unpermitted use of content from free mods in paid mods?

2: Did Valve indeed take control away from Chesko over his own paid mods? That's a question about _mod dependencies_. That's no problem - like the use of a third party windscreen wiper can legally depend on you owning a first party car that it fits on. It's not a question about taking content from other mods. 

There's no way a lawyer would have said that _taking content from_ free or paid mod B is fine. Here's the follow-up.

http://steamcommunity.com/games/SteamWorkshop/announcements/detail/208632365253244218 One way or another, thanks for being upfront and coming to openly discuss with us about these issues, instead of just ignoring the problem. 

 Given the circumstances, this was the only reasonable decision to make. The Steam ratings for Skyrim dropped from 98%(?) to 86% in just a few days, and major news sites were reporting about this controversy. It's (pleasantly) surprising that you acted _that_ fast, but I guess that's the huge upside of not being forced to pass everything by a board of directors and not being forced to satisfy a bunch of shareholders who might have insisted on sitting this out in hope of maximizing short-term profits even if might hurt the company's reputation a lot in the long run. 

I still think that the general concept of giving modders the opportunity to earn some money isn't completely wrong. But the next time you try that you better pick a new game and most of all NEW CONTENT, because the main beef people had with this was having to pay for stuff which had previously been free for many years.  Coming from someone who has modded games including skyrim... Modding is something that should continue to be a free community driven structure. Adding money into the equation makes it a business not a community. With all the drama that has happened it is clear that this will poison modding in general and will have the opposite effect on modding communities than intended.  Agreed. The moment it becomes a business, it gets shady as hell (see; [popups in mods to advertise paid version](http://i.imgur.com/jvA06NO.png) and[ mods costing more than the game itself](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=429374670)). It'd be nice if it didn't, but people are people and money is money.

This is before you start realising that a mod can break at *any* point, and there's no requirement of the dev to fix it. Refunds can only be done within 24 hours so if a mod breaks at 30 hours you're out of luck.

Add in people ripping and re-uploading free mods as their own, and it's ruining what modding community there was really fast.

Personally, I'd love each mod to have a "donate" option on the workshop page instead. I know modding can be a lot of work, and I'd love to have the option to send money to the creators (and have done via Nexus), but a forced payment is already causing issues... God, that popup thing is sickening. I would delete the mod and never look back.  Already ahead of ya.  Lucky for me I know how to edit the mods to remove that shit. Others are not so fortunate. Pop-ups in mods is just sick and shameful. Life is full of enough nickle and dimes and advertisements. We are literally bombarded with advertisements in America from birth to death, for the love of Talos! keep it out of our games! Damn, that mod is that expensive? Sure it's a nice addition.. But almost 5 is WAY to overboard. There are full games for less Yes, that's why this is a problem.  No one wants to pay 1-5/mod.  Very few players could afford a proper mod list.  Modding as we know it will die. I'm currently running 200+ mods, I'd be bankrupt Gotta milk that dolla dolla. This. A lot of high profile mod authors have pulled content from the nexus and  will continue to do so as long as this system is in place This is probably the most accurate short description I've seen yet.  Way too many people arguing about silly details or tangential arguments.

It hurts gaming overall because it changes the fundamental balance between content creators. The decision to monetize mods is just going to flood the modding scene with hordes of artistically stifled modelers and coders who have just discovered a new outlet to regurgitate content either stolen from Nexus or based off of shitty pop culture references for the tiny stipend they receive after Valve and Bethesda's 75% cut. Since the only way to actually make a profit off of a model like that is to churn out more and more content, suddenly good content is going to go unnoticed under the crushing weight of a thousand $1.99 mods that add a different Kingdom Hearts keyblade to some shop in Windhelm.

The modding community has only existed and prospered because of its detachment from that thing we call the root of all evil. A "donate" button is the only fair way to handle this. Steam workshop could have been a beautifully crafted, integrated module for sharing user-made content in an ad-free space built-in to the platform we already use to buy our games. Currently, it's just another microtransaction shop tarnishing the last place online I don't have to look at those; single player games. /u/GabeNewellBellevue This is what [modding](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oSzYliSASKc) is all about. Its not about money, its about pure fun. As soon as you add a paywall, everyone loses.  Remove pay walls. 

Add a flashing neon "donate" button to mod pages that brings up an interface esque of Humble Bundle's.

---

Pay What You Want: **($5) ($10) ($50) ($100) (Custom Amount)**

*Choose where your money goes:*

* Steam Tip
* Bethesda Tip
* Mod Author/Team


---

There.  Humble Bundle, Inc. even beta tested it for you. 




  Is 25% profit a normal amount for content creators in comparable situations? I see a lot of people complaining about the cut Valve and Bethesda receive. "Skyrim is a great example of a game that has benefitted enormously from the MODs. The option for paid MODs is supposed to increase the investment in quality modding, not hurt it." - Gabe

Can we talk about this a bit more? Because this seems to be the root of the problem. I think you were ill-advised on the economic impacts of monetization of something that was once free. I fear Varoufakis' departure has left a hole in Valve's understanding of human behaviour and economics.

Costs and rewards can take many forms, not just financial forms, and when you push one specific "currency type" (pride/guilt, money and social capital can all fit into this concept) as a means to acquire a service or product, you push out the others, sometimes for a long time. 

There's actually a [study on day-cares in Israel](http://rady.ucsd.edu/faculty/directory/gneezy/pub/docs/fine.pdf) that illustrates that point really well. Many people know it from Freakonomics and/or some form of low-level Econ class. To summarize; parents often came to get their children late, forcing day-care employees to stay at work longer than their scheduled hours, creating problems. Following the idea that financial costs are deeply linked to human incentives, the day-care centers elected to put a financial price on late pick-ups, in order to discourage them. The complete opposite happened. Because of the appearance of the financial cost associated with the late pick-ups, parents stopped feeling the moral cost of being late and negatively impacting the day-cares' workers. They felt entitled to being late as long as they paid. The problem grew worse. 

What's the link to this current predicament? By opening monetization of mods you're going to push away modders who made things for their personal pride and/or social capital, and you'll bring in those who make things solely for money. This won't just make the old modders sad, it'll make your workshops an absolute shitfest. Actual modders will get their mods stolen, it'll take massive manhours to try and regulate the market, and the quality modders will simply move on to other things, disgusted. What you'll be left with is the typical app store shovelware, with the customer raging as he tries to find a mod that's actually worth acquiring. Everybody loses, even the scammers (who only lose time).

I truly think you should consider the proposal to let people donate to modders. Valve and the devs can still get a cut of revenue (say 40%) and everyone will be happy about it. Why you didn't go with this option is, to be very honest, rather surprising.

^ps: ^I'm ^available ^to ^work ^on ^these ^things ^with ^you ^guys ^since ^I'm ^finishing ^my ^M.Sc. ^like... ^right ^now.  Gabe this comment will be long and I don't know if you'll respond, but here it is anyway.    
  
This issue of monitization creates so many points of abuse and demonstrates a firm lack of ethics on the part of everyone involved.  
  
**1. There is no one who benefits from these transactions other than you or Bethesda.**  
  
* You claim that this is helping modders by giving them a revenue stream, but what you don't address is that this turns previously hobbyist work into a product.  
  
* As a product, consumers have expectations (rightfully so) that products they purchase must work and be worth the amount charged. This means that these paid modders will be the only ones who shoulder the burden and backlash anytime something in their mod either breaks or conflicts with another mod. Thus these modders for a measly 25% are roped into doing massive amounts of **required** updating and patching or or will have their reputation dragged through the mud by angry consumers.    
  
* These products, which are effectively outsourced DLC, place all the fiscal responsibility onto the modders who shoulder the start up cost, before they can begin selling the mod in the hope of recouping their losses. Meanwhile Bethesda and you (Valve) simply profit of these works which you invested nothing into. This encourages cheaper more shallow mods from those who begin with the intent of making a "career" off of modding.  
  
* Any problems that due arise as a result of a bad or broken mod now are negatively harming a paid consumer. Whereas before, if a mod broke something it was understandable due to its free nature, now mods must be ensured as working correctly or you are selling a defective product.  
  
* By taking a 75% cut of these mods you and Bethesda are effectively asking a modder to pay you to add value to your platform and Bethesda's game
  
* The "returns" you offer punish the consumer because any money put into the Steam store that they refund is locked within the store replacing it with your "funny money". I realize that there is not a way for you to truly refund the purchaser without incurring bank fees, but this system is abusive.
  
**2. The modding community has always working in such a way where most extensive/impressive mods were the result of massive amounts of collaborations between the modding community.**
  
* This has already occurred as a problem with Skyrim where Art of the Catch was using another modders work as a basis for its own.
  
* By adding money into the equation there will now be infighting and paranoia by those modders who want to get paid versus those who expect their products to be free and don't want their work used as the basis for someone else's paid mod.
  
* Additionally in the case of such a widespread support mod such as Skyrim Script Extender (they are choosing not to sell it), it would be unfair for it to be sold because doing so would require every consumer to purchase it in order to purchase any other mod that required it thus increasing the amount which players are being forced to spend. Additionally it increases the effective price of all these secondary mods which again, only benefits you and Bethesda.
  
**3. There is very little value in many of the products being offered versus the game's official content.**  
  
* The 2 major official expansions for Skyrim released at a price point of $20. The shadow scale set mod is being sold for $2. This means that I could buy one suit of armor for 1/10th the price of an expansion build by a professional team which has new characters, quests, voice acting, items, abilities, (in the case of Dawnguard) new weapon types.  
  
* The way this system works modders will always be incentivized to overprice their own work or contribution because they only ever see 25% of the product, in a market which is going to become highly competitive in fighting over players funds. This means either the modders will need to maintain high prices with less sales to make a return, or more sales at a lower price point. Both cases where only you and Bethesda are making any real profit.  

**4. There is no oversight within this system. Both in terms of preventing content theft, but also any level of quality assurance on the part of the products.**  
  
* Mods are **not** the same thing as user created content in the cases of TF2, CSGO, or Dota2. All of those games are currently selling art assets which must be approved by you, integrated into the game by you, and you (Valve) are responsible in ensuring that they work properly.  

* Mods by nature can be as simple as a re-skin (very similar to the aforementioned user created assets), but can be as complex as a professional piece of DLC (such as Falskaar for Skyrim). There is a massive difference in the requirements between maintaining those two different mods which you and Bethesda are washing your hands of and allowing the modders to take the blame.  

Gabe, the modding community has existed since before Steam, and I don't believe that the majority of modders will move onto your paying platform. However what you are doing now is going to hurt both the modding scene's stability as well as negatively effect consumer perspectives of modding in what looks like a clear attempt at opening your own company up to a new exploitative revenue stream. How can you sell non-refundable micro transactions with no guarantee that they will function? Because he can't hear you behind his piles of money.  I've supported Valve for as long as you guys existed, backed almost ever single move you made and blindly trusted the company to do justice to PC gamers.

With that said, I can't help but feel betrayed by this recent move.

Does Valve, and you in particular, not see what this does to the PC gaming scene as a whole? Mods are already being removed from Nexus in order to be exclusive to Steam, which while being very good for you guys its literally one of the worst things for the consumer.

Why in the world couldn't you guys simply add a "Donate" button instead? I REALLY want to believe that you guys will remove the system and instead instate of "Donate" button but I'm honestly losing every hope of this ever happening. 

Do you guys honestly not see just how much this damages the PC scene? From a practical perspective, the problems I have with it are these -

* The most popular mods right now (including SkyUI) are mods that fix bad design in the original game. SkyUI is going behind a paywall, and it promotes bad design in games and rewards the developers for fixes the community makes.

* The share the modders get is way too low. 25% is a joke.

* Stolen content. Modders now need to spend a portion of their time skimming the workshop to make sure their mods aren't being hosted without their permission.

* It is hurting the mod community directly, people are taking down their mods that have been free for years on sharing sites like Nexus because they are worried about others using their mod without permission, or they are doing so in protest, or they are doing so in preparation to put it behind a paywall.

* There is no guarantee these mods will be supported and will work with our games after updates, which is acceptable if they're free, not so much if we've paid for them.

From the emotional perspective... the modding scene was really cool. It was beautiful to see people doing something for fun to make a game they loved better, and cooperating with others for the sake of enjoyment. Many mods relied on other mods and were packed together showing this big collaborative effort, and over night all those people have turned on each other due to some cashing in, others protesting those cashing in by removing their mods from those modpacks and refusing for them to be used, it's all toxic. Overnight. Yeah, people didn't always get along, but this is ridiculous.

People keep saying "modders deserve to be compensated for their hard work" and if you feel that way, nexus has or is implementing a donation system. Use it. But no, I disagree that they deserve *payment.* Just because you work hard on something doesn't mean you necessarily deserve a paycheck for doing it. People do lots of things that require a *hell* of a lot of time and effort, such as leading gaming communities, running guilds, hell, even playing some games can be hard work to be the best. That doesn't mean everybody should be paid for it. The mod community was beautiful because of what it was and throwing money into the situation does nothing to make it better. Hilarious

Valve Responds to Steam Workshop Controversy 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_Lzr9UczY0&amp;spfreload=10 Why do you capitalize MOD? Old habit.  Circa 1997. Ok, now why did you capitalize *on* MODs? *nice* 10/10 People are getting banned for expressing their anger, and ratings are being hidden. I mean, if people dislike the monetization so much then aren't those ratings valid?  In one example a weapon reskin pack had a one star rating due to it's monetization, so the rating was hidden.  In another, a player created a parody mod to voice their complaint, and was banned.  There are many of these stories appearing now.

* Do you have anything to say about the evidence of rapid censorship of the community in response to dissent?  
* Do you think censorship is an appropriate response considering the way it's fanning the flames?
 This is the worst question and answer session ever. Who keeps gifting gold to a billionaire? Gabe, I don't even know if you'll read this, but here goes: I own almost 700 Steam games and I've been a loyal customer for 10 years now. Through the years, I have put a lot of trust into your company. I understand that the bottom line is that you are part of a business, and said business needs to keep making money to be successful. However, I strongly feel that this is not the right way to go about it. 

I know you want to help modders out, and want this 'vision' to shape a new era of more polished, robust mods. However the whole thing just feels like it was pushed out overnight, and there was no transparency between Valve and its customers. We had no say, and the sudden shock of what transpired has left us angry, fearful, and shaken. You have taken a formula that has worked fine for years, and tried to flip it for financial gain. 

You guys have a lot of hardware being pushed out this year including the VR headset; I would imagine this would produce some significant revenue, no? I just don't understand how capitalizing on mods is going to help in this situation in comparison to the former. As you can surely see, this is causing way more harm than good. 

As many before me have stated, the practical and sensible choice here is a 'Donate' button for custom monetary amounts. Underneath the hood, you all can still work out whatever split you and the publisher/developer/modder take, and we have the option of supporting mod makers at our discretion. Everyone still wins. 

I'll admit, I've been pretty upset over this whole thing, but I also have taken some time to reflect on this and view both sides. Business needs money. It's not evil; its necessity. The thing is that you're trying to absorb mods, something that's always been considered more of a leisurely hobby than a business, and giving it that cold, corporate sheen. If we could just keep the mods 'free' so to speak, and allow the community to decide how best to fund the modders with donations, I feel we can bring balance to the PC 'force' once again.

Gabe, you're awesome, and I still would like to keep my faith in you and your company. I only wish I had 1/10th the willpower and success that you have. Thanks for addressing everyone and I hope that you will reconsider modifying the current situation regarding these mods. Thanks for all you do. Just to correct a lot of misinformation out there, can you please confirm:

1. Free mods still exist on the Workshop.

2. Modders can continue to release their content for free on the Workshop. Correct. What happens when you have a mod that was free that goes paid, such as with nexus mod manager? SkyUI would be one example.

What happens with mods that are dependent on other mods that suddenly go paid? &gt; What happens when you have a mod that was free that goes paid, such as with nexus mod manager? SkyUI would be one example.

I can give you an example of what happened to my game. I had the Castle Volkihar mod loading through the Steam workshop. I also have about 100 mods loading through Mod Organizer and have them sorted using Loot to work together. I logged on yesterday and the Castle Volkihar free mod was removed and I had no way to get it back except to pay for it. I had to clean my saved game to get it to work properly. Thankfully, I did not have any important items inside the mod area of the castle. What would have been nice is for Steam to give me a little warning. 

Edit:  I just checked and the free version of Castle Volkihar is back on the system. Hmmm.
 Sounds like you have to pay for them at that point then. There's apparently a mod for free on the workshop(Midas Magic) which added something that causes a 4% chance to cause a popup when you cast a spell telling people to buy the paid version. What do you think of that? I think you should uninstall that mod. He already said Valve prefers not to tell developers what to do with their software. This is one of those things the developer chose to do and I doubt they are going to tell them to stop.  What was the thought behind monetizing mods? Was to help the mod creators or to get a bit more money for things that used to be free? Anyone else feel Gabe is only selecting easy questions and/or beating around the bush by not providing actual answers? You heavily criticized Microsoft for their power grab with Windows 8 but now you're doing the same to the modding community, except we don't have the backing of a multimillion dollar corporation to fight back.

As futile as this request probably is, I'd like you to strop trying to monopolize and monetize mods, it's utterly repugnant. Please Gabe please don't turn the core of pc into an EA dream project. You of all people should know how much this means to us . Hi Gabe,

**Issue 1**

You may already be aware, but right now the Skyrim (Paid) Mod Workshop is getting filled with quite a few re-uploads of popular mods by people other than their authors. 

Many authors have been forced to remove their mods from places like the Steam Workshop and Nexus Mods because others are profiting from their work or ruining their reputation due to the backlash against paid mods.

How do you plan on dealing with this?

**Issue 2**

My other MAJOR concern with paid mods for Skyrim in particular is the sheer number of dependencies that mods require in order to run properly. These are things like SKSE (code / scripting database), Wrye Bash (mod compiler for unifying multiple mods in the same category), Boss Mods (for properly deciding and sorting mod load orders), SkyUI (complete UI overhaul that many other mods rely on) and many more.

I cannot see paid mods in the workshop doing anything but stifling mod development in the future if even ONE of these mods become a paid mod (which is already the case for SkyUI). This means that 100s of mods that use this as a dependency are now behind a paywall.

How do you plan on dealing with the complexity of mod dependencies in the Workshop? Will there be warnings if you try to buy a mod and you don't own another mod it requires? Is this something Steam can even track?

**Issue 3**

What prevents people from simply decompiling mods and removing DRM-esque features? Given DMCA's do not cover mods. 

Mod ESPs are purposely made to be easily edited and viewed. I've already edited several mods that added certain ads or limitations to their free version to force people to buy the paid one.

Right now I don't publish them merely out of respect of their original authors, however I've already gotten plenty of messages ACTIVELY ENCOURAGING me to upload these to Nexus Mods in order to bypass Steam's paywall. In fact, what prevents me or ANYONE from re-uploading all the paid mods to Nexus Mods? Fair use dictates that there is no legal limitation. 


**tl;dr: So far the system seems horribly thought out - it seems like a money grab for content that is (or will be - I guarantee it) readily and FREELY available elsewhere. It undermines collaboration in mod creation and destroys fair-use principles that many mods relied on. From a legal standpoint, mod piracy is unenforceable.**

**So in short, what gives??**  Here is whats wrong that I can already see.

1. People can easily steal mods from nexus, and have done so the problem is it can take days to weeks to get to customer service. Now you have to deal with people stealing mods.

2. 24 hour refund, What happens if someone patches their mod and it no longer works with another mod you have or period, guess what your fucked. Here's the major problem if a mod works on the standard vanilla game with 0 mods but messes up with certain mods. You cant get a refund, there is no quality control because if you take the mod because everyone who has a lot of mods cant use it but those with very little can your in a lose lose situation giving the middle finger to one of the user groups.

3. Quality Control, how are we going to know we get a good mod, people can do some shady deals like going hey this is a beta without everything in it... slightly patch fix it then boom drop the mod 1/10th done.

4. Legality Issues, people are making Frostmourne and other intellectual properties/copy rights, how are you going to deal with it if the lawyers pick on you or the mod maker? Because now they're making money off it, there is no grey area within the mods right now as Valve/Bethesda/Mod maker are directly profiting from it. This goes back to number 1 how would you have the power to moderate it efficiently when it can take weeks to get customer support Especially in the case of Skyrim, there has been a large community effort in fixing the bugs Bethesda themselves have refused to fix.

What do you feel about the current trend of developers pushing bugs off to the modding community, now that they are now in a position to profit from doing even less? Before this shitstorm everything was in order, players were happy for getting free content and an ability to donate to mod creators of their choice, Modders were happy they got recognition when they did really well, the game publishers were happy because their game kept selling despite being old because new mods were created for it all the time. 

now someone had to come in and fucked it up! now players mad because no more free content, mod creators mad because other mod creators stealing their work and try to sell it on steam and even if not poor mod creators have only 25% of the donation left for them, unlike 100% they got before. publishers shouldnt be happy too because they about to kill the cow that they milking and turn it into community generated DLC practice, why hire talented people to do DLC for you if community does it for free and you take money for it, right? 

this change is not consumer friendly, its not even publisher friendly. this is might be the beginning of the end for mods if its going to be allowed to continue.  There is no consumer protection here at all.

You buy a mod that only the creator has any responsibility to, and the only way he is held responsible is essentially that he will feel bad if it stops working. It is just complete insanity.

As you buy more mods you become more limited in what other mods you can purchase or install. Maybe that $2 mod breaks your $5 mod. So you have to return the $5 mod or disable (throwaaway) the $2 mod, and that only works if you discover the problem within the 24 hour period. Otherwise you have to choose what paid mod you use.

There are just an insane number of ways for mods to break or interact poorly with the game or other mods. Be that the mod actually breaking a part of the game or just unbalancing it or destroying immersion. A few of the current mods for sale actually just give you 1 hit kill weapons within the first 5-10 minutes of gameplay. There is no sense of how any of these mods will really fit into the game, and traditionally you would say fuck it, Im uninstalling this. In this environment though youve paid money, and unless you rush straight for the mod content and complete it you wont know if what the store says is actually accurate in time for a refund.

Then there are possibilities of modding divas getting pissed and intentionally breaking their own mod.

You have modders, like the CS:GO guy, who are currently making money and see this as a positive, and I wan to be clear I dont have a problem with modders making money. However, once you start selling a mod as a product you have a certain amount of responsibility to the consumer. Which happens in CS:GO, or Dota 2, or TF2 because Valve acts as a wrapper for the mod.

Mod -&gt; greenlight -&gt; Valve picks it up (refine, polish, officially fitted into the game) -&gt; released in the Steam store as a Valve product

You have a very clear path where Valve is a partner with the modder to make the content official. The consumer isnt buying from the modder, but Valve and Valve maintains the responsibility of selling the mod as a working product.

What is happening here is pure fucking insanity. It will create so many support tickets and so many witch hunts. You know the modder has his name on the product and he stops updating after selling lets say 50,000 units (super popular mod) . The mod breaks and the modder doesnt want to deal with it (the bug is too big or he just doesnt feel like it. whatever) one of those pissed of consumers posts something to a few forums, and voila we have a witch hunt.

A donation system avoids all of this by not making a mod a product. Now you say "but people don't donate" and I say bull fucking shit. People don't donate because it takes minutes to find out where to donate, it takes minutes to create a paypal, it takes minutes to donate with paypal. There is nothing easy about it, and this is in a world where your website will get dramatically fewer visitors if it takes over a second to load. 

On the mod page you have a donate button. Linked to your fucking steam wallet. HOLY MOTHER OF GOD, EASE OF USE IS IN TOWN. Tied to that fucking button you have a few Steam badges, maybe one for each game. All you have to do is donate $1. That;s it and you get a fucking badge and 200 XP. Every motherfucker loves fake numbers. Holy shit, we have ease of use and incentive for initial use. Now, in addition to all of this shit you allow a certain amount of donated money $3, lets say, to give the user an extra trading card drop, if you donate $5 you get an extra booster drop. Holy shit! We have ease of use, incentive for the initial usage, and incentive for return usage. Valve can take some fucking money from this and so can Bethesda or whoever the fuck else. OH MY FUCKING GOD, DID YOU SEE THAT!?!?! We now have a system that incentivizes the user to donate to mods while not making them stupid fucking products!

Recap!

1: You place a donate button on the Steam page and make it work with the Steam Wallet. People don't like waiting for shit, especially optional shit. If you want them to donate it has to be easy fucking peasy.

2: Add a badge; call it "(GAME NAME GOES HERE) Community Builder". You get this badge for donating $1. This gets people used to the idea of donating. 

3: For every $x someone donates they get an additional trading card drop, for every $x*2 donated they get a booster. We have no incentivized the user to donate again, and again.

4: Valve and the Dev take their cut (be nice and take %50 or some shit). Valve and the dev also get a cut from the trading card aftermarket.

5: the modder gets their cut.

We now have people giving modders money without any of the horrific problems caused by making mods a product. Holy fucking shit. I'm sitting in a coffee shop for the next two hours, so I will try to get as many issues addressed in that time as I can. If you want to keep heading that way with mods, are you planing to do anything about stolen content ? What about quality tests ? The thing with mods is that they can fail and crash and you usually install them at your own risks. Plus, some mods are not compatible with each other. Will you do anything about it ? Quality test for everything uploaded ? What about pricing ? What's up with all the banning and censoring of people complaining about this feature? How can you consider this to be 'open'? Well, if we are censoring people, that's stupid.  I'll get that to stop.  On top of it being stupid, it doesn't work (see Top Gear forums on Jeremy Clarkson). hi gabe, recently I was community banned by what I assume was a Valve mod for 1 week

regardless of whether or not you feel I deserved it, I also lost ALL MY COMMUNITY POSTS (threads, comments on forums, screenshot comments, profile comments) that had nothing to do with my ban

I feel this was unnecessary and would like to know if you can reverse it, I am also not the only person this has happened to

this is my account, thanks http://steamcommunity.com/id/kijib



UPDATE/EDIT: My ban has been lifted, but posts still gone, not sure if its still being worked on, but im guessing they're probably unrecovarable =/


oh well, thanks for doing what you could Gabe, appreciate it On it. Some other dudes were perma-banned for protesting this change too. Not just one week. Do you have any proof that they were banned just for protesting? You know, death threats aren't a legitimate form of protest. I have no doubt many of the bans are from people being jackasses.  But the number of of the bans and the perception being given of it is unacceptable, especially in light of the situation.   My(skyrim community) ban was for being a jackass, I'll take that on the chin and as a lesson not make posts about passionate subjects after a few beers..

Have seen screenshots of other people picking up big bans for trivial stuff though.. &gt;after a few beers..

I save my really passionate rants for at least a half dozen beers. Its really like some department decided to go through with this but not imagining all the backlash.. Then the support center with its 4 workers panics at all the messages they are getting and one says 'just ban em' &gt;  protesting

Or shitposting about it? There's a difference from being a prick and being upset about it. This is what gets me about this whole situation. I've seen so many people complaining about how they got banned after commenting on the issue, or how they got banned for posting to a mod discussion.

I can guarantee you Valve does not have the resource to scan through and ban all actual discussions on the topic. And no, posting the middle finger ASCII copypasta is not contributing, it is spam and you should be banned. I know your business model is rather unconventional and doesn't rely on a heirachal system. So were paid mods a collective decision? What about picking winners and losers by giving the paid mods extra large ads on the workshop?  Gabe: I can confirm. Someone in the Valve Community team is censoring *entire swaths* of people. Like, literally everyone. Here's an example from just now. I browse to the workshop, click on Purity, for example, and then click on Discussions (9). [This is what I'm greeted with.](https://imgur.com/80XfZ9g) I have no VAC bans, no community strikes, and yet I'm barred from accessing any discussion on paid mods. Free mods do not suffer from this.

E: Someone downthread said the boards are locked to owners only? If so, disregard w/r/t censoring, but...that doesn't make much sense either. How can you lock the workshop discussion for the paid mods for people who paid for them only? How can we see if they are any good? We're basically forced to buy the mod blind. As a consumer, let me just put you through the mindset that I have gone through in the past 24 hours. 24 hours ago, I could play skyrim with 100 mods for free, and some of the mods were great - the great ones, I'd donate to. 

Now, one of the most core mods, skyui, is behind a paywall. For the consumer, 100 mods just went from free to 80+ dollars should everyone follow suit and charge .50-$1.00.

This move was entirely initiated by Bethesda and Steam. The modders to this point seem to have been perfectly content simply asking for donations. Greed has literally been injected into the equation. The new version of skyui (v5.0) is behind a paywall. With the shitstorm happening, I can't see most mod authors releasing updated versions compatible with v5.0 when v4.1 works fine and is still completely free on the nexus. I seriously don't think workshop is suddenly going to replace nexusmods, this is a dream world valve and bethesda are living in as workshop is an absolutely TERRIBLE platform for modding skyrim with the amount of issues that can arise. This simply causes division within the community where a lot of potential for mods is lost as disagreements between what should be free and what shouldn't be ruins what was once a passionate community. Valve and Bethesda could have handled this so much better, but they half-assed it and they get the backlash they honestly deserve. Nice to see you here, addressing this issue directly.

I sent you this email yesterday, detailing moral hazard that may occur as a result of paid mods. Basically, companies could design their game worse to get more revenue.

&gt; Mr. Newell,
&gt; 
&gt; Valve has created a moral hazard for gaming companies by selling mods.
&gt; 
&gt; Modders often make unofficial patches. If mod devs put their unofficial patches behind a paywall, it incentivizes game devs to never completely fix their game or to intentionally break it so they can get a cut from the sales of these patches,  creating a hidden cost for the game not listed in its retail price. This logic extends to a lesser extent to making poor game mechanic and balance design decisions, making subpar graphics, and creating inconveniences for the player.
&gt; 
&gt; It just so happens that Skyrim has four unofficial patches--one for the base game and each expansion--that are considered mandatory to install before doing any modding, and highly recommended even without mods. It also has several overhaul mods to fix game mechanics and balance, a plethora of graphical improvement mods, and at least one that lets you enchant items in the most commonly used player home (Breezehome in Whiterun) instead of having to travel to the other side of the city to do so.
&gt; 
&gt; I urge you to reconsider your company's decision to offer paid mods. I know you're buried by this and a very busy man (now more than usual) but I hope I can cut through and talk with you for a moment. Even if you have to reply days, weeks or even a month or two later I would sincerely appreciate it.

It took me time to really put together my thoughts on this in a constructive way and I'll try not to waste your time.

I think a large portion of why this upset people comes from the incredible interdependence of mods and the hours of help put forth and assets given freely to help people with the communal understanding that we're all doing this for free. It's very disheartening to spend many hours helping with a mod that is strictly for the benefit of the community and then it becomes monetized.

Another part of this interdependence comes up when a mod that is in many ways a framework for others is made into paid software, effectively placing all the mods that work with that one behind a paywall. The scariest example for us as modders and players is SkyUI, which because of this debacle I have already begun a fork to provide a community alternative. 

Then we have the equity of the situation. Bethesda would never have sold anywhere near the same number of copies of their games without the modding community, but the monetization push seems not to recognize that. Specifically the revenue split is (and I don't like saying this) appalling, deeply offensive and completely tone deaf. Bethesda made money indirectly from modding for a long time and while there's not really a good way to show that on a spreadsheet it's absolutely there. 

What made that worse is how the numbers were touted and paraded as though the share the mod maker got was generous. I want to emphasize that it was in no way even approaching a fair split and actually showed a sense of entitlement to the author's work that is obscene. Frankly although it's unlikely for many reasons I feel that sort of insulting undervaluation of the modders' worth deserves not just making it right, but an apology.

Last is centered around quality and positioning: With this monetization of mods a market force not entirely unlike that of Google Play and the Apple App Store enters the realm. I'm sure you're quite aware that from a gamer's perspective those are horrible cash grab wastelands, and while they certainly make money they don't make games with anything like the artistic and cultural impact Deus Ex, HL1&amp;2, Portal and Skyrim do.

Then as I'm sure you know mods break all the time. They break to all hell. Save games with 300 hours get lit ablaze at Skyrim silently crashes to desktop. If someone made it in their free time and gave it away then whatever right? Once it's for sale it's a product and EULA TOS and whatever be damned, I expect it to work. I expect that when an update for whatever shows up and breaks something that it will get fixed. I expect that since Valve is endorsing and marketing this product that Valve should make it work and not leave me to plead with a mod maker who is in no way obligated to help.

Lastly even unmodded Skyrim fully updated crashes, is full of oversights and bugs that Bethesda has been made aware of, but did not choose to fix. The unofficial patches are virtually required to render the game to a state that is in the eyes of most players acceptable. No matter what patches you use you still can't utilize the bloody display cases in the offical Hearthfire DLC! Even the main questline often breaks without these patches and Bethesda wants to monetize these mods and take the lion's share of the revenue. 

Over a year ago Bethesda declared Skyrim "done" and left the bugs outstanding. The bugs we've done our level best to fix to make their product fully playable. To stroll back in for an indecently sized revenue double dip based on our work that they've already profited from a year later is not really a friendly move. They didn't even patch their own DLC before this to show goodwill.

Apologies for the length and I sincerely hope you can sorry this out. That you dropped by on a Saturday shows that you're at least aware and probably care. Why.

Why were paid mods even a thing to begin with.

Why not just put a donate button, instead of taking 75% of the modder's payment.

What was the point? Bethesda isn't getting nearly as much hate as they should, this is a company that has benefited from the creation of free mods for 13 years, for Morrowind, Oblivion and Skyrim, Fallout, Fallout 2, Fallout 3 and New Vegas, they literally rely on modders for profit.

They wouldn't have sold even *close* to the number of games they have if it wasn't for the modding community as a whole, and now they're taking a huge chunk of the money and shafting everyone. How would Valve deal with the fact that mods are prone to being incompatible with each other, break, and/or stop being supported, and that all of those issues usually take longer than 24h (the refund period) to detect?  
Sometimes months after a mod is installed, it can stop working because a new mod or a patch broke things the old one used. I'm kind of late to this party, but I'd like to bring something up. 

Often, mods are community created, unofficial patches for games. If something is broken or unbalanced or generally crap in a game, modders can make fixes.

With a large portion of the cut going to the developers, they are effectively getting paid and rewarded for someone else to do their work. This is incredibly broken and backwards. Any thoughts? 121,000 people say NO

https://www.change.org/p/valve-remove-the-paid-content-of-the-steam-workshop Please can we have a donation system instead...? hiding mods behind a paywall is just... wrong...

Also you might wanna look at this petition with nearly 100k signatures https://www.change.org/p/valve-remove-the-paid-content-of-the-steam-workshop It's clear Gabe is here as a PR move and playing daft. He's answering only easy and nonthreatening question.

Gabe; This is a terrible thing that is destroying the collaborative effort of modding. Everyone is already stealing mods and creating their own walled gardens so others don't steal their mods. It's not been even two days and we've lost hundreds of mods. You're transforming modding into a cold business. Charging for mods will kill modding in the long term. It will push modding under wings of corporations and turn it into a corporate funded 3rd party DLC released as a paid "mod" to fix games broken by publishers themselves for extra "mod" buck. This is an anti consumer and anti modding move and an all around greedy move by Valve. Even if you changed the ration to 90% profit for modders and 10% for Valve and co because you need to apear nice - it's still no fix. All the above problems will hurl PC gaming into a nightmare. This needs to go away completely IMO. In any case, if you don't change this - maybe allow an optional donate button - I and many others feel that Valve is putting PC gaming on a track to kill it. We will stop using steam and buying video games published on it. Instead, we'll pirate. Piracy is a distribution problem - and new policy of your distribution is that problem. If you were serious, you'd consider this argument, maybe respond - but you won't since it doesn't fit your horrifying cyberpunk vision of information as money and existence itself being a virtueless commodity.

If you're going all in because you're dead set on your idea, if you're going to f*ck us all, at least let us sell our game guides and reviews. Hurry up! They're also community products. This is the next step of your master plan, right?

Absolutely disgusting. There is NO way he just found out about this. Everyone nowadays has a smart phone so for him to be like "oh wow I came back to this?!" Is an insult to everyone.  And while I don't doubt him he started it off with the sympathy card which is a terribly cheap ploy "Oh wow I guess we did something to piss the Internet off?"

No fucking shit. Every flight I've ever taken I've had my cellphone turned to "Airplane mode"... disables your antennae.  It's not really that hard to believe.  A lot of flights offer WiFi for coach you don't think Gabe had WiFi access on his flight? Please.  You think Gabe pays a fee for access to something?  What do you think he is?  Some kind of customer? Am I the only one that realizes that someone of his status flies on his own private jet? That has free Wi-Fi? (Only to him personally, of course)  Has anyone stopped to think that maybe Gabe shut his phone off to avoid work in the first place? So he's been working non stop since Thursday?  Yeah, I'm sure he's been on an airplane for the last 30 hours. Even if Gabe was beyond internet or phone service, a RFI and subsequent action does not happen overnight.

A proposal and implementation starts with meetings, then requires research, more meetings, then sign-offs by legal and major stakeholders of primary parties.

Playing the dumb card isn't fooling anybody into believing this idea just formed in someone's head and was implemented the next day while the CEO was on personal leave. Valve contacted Skyrim modders one month ago about this and stated they weren't allowed to talk to the public about it. Valve and Bethesda, as well as several of the modders that jumped on the bandwagon, where all informed of this a month ago.

They knew. Yeah, you can't just cut off all internet connection because your on a trip! (100% serious) Not as the president Yeah. You'd be a terrible president if you cut off all connection from your company just because your on a trip You'd be a terrible president if you thought you were above everyone else and could keep your phone active during a plane ride.  Imagine the damage control needed on that one.  "Valve CEO doesn't put phone in airplane mode, hundreds dead" Honestly i'd be surprised to see anyone in that headline, not just the CEO of Valve.  If it were proven phones could bring a plane down, I wouldn't step foot on a plane unless they outright confiscated them at security, because you know some fruit-loop wouldn't switch it to airplane mode. Ehhh fair point Dude, it's 2015, there's wifi on planes now. He said he had eye surgery - so it is plausible that he didn't see anything on his phone or what have you.

Of course, there are things like phone calls and what not. Not taking sides but Gabe claimed that yesterday he was having an eye surgery an was told about it, but couldn't do anything about it until he got back from LA.

Since then this whole shenanigan of a system was put down from the front page while valve apparently figures hinges out, IMO companies should only allow a system for mods into their games then nope the hell out when it comes to cash, modders will gain their own support w/o a companies help, GTA for exanple It's exactly what he wants. He's the CEO of a multi billion $ company. Even with the legendary flat organization structure, life does not move at the speed of internet. 

For sanity sake, I doubt he stays connected to his e-mail 24/7. The busier you get, the LESS you stay connected to social media -- not more.

Its also hard to see where social media shit storms will go. Some blow out in 12 hours. Some become life-defining for corporations. 

Keep in mind I'm *NOT* apologizing for Valve's behaviour here. My personal opinion is that Bethesda changed their mod kit T&amp;Cs in advance of this, as its a new revenue stream for them. Valve has been more than happy to enable the behavior, however, for a cut of the revenue. 

Bethesda opted to shoot the golden goose, but Valve is happily supplying the bullets for their 35% cut. 

My prediction: Bethesda has driven a wedge in the mod community, which moves onto other more amenable games. Next Fallout/Skyrim suffers from much less community support, leading to lower sales. Valve shrugs as they don't make revenue anymore. 

I don't think this is fixable. I wouldn't have payed for the original Team Fortress, DOTA, or Counter Strike mods. They evolved into fully fledged products, but they became independent releases.  If you're suggesting he knew about the social media shitstorm then he'd have known about this before his appointment. uh, he's been talking about it for years. at least 2-4 different talks.

edit: it as in a way to pay people that make content for their popular games. it seems Bethesda in their greed is ruining it. About the outrage Seriously, I imagine he was informed the second any staff got a whiff of it The internet is always angry about something. **Public relations**

| Step  | Goal                                 | Action                  | XP                 |
|:------|:-------------------------------------|:------------------------|:-----------------|
| 1     | Minimize involvement as stakeholder  | mention personal leave, feign ignorance, distance personal involvement with implementation of mod monetization strategy.  | +100xp |
| 2     | Generate sympathy                    | mention health issues.                                                                        | +1000xp |
| 3     | Empathize with user concerns         | respond with genuine sympathy to non-controversial questions.                           | +50xp 
| 4     | Avoid tough questions                | ignore criticism, destroy personal and company reputation while user base and various communities communicate drastic flaws.       | -100,000xp | [deleted] Let's just call it that. From now on any paid mod is referred to as 3rd party DLC. Make it so. This next week will demonstrate to us what will happen with Valve and the future of Steam. 

Gabe's reaction and if anything changes will let us know if he is a benevolent king or a Sith Lord. 

Let the man work.  Nah. Already the Sith Lord. It's pretty apparent that even if he does change everything back it's because people are about to march on the gates of Valve, pitchforks in hand to take down the false prophet themselves. It has nothing to do with "being the good guy". It's "well this looks completely terrible for my company, better get rid of it so people still like us". &gt; He's answering only easy and nonthreatening questions.

Yes, after reading most of this post it's pretty clear that's what he's doing. He won't answer the serious questions we have about using a donation set up instead of what we have now but he will answer a question about what coffee he's drinking. I'm done with this post. I might have a stroke if I keep reading.  He said he was limited on time. Let's just remember that he's acknowledged there's a problem and Valve is neither perfect nor beyond the capability of listening to its people.

That being said I hope everyone at Valve is seeing everything in this post because the people speaking up here are important as far as they are concerned and the emotions are real. I always thought that Valve cared about its people, at least to the extent that they would never sabotage them. I'm a long-timer like probably most of us here. This is truly the worst/weirdest idea I've heard considered and it needs to be forgotten now as far as the people care. They are actually mad. And cursing.

:'( and crying. He's not answering those questions because he doesn't have the answer to them. He's consulting his company what to do with the outcry of the public, and if and they should change the paid mods model.

Don't always assume malicious intent. He has the answer, but saying "because money" usually isn't a good PR move  Sorry, but after years of personal and public distrust of everyone from the game developer to the publisher it's just simply easier to assume that this is malicious. It's hard for me to believe that no one at valve thought of donations before they put this model in place. Unless Valve has had it's head up its ass these last couple of days they would know that donations are a popular topic among the community. It would've been easy to prepare a statement based on what they saw in the community.  I don't think anyone cares about your anecdotal experience. Not defending gabe but damn  I just don't care Haha.  Of course he's here as a PR move, his company just launched something that's being very poorly received that he would like to see succeed. This doesn't mean that it's underhanded, it's just smart business. Really anything Gabe does in the public is a PR move. That's kind of the definition It's not smart business when he clearly avoids the actually concerning questions that are some of the highest upvoted in the thread and then goes on to say he is going top to bottom answering and ends up not doing so. It was a clear PR stunt to use his name to try and make the people who worship him forgive him. I mean you're saying that he's misrepresenting himself to increase his own respectability. Even if it is good for business it's clearly underhanded. The people accepting this as anything less than bullshit are almost as pathetic as the people still defending Valve. This. I hope to god the rest of reddit realizes that Gabe is just fucking us over and making them look like the good guy again so everyone can go back to praising Valve like they can do no wrong. If they actually gave a shit about the customer they'd remove this. How much market share do you think they are going to make up this Xmas with VR and Steam machines?  Although a cheeky response, it is a legit question.  It was very clear that Valve as a company is working very hard to move into living rooms.  So for now they may lose a few hundred thousand users, maybe even a couple million.  But in the long run its a drop in the bucket I think.

Just looking down the road. Do you really think Steam Machines are going to be any kind of success? Short answer, Yes.  When VR releases this Xmas the Steam Machines are suddenly going to make a very compelling argument against Xbox and PS.  Playstation is working on their own VR, but the fact remains there will be a void in the market for VR capable hardware.  Not to mention the release of their Controller, which let's be honest, a lot of us are excited about.

Here's where things get real fun.  How many people are going to jump ship from Xbox and PS for the VR experience if it is superior on a Steam Machine.  Because exlusives aside, Steam is perfectly capable of perfoming the fuctions of XBL of PSN. 

PC/Console wars aside, remember the consumers in this market.  We like shiny, we like new, and we are more than willing to sacrifice a few things at the alter for what we can get.  Not to mention our seemingly blind willingness to throw cash at whats new and cool.  I have a hard time imagining VR is not going to be a game changer.  Its coming, and Valve is positioning themselves for it. 

We would be foolish to think that Valve hasn't considered the above points on some level.  They have people that study, live, and yearn for these kinds of things.  I'm just some dude piecing together what I know, and sharing it...

Edit: Afterthought

I literally just thought about the scale of this when thinking outside the US.  So add those customer numbers to your equations as well.  VR tie into Steam Machines will very unlikely generate significant gains. To use it you'd need Machine for at least $1000 along with $300+ VR headset. Whoever interested in spending this kind of money on gaming is very probably already equipped with PC.Steam Machines would have to be cheap, no frills devices to do what you expect. Currently even choosing one to buy is crazy challenge. When you buy cheaper one 15% of games do not work as you have crappy specs and 30% of games require you to actually set your gamepad as they don't support it natively.In short - Steam Machines are too complex and too expensive for average console gamer while they do not offer anything to those who build their own PCs, buy gaming laptops or buy pre-built Windows rigs. I disagree. Why do you think you would need a $1000 SM.  There is no reason why $400-$500 machines wouldn't be able to run VR. Maybe it wont be MAXXX graphics, but you will be able to VR and play with your friends.  Your gonna have to buy a PS VR if you wanna go that route anyways, so I think that price is kinda a mute point.

Besides look at the rate GPU power is increasing vs. their price.  Furthermore it would only serve every company involved to sell a lower end model that might lose some money, because the advantage of product adoption would be more important.  Granted I don't see people buying new ones every year, but as time goes on the ability to upgrade to the latest tech whenever you wanted vs. waiting on MS or Sony to release the "next big thing" could be very appealing to a number of people. 

As far as the challenge of picking all this stuff out.  I suspect someone is going to be smart enough to package and market this so it is easy to digest.  Both giving us options, while telling us what we want and need.  If there is money to be made, Only highlighted by this whole thread and weeks events, someone will figure out a way to make that money.




 You realize Microsoft is releasing HoloLens this year as well? And if Valve doesn't have killer app ready by the time Microsoft makes Minecraft AR/VR, it'll be a done deal (assuming HoloLens final offers same experience as described by those who tried prototype).Before you say HoloLens is different technology - yes, it is but:1. To average consumer who has no experience with either they appear the same.2. There is some speculation that HoloLens could block external light and create VR like experience.3. Neither VR nor AR are yet proven in consumer eyes so it's not clear that VR will even win this battle.As far as selling Steam Machines by somebody smart, the problem is many if companies selling those have smart people and their will muddle the market. Each will say theirs is the best. Steam Machines have no uniqueness between them - they differ in specs, price, external design, expandability. That's it. They play same games, run same interface, use the same gamepad. How the hell do you not confuse people with that? It's like comparing Android tablets when you have clear, obvious choice of iPad - except it's even worse - iPad (consoles) are actually cheaper in this situation. This should be higher up in the thread. One word: GreenLuma. I could see selling game guides, tbh. &gt;everyone is already stealing mods.

I need a source on this other than the two big ones.  There is also no way anyone who is sane and of functioning mind will publicly with a espetially in the internet go out and make claims he cannot back up or are likley to change or anything of that nature. No way will abyone say anything that they thenselfs dont jnow to be 100% true and even then shit may change. 

Thats why I think these types of things are stupid. If you made a decision and then realised it was wrong or etc or in process of change. Making public spcticle is pointless. You are not going to acceot the hive minds demands, and stating claims you dont know if will be inplemented are unadvisable. We see tight liped highly PR talks from these people. Like Musk making up the chance of failure of the test. He could do that because it was just a test. This is also a test but this one is more for the waters. Testing them to see what where and how things could be inproved or inplememnted. 

Espetially where money is concerned.  man there's a quick solution to all of this: don't buy mods. If you see a mod which you like and which the owner (who spent a lot of time creating) refuses to give it to you for free then create a better one yourself and put it up for free This is utterly irrelevant to the now soured waters of the modding community. Indeed, you've just described a highly combative "solution". better competition than false forced collaboration. If people want to sell their mods then so long as it's their content and hard work I don't see how anyone has the right (with the exception of the original game developer) to force them not to What's false about modder cooperation and collaboration? I haven't participated in the Skyrim modding community, but in all others I participate in, modders are very helpful to each other, to contributors, and to users. Well it's false, because apparently some of them want to sell their mods, and you don't think they should be allowed to. How does that make their previous collaboration and cooperative attitudes false? Some might even be now sad that it's now not in their financial interest to help other modders, to make their source code visible, etc., as they likely enjoyed that part of it. I'm not saying it's been false previously, I'm saying it's false now. It wasn't in their financial interest before to help people either. &gt; If you're going all in to f*ck us, at least let me sell my game guides and reviews, too.

You're so thoroughly disgusted that someone's charging, but mostly that the thing you want to charge for can't be charged for?  Is that what you're laying down? i think you misunderstand what hes getting at.    
its silly to charge for something like a mod or gameguide.   
 You've missed my point. My point was that if his terrible system won't be changed, he should go full out and do what he eventually wants to do - charge for everything and have a cyberpunk-esque community with friends sharing stuff and everyone buying blogposts, videos, guides, games, mods, programs, films etc

In essence: drop all pretenses and admit what you're doing He didn't miss your point, he's lying and pretending to misinterpret your argument in order to discredit. Yes. The post got over 4000 comments in less than an hour. Who the hell would be able to answer all of that? "Disgusting" is the word I'm seeing used by most these last few days to describe Valves greedy actions against the gaming community.

It's a great description. I've been gaming for 25 years, own a little over 200 games on Steam, and yeah, I am disgusted.  This is probably the biggest fucking kneejerk of a post I have ever seen on Reddit. So you think that you shouldn't have to pay a few bucks for content, but Modders and Valve are greedy for trying to make money on their own fucking products that take time and money to create?  Why do people not fucking realize that MODDERS CAN STILL POST THEIR MODS FOR FREE AND THEY CAN ALSO CHOOSE NOT TO USE THE STEAM WORKSHOP Do some more reasearch. We got an argument on that paid mods ruin free mods as well. I'm not going to spoonfeed you. Read the forbes article or something. Then come back after you've cured your ignorance. Yes, but a lot of mods from Nexus were slightly modified (or not) and put on SW for sale not by their original authors. This was in original comment.
 Gabe,

With the new addition of paid modding (and your forced seventy-five percent cut) on Steam, I fear you're only becoming more and more willing to screw over your playerbase in exchange for monetary funds. The following are issues that have arisen over the past two years that are morally wrong or far too monetarily based.

1. Trading Cards; a fun and innovative idea that's absolutely tarnished once it becomes more about how much money you're giving to Valve, instead of playing the games and unlocking achievements.

2. Seasonal events; another fun and innovative idea that's absolutely tarnished once it becomes more about how much money you're giving to Valve, instead of participating in event activities and having fun.

3. Steam Greenlight is incredibly inefficient, often times more or less scamming players for products that are unprofessionally maintained and will never be completed, or are simply subpar games to begin with. Valve's lack of quality control on Greenlight allows for cheap marketing tactics and developer abandonment.

4. Steam's refund policy is absolute garbage, and we know this because even EA, the absolute kings of greedy bastards, have a more lenient and chill refund policy than Steam's.

5. Nearly all of Valve's popular games involve and often focus on microtransactions (hats, weapon skins, etc.) instead of actual game content. Valve takes every opportunity to turn fun game mechanics into money grinders, instead of simply letting a game's item acquisition be through enjoyable means-- like just about every ethical company in the games market.

6. Valve's almost unquestioned allowance of developers censoring reviews on their products. Why exactly does Valve see this as acceptable developer behavior?

7. Valve's response to the paid-mod crisis hasn't been silence-- they've been censoring ratings and closing discussions that relate to people's issues with their update, as if to simply shove their middle finger in our faces. Rather than negotiate to form a better and more fair update, they simply stop people from showing their disagreement.

8. Valve's lack of organization and ability to keep promises. Between Half-Life 3, Diretide, and the constant 'Valve Times' that the company is so well known for, it's amazing how Valve has yet to take responsibility for the promises that they make.

9. Steam Gems. Started as a terrible fundraising concept, ended as a terrible fundraising concept. In lieu of a fun seasonal event, Valve introduced bidding for games (that almost always cost more than the game itself) and held events based on how much people bidded.

10. Valve's support system is low-tier and often takes weeks to process the simplest of requests. God forbid you actually have a problem that isn't Googleable, because the chances of you getting a response by the end of the year are laughable.

11. The final straw itself; Valve's implementation of a morally bankrupt system that forbids mod developers to take donations simply so that all revenue, even if in the form of a gift, has to go through the 75% cut.

Your unethical policies have begun to greatly concern me and many other users, and are making Steam a less and less desirable platform for us all.

Thank you for your time. &gt; Nearly all of Valve's popular games involve and often focus on microtransactions (hats, weapon skins, etc.) instead of actual game content. Valve takes every opportunity to turn fun game mechanics into money grinders, instead of simply letting a game's item acquisition be through enjoyable means-- like just about every ethical company in the games market.

Ok, I wouldn't agree with that one. TF2, Dota and CSGO all have great game content that's fully accessible for free. Anything gained from microtransactions is entirely cosmetic and not "fun game mechanics" that they turned "into money grinders". Gameplay-affecting item acquisition is only present in TF2, and no money is involved.

I don't see what you're talking about? Otherwise the rest are pretty important points that I hope Gabe will address. CSGO is not free. And it never will be. Hackers and smurfs are rampant as is, and if you ask anyone on /r/GlobalOffensive, they'll tell you that the paywall is probably better protection than VAC itself. Could have said the same thing about TF2 TF2 is not a competitive game. Hacking doesn't give you anything and there is no ranking system to smurfing is impossible.  Well, I meant there's no additional game content behind a paywall except for maps. There's no additional weapon that you can buy for real money that will give you an advantage against others. Pay to win and pay to enjoy are two entirely different things, a game just isn't as fun when every single cosmetic out of thousands takes either real money or hundreds of hours of playing and a lot of luck to obtain. I've got about 500 hours on TF2 and I love it to death but in that amount of time I've only gotten two cosmetic item drops. If I were trying to avoid spending money I would have gotten discouraged long ago by how other people are having fun (important factor there, pay to enjoy) with their paid items and I'm stuck with the same free garbage forever. So you're saying TF2 is not enjoyable because you can't wear all the hats you want? Okay, sure, but:

In 500 hours you could have dropped up to 250 scrap, which is enough for at least 27 ref, which is about enough for 20 craft hats, less if you collected all the weapons beforehand, but still a decent number of hats. If you only have two, it doesn't look like you really tried. I only have gotten two drops, specifically drops. And you can try to trivialize it all you want but part of the fun in a game with character customization is customizing your character, if it wasn't why would it be there? Just because you've only gotten only two cosmetic item drops doesn't mean that you can't have hats without paying.  500 hours is plenty of time to have at least 4 refined metal, which will get you almost any hat (barring unusuals, etc.) of your choice.   So you're saying 500 hours for a single cosmetic is fun/rewarding for nonpremium players? Even if we say it takes 100 hours to get 4 ref, I wouldn't say 100 hours for a single item is rewarding gameplay. That's less than an item a month if you're playing two hours a day.

Now don't get me wrong, I'm not saying the game isn't fun at all without cosmetics, but customizing your character in a game with character customization is a major feature that free players mostly miss out on. I also understand that valve still needs to profit on time and money spent on updates and servers, but I think they'd still profit if they increased the random drop rates just a bit and continued selling specific items. The year beast event was pay to win.  Csgo servers are absolute shit.  There's no competitive MM anymore, hacks are everywhere, and it makes sense everyone who wants to play a fun good game goes esea. Dota had a horrible event where you could literally pay to win it. It wasn't playable all the time, but on principle it's not something we should want to encourage at all. IMO it was Valve's way of testing the waters to see if they could implement a League-style Pay to win environment with runes and masteries. Complete bullshit. But League's runes and masteries cannot be bought. I don't necessarily agree with them as it does provide an edge to people that play the game a lot, but it's not Pay-to-win You can buy IP boosts to earn in-game advantages faster than non-paying players thats pay 2 skip and pay 2 win combined! That hardly counts, because you can still buy them without paying any money. A paying player is more likely to win than a non paying player, thus it's pay to win.  Your last point is the one that bothers me the most, as it's the biggest one that has happened since I started using Steam to download games. Can't modders theoretically put up a Paypal link so that anyone who wants to pay can just do on their own and not have to give 75% of the money to greedy corporations who ignore the quality of their products and the experience of their users? (Note: use caution while reading, take may still be hot). Didn't the workshop used to have "donate" buttons like the nexus? Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I think they were removed only a short while ago. Honestly I haven't been on Steam long enough to know the answer to that.  I'm hoping I can get a response from /u/GabeNewellBellevue on this. That is far too long for a response generally speaking. It would be cool if he did reply but I think he is trying to respond to many short questions and not a few very long questions, but him even making this thread shows that he is the exception to the rule in most scenarios.  There won't be any response because it isn't something that corporate PR can respond to with a little blurb to make it look like they're paying attention.

I've read every reply Gave has written here and none of it is anything of substance. I can only hope I am as wealthy as he is some day so I can also disconnect myself from ordinary everyday people. He has said multiple times that he wants to keep the community happy long-term. It means more to him to generate a little long term revenue than a lot of short term revenue. If the community continues to show its unwillingness to pay for mods then they will most likely get rid of the option. It's not absurd for people wanting to get compensated for something they create, especially for some of the bigger mods. The risk comes in where people make stupid swords and charge insane prices. I think they have a 24 return policy on mods right now. As long as they can implement more things like that to make sure people aren't getting ripped off or that there aren't people stealing free mods, claiming them as their own, and charging for them, then there is a way to accomplish this. Hopefully they do it the right way. 

That being said this and steam greenlight need to be fixed. It is amazing how many have strongly held opinions without considering the implications.

Mods are not Apps on your phone. Mods are not DLC released by the publisher. Mods are arbitrary third party code injected into the game to execute alongside the rest. If **any** of it is incompatible, the game will crash and it is up to you to find which of your $4.99 modifications have crashed the game.

With your $4.99 purchase, you can expect some help to get it working, right? Nope. No support offered for modifications via Steam or the authors. There is no requirement to update it for any length of time. There are no requirements to support it. Valve isn't even curating the mods themselves leaving it to the community to find and report modifications with stolen content.

If that isn't enough, the 75% / 25% split is just disgusting. They are selling our work back to us and taking 75% off the top for the trouble. Bethesda is allowing us to modify their game? The **ONLY** reason their game is still relevant and selling in 2015 5 years after the publication date is the mod community they are trying to suck the marrow out of.

If Bethesda wants to make a profit, publish a goddamn game. I've got credit cards. Let's see Fallout 4, Elder Scrolls 6, or whatever else you have for sale. If you don't have anything, do the damn work. Selling our own work back to us is shite. I wasn't advocating for the current split. Like I said, the developers of the mods should get compensated. The idea is good, not the execution. The 24 hour return is good for initially getting the mod because it will make sure that it is compatible in its current state with your current set up, however you correctly pointed out this doesn't provide for protection down the line with new updates of the mod or its potential conflict with other mods. A 24 hour return period upon each release of the mod, however, would quickly become problematic because people could just use a mod for a period of time and return it when the new version comes out. A tipping mechanism seems like a good starting point, it just needs to be applied in an effective manner. Valve doesnt fprce the 75% cut, they force a 30% cut and the game dev decides how to separate the rest. The 75% cut was an agreement between Valve and Bethesda. However, Valve has the responsibility to uphold ethical practices on their store, and a seventy-five percent cut is certainly not something that should have flown by.

Overall, the point of my post was to illustrate that Valve is getting increasingly demanding for money, all while being less and less inclined to cater their updates to their playerbase's entertainment. This is steadily growing behavior we've observed over the past few years, and is slowly beginning to wash over the behaviors which made Valve so respected in the first place. Why'd you resort to misinformation? It really dilutes your message. Misinformation?

You can say what you want, but I'm fairly certain that Valve knew fully well how much Bethesda would be charging for the first game with paid mods. It isn't like Bethesda did it behind Valve's back-- both parties knew exactly how much mod developers would be getting, and neither of them acted upon that knowledge. You will get nothing, as ussual. It's hard to respond when the comment is a barrage of (warrented) attacks disguised as a question.  If I were Gabe, I wouldn't respond to this, because no matter what I'd say I'd make myself look bad. Agreed.  The sad thing is that the words "caveat emptor" are replaced with "nanny distributor please hold my dick just in case I pee."
 #5

It's sad how lately a large portion of the cs:go streamers are opening boxes, and gambling items instead of actually playing the game itself I think you're going way too far on a lot of these:

1. Anyone can still the game and do the achievements, completely ignoring the cards. If anything, for most people, cards are a free 1-2$ you get without doing anything.

2. While I agree that this sucks, you should also realize that coding those events probably took a lot of effort and time, and it was something we were getting "for free". If they don't feel like it's worth the effort or that it helps increase their sales, they have all the rights to not waste time on it.

3. They have said for years now that Greenlight is a failure and are trying to kill it slowly. You also exaggerate it, it has definitely gotten a lot better and helped many great games. But the problem is, it's hard to set the line. Either you make it very strict, get no shit game but miss a lot of rare gems, or you make it less strict, getting those awesome games but also letting through a couple crappy ones.

5. That's how F2P works. You can't just make a game for free and not have any way to monetize it. This isn't a utopia. That being said, I think Valve is far better than almost any other company. At least in Dota 2, you get all the content that matters for free, and you only pay for cosmetic, whereas in any other F2P game, you're always paying for actual content (Hearthstone, LoL, HotS, etc).

6. That one is wrong, but Gabe has been saying that he will fix it.

7. It's barely been a day, and Gabe Newell is now here, they don't work at light speed, especially over weekend.

8. You're gonna punish them because they refuse to release something until they are happy with it? There's a reason why everything they've release has been a huge success whereas almost every other company out there has been pretty hit or miss.

9. Same as 1. it just gives you more options, you don't have to buy into it

10. Support I fully agree with you that they need to change it.

11. Same at 7. give them some time and then complain if it's not fixed in the near future.
 Point 10 is a total lie.   
   
They dont have support Number four really hits the nail on the head. I have at least 10 games on Steam that I'm unable to play, that I greatly exceed the recommended system requirements, because of shitty PC ports. The response I get is basically tough shit. But if it was a brick and mortar store I would have been able to take the games back and have in the past. Mr. Newell hasn't responded yet, but this is very well written and addresses all the right topics.  No response.  No surprise.  This really is looking at the Big Picture.   Ironic that "Big Picture" is one of Steam's features. dis is y i capitol I agree with most of these, but I'd have to add that you forgot the issue of region locking games, which went largely unnoticed, and left a huge chunk of the consumer base unable to gift games to friends in other countries. This fucked up a lot of fun times my friends and I would have. I had no gripe paying full price for games when I could gift my friends them. Now I don't get to do that anymore, and I have to take my business to the humble store, where I can't get all the game variety I can on steam. I miss the joy of giving, and I'd gladly pay **double** a game's price if I could get a region unlocked version to give to my friends abroad on their birthdays, on christmas, when they're feeling down, or simply when I want to play a game with them and they don't have the money. Nice points! and well made! thanks for voicing them.

I would like to add the fact that valves makes so much money from the marketplace it's not funny. Not only did i earn a rare card/hat/object by pure luck in my game, I can now sell that to someone and valve takes another cut! so they have their fingers in each little pie hole they can.. This is the final straw. If paid mods continue i'm out. I tried making a post mentioning these things and just got down voted. The Irony. I don't think misinformed concerns are really important to raise. You are not asking the right questions here, my dear. Really well put. Thank you for writing this out, I doubt a response will come but it sums up all the problems Valve / Steam has, and failed to improve. Dude just had eye surgery and is in a cafe on an ipad for two hours.  Are you for real? Dude just shat on his entire fan base, you expect him to put forth effort? Shocking. HEY! Reddit Angry! Regarding 11: Valve takes 30% for hosting. Anything else is due to what the game developer wants. Basically, if it were only Valve, the modder would get 70%. Every AMA there are a couple of people like you who post a huge wall of text with tons of (loaded) questions. And hardly ever do any of them get answered. 

Why not pick your most important question and start with that if you want a bat's chance in hell to get a response? You do realize giving someone a "gift" for a product they are providing you is called "tax evasion" right? I'm going to tell the customers of my retail businesses that I prefer "gifts" over payments. You have revolutionized my entire business structure. You're comparing a professional occupation with what was, until now, a hobby. Just as you're paying taxes, there's a whole system in place that makes sure you supply your customers with quality products. As far as modding goes, we're not quite there yet. Why are people giving the CEO of valve gold, seemingly just for responding to posts in his own thread. Because people blindly worship him. He has a cult of personality.  Because as much as some people like to say Consolers are rabid fanboys you have that kind of following for Valve/Steam as well. Here's what gets me... Mods have been the extra lifeblood of pc gaming, for **me** since I started playing Doom95 20 years ago. 

They have given me and every other single pc gamer a lifetime extension on our favorite games and changed some of our lives.

When my mother first bought me Half-life I loaded it up and pressed Quick Online, this sent me through WON to a TFC server. 

Little did I know I was actually playing a mod for HL and it completely blew my mind when I tried singleplayer to find out there was a completely different game. It was so mysterious and expansive, and amazing! Oh what laid in store for me... It didn't take me long to find a PLETHORA of FREE games I could play because I had bought this one game!! I had Firearms, Richochet, Action Half-life, That scientist and Industry, Box huntes, Runaway Train, Counter-strike (I read about it in a gaming magazine and lusted for it like a wild animal...) They hunger, DOD, and endless amount of others...

I thought at the time this was the single best game that could of ever existed. (I still do). 

I met a friend playing some HL mod some late night, and he had a server. He loaded up a map he made and explained how I could do the same. That moment changed my life. Although when I finally installed WorldCraft from the HL CD I hadn't quite wrapped my head around orthogonal geometry yet (I was around 9-10 years old, Lol).

All I could make was huge, flat rectangular blocks. No concept of leaks, skyboxes, etc. Now i'm 25 and i've been building levels for every single game that has an available level editor for over HALF of my life. 

What else could this game do? A decade of counter-strike and day of defeat, probably by now 50 thousand of hours on WON and then STEAM games...  followed me when I picked up Tribes 2 and Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear later and basically every other game I've ever played. This is why I am a PC gamer, it's in my heart and blood. I'm downloading new tracks, gear, and bikes for MX simulator right now! I gave the sole creator 42 dollars and he seems to have no problem with the THOUSANDS of free HD models and skins that we can instantly use for free to enhance his game! The modders certainly never have more than a donate button because they're using it online too!

These modders were my heroes and I have spent decades learning how to be like them. I know how to build levels, make models, unwrap and texture, make normals, zbrush, normals, collision, etc etc.

When my friends bought consoles I was embarassed for them to find out they had to pay for a subscription JUST to play these stock games online! OR that the ONLY thing they could add or change was in DLC form and it meant they were paying for every single thing from new weapons, locations to freakin desktop backgrounds! Saints Row I believe had the GTA character customization screen, except most of the extras, from sunglasses to purple suits cost them hard cash. This is a pathetic excuse for gaming when you've grown up with the experience I have. This is not the way I want PC GAMING TO GO! I am not against modders possibly earning some cash for their work but a paywall is most certainly NOT the way for pc gaming!

I don't know why i'm explaining this, I just want you to know how much you, Gabe (even if you'll probably never read this bs wall of text), and the free mods your game exposed me to have directly and indirectly effected my life. I just can't fathom how different my experience had been if TFC was a 10.00$ mod, or I hadn't played CS before it went retail... 

Basically, you leaving Microsoft to start your own business and John Carmack's parents buying him a computer were some of the best things to ever happen to me!
 Wow this is an awesome comment :) Late to the party but I read it and loved it! well spoken Beautiful For the entire history of PC modding the mods have been free. On Thursday you changed that, you effectively made mods DLC and people hate DLC.

Fact is something was always going to set this off. For 10 year now (since the launch of the 360) gamers have seen more and more things that where once free locked behind pay wall. Map packs, skins, cheats.This was perceived as another one of them and proved to be the preverbal straw.  

Gaming is already the most expensive of the major entertainment mediums and publishers seem to be looking for more and more ways to make it even more so. Basically its an unwelcome change to to a fundamental pillar of the PC gaming community (that many worry could destroy it) that comes off as greedy and we aren't all made of money..  I can think of some "mods" that were not free.  They were mainly used for botting in EQ and WoW, but were mods nonetheless.  Those are called cheats. "Gameplay streamlining mods" I still wish we were all complaining about DLC, its been over a decade since horse armour hit us and I'm still not okay with that system. Like most disagreeable things they just keep doing it until consumers predictably submit. I don't hate DLC. In fact, I love it. It's extra content for a game I like.

The problem is that mods are not DLC. If I buy DLC, I can have a reasonable expectation of getting the full experience for a predefined price tag. I am 100% okay with that.

I can't support a mod that is blocked from me in whatever way. Even if I wanted to pay in order to support a mod, I can't do it for all of the mods I make use of. I don't want to have to choose between two of my favorite mods because both of them cost more than the game itself.

Furthermore, DLC is often curated by the developers themselves. There is a reasonable expectation of quality control and devs can be asked to fix any unexpected problems it could cause. Not mods. If you believe that the meager 25 cents a dollar is going to encourage modders to step up their game, you're naive. If a mod is somehow incompatible with a mod you've bought more than 24 hours ago, it means you're either stuck with that one or you've paid actual money for nothing. That won't be the fault of the modder, but it won't stop people from unfairly directing their anger at them. Modding communities often have a reputation for passionate conflicts. Before now, these were ideological, but add money and it is going to be *toxic*.

I believe this system is not conductive to supporting modders, rather it's an easy way for Bethesda to make a quick buck out of an untapped market. Both modders and fans are going to suffer for it, and I think that's unnecessary.

People might hate DLC and its various attempts at getting more and more money out of players, but at least it's a fair system to both parties involved.  Inflation is a bitch isn't it?

From our lofty place on top of the war machine it's easy to complain about the stench wafting from the corpses below, but are we really going to admit that this machine with all it's convenience and luxury is what created all of them?

No. We're going to go and do our Jihad on the internet then drink some fungi solvent and fall asleep. Everyone just relax your sphincter a bit and breathe. I find your unique brand of madness fascinating. [Never change]( https://youtu.be/0SqFPNTBnv8) So here is the thing with my madness; it's just a neutral neutral alignment in this world! This world is really really fucked! [deleted] Oh, see; I don't think an arbitrary neutral exists. It's just the average. I try and placate everybody, even all the Hitlers! Average here is very strong chaotic evil compared to a lot of other places. Also, I liked my metaphor for us and valve the best.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PERU7usKp-s&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=40 I'd argue that publisher might want to consider cost cutting rather passing the price on to consumers. Massive runaway marketing budgets might be a good place to start. Marketing can mean a lot of things though.

And normally it's good for social stability to create fucktons and fucktons of markets so one's pitiful mortality is readily soothed so maybe that's not such a bad idea after all!
 Lets not split hairs though you can't look at the ad campaigns of Triple-A games and tell me that companies don't overspend on those things. Oh don't talk to me about splitting hair; my hair's seriously starting to dread up. It's not nasty hippie sebum filled dreads(allegedly) but I have at least one bit that's a dread. Probably should cut that out but it kinda looks OK to add volume so I think I keep it.

"I saw a taliban fighter grooming his hair a few months back or so; and that's some of the more powerful propaganda I've seen." is an example of the unnecessary detail which I must cultivate(to give the fellow doges better fuzzy logic) I agree there though. Ads are pretty inefficient marketing; all things considered.

Off topic now, I hope that EA really is just being manipulative and they're gonna drop that serious propaganda masterpiece that will be BC3 some time relatively soon, right? Like they're gonna pump up the revolutionary fervor, the bloodlust everything like that; but this time instead of conflict they invite everyone into the cult.

And so they did that about 70 years ago and(because the strategy was so effective) they did it many many times over again in many different places for many different causes(morally dubious and otherwise). 


It's kinda engineered the world into the clusterfuck it is today. And let's be exceedingly clear, without someone organizing a clusterfuck there's just one alpha guy who calls himself Jesus or King or whatever; raping all your children, which is not ideal.

 And here's the thing right; I don't know if this bit has been engineered into me intentionally, or if I just got lucky with my pattern of drug abuse, brain damage, and education.
 Hey so, I know this might be harsh news for you, but games are a Skinner box.

They're designed to give you random hits of cocaine in response to button presses, spaced at psuedo-random intervals. And at some point you're going to have to get beyond a ninos ratas level of personal development, you know? Unless you can fuck 12 year olds and have cheap cocaine in which case, Peru. People don't outright hate DLC, they hate crappy DLC, like, DLC that was in the game to begin with but locked, or massively overcharging for DLC that isn't worth what they're asking. sorry, this is a comment thread where everyone is a dickhead who thinks consoles ruined gaming because DLC as a concept is bad, but expansion packs were okay, man the golden days were so good back when expansion packs came out, but now mario kart 8 grows 50% in content with $14 of DLC and everyone cries about it because DLC is bad, remember The Mario Kart 8 DLC is incredible value I would say, hell, I'd argue Nintendo is actually doing it right. i totally agree, MK does it right, GTA does it right, inFAMOUS does it right, but all anyone wants to do is act like the sky is falling every time a big game comes out that dares to offer future support and content. it's just exhausting sometimes :P Hell, all the DLC for GTA5 has been free so fa,r sure people complain about the Shark cars but those are completely optional. Oh yeah! And Mass Effect 3's MP DLC was all free, supported by cash cards for the impatient. Same with GTAO like you said, there are a lot of ways to do DLC right! &gt; people hate DLC.

If I can afford it, I'll usually buy all the DLC when I buy a game. Get rid of paid mods and add a DONATE option. LIKE THE ENTIRE GAMING COMMUNITY WANTS. If people did everything the little vocal minority cried about on the Internet. The world would be in ruin. 

 Did I mention ANYTHING else other than a donate option? Fuck off, don't try to make this into a bigger issue. We want to donate to the mod creators not LINE THE POCKETS OF CEOS who do nothing. It's up to the game developers/publishers how much cut they want to take. As Gabe mentions in this thread.  And Valve, the biggest PC game market in existence, the leading seller of this company's software,  has no pull? I mean,  if steam were to not host TES5, Bethesda's sales would plummet on the Pc.

If anyone has pull with Bethesda, it's Valve. While they can't force the issue, I highly doubt Bethesda would ruin their perfect business relationship with over what amounts to pennies for them. Welcome back Gabe! Hope your eyes are ok.

Do you think you could reverse the Paid Mods system? Its really bad Asking the important questions. I love your simplicity. I had a genuine laugh at this. Fake internet points to you, sir. :-) Fuck, all the complicated posts just got shortened into the perfect summary.  Gabeeeee This change.org petition is currently almost at 100,000 votes.
If their were enough votes, would consider shutting down the paid mod system?
Edit: Change.org petition:
https://www.change.org/p/valve-remove-the-paid-content-of-the-steam-workshop I think we can take that 55 minute silence as a definite "no, and fuck your petition." Signed. Thank you for the link. no. sorry.

"hell no" Do you truly believe that paid mods can coexist peacefully alongside free, hobbyist ones? The paid model will probably become dominant with modders thinking they can make money. Bye bye free mods. Existing mods, yea sure.

But the reason this is so bad is because it changes the way modding has worked in general. Now whenever a person will be making a mod, he will always have that tought in his mind, should I charge for it?

Read [this](http://i.imgur.com/HkwFSPZ.png), and see what is wrong with paid mods, it's not money or revenue shares. Hobbyist games exist along side paid games so I don't see why this would be any different.  Standalone games aren't reliant on someone elses prior published work. They are reliant on tons of previously published works. Its just not things you see.  How many skins/guns/models/items and so on are free in TF2/CSGO/Dota and all different games with shops?

Compare that to the amount of paid items, thats probably what we are going to have to deal with in the future I believe they can. There are plenty of mods that aren't really enough to be paid, small cosmetic stuff, minor quests, maybe a new house or something that isn't highly detailed or thought out. Stuff that should be paid is packs with tons of cosmetic content, or even whole story lines that introduce their own lore, characters, areas, equipment, rewards, spells, and are very well done. Valve needs to ensure proper quality control or the store will quickly get out of hand. Or they could just force pwyw on non-reviewed stuff.  If this essentially doesn't work, are you willing to scrap the idea?

I'm worried that Valve has put too much work into it, to scrap it. I feel like the community would be a lot more accepting of an experiment that didn't work, than a project that completely fails. &gt;I'm worried that Valve has put too much work into it, to scrap it.

It's a sunk cost.  Like what CarbonDe said, it's a sunk cost. If this idea will hurt them financially more than it would cost to get rid of, then it needs to be removed. So from a business perspective, they will be willing to scrap it if need be.  So people need to vote with their wallets. If Steam makes money off of this, then they probably wont want to scrp it This is beyond scummy...hey, you know those mods that we built our company around.......fuck you pay us

Edit: CS, Dota2, L4d....pretty much any Valve game are mod's

Edit2: Portal 1 &amp; 2.....name a single Valve game that wasent a Mod nice catch, have an upvote. So then wouldn't they know first hand that some support for a modder / modding group give more incentive and resources to further develop a mod?

It's an additional tool for the modders. It's up to them to set a price or not. It's also up the game company to set the percentage of payment. [deleted] 45%...Valve take 30% as they always have its Bethesda that are are taking the lions share.

Edit: Valve and Bethesda have officially taken mods out of the grey area and put them firmly into the copyright area What about this? http://i.imgur.com/136gfkW.jpg I am disappointed in Gabe :(  well he is officially "Gaben the betrayer" and no longer the lord and savior so you know, all faith has been lost. :( What do you think about how people are removing free mods and are now charging for them without adding additions to it? How about answering some of the harder questions?  

- Why do you you think this will increase the quality of mods when it discourages sharing and collaboration?
- What is Valve doing to ensure old mods are updated in case they lose compatibility with newer ones?  
- Do modders really just get steam money in their wallet, or can their share of the revenue be converted to real world money?
- Do you think a 25% cut to the modders is fair?  If not, why did you let Bethesda set it like that? That's why they had to de-beak Lamarr. My friend didn't know she was called Heady Lamarr. The look of realization on his face when I told him was priceless. That's Hedley! How did he do such magnificent stunts? With such little feet!? What the hell are you worried about? It's 1874, you can sue her! Fun fact: She sued them. It was Hedley?! Haha, no. /u/DonInKansas was quoting from Blazing Saddles, a Mel Brooks movie. Oh. Thanks.  You gotta take [the pledge](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SoM-ZC7uNnc) now. It's twue!  It's twue! Just googled Hedy Lamarr. Woah.  I could've easily gone the rest of my life without getting this joke I still don't get it :( Hedy Lamarr is also the name of a pet headcrab in Half Life 2. They jump on people's heads, so "heady." 
 I get that, but why is the name Hedy lamarr significant, is it just because of the actress?

Thanks Pretty much, yeah. It also helps that she worked in science as well as being an actress. Dr. Kleiner being a scientist, it's like paying homage to her.  I see,makes sense. Thank you I was expecting more from that joke too.. Disappointed :/ She was also an inventor. And Blazing Saddles villain.  It's Hedley! That is the name of the inventor of spread spectrum frequency hopping. It is the basis for nearly all wireless communications.  Which is essentially what Dr. Kleiner is working on with the Portal technology. It's the single best, most overlooked joke in a game ever IMO. Especially considering that to even know the headcrab's first name is Heady you have to hang out and listen to Kleiner chasing it around for about a minute after a door closes and locks behind you- urging you to move on. I know. And people know her for being pretty. Ayy lamarr *Nneegaaaaaah* Maybe if you got that yeeyee ass headcrab off you'd get some bitches on your dick. Or better yet, Alyx would quit  fucking with that mute or doctor or whoever she fucking with... Niiiigggghhhaaaaa Barney, you're not an animal person! What cat?? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YRyP_QPz8kw&amp;t=0m2s https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R-o7YG3x0DI &gt;Yo, chill. Lamar about to do his thing.

So, he's gonna get us shot? Because so far, Lamar's thing has been getting us shot.

&gt;Literally 15 seconds later:

&gt;OH SHIT! WE GOT TO GET OUT OF GROVE STREET! You drive like a fool dog! /r/perfectloops Does it count if it was animated/designed to be a loop in the first place? Does it loop perfectly? Too shay. /r/shubreddit *clicks*

Alright, men.  This checks out. &gt; Alright, men. This checksh out.

I fikshed that for you. 2 shay 4 me Fair enough. I just rather enjoyed this sub for the last 15 minutes. Thank you sir!  So.. you only watched 1 gif on this subreddit so far? Sounds good. Sometimes this is all I need out of that sub \*tips fedora\* [Source](http://coub.com/view/60b5n)

^Edit: ^yeah, ^with ^sound! oh my god it has sound. The future is finally here. YABBA! MY ICING!!!! Yeah, without sound is much better. Yeah boy. Funny, I have played Half-Life on PS2 for the first  time this morning.

This little fuck, I couldn't even hit it with one single bullet. You get used to them. Its the large quick moving ones that throw head crabs at you that really frustrated me. The black spidery ones... They were specifically designed to scare the fuck out of you at ravenholm, and fuck that worked. They're not even particularly dangerous because you regain your lost health, but there's the constant fear of being jumped on by one. Ravenholm is one of the greatest maps in single player shooters IMO. Yeah Ravenholm was a bit intense. But it's been a while since I played it, so you might have the correct ones in mind. They were a bit taller than the regular guys, and had a bunch of the crabs on their back and would throw them at you and if the got too close they were pretty powerful and did a fair amount of damage. Occasionally they'd be on fire as well. the black headcrab zombies were larger and hunched over with a swarm of like 3 black headcrabs on their back that they'd throw at you

the fast headcrab zombies were taller and generally more lanky, ran on all fours, and were complete bullshit &gt; were complete bullshit

That's what the shotgun's for. Not if youre going with the pure gravity gun achivement. The elevator wait was the scariest shit I have ever experienced and I had nothing to throw at them. The way I did it was jump down onto the platform below (lose a bit of health), and then go inside the room you just went in. Shut the door, and you're safe until the elevator comes, since headcrabs can't open doors.  headcrabs can't open steel doorknobs! Larrrr lmao Feels can't melt steel reals! I was doing that, and I got stuck on a barrel or something and I couldn't move and I ended up getting swarmed right in front of the elevator so I ended up using the shotgun... I was *so* close. Try using a hotkey for saving, like going to the console and typing:

&gt; bind "u" "save temp"

Especially effective when combined with

&gt; bind "k" "kill"

Just don't confuse the two. But the achievement, brother. The black ones were toxic headcrabs I just played through ravenholm a few days ago!
On 360... I beat the whole level only using my gravity gun and got the nifty achievement.
Fuck that game is still amazing a these years later. So usually the ones that fling the head crabs are tossing poison head crabs, which will fuck you up when they hit. The poison ones are darker, and cling onto one body en masse.

Speed crabs have longer thinner legs and make their zombies lanky and fast and they screech a lot.

Ravenholm makes good use of poison crabs hiding behind doors and such to make the scares happen. They always hiss before they attack so you have a split second to get the hell outta the way.
 I screamed like a little girl and threw my controller across the room several times. I have arachniphobia but I've never been bothered by spiders in games because I never felt the way they were animated felt realistic enough. Plus tarantulas are the go to design, and I find the plump fuzzy ones to be a bit less frightening than the sharp spindly ones. Black headcrabs were the first video game "spiders" that ever seriously scared me. They just leap out of nowhere and hit you in the face while you're out of amo and high on adrenaline.  fuck raveholm! would love the achievement for doing it with just the grav gun but im too much of a little girl That's actually one of the rare achievements I purposely tried to get. The key is to take "dog's ball" from Black Mesa East. It's one of those rollerballs which are pretty much indestructible and come rolling back to you after you throw them. It's pretty well doable if you know where to start. I love dogs ball so much. Drag it all the way to Nova Prospect. Always sad to lose it when we teleport away. Such a great companion.  would be better if it was a cube tho I always brought the ball with and I always managed to destroy it within minutes... it doesn't take explosions very well. I just did it :)
I didn't know about the dogs ball trick tho, that would have been helpful...
There was definitely a couple times I ran out of shit to fling at those screaming fast zombies, like when I was on the roof top waiting for the dude to send the loft over.
I just ran in circles until it finally arrived. The screaming zombs were too retarded to catch me. ha shit. i struggle doing the rooftop bit with the submachine gun let alone the gg Haha dude seriously, just run in a big circle. It's like some kind of fucked up zombie party train.
I didn't think it was going to work, I was just scared shitless haha Hahaha shit that is an awesome move I just found a metal bed frame in ravenholm and flung that at everything. Works really well actually. God damned poison headcrabs. Yeah, that breathing sound, you'd hear it and go.. "fuck"... Ohshit, I just played Ravenholm last night.  I'd forgotten about the black headcrabs.  I'm more likely to use a shotgun on those things than anything else. the 357 man When I got HL2, I was just outright scared to play through Ravenholm and holy shit, my heart never raced like that in any game. Not even Amnesia. On the roof, waiting for the bucket, hearing that fast as shit *clak clak clak clak* and seeing them in the distance coming for you...

Ughdsla;kfjaslksdlk;jfaklsdj but that *atmosphere*. Hnnnng. Yeah, but they reduced you to 1 Health, if you got hit again, you were dead Good audio is a must! Even with regaining your lost HP, it is the sudden shock of suddenly being 1 HP that really adds to the horror of it. Not only are they terrifying, but it plays off of your gamer instinct to run away when you are low on health. It is such a beautiful way of inspiring fear in a player. I rage quit and didn't come back to that level for three months. I hadn't even hit the scary headcrabs yet. Those were in Half Life 2. The original only had the one type of headcrab. Right, yes I know that I did not realize they said Half Life, my sleep addled brain sort of added the 2 on there. They also said "on the PS2" and sadly the controls for the PS2 version do generally make even the basic headcrabs a bit of a pain. It just wasn't a designed with controllers in mind. Controls are totally remappable though, which is nice. I think you can even use a USB keyboard and mouse. Huh, I was aware that kb+m was supported on PS2 (and PS3 for that matter) but I didn't realize HL was one of the very few games to make use of the feature. AFAIK all the major PC FPS ports of the time (Quake 3, Unreal Tournament, Deus Ex, Half-Life) supported KB+M on PS2. That is kind of amazing, and ultimately a bit disappointing that the trend seems to have died after a year or two. Admittedly the advent of online gaming for the PS2 would make it troublesome to balance. Yup. Probably one of the best PC to console ports in ever.  Though I would want to get that game to play it on the controller. I already have HL on PC. I want to experience the actual console port with the difficulty of a controller, which I'm not used to. You played Half-life on the ps2 this morning.

What fucking decade am I in? *In other news: President Bush has authorized the use of force against Saddam Hussein's Iraqi government after Secretary of State Powell's compelling evidence of WMDs.  To quote Pres. Bush, "Fool me one, shame on you.  Fool me - fool - you can't get fooled a second time."*

*Back to you, Jen.* Actually he said "Fool me once, shame on you.  Fool me.... you can't get fooled again"

 Is that an actual quote? I'm on to you . . . Yep https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eKgPY1adc0A Hooooleee fuck The Ps2 still remains a beast. I can't believe mine still works after all this time without a problem, whilst in its life span one ps3 broke down, has been stolen, replaced by the insurance with an inferior one, that one been replaced by a superior one and is now accompanied by a Ps4. The Ps2 is also the most reliable DVD player in the history of DVD players. I went through 4 ps2s. It wasn't until the slim model that they were even a little bit reliable. The laser would break all the time I bought mine on the day Final Fantasy X came out and it still works perfectly. I think it is luck of the draw. the slim model was immortal, but the fat one...  Are you happy now? You've given my fat ps2 a complex about his weight! It's alright Ps2, I think you're perfect just how you are. I've had a slim PS2 ever since around when it came out. It is pretty great Same [deleted] I bought a ps2 and gta vice city yesterday from a guy on Craigslist. Switch to the crowbar and hit them as they fly towards you. You, my friend, know your crab tactics Also, Alien Slaves become extremely easy to kill once you realise you can run right up to them and take them out with a double shotgun blast to the face while they're charging their electricity attack. Trying to play a Half-Life game with analog sticks you have to pretend like Gordon popped half a bottle of painkillers right before the game started.

There's no aim-assist feature in that version though? I know even the PC version of the original HL has aim assist where the crosshairs will snap to a target when they're near it. Half-Life 2 on Xbox 360 (Orange Box) plays just fine.  Imagine counter strike on console  You don't have to imagine. Csgo is on Xbox 360 and ps4. Where the p90 trench^never^ends^.^.^. They are a lot easier to hit if you play on a pc. Well first person shooters are in general easier on PC. Fucking hate driving on PC though.  &gt;Fucking hate driving on PC though.

Just plug in a Controller? Always crowbar those sonbitches. Use the crowbar for headcrabs.  Probably should use a mouse and keyboard.  If memory serves, the PS2 port had a pretty strong lock-on feature that was great for headcrabs. I read this as Morgan Freeman and was really confused when I opened it. I always get my Freemans mixed up good thing you weren't expecting a hobbit. Head crabs only attack because Morgan Freeman narrates it. My god that is one perfect loop Yeah you can play fetch with a head crab just don't let it lick your face.  I don't think I will ever get tired of a gif that has a flawless loop. I just replayed the game recently with the recent slight graphical upgrade. I try to replay it at least once a year. Part 3 better take 100 hours to beat. I dont think i'd ever want the story to end. If you don't mind me asking, what graphical update?
Did you use a mod, or was there an official update?

On the same note as you, I try to replay HL2, and Eps1 and 2 at least once a year (as well as Portal and Portal 2). Is this the limbo Gordon Freeman is stuck in between HL2 and HL3? Haha nice, Happy Cakeday. Thanks ;) Dont they have like an open stomach once the headcrab laches onto their heads? I like the way the little headcrab spins in a circle because of joy There are 3 characters in this? HL3 confirmed.  Sorry to pop your party, but it's actually 4. The Crowbar has its own character rights. How shortsighted of me to not recognise the rights of crowbars. Soooo HL4 confirmed then? HL4: The Search for HL3 With all the quantum travel thingemajingy that would actually be possible.  Now complete with entire puppet cast and $100,000 kickstarted budget. It would be funny if they just played it like HL3 happened, Alyx is suddenly Pregnant and talks like a British woman, Alyx's Dad is walking around with 2 legs, Gordon talks fluently, voiced by Morgan Freeman. And the Combine are just gone.

Oh, and Chell's just chilling on the couch, cuddling the Cube. 

No context given. You just begin a new set of missions.  [Remember when this actually happened?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leisure_Suit_Larry_5:_Passionate_Patti_Does_a_Little_Undercover_Work) But it won't be nearly as good as HL3 would have been. Sooo we're Windows 10-ing Half-Life? There are four lights! There's a graveyard of HL3 confirmed posts down below. How did you manage to rise above? Did you make this? it's fantastic Nope, I'm not the author. Here is the creator's [coub](http://coub.com/volf.maple), he is an awesome animator. He is using the wrong end of the crowbar.  It would be like using a sledgehammer and striking with the handle instead of the hammer head.

This from a Physicist? He doesn't want to kill him, just knock him off the body. Man, this is a really long gif. I've been waiting for it to end but he keeps throwing the stick over and over. When does it end? Fuck Antlions, I want to control an army of headcrabs. Where is lamarr getting all the people, and why are they wearing science team uniforms? This is a backyard of a Black Mesa East cafeteria, duh.. Ahhhhh. That loop is very satisfying.  Hey, we have the same cakeday. What kind of magic is this? Happy cakeday, fellow redditor! Happy cakeday to you as well! It's a shame that to most Reddit users this post is just the precursor to their epic HL3 confirmed joke. The cake is a lie!

^^^^Happy ^^^^cake ^^^^day. ^Thank ^you, ^buddy! He's not your buddy, pal! I read that as Gordon Ramsay and I imagined him saying "FETCH YOU FUCKING IMBECILE.....this stick is RAWWWWW!" That is such an amazing loop animation!
 I don't know why I read that as "handicap"  Reminds me of the [derplings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COV2GfUnxFc&amp;index=6&amp;t=3s&amp;list=PL0QrZvg7QIgpoLdNFnEePRrU-YJfr9Be7) Perfectly looped gifs are sooooo satisfying. BAD HEADCRAB! BAD! I read the title as Morgan Freeman and realized that it wasn't him. Headcrab 3 confirmed!!! /r/oddlysatisfying Happy cakeday! I'm going to bust out the orange box and play HL 2 just because if this little beauty here. Thanks.  Gordon stop throwing that stick you're killing people. HEY, hey... hey.. everyone just calm down now.. its ok to put toothpaste on your sausage.. 

Edit: wrong post
Edit 2: actually it was the right post
Edit 3: nop it was the wrong post
Edit 4: i need a carrot [I've got a big bag of crabs here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iFHAn2rTKpY) First official trailer of Half life 3. technically not the only way you can have fun with crabs ending up on another person... headcrabs a friends! https://i.imgur.com/kQNVsF7.gif Do I really have to go though the whole Half-Life game again?
Damn these gifs. I have one as a pet in Torchlight II, pretty cool adition to the game. IT'S SO CUTE. https://youtu.be/BS3jbaeseT8?t=1m17s (1:17) Half life Tree confirmed. Never understood why gordon freeman's head is exposed. /r/perfectloops I watched this for longer than I should have. Im having a hard to time to see where this gif starts... Its a good gif. Is there a video source for this?  I'd love to hear what he says at the end. Sometimes i wonder if GTA players do nothing but think of new and exciting ways to kill themselves That seems pretty accurate I don't really know what else there is to do at this point. "GIVE US HEISTS ALREADY"

*heists released*

"GOD THERES NOTHING TO DO IN THIS GAME" Well if every player you come across in Heists wasn't an incompetent buffoon or griefer then it wouldn't be so bad.

Before others post about /r/HeistTeams I know it exists, its better for finding jobs than hosting jobs (no one still wants to do the Prison Heist with me, the people that did join me didn't join the game when I sent the invites telling them I was ready.)

EDIT: Dang Reddit, I feel loved all the sudden. I'm on PS4 I'll be on this weekend or Friday. We'll do Prison Heist then! Also if they didn't spend 2 years making 3 heists... Like 1 hour of actual gameplay... Well, five heists, and several hours, but only because they're designed to drag and waste hours driving cross-map for no reasaon. I don't consider the driving as added content, its just filler. And the first "heist" is a fairly shit tutorial.
.and also TWO YEARS!!!!!!!! Who'd want to drive in a game called ^Grand ^^Theft ^^^**Auto,** right? I prefer [GRAND THEFT COFFEE TABLE!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LIrNDxtDKrs#t=00m34s) [I prefer the Prequel, Grand Theft Piano, better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BeSdSrCKp-8) I mean driving is arguably the biggest part of the entire GTA series, so its not like they're making us drive all over the map just to make it all last longer. Plus it'd be pretty lame if they gave us this huge map but then decided to have is quick travel from place to place, especially when we pour millions into cars and other modes of transport that we use to make those long trips enjoyable/shorter. 

Also, the first heist is exactly that - a tutorial, it's meant to give you a basic feel for the whole heist process. Its not part of the $10m and other challenges for a reason.

Lastly, not two years
 Wait - where are you guys getting millions to spend? 

I have to perform petty theft multiple times just to cover ammo expenses, then drive my bifta back to my small apartment where I freeze when I try to take a bong rip. &gt;pour millions into cars and other modes of transport that we use to make those long trips enjoyable/shorter.

Except you can't order Pegasus vehicles while in a heist. The first heist is definitely part of the challenges. You can verify by going into your awards menu and checking the status of a challenge right after doing the first heist. The first heist is part of all the challenges. Look at the awards they are all for 27 steps.
6*4=24
First heist 3 parts. It's not that bad really. It was like 17 months from the original release until the heists release.

In those 17 months they:

- Gave us free DLC on a near monthly basis for like the first whole year
- Put the game onto the Xbox One/Ps4 with a bunch of new stuff and upgrades
- Put the game onto PC with new stuff and upgrades
- Had to deal with a bunch of hackers and exploiters 
- Constantly updated the game and added features 
- Developed like 30 new missions for the heists

 I want fillers in my macdonalds not in my game.

You silly, silly goose. McD.. me too thanks They were working on the PC version and also thankfully they didn't release them as a dlc. It's not like that's the only thing Rockstar has been doing for the last two years.
PC port seems far more important to me than DLC. Well, they have been doing other stuff for two years.

If they'd just been sat around picking their nose for two years, I'd understand, but they've also been working on the HD Next Gen/PC re-release during that time as well. Yeah, how about driving across the map, get separated from other 3 team members by MILES. I am in a canyon next a river, and when the team gets close to completing the mission and have to lose the cops, suddenly 3 police cars and a helicopter spawn on my position?!?! All because a team member left everyone behind to begin with. Something similar happened to me during Humane Labs.  We split into 2 cars to go steal the 2 vehicles.  Unfortunately got killed during the shootout (we had 1 extra life! yay!)  When I respawned they already drove off without me.  Luckily I didn't die but every time I saw a red dot on the map I panicked. Sounds like exactly what would happen if actual robbers left someone behind during a heist. Me either. I gave up. I always friend people who I have successful heists with in hopes that they will continue to do heists with me and lessen the issue of not having anyone trustful to do them with. Still those people always end up being the biggest fuck stains of them all.  I remember in GTA 3 there was a combination of cheats you could enter which gave all citizens weapons and they all attacked each other. Me and my mate used to input these and pretend it was Armageddon and see how long we could survive/enjoy the ensuing chaos. It was fucking awesome, spent many an hour doing that. 

Shame theres nothing similar in GTA5  Holy shit, I did the exact same thing!  I even reskinned myself to be in an army uniform and made sure I had a tank.  It was like driving through WW3.

I also remember saving the game at a specific spot where 2 mafia guys follow you around for some mission.  I never did the mission, instead I brought them around with me into other gang territory to see how long we could fight them off.  in gta 3 you didnt even have to input this cheat for chaos to happen. just driving around the first island (after unlocking the 2nd and 3rd ones) will get you killed by yakuza with shotguns I think it was Mafiosi with shotguns, but yeah, I remember that. It was really irritating, as they could just about one-shot kill your vehicle a lot of the time, made the whole area a bit of a no-go area for casual play, which was a shame. Well at least not yet. Maybe once it's actually released for PC someone will make a mod. It would still be better with a cheat though &gt; once it's actually released for PC

As in, in a couple of hours? God I can't wait for the PC version, already preordered, only 5 hours left to :D I pre-ordered too but unfortunately didn't get my key until today after I already left for work (they ran out and had to get more). :( Wouldn't matter except the game's a flippin' 65 gig download... I had to install a new hard drive! Whilst you're at it, download more ram. This is Rockstar we're talking about.  Oh god you're giving me nightmares! Sounds a bit like Online at its worst.  almost like DayZ.

but with no zombies

so like DayZ Honestly I only own the 360 version and haven't played in 6 months. Might get it on pc.

Just disappointed they kept promising heists and it took years.  The prison break heist, the first one I completed, was a blast. I wound up being the pilot, and it actually was a lot of fun being the getaway "driver". They had to design the heists so that none of the players would be bored during the entirety, so there was a lot of balance consideration to be done. 

Like when I was the pilot, i had to rush to the big airport then fly to sandy shores but OH GOD COPS EVERYWHERE and then the military scrambled jets against my single prop plane. Had that not been part of it, it would have been boring as hell just flying there and waiting for the rest of the team to get out of the prison.

They at least made the heists interesting. honestly if you can fly even somewhat passably you don't even need demolitions to kill the jets for you. They fly and turn so slow I stayed on the ass of one for the entirety of the scramble. wait...that's not what your SUPPOSED to do?  
Assholes I play with NEVER shoot that shit down Maybe don't fly 6,000 feet off the ground and then go into a sudden nose dive as soon as the helicopter reaches your altitude. 

Every single time I play demolitions it's like trying to catch a dragon with an rc helicopter.  That's a goddamn wonderful mental image - thank you! It's pretty easy tbh. If the pilot flies towards the buzzard you can gun down the jets pretty quickly.  I dodged missiles the whole time. I got hit by the first one which started an engine fire, but I didn't blow up, so i managed to do vertical evasive maneuvers and void every rocket that followed. Demolitions didn't even get close before they flew off, they eventually scrambled.

If it were Just Cause, I would have stunt jumped onto the wing and rocketed the jet myself. That would be a fun addition. Ugh. Tell that to that numbnuts in my crew who died over a million times trying to do that... 

 Yeah, that's the main reason I'm not so excited for the PC version. Yeah, I'm a PC gamer, and yeah it looks really good in comparison to the other versions. But goddamn, I've beaten the single player campaign twice like 2 years ago, and pretty much seen/played all of the online content. There is nothing left for me to be excited about. It's just a death simulator now and it looks incredibly boring, tbh. The sandbox feel is really nice, but on PC we have thousands of sandbox games, and a few that have better engines, I'm sure. :/ This is why I haven't even touched the game yet. I had a 360 (sold it a year ago though) but I held off because I knew I'd enjoy it on pc much more. I've done a good job avoiding spoilers too. So I get to pretend like today's the first day the game came out. Franklin dies, Trevor fucks OP's mom, and Michael gets a sex change to become the female transdimensional rainbow pony he identifies as My ps4 is just a suicide machine now...  I'm too lazy to find a Futurama suicide booth gif.  ["What do I look like, some guy who's not lazy?"](http://theinfosphere.org/images/thumb/5/5b/Sal.jpg/225px-Sal.jpg) What else is left to do? I mean pc players get GTAV tomorrow, but haven't pc  playes already seen most of the game already? All I want to do is use single player mods or fuck people up tomorrow. I held off GTA V for two years. Literally don't know ANYTHING about the game except what was in the Last-Gen trailers. I'm going into this as a virgin :D Prepare your anus.  Me either. I've avoided it for this moment. My body is ready. They've seen the game and in my case I played it on 360. I just want all the juicy new features and graphics enhancements. have we seen it? Well... if you call the content on /r/gamephysics seeing it then yes, otherwise no. Avoided the game completely. Gta 5 pc will be a new game experience for me  We used to play a game called "High Dive" where you fly a helicopter/plane/jet then jump out and try to land in the smallest bodies of water possible, or on top of cars. If you hit a car or landed in the water, you went again. If you died, you pass the controller. There used to be a game for GameCube called True Crime. It was the poor mans GTA, since, you know, GameCube. The game was pretty lame but I managed to waste countless hours finding one specific cliff, doing a special button sequence to turbo boost my car, and jump out at the last second to vault myself halfway across the map. There weren't enough NPCs to make it a target practice game, but watching him die from any type of impact was entertaining enough.  Maybe it's nostalgia but I fucking loved the True Crime series. If you're still lusting for True Crime, the game Sleeping Dogs (on PC and PS3/360) started life as a new True Crime game before they decided to make it its own IP. It's also pretty awesome. Not AAA, but still a diamond in the rough, and they've released a director's cut now too. Yeh dude, I bought it a few weeks after release. Seriously surprised by how much I liked it, story was actually entertaining as was the combat and general feel of the city! Good recommendation indeed. Breaking dudes' arms and legs was super satisfying. 

Or throwing them into swordfish or hooks. Fair warning, controls suck on PC. holy shit I loved true crime and I always saw sleeping dogs as another Saints Row. Im buying sleeping dogs right now. True crime was legit The final fight in Streets of NY was ridiculous. All other fistfights in the game are easy until that one which is impossible.  I would like a weekly webisode of people doing jackass style stunts that lead to awesome ways to die.  Just head on over to the Lets Play channel on YouTube. Ryan Haywood and Gavin Free do pretty much just that in all of their GTA LP's.  Until they remember they can send a mugger to mug Gavin, and then you know the rest of the video will be Gavin screaming "IS HE SERIOUSLY GOING TO TAKE MY PLANE, EEEEEEEhfgughngngngngngn" 

Fuck they make me laugh. Someone made a montage of all the muggings a while back: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ih7O9jccxaI There's probably a youtube channel for that already, if not several. I was up until 6am last night watching Rooster Teeth's "Things to do in GTA V". Great series. Unrelated but I love your username. Huge fan of ABR. I was up until 6 am in the morning last night...I Iaughed. Garry's Mod Hahaha .. The game is one big Murder suicide at least that's how I play it .
  I'd say the odds are very high. But crashing rapidly.  Let's not let this thread blow outta control But we could propel it to greatness!  helicopter. You spin me right round baby right... What the heli are you talking about? Niggerfaggot. WITH NO SURVIVORS If I downvote this reference, will you die?  OP obviously planned this.  still interesting, just titled wrong do you really get nudes on random occasion? I just got a picture of a guys asshole.  was it dat black guy's asshole? was it from a black guy? Haha that kind of reminds me of the time I got cougar'd up at the top of Mount Gordo.  I was pissed!  So I got the blimp so I could fly right back there, jump out, parachute down, and kill that cougar.

I land, pull out my sniper rifle, am just about to tag him in the head and BAM my
blimp falls out of the sky on top of him and explodes.  Heh.  Stupid cat. That was his plan all along... That's a little extreme.... you Hindenberged the goddamned cougar? I pity your unresolved life. The blimp got the kill, not you. *Million-to-one chances...crop up nine times out of ten.*

**-Terry Pratchett-** "There is a rumour going around that I have found God. I think this is unlikely because I have enough difficulty finding my keys, and there is empirical evidence that they exist." -also Terry Pratchett- Just read Night Watch for the first time two weeks ago. Fun fact: *Night Watch* and *Thief of Time* take place simultaneously. Night Watch was my first Pratchett, and I've only read two so far. I'll get there, and then I'll appreciate this tidbit. You read the fifth night watch book without reading the other four first?! Blasphemy!

ninja-edit: Just realized you responded to a quote from *Guards! Guards!* and not *Night Watch*. *Night Watch* is the fifth book in the series that starts with *Guards! Guards!* It's all a bit confusing. [Follow the chart!](http://i.imgur.com/VdXqFnf.jpg) I miss him. A lot. 33.33% Repeating of course. 3**2**.33 repeating

I hate that I know that....but hey, at least I have chicken. Why is it 32.3? That's the percentage of survival number crunch that Abduul gives them real quick.  He doesn't elaborate. LEEEEEEEEROY JENKINS ...

Oh my god he just ran in. MMMN! Mmmnjenkins! Everybody forgets the mmn. &gt; MMM**N**

the N too. It's the best part. Goddamnit, Leroy... It is better than usual though I like to think its 32.33 instead of 33.33 because the latter is a far easier fraction to get to, where as the 32.33 seems to suggest a more complicated calculation.  Nobody will ever fucking know why and how he got that number. No really, as a WoW player, what did he calculate to get that? Because it's fake. The way I perceive the world is forever changed. Leroy Jenkins is fake? IIRC it really happened but nobody was recording, so they pretty much just redid and reshot it. yea and it was put online for marketing material for the guild
 Yeah that's what I've heard. Don't care either way, still hilarious  No, it was entirely set up. Their whole plan was utter nonsense--it relied on using an ability that took the mages out of combat and made them unable to do anything so that they could kill the whelps, which was then impossible for them to do.

It also relied on sending whelps flying everywhere, which just makes them break eggs which makes more whelps which is the worst thing you can do.

It was, in its entirety, a pre-planned joke. Yeah... there's people who don't know this? 32.3*3*, you'd have to ask Abdul, he did the number crunch. The helicopter got a double kill, on the same dude, damn. The first one was a suicide  That's how it was planned, hovered over the spawn point on purpose. except you don't know where you're going to spawn If you die around/inside the military base, the spawn is pretty consistently just outside of it (you know, where you have to run for 10 minutes before you get to a road). Call a taxi and take his car. You could just *take the taxi you just called* That wouldn't be *GTA* enough.  Great Taxi Adventures Thats not what it means Dad It's called Grand Theft Auto for a reason So it took a few tries? Maybe not the precise location but you do know the general location.   Have to agree, who stands still that long after spawning? I'm trying to move while the screen is still loading half the time.  Never tell me the odds. Less than 2 to the power of2, 076, 775, 949 to 1 against.  And falling Normality will be restored once we are sure what is normal. I thought it was 


We will be restoring normality as soon as we are sure what is normal I'm sorry, you're right. So you're saying theres a chance Which just so happened to be the phone number of the bar he was just at 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11.... the odds Approximately 3,720 to 1. Never tell me the odds! The odds! Someone shut him up! And I'm freeeeeeee, free faaaaallin. Playing free-for-all back when COD4 was a thing, I once threw a grenade,  died, and spawned next to MY OWN grenade killing myself. I miss that game. I can't tell if that means you're really good or really bad.

oh yea.. neither. Decidedly average I suppose.  I have learned that GTA V is a game where anything is possible and normal rules don't apply. So your question shouldn't be what are the odds, but rather what will happen next. Well, either someone else did it yesterday, or this is a repost. 

So must be odds are pretty realistic, amirite? I'd say the odds are fifty/fifty. It either happens, or it doesn't. I know. The odds of winning the lottery is the same (it happens or it doesn't) but I'm still poor. Your chance of winning is 100% better if you buy a ticket.  GTA V looks like some much fuckin fun.  I can't wait to play it. Tomorrow my friend... Tomorrow. (considering you are waiting for PC release.) Today at 7 "Great now I lost it." 
-Last Words Pretty high when you do it on purpose. 1 in 1 chance when you plan it dipshit I thought OP meant they spawned on top of the aircraft. I was amazed. Then when they respawned and got crushed I laughed. Probably pretty high considering it was set up for exactly that reason I know I've had a few good mission [spawns](http://i.imgur.com/zgfuK1V.gifv). Dude Donnie Darko'd himself Can't wait to play this on PC! The crash is real. Pretty high considering he's hovering over spawn on purpose Slightly better than the spawns on Battlefield: Hardline It almost happened to me too:

http://youtu.be/5XtDmmJ2jfg 1:1 since it happened... my typical teammates in Blizzard's heroes. I was playing doom years ago and watched a player fire a rocket, get shot with a shotgun, die, and then respawn -- in the path of his own rocket. Doesn't it go through him?  I hacked doom to slow the rocket and was able to run through it without any issues. No, it splattered him.  I tried to resist. But 5 hours before it's released I preordered it. I'm sorry reddit. In this particular case, right around 100% Reminds me of [my days on gta4](http://i.imgur.com/1m0aeLB.gif) This is the first time I've seen something on Facebook before seeing it on Reddit. What gives guys? All I do on GTA 5 is just do crazy jumps with my street bike and do back flips xD I'd say chances were pretty good...Like when Lou Gehrig caught Lou Gehrig's disease. What're the chances?! it's obviously staged...  In BLack Ops I killed myself at the beginning of a Rolling Thunder and re pawned at the opposite end of the map was killed again by the same Rolling Thunder.  About the odds of successfully getting into a heist... Why was he flying and just happen to shoot a rocket at it? Odds are he knew theres a spawn there and he was trying to do this. The odds are 10-10 since this was a setup :p Yeah definitely set up. Looks like he practiced also to get the helicopter right over the spawn area The odds of that spawn are 3,720 to 1 Another unanswered question is how can you get wasted twice in under 20 seconds? I need to apply this sorcery  Pretty good, considering the player was almost certainly hovering over the nearest spawn point intentionally. This is amazing! you spawn very close to the coordinate you die at, so rather high. I'd say the chances are pretty high when you're actively trying to make it happen. It was a 1 in a million shot doc. 1 in a million.  Low, at least that would be my guess. That was incredible. Crosspost this to /r/wastedgifs. Meta as fuck. This is just fucking fantastic.  That's a double suicide, right? About every 10th "Care Package" I call in in COD lands on me and Kills Me. There is no love lol
 Is there a sub reddit that i can watch these cool  GTA things /r/GrandTheftAutoV, /r/GTAStunts and more Actually happened last night to me. I suicide bombed the smuggler with a plane, when I respawned it hit me and killed me again.  Worst was using bazooka and there was microscopic piece of land in front of you.   And the pro AI that could hit everything. Oh, you mean the 'fire directly into the wind for a thesis-level calculus angle that gets you just right' AI?

I seem to recall. First turn: Fires straight at a wall and hurt himself.  
Next turn: shoot through the whole map and hit your worm under the roof by doing a 180 with the wind. Or the AI bounces a grenade off of 4 things to have it land right at my feet. &gt;feet

Impressive *slow clap* Phshhh it's just newton iteration on the angle based on where it lands- basically triall and error.   anyone played gunbound? I sunk many hours into perfecting that 89angle shot.  The AI in Worm games were notoriously always insanely smart or damn stupid. Up a bit... down a tiny bit... that's perfect... now then, last time it fell a little short so if I aim for, shall we say around 86% power... that should be right in the fucker's face... hehehe-MOTHERFUCKINGBASTARDSHITBASKET!!!!!!!!!!! Wwwwwwooooppps!  ^Oh ^dear! Hey! Your the valve sfm guy! :D love your stuff! Haha, thank you! \^_^ hey ^^ big fan, love the songs ^^^This ^^^^Is ^^^^^Aperture ^^^This ^^^^Is ^^^^^Aperture ^^^^^^Aperture ^^^^^^^Aperture APURTURE.  No, the worst was using that grappling hook, going places and then that microscopic land cames along. You twist around it, leaving a 1cm of the rope to hang on in thin air. All you can do is drop and die. Killerpixel Or trying to "tip over" the cliff edge, and just as you manage to do it you notice the timer 2 seconds left so you quickly let go of the rope, and as you land you take one damage and start sliding, taking with you one enemy and a few teammates, which everyone keeps sliding downwards until everyone goes into the drink. Except the one enemy unit, who for some reason stopped sliding one pixel away from the edge of the water. This. This shit right here. Or it's you that manages to stop right at the edge, until I mine slowly slides down to join you.  Someone needs to work on their ninja rope skills.  One does not simply *release* with ninja rope... You gotta finagle it a bit and push off at the right time. TEASE IT. TEASE IT. No worms game with Gavin saying "TEASE IT" has ever ended well... No worms game with Gavin ~~saying "TEASE IT"~~ has ever ended well. Has Gav ever won a worms game? I'm trying to think but I don't think he has haha!  Iirc he won a game with the concrete donkey before. CONCRETEEEE DONKEYYYYYYY


God I love their Worms LP's. **[GAVIN SCREAMING]** 3... 2... 1... nonono, just one more second.. NOOO! Gotta extend when you will go straight up. That's the ticket. Then drop a tnt deploy parachute and look like a boss. actually you extent the rope a bit and see where you are, if you're right you drop down where you want to be, if you're wrong retract and repeat You mostly shoot downwards a bit... Just a tiiny bit and then swing back up with that momentum and once you peak at the crest and are swinging in an arch like trajectory you release and fall over the enemy. Be careful not to swing too hard in the arch because you will fly helllaaa far and sustain fall damage and lose your turn. You just keep retracting and extending instead of releasing. If his goal was to get up to the enemy worm you do exactly as was done in the gif but extend instead of letting go. You're either going to extend back down to where you originally started or behind the enemy worm, depending on when you extend. Good use of ninja rope is key.  You can get anywhere with ninja rope. Most players don't even know they can fire in the air/chain it in the air. I know I can do these things, I know I can get anywhere with the ninja rope, but I just can't. You've just got to mess around with the controls. Once you're wiggiling back and forth on the edge of a cliff (like in the GIF), I push the control stick in the opposite direction of what seems intuitive. 9 times out of 10 your worm will fly up and over the cliff you are attached to and get you where you want to go. is this true for the newest worms game on ps4.  I was aiight with the ninja rope back on the ps2, but now I have NO ABILITY TO NINJA ROPE.
 There's a worms game for the ps4!? *logs into PSN* Shut up and take my money!  IIRC the ninja rope in the newest worms game sucks ass. It actually has rope-like physics, making it impossible to push yourself up into the air (like the worm in the gif was trying to do). Spiderman! And now I finally understand why I could never beat the ninja rope challenge. I used to play with someone who would do this combo slingshot maneuver to fly across the map and poke me off the ledge. This game deserves a competitive scene. Good old days of Worms Armageddon/World Party with Shoppa matches..

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zl8jl2sUUcE My first online gaming experience. Used to play on a 56k modem back then. Shoppa was the shit. Worms 2 was actually how I got my name too.  

"baZOOKa".  Man, I miss those days.  I still hop on WA from time to time.  Each time I'm a little rusty, but I always fall right back into place after a few matches.  

One of my most favorite series of all time. It's worth noting that ninja rope has been ass in many of the newer Worms games (released after World Party) but was supposedly fixed in the newest one.  It's epic in open warfare I was so disappointed to find that out too. Worms2 will never be replaced  Worms 2 and Worms Armageddon are the best for me. I grew up on worms armegedon. Best game ever.  I miss the shit out of that game.  Liero!  OMG.. I was wondering if anyone here knew that game. This is what I played with my friends when we started smoking pot. We all got disgustingly good at that game. I did use an alternate weapon pack though. It's gotta be one of the first games I modded. Fucking gauss gun was the shit. And nukes and banana bombs.. good times.  &gt;Worms2 will never be replaced 

For sure, absolutely the best version.  *"Fixed"*? Or *"Pussified"*? Love the little animation they do when they casually take down their eyebrows and use it as a mustache. So much nostalgia here. I remember when this was the only video game I owned.

All hail the Holy Hand Grenade. HALLELUJAH! BOOOM!! I can still hear it though it was years ago *high pitch ringing* Years later I finally learned why the Holy Hand Grenade is always set to 3 seconds and can't have the timer changed like the other grenades. That day I was enlightened. 1! 2! 5!

3 sir!

Right! 3! *throws"* Why is that? Holy trinity? https://youtube.com/watch?v=xOrgLj9lOwk I see, thanks! Five is right out. I prefer old ladys and super sheeps And the super banana bomb!  Remember you could fire grappling hook into the ground and use it to propel yourself up a steep hill or cross a crevasse. Stiff rope! You can't do that anymore?! D: Worms Armageddon was the best. Used to play that and Thief: TDP all the time I have the gameboy color version somewhere. need to find it holy shit, there was a gbc version of worms? yup it was amazing. killed many batteries and later a battery for an SP yes, it's the one i had an loved it. Worms World Party though played this on xbox360 to death until eventually the fucking hacker at the top of the win list pissed me the fuck off the match I was going to beat him when he would make the game warp and revert back my turns somehow. i hated that miserable fuck. Why be at the top of a xbox360 game list when  you can't even be legit. I replay thief gold and thief 2 on expert ghosting once every couple years at least. Still one of the best games. How are you going to call it a grappling hook when it's obviously the Ninja Rope?
 Basically [Gavin playing Worms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UcNNTjc0TFg) Specifically [@ 8:47](https://youtu.be/UcNNTjc0TFg?t=8m47s) *Gavin screaming in the background* [Who the fuck is Gavin?](http://i.imgur.com/e1NgSIT.png) *more Gavin screaming* I love how long it took me to realize this was a compilation of everyones suicides, not just Gavin's. Which version of Worms is this? or when you plant the TNT and instead ninjaing your way out you hit the release button and now your stuck between a bomb and your enemy killing both of you but you end up taking the most damage. You forgot the part where the target worm has the next turn and fucks you over even harder. With prod. Nothing better than winning a game with prod. See also: tool-assisted roping. [1](https://youtu.be/lf5vlEr_wMQ) and [2](https://youtu.be/o7yCJtbecSE). Used to play this a lot! The community was very strict though. Get the short hand words wrong when joining servers and you get kicked instantly Short hand words? What the actual jesus. That was insane :O Worms Armageddon was the first game I played online. I remember players called "ropers" would only use the grappling hook instead of conventional weapons, but they could do some crazy ninja shit with it.  That's the only way I ended up playing in Worms World Party, and it was sooooooo much fun. I was extremely disappointed when they fucked the rope physics up in Worms Reloaded :( Surprisingly even after all these years (it was originally released in 1999...) Worms Armageddon still has a pretty active online community. You can constantly find about 50 players up for a match (at anytime [you can snoop in here to see the online status](http://snoop.worms2d.info/)). Many (if not all) are ropers but you can always find some other Worms up for some regular Worm-slayin' (since you only need a couple or so to play Worms the amount of online players is enough).

You can [get it through Steam](http://store.steampowered.com/app/217200/) if you can't find your old CD and want to get it legitimately. I used to play a game style in Worms where all you had was ninja rope, bazookas, and grenades. Super intense clan matches were had.  Paging /u/GavinoFree Can't help but think of the band Norma Jean from seeing the worms name lol. Not sure if that was intended or not.  Probably named after Marilyn Monroe I thought the same thing when I saw it. I know what I'm listening to on my drive home tonight! The band is named after Marilyn Monroe's real name. Oh man I miss ninja-rope races in Worms Armageddon.  That game had such a huge and active online community, but the most fun was in the races - just unlimited ninja ropes, whoever got to the end first won.  It required such perfect timing and reflexes. Gavintheusa Gavin! Come on! http://i.imgur.com/0bhVpLf.gifv Always, *always* upvote Gravity Falls. She has a fucking strong arm to bend it hen it's carrying all her body weight. That's just her sleeve. If you look it's baggy and gives the appearance of a bend.  I get what you said but any idea why this happens?

edit: I meant why when hanging your arm feels heavier? Uhm you are carrying your whole body with your arm... Gravity? and it's falling? Source: http://www.thefloorisnowlava.net/comic.php?id=196#comic Classic Gavin Gav'd it. Every. Fucking. Time. Gavin was top at this AKA The Gavin Free special I need to play this again! Anyway I can get it on my iPhone? Holy shit worms would be an amazing mobile game


Edit: seems it is on iOS, might actually try it sometime  Not worth it Should've used the jetpack Wasted the attempt learning to use it. It's all about hitting down at the right moment dont let go and fling yourself into the water LOL Damn Wormnet noobs. I used to point bazooka straight down, jump straight up, switch to roap with f8, and then shoot it directly under myself, thus going straight up and then just tilt to fall anywhere I want. They nerfed it though. And now in the latest games the rope went from an awesome versatile tool to a limp dicked string that more often than not has so much slack in it you just automatically go into the water with it. Can you play worms online anywhere nowadays? Yes, Steam has most of the games. Armageddon is the most popular. The old Wormnet service is still up and running. Gavin. My mom's name is Norma Jean. This got weird. Your mom is Marilyn Monroe? Norma Jean is the name of a popular metalcore band, as well at Marilyn Monroe's real name.  I thought it said Worma Jean which is pretty clever and figured it was a pun on the band which was named after her.  that edge guard tho... worms for dlc?  I loved starting up a game just to use this weapon. I felt like spider man going from one side of a cave generated map to the other. Damn, I gotta play this again. It's been far too long. Ok...makes me wanna play worms... anyone got a flash web version of it? Got any veteran rope racers or shoppa experts here? It's been a long time so I'm struggling to remember all the different online rope games (and too lazy to google) but, man that shit was fun. Was in a WWP competitive roping clan for a while. Mastering the Ninja Rope is one of the key skills to become truly good in Worms. This brings back memories! I The exact same thing happened to me a fair amount of times Aaaaand I'm redownloading Liero, thanks... Everytime I see a Worms post, I wish that the open source clone Wormux didn't die. I would give some of my favorite body parts for a proper Armageddon remake. Every year I fire up a very old PC and play through all the missions and training events. This made me remember I used to play Gunbound. I miss that game. Dammit,  I want Worms with those kind of graphics now! *Goodbye Worma Jean*

*Though I never knew you at all*

*You had the grace to rope yourself*

*While those around you crawled* In Worms: Revolution it's made much much much worse due to "physics".

In Worms and Worms United you could shoot grappling hook directly down, and then push yourself up. But could only swing to left then. You scrub.  
We made custom maps to practice our rope skills, with little challenges and shit.  
Aim for the little platform while balancing down a rope attached to a micrometer wide piece of rock !  
Toss the landmine or dynamite into the little basket while playing Spiderman all around the cave !  
Climb up the fortress of doom !

Then we'd play the game mode where you can do as many actions as you want, but you only have 5 or 10 seconds. And we'd build our fortresses with bridge kits, and devise evil and genial plans to destroy the opponent, use stupid combos such as teleport, dynamite spam, teleport back to safety, which would fail miserably time after time because we were too greedy and wanted to plant just one last mine, drop one last pack of dynamite, punch one last fucker around...

Or the mortar machine gun ? Select mortar, point at the sky, and press the fire button as fast as you can while you adjust the angle, then sit back and watch as apocalyptic destruction falls from the sky ! 
 Yay, Worms :D

On a side note, I'd love a 128-player worms match on a **huge** map, with more than one worm simultaneously playing... Just imagine the chaos. Worms Armagaeddon! We still have matches on the 64 to this day!  Gavin?
 What game is this from? I would recommend starting with Armageddon. and then not bother with any of the other games because Armageddon is the best. exactly this. Though it was light on weapons compared to Armageddon, I really liked the level of customization that was available in Worms 2.   &gt; customization that was available in Worms 2.

For even more customization -- try [WarMUX](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warmux) - formerly called Wormux -- a clone of Worms.

Fully open source so if it doesn't have the customization you want, you're free to program in even more.
 Thank you! You are on the money here. Worms 2 was the best one of all. Though we tuned up the weapons damage greatly in some of them but it was the most fun of them all. I really liked mayhem  Fun but different, I like both. :\ I just got Reloaded. My first worms game I enjoyed Reloaded, just not as much as Armageddon. The newer ones also have some interesting mechanics, but I can't say that I enjoyed them as much, they have a lot of issues. Good choice as well, don't worry. Armageddon may be the all time classic but the other games are fun too. I even had fun with Worms 3D...though if you're looking for a 3D worms, I recommend Mayhem over it. You probably should have gone with Clan Wars instead, but enjoy it, it's still a fine game. Except for the soundtrack which is depressing as fuck. Oh man hours of that soundtrack probably have something to do with my depression. I completely forgot about that. Yes!  Worms I think it's one of the Worms games.  The Rope,the most dangerous weapon ingame. I was a master of the ninja rope back in the day worms is so good to bad no one will play it with me_ Oh the fun we had with this game, 5 to 6 people on a single computer. Best times ever!And them the internet clubs came and it was fun but not as exiting when you everyone sits in front of a pc. This is awesome I love this game Shoulda just bazooka'd This always happens to me in dying light =( Hate when that happens to me, too.  The trick in this situation was to press and hold the "down" key (the make-rope-longer key) during that moment when you're flipping up and down right up against the edge, and hope you pressed it in the split-second when you were flipped on *top* of the edge. Videos [like this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AgQIIHHqBB0) are some of the most hilarious things I've seen recently. There's a whole series of them (at least on Psych's channel), these guys were playing the game a few months ago Ah the memories This depicts the game perfectly! I love this! So many funny and frustrating memories! Thank you :D omg the memories that brings back. worms is so great. Tomba? Ninja Rope FTFY Wor-ma-Jean. Is NAHT myyyy Lovah I used to play worms on my family's computer back in the day, and my mom was convinced it was a virus and insisted that i delete it.  *The first of many...* Aaaand now I need to play worms you're supposed to swing, get momentum, then when you're getting high enough, retract it in, release and tackle them. So true Chew on this! love this game series if this is OC i love you I spot a Norma Jean reference.  Can someone remind me of the name of this game please?  Worms? This is so true.  Poke. Whats the name of the game this is based on, _Angry Worms?_ Just "Worms". *He's dead. Won't be coming back.* I remember this special move. I used it all the time... My son loves this game. This always just happens to me. If your going to post a gif of someone failing with the ninja rope after what. 15 years of it being ingame? Your doing it wrong. Did someone forget that it was CBA?  

COW reddit posting an article quoting reddit a day after the original reddit post was posted on the same subreddit. interesting At some point some "news" sites realized they can just watch the front page of reddit and just use that to get real money rather than upvotes. Did you just describe buzzfeed 15 Unbelievable ways to make make money by doing fuck-all! ...go on BRB, starting a news site. First sentence. My favorite line. Emphasis added.

&gt; Valve and Bethesda decided to kill their **profitable** new venture on Monday night, mainly because they were **losing too much money** from angering the internet. Looks like they changed it.

&gt;Valve and Bethesda decided to kill their four-day-old venture on Monday night, because as profitable as it was meant to be, the companies were losing too much money by angering their own customer bases. Look at us... we did it! /r/worldnews tomorrow: "Businessinsider.com writer found dead.  Reddit to blame." &gt;Businessinsider.com writer found dead

That would be awful!

'Businessinsider.com found dead' - I'm on the fence about They can't commit to anything.  That confused me too, but I think they were trying to say that while the venture itself was profitable, its effects on the rest of the company negated those profits. That is worded more better. You should be a writer. More better indeed. I also do thing you writer should be. They dont think it be like it is, but it do Crazy how nature make dat [Stuff is just thangs, it don't make a fuck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Q9T3oQDUGE&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=44) You should be a reader. Business Insider is utter garbage. There's this one later in the article, too:

&gt;a hero to many, having created Valve, which is easily the most popular hub for PC games

No, *Steam* is the most popular hub for PC gamers. Valve is the company that operates it. 

Typical of their attention to detail, though. I once did an AMA and they posted an article quoting what I said as though it was ironclad fact, even though the proof I posted was kind of weak and they made NO attempt to contact me or confirm anything that I had said. I wasn't lying so the story they ran WAS true, but once I saw they'd just take a random reddit post and run it as news without even trying to check anything, I started paying attention...and noticed they're shit. 
 If you're stupid enough to visit yahoo on occasion to read news like me, you'll see gems from Business Insider such as "Here's why Marvel made Nick Fury look like Samuel L. Jackson - and the actor's awesome response."  You know, inside business info.  This information will help me greatly at the business factory where I participate in various businesses and business-like activities.  will help you do a business?

This comment thread reminds me of bojack horseman... "Vincent Adultman! How are things at the old 9-to-5?"

"Good, I went to stock market today. I did a business." Oil stocks are *EXPLODING* - up 1%!!! \*Pictures of explosions\* http://i.imgur.com/y1iZUgQ.png Man, Trogdor has changed That's Business Insider for you. When they do write on Business, it sucks. When they don't write on Business, it sucks. They just suck.

Edit: Why do I keep capitalizing Business? Lord Business! EVERYTHING IS AWESOME ^^Everything ^^is ^^cool ^^when ^^you're ^^part ^^of ^^a ^^team... I was making a killing selling these diamond rings for $500, too bad they cost $5,000!  Damn kids! I love that they called it an "emergency Reddit AMA". "Robin, the Valve signal is going off, TO THE INTERNET!!!!' Better tell the folks to stop rioting in baltimore now since valve set things back to the way they were. It didn't work! Now they're slowly working there way towards where I live!

I wish I was kidding about that second sentence. I'm gonna need a machete... or some roof koreans For those of you who don't get the reference- http://www.npr.org/2012/04/27/151526930/korean-store-owner-on-arming-himself-for-riots This is the one I think more people will recognize: http://i.imgur.com/bYHL8aJ.jpg [Or you could be like this legend from /pol/](http://i.imgur.com/Ux7Zs0i.jpg) This reads like a note Joel might find in The Last of Us.

Then he comments, "I wonder how long you held out." This reminds me of what happened to Star Wars Galaxies when Sony implemented the "Combat Upgrade"...

Whole damn game was on fire.

RIP - SWG


EDIT - Thanks you anon Redditor for Gold. Totally was not expecting that. Happened in Eve Online when CCP added walking in stations and micro-transactions. Largest trade hub in the game had 2000 people protesting by shooting a statue. CCP now made that Statue be filled with bullet holes, and has fixed most of the problems You can still walk in stations I hope? That's kind of an immersive feature IMO Well, kind of. When they added "walking in stations" all they really added was the ability to walk around in your own captains quarters. More of a motel room, really. You can't leave the room, you can't go to the rooms of other players--it was just a really fancy docking mechanic that didn't really add anything to the game except monstrous loading times, which is a big part of why players were so mad. The other reason they were mad is because the old docking mechanic, where you could stare at your ship and make it spin a lot, was outright removed.

When players had this terrific outburst of hatred, CCP just stopped developing it, reintroduced the option of ship spinning without removing what they had of WiS, and went back to fixing actual spaceship stuff. I haven't played the game in several years now, but as far as I know, walking in stations is as sparse now as it was back then. Its just a feature. No one uses it really, because apart from a bit of immersion it doesn't really add to anything. Its cool for screenshots though, because you can also take a picture of you avatar with your ship. I may be remembering completely wrong, or the source at the time was inaccurate. I seem remember when they first started talking about walking in the station, there was mentions of meeting rooms, where people could gather together to discuss corporation matters, in full avatar form. I also heard about shops, and plenty of other neat stuff. 

Whether i'm wrong or right on the specifics, it's clear they had big plans for it. Not sure why they gave up so early, maybe the players just wanted nothing to do with it. No you're correct, when WiS was first announced there were plans for that. Would've been neat but wouldn't have added anything to the game.  People say this but all I want to do is sit in a virtual strip club while I manage my market and chat to people. They started adding it so I wish they would finish it. Gave up early? They worked on walking in stations for 5 years and the only thing to come out of it was 4 motel rooms with one character in them. Cutting their losses and moving back to working on the actual game was the right thing to do and should probably have been done way earlier. And now after you spin your ship more than 9 rotations, a counter appears at the bottom telling you how many times you've done it I liked walking in stations.. I don't know if CCP fixed this or not but you could upload your own movies to be played on the screen in your room. Many a night were spent in those captain quarters watching porn as notifications about the Gurista menace scrolled by. Predicting the future pretty accurately I think. SWG was by far the best online experience I have ever had.  Best RP, best gaming friends, most robust system where i could craft and shoot things and live in a world. Man that game was amazing. Stupid NGE. Check out SWGEMU. Pre-CU SWG.

www.swgemu.com And now I'm looking for my CDs. ........................................................What? did my life just change in a single threaded comment? The combat upgrade wasn't even that bad... "The New Game Experience" however... It was a new game I guess... While I think Pre-CU was best, I still liked and played the game post-CU. I quit shortly before NGE went into effect. It was the biggest turd SOE ever shit out. I really liked the CU...but the NGE was garbage.  It made no sense from any standpoint at all. Everyone liked the game it was popular and had a devoted following, so let's try to retroactively turn it into Star Wars WoW!

I think I remember hearing somewhere that the game was so complicated and so much work to update and balance that they thought they needed to change it.

The money I'd throw at a new version of the original SWG... Same here, man. SWG was probably the most fun I've ever had in gaming. The guild I was in was super close, everyone on the server knew each other, PvP events, etc. 

It's like chasing the dragon. Every MMO I've played I've done so to get an experience like SWG....but it always falls short. 

Edit: To everyone saying to play the SWGEmu, I have. It just isn't the same. The population is tiny, and no one PvP's. Most of the people online are multi boxing/afk crafting. I've even played on smaller servers that are PvP based...but still. Not the same. 

It's a huge game universe, and the charm of the game was the huge active and robust population. RIP SWG. Hit the nail on the head. Seems like someone always brings up SWG as an example for something like this. The game was so well made and designed with so much to do and such deep customization, it truly felt like you were actually living in the Star Wars universe. 

I made a ton of friends and had a close guild, even met a few people in real life. From the way people started their own businesses monopolies on some servers, to the cantina nightlife, and the absolutely thrilling and deep space combat system. Hell the player cities, house customization, faction wars between the rebels and imperials, I could go on and on and on.

The game was dangerously good, I spent a huge chunk of my life playing it and really don't regret it at all. You don't get the opportunity to play a game that is that detailed and realistic offering so much to do with other people who love Star Wars. It was truly ahead of its time and we may never see a game of that caliber again.

Edit: Wow first ever gold! I knew all that time spent in SWG was worth it! Thank you! Absolulty, what was so great is you could go as casual or hardcore as you wanted with no real draw back. You could just play music all day in bar  and still make a decent amount of money. We had so much fun just traveling with hunting parties as traveling band. I remember how exciting was to see my single room shop go from barely getting any customers to me opening up a guild hall mall, that was one most popular on my server. That and by far the best space combat experience I have ever seen in a game.  I actually amazingly ran a business in SWG. I had people who would tell me where the best materials were and employees who would then go and place the collectors for me. I'd then shift the metal we all collected and split the profits. 

I lived in a huge house with rare artefacts and later in my career I built houses for other people. I retired on tattooine and enjoyed my riches. 

What a god damn amazing game it was! The way the trading and crafting worked in this game is always on my list of my greatest moments in gaming. Here's my little story:

I was selling droids in my little store. It was in the main town of Corellia, which was located north of Coronet. It was a huuuuuge player town. My business was a small one, I rarely sold something. But from time to time I made good money because the materials I used had pretty good quality and therefore my droids weren't cheap. Anyways, I always added my name to the droids one like "R2-D2 [by RezoomXell]".

Some day a friend called, completely hyped and ordered me to come to a some small town on the edge of Tatooine. After a long trip I got there and he showed me something. Some random player used my badass looking R2 droid as a decoration for his house!

It was great to see that what ever you did in this game had influence on the environment, even on the players. And not only on fights against mops or players. But this house, the droid in the house, where more or less permanent. And made by myself.

I never experienced such a living world in a multiplayer game again. Not even WoW with the phasing and stuff creates this kind of bound between the players and the world. I remember my friend and I joining a guild during our second playthrough and I guess the guildmaster was just keeping the flame going since I don't recall there being that many members on at any given time. He gave us both huge houses and I just dropped all my items and trophies into it from my previous house. I log out for a few days and come back and the guildmaster fixed up my house. Put up all my paintings, armors, and trophies. Was amazing. :'D

In fact... having buildable towns was ridiculously awesome and being big enough to have a spaceport. And god space battles felt so goddamn good. Made most of my credits just selling space junk. And also helping my friend do Vader's space missions and failing them and my friend not wanting us to go back since he didn't wanna show up having failed Vader again. 

Also small things I loved were the entertainers standing near those mission terminals and were giving buffs and would periodically ask for donations for their service. Felt like a real world.  Damn, I remember going shopping every Saturday morning to my favorite sellers. Waiting in line for buffs. Raiding towns for when overt, or the weekly planned raids on people's bases. Playing a CM and throwing diseases, then running in to drag an unconscious player to the docs. Getting your scythe plans, then resetting your quests once to do it again. Delving into the Nightsisters caves. Decorating your house. Duels with your friends on the roof of said home. Spamming the hell out of a single attack. Balancing your life, mind, stamina bars while saving your stomach size for when you really need that temporary boost to save your ass. Checking your mining equipment and surveying for the best new areas. Pet fights. Krayt hunting. Mind fire weapons. Bounty hunting. Being hunted. My roommate having to remind me to eat this weekend. 

SWG, you made the first few years of my Army experience a haze of alcohol and nonstop fun, and you brought so many of us together. Friends I never would have made if not for that one huge thing we all loved.  [Your comment brings back too many feels.](http://gfycat.com/ExhaustedHugeArmyworm)

(Personally, I miss reverse-engineering spaceship components.) Man I actually had a small business selling ship components to people to reverse engineer I did okay, just sold them for the price that the NPCs would pay for you so other people could get it on the RE action.

I had a fucking badass x wing that I spend ages reverse engineering parts for. Every part was RE'd it was a beast. It has kickass blue lasers. Took me forever to find those blue lasers. Check out SWGEMU. Pre-CU SWG.

www.swgemu.com Check out SWGEMU. It isn't dead yet.

www.swgemu.com &gt; It's like chasing the dragon. Every MMO I've played I've done so to get an experience like SWG....but it always falls short. 

I think it's like that with everyone's first MMO.  Mine was EverQuest and I went back to give it a try since it was free to play.  Turns out, the game I remembered never really existed.  I glossed over the *huge* flaws in the game and created this memory of the game that was a combination of my expectations of the game (before I smacked head first into its limitations), the joy I had playing with my friends, and simply experiencing something so completely open new and expansive. This was pretty much my experience when going back to try swgemu. It felt like a hollow shell of the game I once knew and loved. Sure everything about the game itself was mostly the same, but where was my guild? Where were my friends? Where was the mystery and wonder that I remember? It wasn't there. I couldn't go back after that. Dude YUP.  Fuck, we'll never experience anything like that again, and that is tragic. Eve has the depth and community. 

But it also has theft murder and fraud. 

Good with the bad I guess.  Yeah. But what bad, specifically? Space accountancy, mostly.... &gt; But it also has theft murder and fraud.

Not seeing the bad part here. That's just more depth; your actions, and the actions of others, have serious consequences in the game. Without piracy and espionage and permanent consequences of death, Eve wouldn't be the game it is. Certainly, but there were some aspects that led me away from the game which were extremely frustrating.

The wardec system, mostly. When I was playing I started a small, but growing corporation focused around exploration. I was really enjoying the whole thing, from managing applications and recruiting to organizing group events and figuring out ways to give back to the corp members.

Was just getting to the point where I trusted a few people and were teaching them the ropes on weeding out awoxxers, effective recruiting campaigns, etc... etc.. when we get wardecced by some random corp for no reason at all. Then of course after that wardec ended more followed until it was constant. Then the corp fell apart as people got tired of getting ganked non-stop.

Regardless of what people say, I will always maintain that the wardeccing system was trash and free and open wardeccing on random corps amounts to nothing more than dev-assisted trolling. It ruins the game for many corps &amp; players. &gt; The wardec system

Yeah, I think there's quite a few people who would agree with you on that one. There's room for improvement. There's the Star Wars Galaxies Emulator(SWGEmu). It's working and a lot of features are in the game already. Most of them, really.   Isn't there an emulated server of the original out there? I want to say my friend plays it. [deleted] Once it officially release, the game should get a higher population. It already has 1,200 people online right now. Though, knowing the nature of the game, a decent amount of those will be AFK or multi-boxing.  &gt; Once it officially release, the game should get a higher population

People have been saying this since like 2009 though. Yes. I play it every now and then. You need the original game data though (from the game disc or a torrent). Yea after NGE I pretty much just quit...  Dont bring that up! That's like an old ex-gf being like, remember that time I cheated on you, stole your wallet, and crashed your car? Never forget.  RIP SWG. F**king Smedley.

And now they've gone and done the same crap with Planetside 2. Cant deny going from 14 servers to 5 after 2 years. H1Z1 soon to follow.
Haven't changed one bit. The server merges were actually welcomed because of the low and skewed populations after just the first year.

Some of the servers were pretty much one faction only. The server merges were welcomed due to shrinking population and resulted in a lot of lag and worse problems with zergs. That fucker is a cancer on the gaming industry as a whole. He's been so wrong for so long and he still thinks he has the answer. Yo Smed, people don't like to be nickle and dimed to death you twit. Eh, they did the same with Planetside 1 (Core Combat) Goodnight sweet Teras Kasi, gone but not forgotten... Free Jedi's for all was the worst thing I experienced.  I was online when the first Jedi came to be and there was the cross-server message informing everyone; it was just so meaningful at the time. 

Coolest thing was it was on my server too, I used to have a screenshot of me and the original Jedi too. Wish I still had it My day was going well.  Until I just was reminded of this...back into the abyss I go.  :( Same thing with Runescape when they implemented EOC. It wasn't quite as devastating as SWG but the numbers speak for themselves. Both games I played before and after their changes. Sometimes you can rebound sometimes you can't.  Runescape implementing EOC was pretty different than SWG.  The biggest goal of EOC was to finally balance combat after it had been broken for years at that point.  The introduction of things like Chaotics, Turmoil and Overloads had made a mess of an already unbalanced combat system.  Players were going to be angry regardless of how the balance took place since ultimately it would be a mass nerf.  

The fact that Jagex tried to make it more of a "modern MMO" in the process was bad to some but the real nail in the coffin was them throwing out almost all player feedback and pushing out a complete combat rework in like 4 month's time and in a broken, terrible state.  That combat update has been live for over 2 years now and stuff like armor values and shield use is still broken.  That's why Runescape will never recover. Well, there is always 2007scape.  I wish I would have experienced SWG.

All I got for a decent MMO was Vanilla/BC WoW.

I kinda blame WoW for the current degradation of the MMO genre. Due to its success, every game copies the formula. SWTOR is just Star Wars WoW. Goddammit, can't I just get an immersive new SW MMO? 

Edit: Actually it's not really WoW's fault. It's more Bioware and EA's fault for the cookie cutter SWTOR experience. We had that, it was called Star Wars Galaxies. I'm sorry you didn't get to experience the amazingness that it was. Could someone give a brief explanation on what changed? I think your confusing SWG and the current star wars MMO. Very different animals.

SWG was an mmo with the soul of the muds the genera came from, playermade/run EVERYTHING. Gear, cities, the lot. The combat system was also a lot different. THere were two upgrades the Combat Upgrade which was a combat revamp, it was ok but caused a LOT of players to leave. Then in desperation the New Game Enchancements which really ripped a lot of the soul out of the game and turned it into yet another wow clone.

The current one is pretty and some of the story is really good, but it feels like an evolution of wow. It has some newer features (and last I played it still failing to solve some of the problems that wow solved years ago like matchmaking). But it feels like wow with a star wars coat of paint and some upgrades.
 [deleted] I remember meeting my first and only Jedi on SWG. We were outside the cantina in Mos Eisley where I made a living as a performer. I hear this blaster fire and look over and there's this group of Storm Troopers shooting at this guy in a robe and suddenly he has this blue blade and they're getting their asses kicked. It was like being in a movie. Check out SWGEMU. Pre-CU SWG.

www.swgemu.com Dont remind me of that beautiful game. Holy crap I loved SWG with its bugs and problems and all! HL3 delayed for 1 more month as punishment. Fuck now I have to wait until December 2056 HL3 is a myth. Valve isn't making it since they're all about maintaining cheap, profitable multiplayer games with microtransactions and steam. Not truly compelling single player games that only generate revenue in the initial sale. People should move on. You are the devil Does anyone seriously believe that HL3 will be made still? I think that if it weren't for the massive hype, the game would atleast be a potential project for Valve to undertake, at some point down the pipeline. Instead, if anything, the hype has only contributed to the games cancelation. Although it would sell like hot cakes, I doubt they would take the risk that is developing a game that has the biggest expectations ever. Indeed, people should move on. We will surely see more games from Valve, but not HL3. Atleast not under that name. Doesn't Valve have a "Developers don't have to work on a project if they don't feel like it"-policy? I doubt anyone at Valve wants to work with HL3 or customer support.  If i worked at valve I would want to work on HL3. I have trouble believing that people wouldn't want to work on arguably their most interesting franchise Plus, look at Duke Nukem Forever. I think once you go mythical, there's not much point in actually trying to finish the game. It can't possibly live up. This is what frustrates me the most; not only have I given up on it actually manifesting, but I've accepted that if it does appear, I will be disappointed with it.

You really fucked me on that cliffhanger Valve. I'll never feel satisfaction. Piss off the internet and then fix it 4 days later. 

Piss off the internet by delaying Half-Life 3, still yet to be fixed.  More people cared about paid mods than HL3. Some people just don't care about HL3... There, I said it. This is the blueprint for what needs to happen with Comcast. Blowing up the FCC and Congress doesn't get Comcast's attention. If you use Comcast, get on the phone to customer service. Complain about Net Neutrality. Insist on speaking to a supervisor. Send emails. Send letters. Make them start spending money to respond to us. If we can cost Valve a million bucks (sorry Gabe!), we should be able to cost Comcast ten million. Or fifty million. A billion! Its good they learned. Some companies wont. Jagex didn't learn and they are still suffering because of it the fuckers even ruined Ace of Spades.

Blocky WW2-esque shooter? Lets buy it, tell them they have free creative control, and when they make a graphically improved version of it let's fuck them over! Destroy the designer/beta developer's hard drive but keep the other guy because he made the engine, then turn it into a TF2 clusterfuck arena! [You can still play the good old-fashioned Ace Of Spades!](http://buildandshoot.com/portal.php)

Build And Shoot allows you to download AoS Beta 0.75 or 0.76 and play it the classic way. (There are some modded servers out there.) Yep, I do! There is also [Iceball](http://www.github.com/iamgreaser/iceball) which is starting to gain more traction. I try to pitch in by making a couple of models, so far I've made the spade, flamethrower and grenade kv6 models. I will miss the Ace of Spades threads on /v/ for the rest of my life. www.buildandshoot.com It was fun while it lasted :( The only other game that has produced threads as wonderful as Ace of Spades is Besiege.

Keep fighting the good fight against the Greens. Story time? They completely reworked their combat system in runescape, and instead of listening to the absolute fury of their fanbase and reverting it, they simply ignored the internet and ended up losing upwards of 50% of their active community.  So even though they are doing alright now, the number of active players will never recover.
Glad to see steam didn't make the same mistake and kill modding I thought the removal of wildly pvp was the big drop of playerbase I started playing in early 2004 and I quit before they even removed wildy pvp as I noticed they started focusing on little stupid baubles and mini games instead of actual meaty content. They removed wildy pvp...that's disapointing. Why they do that?

I quit playing around the time of the forced marketplace. No more bartering with a huge variance of prices anymore. I think it was just the overall stupidity of the developers that caused the big drop of the playerbase. Runescape is going the way of Maplestory. Jagex figured out that you can milk the last bits of money from a dying game by adding tons of microtransactions and neglecting content completely. It's almost like the same investors who ruined Maplestory with microtransactions also bought a majority share in Jagex and did the same thing

Oh wait... Don't worry, they'll try another angle &gt;This is a mod from "Skyrim," but it's also what the internet looks like when it's mad, so it belongs here.


Genius Language barrier or stupidity kicking in, I dunno which. But what does 
&gt; That's like 1% of the cost of the incremental email the program has generated for Valve employees

Mean? What email? What program? What cost? What's all that about :( The revenue generated by the paid mods program was 1% of the total cost of the increasing number of emails that Valve were receiving.

Does that help? But how does receiving emails cost money? You have to pay people to read them, if they host their own email it probably costs money just to receive and store them. His point was just the first part. 

Storage is cheap. 

Eyeballs and the brains to consider what they've seen are expensive.  Ah, I see. Thanks. I kind of assumed they weren't gonna spend the time to actually read all the emails.  If they didnt, that would severely damage their customers trust even further if they dont receive an answer. I wonder how much of that "millions" is from the cost of fax paper and ink. Faxes are typically received via email now. 

Source: I send faxes all day long and don't print anything. Reminds of working in the VoIP business. I had customers that would send a fax via a email-to-fax system only to have the same fax received by another client on a fax-to-email system. If only someone could design a way to cut out the middleman, they'd be rich!  Some sort of electronic messaging system? Why, that's an idea so patently absurd I can't even begin to comprehend it. What would you even call that? 

Electro-letters?

Lightning-mail? So what you mean is "*I* typically receive faxes via email now."

Source: I process faxes as part of my job. Newsflash: Tech companies mostly use e-fax these days, meaning incoming faxes are terminated on a SIP/T.38 digital channel (converted from analog using something like a Sonus media gateway) and then converted to PDFs or other image formats, then delivered to an e-mail inbox.

The only people who still use hardline analog faxes at tech companies are the legal departments. Serious question: how did receiving a lot of angry emails cost valve millions of dollars? I understand that the customer service people probably have to at least glance at each email to make sure it's not a valid, unrelated complaint, but did that really cost millions in extra man-hours? Or is there another hidden cost that I've overlooked?


\*Please note, the long term impact of bad PR and angry customers is totally real and devastating, but I'm asking specifically about the "millions" in immediate losses valve suffered this past weekend. Valve didn't piss off the unknowable sensibilities of the mysterious and enegmatic entity known as 'the internet'. They pissed off their own established customer base of PC gamers and volunteer developers.

I think it's important to point this out, the internet is a means of communication, gamers are a demographic that Valve failed to do proper due diligence in considering the ending of something that is a positive differentiating factor of the PC platform. &gt; Valve didn't piss off the unknowable sensibilities of the mysterious and enegmatic entity known as 'the internet'. They pissed off their own established customer base of PC gamers and volunteer developers.

The Gabe Newell quote is [from a Reddit AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33uplp/mods_and_steam/cqojx8y?context=10000) and he was speaking to the people you are describing, customers and mod developers. I am pretty sure "pissed off the internet" was just shorthand for the topic being discussed in the thread. You seem to be suggesting he was trying to minimize the situation, or that maybe he is out of touch with gamers? Given context, [it doesn't read like that](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33uplp/mods_and_steam/cqojx8y?context=10000) to me. Also let's be real here, to most people we are the citizens of the internet. We are the citizens of the internet *until someone makes a broad-brush generalized open-ended statement that hits too close to home for some of the most vocal complainers at which point we're all scintillating individuals of perfection and individual individuality*. No snowflake feels responsible for the avalanche. Cause snowflakes don't have feelings Tell that to tumblr. ... Damn, that's a powerful sentence. Well I mean, have you ever seen a weak avalanche?  Well, I dove into a snowdrift once and a bunch of snow further up the slope tumbled down on me.

... That would be a "no", wouldn't it? Did you die? Further, we're not the only place he engage or that discussed the matter. 

There's, oh, the *Steam Communities themselves*, for example.  &gt; gamers are a demographic that Valve failed to do proper due diligence in considering the ending of something that is a positive differentiating factor of the PC platform

This is the part I don't get.  They must have had multiple meetings about this.  And at no point someone stood up and said "you know, guys, this seems like the kind of thing our target demographic would get out the pitchforks for"?  It's an oddly tone-deaf business move for a company that prides itself on its community as much as its products. Considering what Valve has done with DOTA and TF2, it makes perfect sense for this to be their next move. I certainly didn't expect the community to get so outraged about it. 

EDIT: Look, I'm not saying that Valve made the right choice, I'm just saying that I expected them to go in this direction based on their past business decisions. You don't have to write two paragraphs telling me why you disagree with Valve, I have no stake in this argument. Even so, announcing this and throwing it up live without at least warning the community (or, as the NexusMods owner tells it, even the mod community a heads up) was a really dumb marketing move. I was on board with it when I first heard about it. "Oh cool, modders can get money for the hard work they've done!" "Oh... Bethesda is taking the majority of that money." "Oh modders are charging $25, that's excessive..." "This was a bad idea now that I think about it..." I'll be an outlier. When I first saw it, I thought 'oh shit, neat. Maybe I'll get to work on that mini expansion I've been kicking around in my head.' and set out reinstalling Skyrim and the mod tools.

Then the outrage hit and I just said fuck it and went back to playing Warframe. I'd love to make that mod, but I'll be honest, I want *something* out of it. The paid mod option seemed like the most streamlined way of doing that. I mean, I guess I could still do it and set up some donation stream and, god forbid, it got popular, I'd still have to worry about paypal pitching a fit and taking the money.

I can see why the masses were mad, but I think their rage was overblown for what it was. Developers most time work with the best intentions in mind and rarely look at how a product can be misused.  The secret to getting Valve's attention is massive amounts of angry e-mails.  If we all start sending Gabe hate mail about the lack of Half Life 3 eventually, they will release a trailer to stop losing millions of dollars responding to our e-mails.  Its so simple. Brilliant I don't know, when was half life 2 released again? I doubt they haven't gotten at least 1 or 2 death threats per day about it ever since then. Yeah if you want a half assed shitty half life 3 that doesn't do any of the other games justice, that's a great idea.  Good, now we just need to stop with the god damn preorders and maybe publishers like EA will be more inclined to release a complete product. This is the best tl;dr I could make, [original](http://www.businessinsider.com/valve-ends-paid-skyrim-mods-2015-4) reduced by 69%. (I'm a bot)
*****
&gt; The joint venture was announced last Thursday: Bethesda, the maker of the popular game &amp;quot;Skyrim,&amp;quot; struck a deal with Valve, which runs the world&amp;#039;s most popular store for distributing online PC games.

&gt; There were problems: &amp;quot;Skyrim&amp;quot; modders complained about setting their own prices but getting only 25% of the revenue, for example, and with so many mods including works from other modders, it was unclear how to credit everyone involved.

&gt; The fact is, Newell isn&amp;#039;t only a businessman; he&amp;#039;s an icon in the gaming industry and a hero to many, having created Valve, which is easily the most popular hub for PC games - it has over 125 million customers worldwide - and producing some of the world&amp;#039;s most beloved PC games, including &amp;quot;Half-Life&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;Portal."


*****
[**Extended Summary**](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/346ikh/valve_ceo_pissing_off_the_internet_costs_you_a/) | [FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31b9fm/faq_autotldr_bot/ "Version 1.5, ~12829 tl;drs so far.") | [Theory](http://np.reddit.com/r/autotldr/comments/31bfht/theory_autotldr_concept/) | [Feedback](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23autotldr "PMs and comment replies are read by the bot admin, constructive feedback is welcome.") | *Top* *five* *keywords*: **Valve**^#1 **mod**^#2 **game**^#3 **Skyrim**^#4 **paid**^#5

Post found in [/r/gaming](/r/gaming/comments/34699e/valve_ceo_pissing_off_the_internet_costs_you_a/), [/r/technology](/r/technology/comments/346bqr/valve_ceo_pissing_off_the_internet_costs_you_a/) and [/r/realtech](/r/realtech/comments/346c6v/valve_ceo_pissing_off_the_internet_costs_you_a/). what is this Valve and how do I install it &gt; reduced by 69%

(   )  ( ) A company that listens to its customers?! What a concept! I think this was more than just listing to their customers, it was responding to their customer's almost violent response with extreme outrage across the internet. Wish we'd have seen "remove paid mods" signs in Baltimore. I'm sure we would have seen a couple, but valve was too quick with a responce. From the title it seems it was more a company listens to their accountants screaming as money threatens to haemorrhage.  No shit.  I think the article is a little bit disingenuous by saying "mainly". 

I'd like to believe, after reading both the Valve and Bethesda statement that it was simply because people didn't like it and brought up good points that both companies disagreed with. 

At least, I'd like to believe that. I wish people got this riled up over important issues. -*looks at your comment*

-*looks at rioting on TV* 

Yeahhh. Be careful what you wish for. I wish for the authorities to be as humbly responsive when people get rolled up over important issues.  &gt;Let's assume for a second that we are stupidly greedy. So far the paid mods have generated $10K total. That's like 1% of the cost of the incremental email the program has generated for Valve employees (yes, I mean pissing off the Internet costs you a million bucks in just a couple of days). That's not stupidly greedy, that's stupidly stupid. You need a more robust Valve-is-evil hypothesis.


Basically: "We're clearly not greedy because our attempt at sucking money out of you failed." Yea, that argument didn't make sense to me either.   Gabe should have said "pissing off my customer base" because the internet doesn't generate revenue, his customers using it do. You don't have to be a customer to send Valve an email. How did Valve lose money? Specifically in what area? I'm sorry, but I fucking hate reading an article as if I'm going to learn something, only to realize they're quoting a reddit post that I've already read. Anyone can quote reddit, this trend of milking reddit for articles is sad journalism. Maybe I'm uninformed, but can someone explain to me what's wrong with Valve's proposal? It looks to me like it would allow modders to make money, which would in turn lead to more and better quality mods.
 The problem wasn't, in my opinion, the basic concept.  The problem was in the implementation.  

* Piss poor communication in advance of a move that was clearly going to massively change a strong, existing, mod ecosystem.

* An absolutely absurd money grab attempt with Valve/Bethesda trying to take 75% for little contribution from Valve and zero additional effort from Bethesda.  This was made even worse by Valve's initial non-transparency regarding how the money was being split between them.

* Zero support from Valve or Bethesda regarding ongoing compatibility of the mods people have already paid for (after the first 24 hours) and zero assurances that the paid mods will be compatible with, even, the other mods for sale on Steam Workshop.

* Zero control of bullshit like that one modder that went back to older versions of his/her mod and added pop-up ads nagging the player to buy the for-profit version.

* As usual for Valve, zero responsibility taken for policing blatant IP theft in the mods.  Hell, even in full games, Valve has shown a seeming complete willingness to profit from obvious IP theft in some Steam games...

* Valve chose the _WORST_ possible game/developer to start this kind of program with.  For as fun as Bethesda games usually are, they are infamous for releasing them absolutely full of bugs (including bugs that make playing and/or beating the game completely impossible) and then _NEVER_ going back to fix them.  Some of the very mods that Valve's action could cause to fall behind a pay-wall are mods that people actually _NEED_ just to be able to play the basic game... &gt; Zero support from Valve or Bethesda regarding ongoing compatibility of the mods people have already paid for (after the first 24 hours) and zero assurances that the paid mods will be compatible with, even, the other mods for sale on Steam Workshop.

This is an even bigger problem than people realize, because depending on payment method, getting a refund can cause your account to be suspended for 7 days as a method of preventing abuse. So if you buy 2 mods on the same day that don't work, your account would be suspended after refunding the first, and you would be unable to refund the second until after it was too late to refund anyway.

&gt;As usual for Valve, zero responsibility taken for policing blatant IP theft in the mods. Hell, even in full games, Valve has shown a seeming complete willingness to profit from obvious IP theft in some Steam games...

Not so much a big deal for Skyrim, but one of my biggest fears when I heard about this process is the way it would divide up modding communities that rely on other mods. Imagine if the Long War mod for XCOM were put behind a paywall. You'd pretty much have to buy it in order to use any other mods, because most of them are based on it. And in the reverse case, if someone tried making a paid mod based on Long War, you'd have an even bigger issue, because at that point your profit is coming partially from someone else's free work. Skyrim mods tend to be pretty stand alone, which is probably one of the reasons they chose it as a test case, but there are many modding communities that this would have completely torn apart. I don't believe your account was suspended. Your market access was suspended. You could still request further refunds. Valve always have been and will continue to be piss poor at communication between its consumers and itself. Their idea has always been to implement first then get feedback later through various sites and forums. True.  Perhaps Gabe needs to take heed of his own insightful comment from the AMA/Article about how pissing of the Internet can cost you millions... &gt; As usual for Valve, zero responsibility taken for policing blatant IP theft in the mods. Hell, even in full games, Valve has shown a seeming complete willingness to profit from obvious IP theft in some Steam games...

Other than the borderline extortionist 25/75 split, this particular attitude by Valve is what got me aggravated.

Google and YouTube spend *enormous* amounts of effort and money on policing copyright infringement. Valve can't just take a hands-off approach to it. It isn't ethical or even *smart.* They're responsible for that shit.

---

And just as someone with some knowledge of the modding scene on Skyrim... I'm curious how things would have gone if the author of Script Extender for Skyrim would have issued a DMCA over his mod. A mod that almost every single significant mod uses.

That guy alone had some *serious* power in his hands to fuck up the whole situation. &gt; Valve chose the WORST possible game/developer to start this kind of program with.

I was having a think about this earlier... I was surprised that Valve picked Skyrim over, say, Garry's Mod, a game which is owned *entirley* by Valve and revolves around Mods and a strong modding community.

Though there would be a slight irony in adding paid mods to a game that started life as the titular "Garry's Mod" for Halflife 2... I love how there are STILL people going around saying these points aren't valid, or that there aren't ANY valid points. 

It's pretty funny, cause it's so easy to tell that they don't have any good points at all. They just keep saying "Nope, no argument here!", "your just regurgitating the same talking point", or "everyone is cheap but ME!". It makes sense; money is on the line.

Then when they actually talk about one of these points, they just say "It's up to the customer to not get fucked". They want an apple app store quality market for mods; tones of clones and tones of lame paid ones. Excellent summary. Most of these seem fixable, though:

&gt; Piss poor communication in advance of a move that was clearly going to massively change a strong, existing, mod ecosystem.

Well, and not great communication afterwards.

My biggest frustration in all of this was the massive amount of misinformation and kneejerk rage on the part of the community. A huge amount of this might've been averted by better communication. In particular:

&gt; An absolutely absurd money grab attempt with Valve/Bethesda trying to take 75% for little contribution from Valve and zero additional effort from Bethesda. This was made even worse by Valve's initial non-transparency regarding how the money was being split between them.

This actually makes more sense than it seems like. Valve took their usual cut that they take from all paid games, no more, no less. It makes sense that Bethesda gets a cut of the rest, because they provided the engine and a ton of the content -- really, if this seems unfair, remember that the alternative is to go make your own game with your own engine and *still* pay Valve 30%. Or license an engine and pay Valve 30% plus some amount to the engine.

But it probably would've made a lot more sense if these two numbers added up to 50% instead of 75%.

&gt; Zero support from Valve or Bethesda regarding ongoing compatibility of the mods people have already paid for (after the first 24 hours) and zero assurances that the paid mods will be compatible with, even, the other mods for sale on Steam Workshop.

It's hard to see how you *could* make such a guarantee and still make mods any fun. But how could this be done better, honestly, and who should be liable when things break?

For example, if Bethesda is liable, then they'll be less likely to patch things than they are -- remember how long it took them to *turn on compiler optimizations* for Skyrim, something any first-year CS student would know how to do? Plus, the best way to make sure all mods are compatible is to make it so mods can't do anything to interfere with another mod, which would hamstring the API and make most of the mods people care about utterly impossible.

But if mod developers are liable, then how can they hope to make any sort of profit at this? Sooner or later, their mod *will* break and they'll have to either scramble to fix it or lose every penny they made. A time limit would help, but it'd still be a *lot* of work.

&gt; Zero control of bullshit like that one modder that went back to older versions of his/her mod and added pop-up ads nagging the player to buy the for-profit version.

There's nothing stopping that in the first place. What's stopping Valve from going back and updating the original DotA mod to spam people to upgrade to DotA 2? As far as I can tell, the only thing stopping that for most mods is that most mods don't have an autoupdate system like Steam Workshop.

That said, it might've been nice to have a rule about this, but it's hard to imagine how to make that fair. Surely if I'm running version 1.2 of some mod (which was free), and version 3.7 is available on the store, I'd want to at least know about it -- so seeing an ad once or twice is probably a Good Thing. Being spammed constantly would be problematic, though.

&gt; As usual for Valve, zero responsibility taken for policing blatant IP theft in the mods. Hell, even in full games, Valve has shown a seeming complete willingness to profit from obvious IP theft in some Steam games...

Which makes me wonder why people are so pissed about this in mods. It still sucks in full Steam games, but it's not like this is a new problem.

&gt; Valve chose the WORST possible game/developer to start this kind of program with. For as fun as Bethesda games usually are, they are infamous for releasing them absolutely full of bugs (including bugs that make playing and/or beating the game completely impossible) and then NEVER going back to fix them. Some of the very mods that Valve's action could cause to fall behind a pay-wall are mods that people actually NEED just to be able to play the basic game...

You mean the unofficial patches could actually get some funding?

I see your point -- you shouldn't have to pay more than $60 to get a functioning product. But at the same time, a *ton* of work goes into those...

The easy fix would be a donate button. A better option might be a Humble Bundle style pay-what-you-want with a suggested amount, to encourage people to pay more, but to let people pay a penny if they really want it for free.

And altogether, I think this just goes to show that most people really weren't pissed about the implementation. They were pissed about the basic concept, and they were pissed about some of the more inflammatory buzzwords like "Greedy" and "75%". If they were really pissed about the implementation, I would've thought we'd see some suggestions for how to fix it, not demands to kill it. Honestly, most of your "fixes" sound more like being an apologist for Valves shitty behavior.

&gt;My biggest frustration...

* Between Valve and the community, only one is a unified/organized organization.  It's completely irrational to be "frustrated" at the completely reasonable and justified "knee-jerk rage" of the community.  It's completely on Valve to make sure the situation doesn't happen in the future.

&gt;This actually makes more sense...

* No, the money split does NOT make sense.  Nothing entitles Valve to 30%.  I find it absolutely absurd that even both together would be entitled to more than a total of 30%-40% of the sale value of the mod.  I do, however, think that Valve should probably get a higher percentage than the game studio as they, at least, provide hosting services.

&gt;It's hard to see how you could make such a guarantee...

* I, myself, don't exactly know how they would ensure compatibility and, frankly, I don't care.  It's 100% on them to figure it out BEFORE they try to package it as a product and make money off it.  When you make money from something, you get the responsibility for supporting it.

&gt; There's nothing stopping that in the first place...

* The fact that Valve could also go back and commit this kind of shitty behavior with their older games doesn't, in any way, make this behavior acceptable.  You avoid this shit by setting policy and (simultaneously, most importantly and least done by Valve) POLICING/CURATING the shit you let on your service...

&gt;Which makes me wonder why people are so pissed...

* What?  Because people haven't spoken up about something as loudly in the past Valve should get a free pass on it in the future?  That makes no sense.  It's, also, not really true.  There have been numerous complaints made throughout the community about this behavior.  The only difference here is that it happens to be on of a massive pile of shitty things Valve has done all at once.

&gt; You mean the unofficial patches could actually get some funding?

* Seriously?  You don't see the absolute insanity of the idea that Bethesda would be making an additional profit off of a patch to fix the game they left incomplete in the first place?  Or, that Valve is taking advantage of the same situation to make more money from a game they allowed onto their service even thought they knew it was broken... &gt; Between Valve and the community, only one is a unified/organized organization.

Okay, what's your point?

&gt; It's completely irrational to be "frustrated" at the completely reasonable and justified "knee-jerk rage" of the community.

This is incoherent.

If your point is that it's irrational to be frustrated at the community because the community is not unified/organized, then there shouldn't be one unified/organized entity for you to talk about being "reasonable and justified."

If your point is that it's irrational to be frustrated at the community for being reasonable and justified, then I'm not sure what your point about the community not being unified/organized was -- apparently they *are* quite unified on this topic.

&gt; It's completely on Valve to make sure the situation doesn't happen in the future.

No responsibility on the community to read a little more carefully. Got it.

&gt; &gt; This actually makes more sense...

&gt; No, the money split does NOT make sense.

More sense **than it seemes.** Key fucking words, there.

&gt; Nothing entitles Valve to 30%.

Valve takes 30% of pretty much every game, everywhere. Apple takes the same from the App Store. Why are people only angry about this when it comes to mods?

&gt; I do, however, think that Valve should probably get a higher percentage than the game studio as they, at least, provide hosting services.

Hosting is a commodity these days. You really think the engine, artwork, and so on of the game is worth less than that?

&gt; I, myself, don't exactly know how they would ensure compatibility and, frankly, I don't care. It's 100% on them...

Gee, that's constructive. "I want a pony, and it's 100% on them to give me one!"

&gt; When you make money from something, you get the responsibility for supporting it.

Ideally, yes. Practically, this hasn't been the case on Steam for a long time.

&gt; The fact that Valve could also go back and commit this kind of shitty behavior with their older games doesn't, in any way, make this behavior acceptable.

But it does make it very fucking confusing that the community blew up about it when it comes to mods. It's as if everyone was whining that the mods would come with DRM.

&gt; What? Because people haven't spoken up about something as loudly in the past Valve should get a free pass on it in the future?

What? No, I said nothing of the sort. But if all of your complaints are really about Steam in general (as they seem to be), it's irrational to suddenly make the conversation about mods, as though these problems don't exist for other parts of Steam. And it's equally irrational and frankly confusing that everyone's suddenly okay again because Valve stopped charging for mods, but hasn't done anything about the real problems that people supposedly care about.

&gt; Seriously? You don't see the absolute insanity of the idea that Bethesda would be making an additional profit off of a patch to fix the game they left incomplete in the first place?

Okay, I can see that -- it creates a perverse incentive. But frankly, the existence of the unofficial patch already does that. Bethesda has *never* released a properly finished game, and for some reason, has never bothered to incorporate most of the fixes from the unofficial patches. Would that get worse if they were making money from it?

&gt; Or, that Valve is taking advantage of the same situation to make more money from a game they allowed onto their service even thought they knew it was broken...

This is the biggest thing missing about the whole rhetoric: **WHAT DO YOU WANT?**

Do you really, honestly want Valve to reject the next Elder Scrolls game until it's not "broken"? Would you really rather play it on yet another UPlay because yet another publisher couldn't get along with Valve (or vice versa)?

What, exactly, do you want Valve to do other than allow this oh-so-broken game onto their service? &gt;**WHAT DO YOU WANT?**

Isn't it fucking obvious? We want the product we've always purchased to stay the fucking same. We don't want to be nickel and dimed through a system that incentivizes IAP/IA Advertising, intellectual property issues, incomplete main products, and more.

It's not that fucking hard, unless you're *trying* to be a dick. Stop trying to be a dick. &gt; Isn't it fucking obvious?

As you've described it, it's fucking incoherent. As in, self-contradictory. You're asking for a fucking square circle.

&gt; We want the product we've always purchased to stay the fucking same.

No, you don't. You want to mod it. If you didn't, none of this would matter.

And I'll bet money that you want it to be patched for new OSes. (And you do want new OSes, because I'd be shocked if you actually want the [alternative](https://xkcd.com/694/).) I'll bet you even want some performance improvements and bugfixes -- like that Skyrim recompilation.

This is why Steam won in the first place. Because I'll bet you *don't* want to hunt down patches yourself, and sit in line to download them from FilePlanet, and hope they apply in the right order and don't fuck up your CD drive, because of course, *you're playing the game off a CD.* Remember those days? I sure don't want to go back.

&gt; We don't want...

No, that wasn't my question. My question was what DO you want, not what DON'T you want.

&gt; It's not that fucking hard, unless you're *trying* to be a dick.

And that's a non-sequitur. Either I agree completely, or I'm trying to be a dick? Do you hear yourself?

While we're at it, you could stop being an angsty teenager who's pissed at the state of the world and offer something constructive, something we could all actually rally behind, something beyond "Shit sucks." Because that's really all you've said so far. 
&gt;No, you don't. You want to mod it. If you didn't, none of this would matter.

I want exactly what we have: a full-featured game with the option to mod for those who want it. I want what existed with CS, and what currently exists for Skyrim. Updates work fine, as is. Modding works fine as is. Nothing needs to change, nothing needs to "return" to some ridiculous 90s state, nobody is going broke here to justify these changes.

&gt;And that's a non-sequitur. Either I agree completely, or I'm trying to be a dick? Do you hear yourself?

Yeah, and I hear you. Talk about teenagers. I'm actually a career economist who doesn't play games anymore. 

Cut the crap, sit down, and let the adults discuss. &gt; I want exactly what we have...

Really? That's quite a change from your opinion in your initial reply. Weren't you the one who said:

&gt; The fact that Valve could also go back and commit this kind of shitty behavior with their older games doesn't, in any way, make this behavior acceptable.

So now the status quo is acceptable?

Or is it just that *mods* are fine as is and games aren't? Because if that's what you're saying, that sounds an awful lot like "I don't think modders should make money."

&gt; I'm actually a career economist who doesn't play games anymore.

...so why should we care about your opinion in a discussion about how games should work? Tell me more about your vast experience with modding and games as they are. &gt;Weren't you the one who said:

Nope. Looks like you need help reading, too.

Again: let the educated talk this one through. Whatever fanboyism/shill/corporate apologist agenda you have can be left at the the entrance. This isn't your space, and shouldn't be anyone's, really. If none of that makes sense to you, then you need to read more. There was nothing logically wrong with Valve's proposal.  

The first problem was news releases that spread ignorant rumors like "Valve is taking 75% of the modder's profits"!  By the time we found out that was a lie (Bethesda was actually taking more than Valve was), we had the idiot brigade here at reddit already hours into their foam-specked outrage and by that point they didn't care about any facts that contradicted their narrative.

The second problem is that the free mod community isn't broken, so there's not much push to fix it.  It's possible that we'd see even better mods under a paid model... but it's also possible that every mod author out there would start nickel and diming everyone and the community would suffer.

So Valve decided to support modders who wanted to charge for their content.  Those modders would give a percentage to the people who made the base game, and a percentage to Valve for distributing.  

I'm glad the idea crashed and burned, but most of the critics had no effing clue what they were bitching about. &gt; but it's also possible that every mod author out there would start nickel and diming everyone and the community would suffer.

My god... can you imagine authors releasing mod packs in several smaller packages that all compile together to make a complete pack? That would just be atrocious. DLC for your mod packs. And then 1 modder doesn't do that, and he gets all the sales, while those trying to nickel and dime their customers are left with nickels and dimes. Let's be real, a good analogy for this whole thing is the iPhone/Google play store. 1% are great games, 99% are copyright infringement, skinner boxes, or straight up shit. Because why try to make 1 great product when you can make 5 shitty ones in the same time, and still make money? After all, look at all of the Minecraft ripoffs  I thought the other day thats the way you would want to go. After say 12-18 months, when the majority of mods are established somewhat, have a super-pack for purchase, and all the best are bundled in. Have only these pack be able to be charged for, so you gotta make a decent mod for it to be included, and a history of looking after it, and i guess providing them in one pack would have some scale of efficiency when making them compatible with updates. I'm not sure I agree with the idea that modders could even possibly start nickel and diming people for their content. In order to make it worth the effort to make a mod, they would have to make a quality one that people would be willing to buy. The market here would be entirely up to the consumers. If someone makes a bad mod or one that doesn't have enough content for the price, no one would buy it. The most successful mods would be the ones that the most people want to buy under this model. Now we're back to modders having no way to make money for the effort they put in, and no incentive to attract talented producers that could make the market even more competitive, from which consumers would ultimately benefit. Hit the nail on the head.

Not a bad plan objectively but as a gamer, happy they backed down I am sorry, but the split thing was outrageous nonetheless, not for the part corresponding to valve, but for the bethesda's. Was free money for them and contributed little for what they actually took in this deal. 

At the end, I do think that Skyrim was the worst option to start such a system. For what it's worth, I would have been happier with a more generous split myself. The problem is that the modder is doing 100% of the work on the mod and only getting 25% of the pay. Not only that, they have to sell their mod for a total of $400 USD since the minimum payout was $100. The problem most people had with this system was that the modders weren't getting paid, not that Valve was getting paid the most. Even if Bethesda said, "Give us 40%.", Valve still gets the rest plus ALL of the modders money up until they sell enough to get a payout - which, let's be honest, unless they were super popular mods - would never happen.

As for the second problem. The mod community *wasn't* broken, emphasis on wasn't. The very moment this was announced, a lot of modders immediately jumped on board. SkyUI went pay to use almost immediately, a mod that a lot of other mods outright requires to run. And then there was all those fuckers who put fucking popups asking for money in the game. They would literally pause the game, open a popup and tell you to buy the paid version on the steam store.

It's not possible the community would suffer, IT FUCKING DID. Valve was never in this to fix the mod community or help the modders earn some money for their work. They were in this to earn money themselves, and for no other reason.

In one fell swoop, they ruined an entire community and broke a LOT of trust between modders and users. Especially now that they removed this paywall and modders are now standing there looking like idiot assholes.

As for helping modders, **the community was already doing that, using donations. You know, money that went 100% to the modders and not some shitty 25% lame ass cut** because two other companies that barely had involvment decided they were entitled to the money and time spent of other peoples' work.

God, not to mention all the stolen shit that went up on the store.. ugh. &gt; The problem is that the modder is doing 100% of the work on the mod and only getting 25% of the pay

No, no, and HELL no.  The modder is using the Bethesda art, AI, gameplay design, music, without which he wouldn't HAVE a mod.

Also, if the modder is using steam to distribute the game, he's not hosting the website, hiring the IP lawyers to resolve the disputes, handling the sales backbone, or spending a penny on advertising.

Both Valve and Bethesda have been modders' best friends for a long time running now.  My own decision to go with steam stemmed from Valve's going out of their way to support the Oblivion Script Extender at a time when all of their competitors were saying "tough luck" to complaints that their DRM was getting in the way.

If a modder wants to rely on donations, I hear that the Nexus has one.  Valve didn't touch it.  Have YOU tipped the jar lately?

ONLY those people who want to profit from piggybacking off of Bethesda's game design AND from Valve's massive distribution capacity need share with anyone for services rendered.

P.S.  Doesn't the "stolen shit" you're bitching about directly contradict your claim that Valve was trying to get something for doing nothing?  If they didn't close down the program, they eventually would have had to sort out who owned what.  Did you think magical cost-free police fairies were going to do that? &gt; The modder is using the Bethesda art, AI, gameplay design, music, without which he wouldn't HAVE a mod.

That argument would make sense if modders were releasing stand-alone games using Bethesda IP, but they're just improving the value of Bethesda's product and boosting sales for them. If anything, *Bethesda should pay the modders*. This, how do people not see that Bethesda is already getting a huge boost from modders? Them wanting money from mods is disgusting. &gt; The modder is using the Bethesda art, AI, gameplay design, music, without which he wouldn't HAVE a mod.

I'm going to call bullshit on this. Have you seen some of those mods for Skyrim? A lot of them are 100% completely original content that are either super-imposed on the game or replacing shitty elements of the game. Either way, the only thing Bethesda has contributed is the base game - for which they have already been paid in full.

You tell me, what exactly has Bethesda contributed to, say, SkyUI or the Oblivion/Skyrim Script Extender? How much have they contributed to the custom mesh/model weapons, armors and spells? It's a facetious question, I apologize, the answer is **nothing**. A lot of the custom content made can just as well be used for other games.

Bethesda has already been paid for the game, why should they also get paid for the mods?

EDIT:
&gt; P.S. Doesn't the "stolen shit" you're bitching about directly contradict your claim that Valve was trying to get something for doing nothing? If they didn't close down the program, they eventually would have had to sort out who owned what. Did you think magical cost-free police fairies were going to do that?

Not at all. Curating is almost entirely nonexistant on Steam. The only reason they would EVER remove something or even look into it would be if they got a complaint, and even then I would imagine they would require the person leaving the complaint to prove they own the mod. They are not going to put effort into any system like that. It's obviously going to cost money curate mods, but they're not going to spend it on mods when they're **not even doing it for the GAMES on their store**. &gt; Not at all. Curating is almost entirely nonexistant on Steam.

Well obviously, since the program is shut down.

But they would have had to do so eventually, as lawyers love their class actions.

As for the rest, if you don't know how ownership of middleware works, I'm not enough of a teacher to tell you. I was talking about actually taking care of the things in their store, not the curation program. You can google the word "curator" if you don't know what it means or how it's used in this context.

As for the class actions, perhaps you could give me a link to a case where a lawyer has forced a store or online storefront to curate and/or administrate their wares? I kind of feel like there's no precedent, but I may be wrong and since you brought it up, well..

If you don't know how to support your own arguments, I don't have enough patience to deal with you. I'd suggest you don't engage in discourse or discussions at all if you don't have the fucks necessary to carry a discussion further than "i don't have to educate you so i win automatically". Well at least we agree that we don't give enough fucks to deal with the other. Aw, no. Come on, I still love you, man. We just have differing opinions and no social skills. :( But Valve was taking 75% of their profits. Valve arranged the whole thing, so does it really matter that valve is only taking 30% (Still way too high), and Bethesda is getting 45% (Why the hell is Bethesda even involved?)?   

I agree that's maybe not the core of the issue, the main concern is that they were trying to fix something not broken, but it was still a blatant cash grab (If it had worked out), and I'm a little peeved about that as well.

 If it truly doesn't matter whether Valve is collecting for itself or for someone else, then to be consistent have you punched a cashier for collecting sales tax?

 I'm not a man of violence, of course I wouldn't punch a cashier...what do they have to do with how much tax I'm charged, anyways?  

At least with sales tax there's a valid reason for them collecting it, and it's not thrice as expensive as the price tag on the food.  

Now, if the store I was buying food from suddenly introduced a 45% tax to subsidize their own workers, so they don't have to pay them, and a 30% tax for a mandatory carryout to my car, I would be getting pretty angry.
 &gt; I'm not a man of violence, of course I wouldn't punch a cashier...what do they have to do with how much tax I'm charged, anyways? 

They are the ones who collect it so that they can turn it over to a third party.  Sort of how like Steam was turning over the royalties demanded by Bethesda. Not really, they just ring up transactions. I might be splitting hairs I suppose, but it's the company itself that collects it and turns it over to the government.   
  
But again, there is some valid rationale for that at least. Steam I get, they're the store, providing goods they didn't make and keeping a (not so) small cut. The government I get, they're basically analogous to the taxes that are already in play on steam. What makes no sense is Bethesda. It's like me buying a loaf of bread and some butter at the store, and the store charging a 45% bread tax on my butter.  

"Why does the bread company get a 45% bread tax on butter? They have nothing to do with butter?" I say.  And the store replies, "Well, butter is an addon for bread, so even though the bread company didn't have anything to do with the butter, they charge a tax on it because you're going to use that butter on your bread." &gt; What makes no sense is Bethesda.

It makes some sense, but maybe not 45% amount of sense, and also why is all the hate sticking to Valve if Beth is being the hog? I really don't think it makes any sense at all. Modern intellectual property rights have gotten pretty ridiculous.  

I can't speak for anyone else, but I was pretty ticked at both companies. Bethesda for trying to get a piece of the pie, and such a huge piece at that. Steam for allowing Bethesda to choose, and for taking as big a piece as they waned to.   

If there was no way to do it without cutting Bethesda in, then they should never have tried it in the first place. I think they were both being hogs, but we kinda knew Bethesda was like that. Valve should know better than to let the hog loose in the cornfield.   Thank you for saying this. I feel like people are too quick to jump on hate trains, especially when they don't have all the facts. While we differ on the subject of whether this program should've continued, I would like to thank you for actually taking the time to understand the facts. Valve could have put their foot down when Bethesda asked for their ridiculous cut.  They chose not to.  Valve doesn't own the intellectual property rights to the game, so legally they can't put their foot down.

But notice how far we've strayed from the "Valve is greedy" to "Valve should have done more to prevent Bethesda from being greedy".

It's almost as if no one even cares if Valve was actually being greedy, as long as they can keep reaching for excuses and reasons to keep on blaming Valve, no matter how tenuous the connection gets. &gt; Valve doesn't own the intellectual property rights to the game, so legally they can't put their foot down.

They can put their foot down by saying "you get a reasonable cut that reflects the fact that *everyone using the mod store has already paid you for access to your content*, or we don't allow paid mods *at all*".  That is, you can have some free money, or no free money.  Your choice.

Frankly, I find Valve's 25% cut to be pretty high, but at least they're providing a service by facilitating the mod shop.  Bethesda is just double dipping, plain and simple, Exactly.   
This system would be cool if Bethesda got their greedy paws out of it entirely, and valve accepted their role as a middleman who supports literally nothing and took only a 5% cut.   
  
Even then, it's still kind of a middle finger to the nexus.   &gt; so legally they can't put their foot down.  

If that is true, if steam couldn't have proceeded without bringing Bethesda into it with them and completely restructuring (ruining) the current relationship between modders and games, then they really should have known better than to have even tried.  
  
Between half finished games, with day 1 addons, dlc, expansion packs, etc... and an overabundance of half assed gave development, I think people would be more hostile now than ever to see game dev's attempting to monetize their modders. What's next? "Buy our game engine and dialogue pack! No graphics or gameplay until you purchase a graphics and gamepack from our mods store!"   
   
Enough is enough. Fuck off, Bethesda. Know your place, Steam. Why should they, and how could they?

Bethesda owns the Skyrim property. It's theirs to do with as they see fit. Bethesda's cut wasn't really all that outlandish. If you chose to make a Star Wars game, you'd pay a shitload of money to Disney.

That's why the only real way to make money off of licensed material is to sell a shitload of it. Honestly, even at 25%, this was a pretty good deal for modders. With over 20 million copies sold and anywhere from 1.5-3 million PC copies out there, that's a *lot* of mods you could sell if you made a good one.

Imagine selling a $5 mod to 500,000 people. That's still $625,000 in your pocket.

People who don't understand the business ecosystem got riled up about the revenue distribution, without realizing that it was pretty much right in line with normal licensing fees. But that's the problem with the Internet. It's not really all that well educated on a broad number of topics.

The other worries about the modder ecosystem were reasonable though, to be fair. The modders and the people who download their mods have already paid Bethesda for access to Skyrim's content. Doesn't matter what you paid for, because you're not buying another copy of Skyrim, you would be buying a mod for Skyrim. The modder didn't pay for Skyrim, so he has to give up a cut of the revenue of his mod to the developer who did.

Remember the part where I said "people who don't understand the business ecosystem"?  That's you! &gt; The modder didn't pay for Skyrim, so he has to give up a cut of the revenue of his mod to the developer who did.

Wow.  Ya know, it's interesting.  There are varying degrees of wrong.  Some things are a matter of opinion, some things are false *most of the time*, but your above statement is literally wrong in a hundred percent of cases of modders posting to the mod store.  In order to mod Skyrim, you need to have *paid for skyrim*.

&gt; Remember the part where I said "people who don't understand the business ecosystem"? That's you!

If you're going to be snide, you should take care to know what the fuck you're talking about. No, goofball, you bought *a copy* for personal use. You did not buy the rights to modify, redistribute, and sell a Skyrim product. That's what rights are, kiddo.

Good fucking lord. Did you hit your head this morning, or are you always this stupid? Nice backpedal. 

Those rights clearly aren't worth 40 percent of the price of the mod.  You know how I know that?  Because the vary majority of Skyrim modders agree that a 25% cut is bullshit.   Bethesda can set whatever *price* they want, but the actual *value* of that thing depends on1 demand, and the *demand* for those rights (which, unlike the other licensing deals you're referring to, require that the customer has already paid Bethesda directly) clearly isn't high enough to support Bethesda's exorbitant price, or more modders would have been on board.  Backpedal? You're clearly delusional, lol.

I explained the process of licensing in the first post I made, but you think I'm backpedaling. Kiddo, you're out of your depth. One of us works in marketing for a company pushing ten figures in revenue, and the other is you, spouting off on the Internet about a subject you *clearly* have no understanding of.

You can consider whatever you want to be "clearly" or "clearly not" bullshit, but you don't hold the rights to the property [so...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86MO-JWTNjo). 

You're trying to move the goalposts. And I understand. After being humiliated, you want to find a way to change the discussion so you can win. But I'm smarter than you. The reality is that if Bethesda set their share too high and they make no money, then that's their business loss. At no point does it give you jurisdiction to set the price for a license to profit off of Skyrim. That is, and always will be, the sole domain of the owner of the Skyrim property. At this time, being Bethesda.

Run along kiddo. There are adults talking here.

 &gt; Bethesda's cut wasn't really all that outlandish. If you chose to make a Star Wars game, you'd pay a shitload of money to Disney.

And if you choose to make a Elder Scrolls game, you'd pay a lot of money to Bethesda, but that's not what is happening here. At 25%, this was an awful deal for modders, do you know how many modders are going to sell 500k copies of a 5$ mod? Probably none. Any mod that can draw that much attention in is probably going to be a collaborative mod by a ton of modders.   

The revenue distribution right now is that modders get 100%. Steam isn't offering support for mods, so they're not really making them any more accessible, why the hell should any modder in their right mind agree to giving up 75% of their profits just so their mods can be seen and bought on steam?  

As for rights, like I said, modders aren't making a new game, they're replacing parts of an existing game, they're upgrading it, and they're doing it for free. If anything, they should be the ones asking Bethesda for money for fixing their buggy, half-finished game. You still don't understand how license material works. That's *exactly* what is happening here. You're making a Skyrim product, and attempting to sell it using the name, and to that product's customer base. You're thinking too small, and you don't see the connection, but that's okay, I understand you're not well educated on the subject.

You don't make a lot of money because you don't own the property you are licensing. At *every* turn and in *every* industry, you will pay a license fee for the rights to profit off of somebody else's property. How do I know this? I work for a large group of retail brands, one of which sells some licensed products. Guess what? The margins aren't very good on them.

If you think it's an awful deal, it's only because you're naive to the business of license, and think little modders should get things for free.

If you think Bethesda's games are poorly made and broken, your only option as a consumer is to *not buy them*. That's it. Your pithy, whiny bullshit about modders doing Bethesda a favor are just that, nothing more. Whether the game was crappy or not, it still sold 20 million copies. And Bethesda keeps making games, and selling millions of copies, so you guys aren't learning apparently, and have nobody to blame but yourselves. You still don't get to (legally) make money off the Bethesda licenses without paying them a cut.

If you were to build a game from scratch, then attempt to distribute it and market it, you'd find that your costs would run pretty high, possibly higher than 75% of your revenue. In the case of mods, you're not doing any of that work. Bethesda made and marketed Skyrim for you, and Valve has built the infrastructure you're using to sell it.

You want all of that for free, and that's not how the real world works. Right now, modders can bypass the legal issue of license fees and get 100% of what they can convince people to donate and have to market it themselves by word of mouth. And that's not even necessarily a bad thing. And modders would have retained that ability even with Steam's new setup if they deemed that was their best course of action. But if they didn't, and they wanted the Valve distribution network, then they had to pay out a cut.

Like I said, you don't make money in license work unless you sell in large volumes, because you don't own the IP. If this upsets you, you make your own games.  &gt;I'm glad the idea crashed and burned

I'm not. Valve was testing the waters with Skyrim - people got *outraged* at what amounted to a test, so much so that the test couldn't be completed. Now, we have no idea if the accusations people were making were baseless. Would the ability to sell mods ruin the "culture of modding?" Would there have been rampant issues of people stealing other people's mods and selling them? Would games be affected or worsened because modders could do developers' jobs for them? Would Valve fail to adequately police the system?

We have no idea. Most of the things that people were mad about were things that they thought *could* happen, but there was little to no evidence for. Valve made the right decision in listening to their customers, but I would have much rather seen what would have happened in the long term. 

To me, giving people the option to sell mods makes perfect sense from a free market perspective. Giving people *options* shouldn't terrify us - you shouldn't restrict the sale of a good because you're worried what will happen to the culture where it was given away for free. ''It should be illegal to sell paintings because paintings should only be done out of the love of art and given away for free, you'll ruin painting culture if you try to monetize them." That sentiment is groundless and practically anti-capitalism. 

It's okay to be critical of the system that's put in place. It's okay to voice your concern that people will be stealing other people's mods and selling them, that more money should go to the modders, or that the system could have been done better. What's *not* okay were the hoards of people with limited understanding of the situation shouting in anger and accusing Valve of greed, just because in the past they didn't have to pay for mods and now they might have to pay for some. I agree for the most part, though the free mod community is already so amazing and rich it's hard to imagine such major changes to it being a net good.  

Realistically, it probably wouldn't have worked out all that well for Skyrim.  The script extender is "copylefted", as I understand, and this would have been a major hurdle for modders wanting to make anything more complex than a reskin of a sword. I saw this reply on the /r/skyrimmods subreddit. The user said it could be copy pasted so I'll just leave it here (sorry about the wall of text, but I think it sums up the argument against this program pretty well):

I am a modder. I helped contribute to Mass Effect mods (MEHEM, CEM, and Harby Module, specifically). Now, I have not contributed to Skyrim mods, but I feel that I have enough experience on modding itself that I can at least have a justified opinion on the subject of Valve charging for mods.

Basically, it is a terrible idea

"Why is that? Don't good modders deserve support?" some may ask. Absolutely. Black Mesa, for instance, is a good example of a mod that might deserve monetary compensation. Counter Strike started as a mod too. As a modder and a human, I like money. But this isn't the way to go about it.
This situation Valve started is terrible, because it has resulted in, or will result in, the following:
First, Valve, you have now made "modder" a dirty word here on the steam forums almost overnight. Thanks a bunch. You have now divided PC consumers and modders, when we used to be a pretty tight bunch.

Second, I now see mods going up that are little tiny swords and whatnot going up for sale. Bundles already that cost more than the game itself. In other words, I am concerned about a complete influx of mods that are completely useless and tiny and unsupported and updated, just because of money-grabbers who want a piece of the pie.
Third, this leads to microtransaction hell. Hell for consumers, and a deluge of stuff to compete against for us modders. This isn't healthy competition. It is gonna be cutthroat. Thanks again for taking the fun out of it.

Fourth, there will be inevitable stealing of other's people's content and then selling it as their own. Some may claim that because they modified another mod's content, they now have created their own mod and are free to sell. I disagree. They are making money at the expense of others.

Fifth, you have a "return policy," if it is even worth of the name, that is full of holes. First, 24hrs isn't much time to test if a mod will glitch out or not. Ever heard of a standard 14 or 30 day return policy? Let's say a consumer buys a mod, then one week later the modder releases an update. This update has a bug, and the game crashes or glitches out. Then let's say, for whatever reason (even a good one. Like real life got in the way) the modder doesn't release an update to fix the bug. Before today, big deal. You could either uninstall the mod or revert to a previous version. Given it was free, most people wouldn't complain too much. But NOW, a consumer will likely be stuck with a useless piece of software they paid good money for. Software that now is worth zilch. They will be, understandably, really upset, with no way to get their money back.

Lastly, you, Valve, are likely hurting good, legal sites like Nexus Mods as some greedy people take their mods, or the "premium versions" off the site in favor of posting to the Steam Workshop. These sites rely on advertising revenue to run, and you will very likely hurt this revenue. Why do that? You used to have a reputiation of siding with the underdog. It is not like you are in competition with people like Nexus. It is not like they are EA, taking a corner of the market. And it isn't even like you really need the money Valve. This just feels to me like a cash cow. A move EA would be proud of, sadly.
As a modder, I disapprove of this move Steam. This may have far reaching consequences, for everyone involved.

As for the rest of you, if you are still reading (thanks by the way) please support the effort against this initiative by Valve. Sign the petition here https://www.change.org/p/valve-remove-the-paid-content-of-the-steam-workshop
More importantly, speak with your wallets. The best way to change this policy is to not spend One. Single. Cent. on mods. No matter what. (please copy and share as you will) People wanted mods to stay free forever so they ranted and spread false information.

Valve caved to entitled manchildren. Those entitled manchildren are Valve's lifeblood.

Call 'em names all you want, but the fact remains they won. To add to Manty5's post, there's also the matter of support. If Bethesda releases DLC, we can expect them to provide technical support if there's an issue. We don't have that with most modders. It's also possible for two completely functional mods to conflict with each other. If we paid for both, why should we have to choose between them? A mod might even conflict with official DLC which makes no one happy. 

Also, as the article pointed out, it makes for a weird fuzzy area about who made what (ex: there was a paid fishing mod that was removed because it allegedly used animations from another mod). I don't think anyone wants to see claims on mod content like we do on YouTube nor should people be charging for others' work when the original modder released it without charge. 

There were a lot of problems with how they tried to do this. If it was a total-conversion mod like G-Mod, Counterstrike, etc. then I can understand.

But the mods they were attempting to charge people for were more like microtransactions. Like armour, weapons etc. Nothing was wrong with it except for the way it was introduced to people. It was a good move poorly executed. They shit all over a pre-established community. 

The percentage isn't absurd, 30% goes to steam, 45% goes to game developer. 25% in mod makers hands. However the mod makers have 0 reach without steam and without the games, being fully dependent on two platforms is a bit ridiculous. I do think bethesda's cut was high though, it shouldn't have surpassed steams, 30/30/40 would have been more fair, but people don't even like giving steam 30%, so there is always going to be outcry.

There was also the issue of rampant copyright infringement in the mod community, which was all well and good until money came into the picture. A WHOLE lot was wrong - not with the concept of "Let modders make money," but in the details and execution.

1.  Steam support does absolutely ZERO to protect consumers from fraudulent sellers unless "the internet" finds out about it and gets mad.

2.  It would be very easy to steal mods you didn't make and sell them for your own profit, or misrepresent your mods as functioning when they aren't.  It would be easy to make a quick and dirty release, charge for it, and drop support - one patch later leaving all of your paying customers with a broken mod and no "24 hour refund"

3.  Some mods being monetized were required elements of hundreds of other mods and utterly vital to modding the game at all.  Example:  SkyUI.  All of those hundreds of other mods requiring SkyUI were developed by people who never expected that users might have to pay for something else.  That alone broke the modding community.

4.  While they claimed they would offer 24 hour refunds, I doubt that would've been the case for long.  Try to get a refund for an Early Access game after it changes its description into something entirely different than what you paid for.  They will tell you to fuck off.  

5.  Steam makes money every time someone gets screwed by a fraudulent developer - and there are many of them out there.  Do some digging and it won't take long, or just look at high-profile examples like WarZ or CitiesXXX...XX...X...XL.  Whatever they claim, they have very little incentive to do anything aside from the bare minimum to prevent people from rage-quitting their service.

If Steam did more to enforce ethical business practices on their service, it would be a different matter entirely.  If they hadn't allowed compilations of mods from lots of different authors to be sold by a single person without any credit to the many contributors, it would've been different. If it didn't completely break the experience of modding the game for the user, it would be different.

But it was going to do all of those things and was amazingly, astonishingly poorly thought out.  This was pretty obvious to anyone who had spent significant amounts of time attempting to mod their Skyrim install and then playing it - you can't just say "Go ahead, sell mods!" and have it work.  There are *details*. The biggest issue is that mods are the result of large-scale collaboration and open sharing of resources. In fact most mods are made by people who take someone else's mod and tweak it or expand it based on their limited knowledge. More skilled developers take pride in putting out an advanced foundation that other, less skilled modders can add to.

As soon as money enters the picture, suddenly everyone is pit against each other. Why waste your time sharing an advanced mod when someone else is just going to put lipstick on it and sell it for $1.99? Why waste your time extending an existing mod (a lot of Skyrim mods depend on SkyUI, for instance) when the original developer can convert it to a paid mod at any time? Abandoned mods right now are often picked up by other developers to keep it active. All that collaboration that made the modding community great goes out the window.

Then there's copyright issues. A lot of mods are made quickly because they are not bogged down by copyright. Who cares where you found that texture or soundbyte? Throw it in. It's non-commercial fair use. Use assets from a different game if you want to. Mods based on movie franchises, or celebrities, or real products/companies, are all fair game. The mod community has a gigantic library of freely shared assets for people to use, but as soon as it's commercialized, people pull their stuff out and claim ownership. Many of the things some people took down over the last week still haven't been re-shared.

Then there's support issues. Mods may or may not break the game or be compatible with other mods. It's all unofficial "use at your own risk" type stuff. I mean you're literally hacking the game code and sharing what you did.

As soon as you charge a single penny for mods it completely changes the landscape. A problem that does not exist with a donation system. Still, a 25% cut is absurd and probably what got most people outside the modding community outraged. Valve+Bethesda could maybe justify a small fee if they tested and distributed the best mods with a mod installation system and support. People would still complain about paid DLC, but would probably tolerate it if the mods were substantial enough (and not previously free).

Bethesda trying to collect money from mods is laughable. Modders are literally improving the value of their product for them (in fact some of the most popular mods are just a collection of bug fixes), and Bethesda is profiting from increased sales due to mods. If anything Bethesda should be paying the modders! TL;DR: gamers are fucking retards who want everything for free and found the idea that some mod makers might make money from their mods insanely offensive. right or wrong, certain folks just don't like paying for something they used to get for free even if its entirely optional and/or extremely beneficial. While yes the intention is to help support modders, I don't think it was done in a positive  manner. From what I understand, for every mod sold, valve kept 75% of the profits and gave 25% to the modders so that's  really not a whole lot and is ripping off some talented work. Also, it can screw up the cooperation  in modding. Some of the best mods I know(Coming from Arma 3) have been made with the work of several modders. People will be less likely to work together on mods if it becomes a paid feature. I feel like I'm missing something else but can't think of it atm. Anyway, I hope this helped a little. Just FYI, Valve charged their standard 30%, and let Bethesda decide on what they wanted to take. Bethesda chose to take 45%, which left the modders with only 25%. Valve wasn't taking 75% for themselves.  Okay. That break down makes more sense. Still, the modders only get 25. Not enough for some of their work imo.  I agree, just letting you know! Haha I know:p You are. Even if several modders do decide to work together, trying to figure out how to pay all of them might become a mess. 

Not to mention, modders would then need to be careful about using resources from other mods, lest they need to compensate for any sales. And how do you know how far down the mod rabbit hole a particular piece of a mod goes? 

In short, adding money to the mix would likely turn it into a legal slugfest.  Yeah this was seen in Arma's modding contest. There were a lot of smaller mods that were made, albeit amazing, and the bigger ones didn't come out until after because people didn't want to share secrets that could cost them the prize Because there was no need for that. Mods were a great passtime and a comunity effort made by fans to fans. The modders did not wanted to be paid fir mod UNTIL Valve said they could. Now we have a situation in where:

- no support to broken mods or mods latter broken by other mods or updates.

- incentive to corporations to use their employers to mask DLC as mods

- incentive to people stealing mods and claiming as their own for profit

- problems of division of profit over a community effort

- difficulty in cooperation

- reduction of the mod userbase


Valve tried to fix something that was not broken. And that does not even emglobes that to gain realmoney you had to win more than 400 bucks,  that they only get 25% cut etc. 

Free mods and workshop kept players on steam, on PC and buying games long after launch. Mods increase the game life span and charging for mods goes agains that. Modders can receive donations sure, but there was no modder outcry for payment BEFORE valve told them they shoul be paid. They were doing it for passion and now they must be paid? This was a cade of valve and bethesda wanting more money. Nothing more. &gt;having created **Valve**, which is easily the most popular hub for PC games

That is *Steam*, you Business Insider nitwits. That's because there are no longer any nobodies. Every word you say is judged on its merit, and if it resonates, you could potentially reach tens of millions of people. 
Executives are used to being able to make edicts regarding their products and services, and those small numbers of people who are negatively impacted would just get carried along by the wave of people who weren't. Those days are over. Now, people can be made aware of shitty decisions, or those that benefit a corporation over a content creator, and can decide whether to pursue a relationship with that corporation or not.
Personally, I think that trend will continue, and even Google and Facebook will eventually realize that the days of top-down direction are over.  Now, you don't get to run a business, selling what you want to sell in the manner you want to sell it. You get to sell what the consumers want to buy, and in the manner the consumers want to buy it. It's always been that way for small businesses, so it's not economic disaster.
 "there are no longer any nobodies"

LOL, oh yes there are. I mean that nobody is a *persistent* or permanent nobody. Every person has the potential to influence others. 
 No one cares about what you have to say unless your "opinion" coincides with that of a large loud mob. Well or if it is a good original opinion, in which case you had the potential to influence others anyway. could someone eli5 to me exactly how this was costing valve money? i honestly dont understand how it could cost valve that much due to angry emails It appears to be from what they have to pay to host the emails and for paying people to read them... though I get a thick sneaking suspicion that this is to appeal to gamers egos... I kind of feel bad for whoever came up with the idea. Depending on who they are and their place in their company, they could be in some deep shit. Why hasn't EA filed for bankruptcy?  They just can't stop making so damned much money. If you piss off the internet you're gonna have a bad day. &gt; having created Valve, which is easily the most popular hub for PC games

I really wish no one paid any attention to Business Insider. At least some companies know how to listen to their customers.

Lookin at you EA Valve should probably invest in doing some polls and/or focus groups before releasing new features like this. They also shouldn't do things like take such a huge cut from tiny, independant modders. Nor, for that matter, should the game developer get any money from mods, they already got paid for the work they did, they shouldn't get paid for other peoples' work. In fact in some rare cases the original game developer should either pay or hire modders when their mods increase sales of the base game.

All that said Ido think paid modding is a bit of a bad idea in general, I'm of the opinion it should be donationware. Couldn't read story, spooky skeleton blocking progression.  And giving it precisely what it wants can MAKE you a million bucks in just a couple days:  www.robertsspaceindustries.com

Just, seriously.... we thought VALVE of all companies knew this. You mean pissing off your customers right? Photo-realistic horse genitals, $125. Can I get armor for it? Just for the nuts. Taint armor or gtfo &gt;meatshield Lol, you were ripped off - they were only $99.99 when I bought them earlier. 10/10 Would wang again. Fuck, I better get Falskaar before it jumps to steam too.

Edit: Got it! I'll see you guys later! http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/37994/?  Thank you. You beautiful bastard. Does anybody know how I can download this game "Completely Free Art of the Catch?" Apparently it has a lot of free content aside from the fishing minigame. iirc the creator was offered a job at bungie and this mod was the rsum. I don't think he'll be charging for it anytime soon. Who said it was him who would be charging for it? Thing is, I totally wouldn't mind giving the creators of Falskaar $5 or $10 because they earned it. In that regard, paying for a mod doesn't really sting as much. I'm with the same opinion a lot of other people are, give us an optional choice to donate to the mod author. That way, the guys making the really great mods like Falskaar get what they deserve and the smaller mods like reskins or fishing aren't forced on us with a paywall.  [deleted] Looks like that 75% goes to the Publisher of the game (not Valve) [EDIT: Valve may actually still take some as well], and the specific amount seems to be set by the Publisher as well.

&gt; The percentage of Adjusted Gross Revenue that you are entitled to receive will be determined by the developer/publisher of the Application [e.g., Skyrim] associated with the Workshop to which you have submitted your Contribution (Publisher), and will be described on the applicable Workshop page.

Valve, Workshop Legal Agreement,  1, http://steamcommunity.com/workshop/workshoplegalagreement/?appid=72850 [deleted] Well, it makes sense.  The game is copyrighted material.  The modder cannot legally make money without the consent of the game devs.  The game dev gives consent for a cut of the profits.  The modder can either choose to mod for free or take a cut.  Let's not kid ourselves into forgetting that there would be no mod without the original game.  Modders have no negotiating leverage.  They're really lucky to get as much as 25%.

I'm not saying I agree with selling mods, but if someone wants to sell their mod, they can't expect to get 100% of the money.   A bright side some people may ignore is that with the financial incentive for mods, game devs may offer greater support to modding communities and use less hardcoding or make the EULA more friendly towards modding it. Or realease broken and unfinished games and expect modders to finish it for them and get a cut of their hard work. This is already happening lol By the very same developer that this system is currently being supported by. The unfinished game part is what worries me. They could deliberately cut content or features fans want and expect, then profit off of the work of a modder who just wants that god damn feature back. It's DLC to the next level. It's like multi-level DLC. What the fuck. It's a double edge sword. And its only 99 cents. Its the publisher trying to profit from the continuing popularity of their game that is the result of all the modders. They don't care about the modders or the mods, only that they found a way to turn a profit off of the hard work of someone else. The entire home flight simulator industry is build on paid mods, there are plenty of mods that are more expensive than flightsimulator X or Xplane alone. That said, I don't like it in steam, it could take a title like cities:skylines and do all those annoying DLC things I hate but by modders instead. I agree, but instead of paying for a mod you should be able to leave a tip or something.  I've downloaded Falskaar, played it, enjoyed it, and have seen how much detail and work went into it.  If it cost me money upfront I probably wouldn't have downloaded it. You'll have to give steam 15 bucks if you want to give the creators of Falskaar $5! :(

Edit: Communication skill is still at 13. I was thinking "15 + 5 = 20" but my fingers typed out some confusing babble. Just gotta keep skilling up communication. It's on steam and free. Downloading on Steam is such fucking bad idea.

I cannot imagine the cluster fuck the next ES game will be, when every game update breaks all your mods, the modders updating their own mods breaks your saves, and its a Bethesda game so maybe your saves just break themselves. Besides, with Steam, you don't even get to use Mod Manager automatically. You have to fucking extract the mods and add them with Mod Manager. Steam is fucking bullshit. mod manager isnt even the tool thats recommended anymore, Mod organizer gives you way more control over your mods Either one is still leagues above Steam.  I must be doing something wrong. I'm new to the game AND modding in general, I loaded it on Steam, and I'm using Nexus Mod Manager without issue. What am I doing right\wrong??? Not running 200 mods at once. Well, if your game works, nothing. You WILL have headaches if you try to remove mods or install conflicting mods, though. Steam Workshop and NMM both install mods directly into your Skyrim folder, polluting it. This means that you no longer have any idea which files came from which mods, and have to be very careful with which order you install them in so that they overwrite each other properly

If you're willing to learn a new tool, look into Mod Organizer. It keeps all of your mods completely separate from each other and separate from your Skyrim installation, so it's super easy to add/remove mods at will and reorder them to change their overwrite priority, since your mods are virtually installed at runtime

For example, to disable a mod in NMM, you uninstall it and pray to Talos that it'll cleanly uninstall only that mod and not accidentally fuck up some other mods. In MO, you just untick the box and it just works. Want Y texture mod to overwrite X texture mod instead of the other way around? In NMM, you have to uninstall them and reinstall them in the right order. In MO, you just drag and drop them into the right order

Want to return your game to a vanilla, unmodified state? In NMM, uninstall all of your mods, and then *if you're lucky*, it'll be okay. It most likely won't, though, so you'll have to reinstall Skyrim. Want to go back to vanilla in MO? Just select your vanilla profile from a dropdown or untick all your mods

That said, there are a lot of people who use NMM successfully and are happy with it. I think it's perfectly fine for light modding, but as soon as you get into multiple mods affecting the same thing or wanting to change your mod list frequently, then MO's advantages become larger and larger &gt;  and its a Bethesda game so maybe your saves just break themselves.

So true... At the moment Steam doesn't have my business. I'm going to go visit Nexus. I'd suggest using Nexus mods for anyone thinking of downloading it.  The Nexus Mod Manager is *far* better at installing mods.  The Steam default is clumsy at best, particularly considering most mods require SKSE which runs separately from the default steam .exe. We always have kickass.to to turn to if things get out of hand. We will have literally come full circle....... The real problem (one of the largest anyway) is infringement. There have already been reports of people seeing their own mods sold by others. Not only is someone else profiting from their work but they're also locked from posting their own content. Welcome to Gaming 2015.

*Btw that post I'm referring to was here on reddit, earlier today. On the pcmr sub iirc. I can't wait until someone adds a metalica song to the game and they sue the shit out of valve and bethesda. Actually what it says is that you need to have the copyrights before you add anything to the store. So if metallica is going to sue it will be at the head of the modder, not steam nor bethesa.  This is the real problem with dropping this system in unannounced like this.  I think it is a good system, but people misrepresenting content and selling it as their own are infringing on the intellectual property of the mod makers.  Most mod makers add a creative commons license onto their work which does not allow for others to monetize their work.

I don't know what the reprecussions are, but there may certainly be legal reprecussions to these people stealing and selling mods.  For these people I would support VAC bans at least, and further legal action. VAC bans? Wow, now the reseller won't be able to play online CS and TF2 anymore on that account! What a pity! I'm sure they care. I don't know what other kinds of bans valve gives out to be honest, but it should be treated as a completely fraudulent account at that point.  Forfeiting workshop access also seems like a good deterrent.

Granted this all pales to legal actions against said person, but as Steam is international and the amounts being stolen are small it would be difficult to enforce this. They don't always even give a slap on the wrist to people who have been proven to scam during trades. I doubt they'll care much here either. Nexus, in the other hand, needs support to stay alive so make sure to go premium or donate Or, at the very least, turn off adblock while you are there. Huh sounds like them Falskaar fellas deserve a buck or two. IIRC the dude that made it got hired by ~~Bethesda~~ Bungie. So all in all, I don't think they're complaining too much. [Bungie, actually.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/1scwia/alexander_j_velicky_creator_of_falskaar_ama/) Ah yeah, you're right. Point still stands.

It's also a testament to the fact that developers / publishers  shoot themselves in the foot when they fail to provide mod tools / support (*cough* Rockstar *cough*)

Mods have literally spawned genres and some of the most popular games around like LoL, DOTA2, CS: GO and so on.

And they can also manage to nab young, talented developers like that fella. Also not to mention mods are just fucking cool. Of course, I completely agree. This sets a horrible precedent in my opinion and shafts over the modmaker to begin with... 

But the more I think about all the free time I have the more I want to make a small mod for a buck and see how much it nets me. Probably not much.

And honestly, with all the backlash this is getting, I can't see this new policy staying around much longer. "It was about that time that them Falskaar boys showed up." Except that they aren't asking for any. They don't even have a donate button on their Nexus page. "They?"  Wasn't it just one guy? But they should get money, imagine if they could start doing it professionally, they could make more wonderful mods, with more voice actors, more textures, more quests and more kinds of horse armor. It was made by one guy (not counting voice acting of course) and he's got a job with a gaming company now. Sadly, even if we threw money at him I doubt he'd be able to find time to make significant new content on a reasonable time scale.

Anyways, I'd prefer to throw money at him via donation, where all the cash goes to him, rather than via Workshop where he gets only a quarter of it. Well, the lead works for bungie now, so he's making a buck or two. I'm still waiting for horse armor. Convienient horses adds that, as well as horse  inventory and horses for all your followers, should you happen to have a mod for multiple followers. I have an army of them. Does that mean I now have an army of cavalry?

Edit: wird Indeed it does. Except I'm not entirely sure that the Ultimate Follower Overhaul and Convenient Horses play nice?  they play nice. I have a 6 man cavalry squad I go rabble hunting with. It's actually funny you bring that up because I remember that is still regarded as the worst "DLC" of all time, and Bethesda got lots of criticism for it.  
They redeemed themselves with the Knights of the Nine and Shivering Isles DLC, but its kind of ironic that people will be spending possibly the same amount of cash for little mods now...but I guess it's okay because they are...mods?? Fuck if I know ...Convenient Horses?

It's got like 6 types of barding for horses last I checked... This is a joke about the horse armor DLC in Oblivion. 

I have no interest in actually using horse armor.  Nexus is your friend. All the best mods are there, not steam workshops.
 I love the fact that the art of catch just got removed from the steam workshop, The mod uses Fores new idles Skyrim (FNIS) and the creator of that has said he does not want his mod being part of any paid mods. If the script extender guy says the same thing (SKSE) Most of the Skyrim mods would not be marketable XD. Yes!  So many people build upon other mods that are almost standards. Those staple mods' owners could play a role in slowing down this ridiculous mess.  "Hey guys, remember when Bethesda charged money for shitty horse armour in Oblivion?"

"Yeah... why?"

"Let's do that... but for other people's work."

"... Gabe..."

"Hmm?"

"You're a fucking genius."

STEAM Brilliant It's unfortunate that Steam has begun adopting the practices of the industry from which it previously set itself apart. It truly is: You either die a hero or livelong enoughto see yourself become the villain. The issue is that Valve feels so comfortable where they are that they feel no need to take risks. They make so much money off of Dota, CS:GO, the community marketplace, and TF2 that they have no real reason to make new games. Gabe's lax attitude and Valve's lack of a higher publisher furthers this issue- Gabe even said something along the lines of "The only reason we go back and do a super classic kind of product is if a whole bunch people internally at Valve wanted to do it and had a reasonable explanation for why it was. If you want to do another Half-Life game and you want to ignore everything we've learned in shipping Portal 2 and in shipping all the updates on the multiplayer side that seems like a bad choice." at some point. He did, however, follow up with, "So we'll keep moving forward but that doesn't necessarily always mean what people are worried that it might mean." so it's really up to your interpretation.

I really wish they had somebody enforcing deadlines or at the very least assigning projects. Valve has so much potential they just refuse to use.

I'm not saying Valve should rush their games- god, no. But there needs to be *some* form of encouragement. I totally respect his sentiments on Half Life 3. If a dev doesn't want to make a game, they shouldn't make a game. If they get forced to make one they don't want to, it will reflect on the product. They should only make such a game if they actually want to. I feel like it's a little more complicated than that because of the cliffhanger ending we were left with. We obviously know 3 is coming, and we need it to wrap up the story. So when he says "we're not making it because none of us want to", Eh, it's kind of a slap in the face. Yeah seriously. With all they money the company has they could, I don't know, hire devs that actually want to make the *fucking* game! I don't disagree, but I feel like if they do that they should be responsible to find other developers that can do the series Justice and continue it well.  I've seen too many great series be pawned off to a 3rd-party to make a sequel without a care in the world only for the sequel to suck.  Usually this is because the 3rd-party is inexperienced and still learning good game design, but can easily be a problem of motivation or greed too. No developer can do HL3 justice, not even Valve at this point.

It is just another Duke Nukem Forever. It could be a fantastic game but it will never be enough to wash 10 years of waiting down the throat.

You can't just make a great game and expect that to be the end of it. The hype is most certainly real, and it's become too large for us, and too large for Valve. Best to leave it undeveloped forever then. I get that HL2 ended with a cliffhanger. I get that people have been waiting so long for an end to the plot. But maybe some things just don't need to be ended.

Take The Matrix, for example. How many people, after watching all three films, can honestly say that it was an amazing trilogy? If the second and third movies had never been made, The Matrix would have gone down as one of the greatest Sci-Fi stories ever told. Yes, it would have been frustrating as hell to have never known any of the answers. But maybe sometimes it's better that way. Each person will fill in the blanks on their own, over time.

If Valve doesn't want to make HL3, it should never exist. The Matrix is still considered a great story, the latter two don't really devalue that, they're just considered not as good in comparison.

People don't consider Deus Ex to be a shitty game just because Invisible War didn't do well.

Half-Life would still be considered a great game, but the story of the sequels might be put into question. Frankly, I've always believed Valve don't have an ending. If they had an ending it would have been incredibly easy to just mock up a decent FPS and call it a day since, as said, the series revolves around it's story more at this point than it does pure gameplay. I honestly think the entire Matrix trilogy is phenomenal. When I first encountered the hatred for the sequels on this site I was shocked. I'm not even sure I could say with confidence that I think the first one is the best. Reloaded has so many beautiful action scenes and I love how the lore develops with the Merovingian and the Keymaker and assorted "programs". I can mostly agree with that and I like the whole trilogy as well.  The story concepts of the other two are are just as good as in the original, but the writing sure isn't.  The first movie had a lot of nice quotes.  The other two are more like people just talking to each other when they talk.  It could be worse, but they did seem to lower the bar. They should just silently make it without marketing so that there won't be a hype train. Then they can just bust it with a surprise and release it, and tell everyone not to expect much from it. HL3 won't ever even need marketing. As soon as word goes out that it's released, people will flood in to purchase it. Make it an 8 bit platformer I feel that's exactly how it'll be released if it ever is, but that won't stop hype from coming.

People will still have expectations the moment the game is released. You can't just hide from that forever. What about portal 2? Storyline has probably been finished for years, but because of changes in FPS standards, hardware limitations, and the introduction of VR, gameplay has probably gone through a dozen or more different incarnations.

A 3rd party could do it or an in-house team could do it - whatever the case, Valve doesn't see HL3 as being ground-breaking enough. I suppose that's a fair enough reason not to have interest in the product.  To be honest, I respect them for having the restraint not to develop something they know will sell to everyone and their dog but won't satisfy their internal standards.

Valve earned my trust a long time ago and only recently has it been shaken.  I still have faith in them, even if there's now room for doubt too. There is no way the game can live up to the expectations that an entire generation of gamers has of it. Following up the awesome that is HL2 must be a TERRIFYING task. Gabe may see it as his own Duke Nukem Forever and assume that he can't beat his own master piece.

I really wish he'd try, I'd forgive him for a bad game. What if it was the first good VR game? I feel like this is the real reason. 

Steam VR, bundled with a free HL3 would drive adoption rates sky high overnight. 

It's the perfect moment too as everyone is about to junk their 1920x1080 monitors to jump to 4K, but the Steam VR could be a cheaper and better option for gamers.  Sure, but it's not exactly a big risk is it? It's guaranteed to spew money from the moment it's created, so they're pretty well set to spend as much money and time as necessary to make it good enough.  Jak and Daxter is a great example of this. Sounds like what happened to Spyro when Insomniac sold the series. He doesn't even look like the purple dragon we all know and love anymore. More like an ugly ass cane toad with wings now. Insomniac never owned the series. *cough* Jak iV *cough* Feel the same way - at the very least, they could have made an attempt to wrap things up with HL2 Episode 2, instead of leaving it on a very clear cliffhanger and then never intending to follow up on it despite having every opportunity to (it's a different story if we're talking about a company with more limited resources or one that has gone out of business obviously). Yup. Seems to me that they printed money, continued to print money with Dota and their other free games, and said fuck it we don't even need to spend that kind of time or money. Hell, I wouldn't want to be responsible for making that game either, no matter how good you make it half or more of the vocal people who play it are going to hate you for fucking it up. Meh, I mean I don't *want* to go to work, but that doesn't mean I'm going to give a shit effort once I'm there.
 Stop playing Dota, CS, TF2 and stop buying $400 knife skins....

All of a sudden Valve will start making good content again I don't understand how people are willing to pay $ for fucking accessories. I have no problem with paying a bit of money to support a free to play game with no element of pay to win. Paying a "bit" of money for a few accessories/skins etc is completely fine I find. Paying $300+ for one knife skin seems a bit ridiculous to me. You can spend like 5 and leave with 400, if you are really lucky.
In some cases it is sorta like gambling.

I have 4 on steam now without having put any 'real' money on there myself. I have spent quite some money on the steam market but i have used nearly none of my own 'real-life' money.

Your point still stands though, i dont know why people would actually spend 400 on a knife, seems silly. (except when they got all that money from drops in game etc) They don't make games because they make all their money on Steam fees. 

Why risk your capital on a game that might flop when you can let literally everyone else make software and you get a cut? That statement actually falls in with their corporate culture from how I understand it.  There was an employee manual that leaked a few years ago.  On of the things that was shocking was that project that get worked on are decided by the folks actually working on them.  Some one has to champion the project and charismatically recruit people to the team to work on it. I feel like this is what Gabe meant by his statement. If no one moves their desks to the HL3 section of the floor then it doesn't get made. It's a laissez a faire style operation, something that one can easily question. As long as they keep putting out AAA products though I don't know that anyones arguments really have traction. They haven't put out a new game since something like 2012. I'd say they're not really putting out anything deserving of the descriptor AAA.  The sad thing is that Valve could easily afford to take risks. A Patreon-like system where customers could voluntarily donate money on mods would be awesome. It would bypass the licensing-topic, make it even easier to Valve to get their share of the money flow and give exactly the right impulses to big game developing studios / publishers currently operating on bullshit promises ("You want money? Deliver good content. See how this part time hobbyists made their fortune AFTER making a mod that has real value")  Unfortunately they're not wrong. nobody is going to give up steam and they know it. Nobody is going to go to origin or anywhere else. They'll put up the summer sale and everything will be A-OK.  I'm looking forward to GOG Galaxy. I hope it really takes off, because I would rather give my money to GOG than Valve. Also, DRM-free. It's pretty much monopolized. They have the digital pc industry all to themselves. It's a damn good software and very convenient but it worries me that there's no real competition. Valve is a juggernaut of a company. The problem is any time new competition comes up all people do is bitch about it. The last 2 summer sales have been pretty meh. Early Access games were going on sale and even a pre-order for Dead Rising 3 was up there one day. I don't remember buying a game during last summer's sale. Where did Gabe say that?
 

 They really didn't think it through.

Everybody knows Steam has notoriously shitty customer service (lost CD/DVD keys, getting refunds). 

Just imagine what a horror show it's going to be to pay for mods and then not have them work because of incompatibility with other mods of even official patches; you can kiss your money goodbye at that point. &gt; ncompatibility with other mods

right its hard enough to know if a mods compatible with your set up as it is , how the fuck will we know before we buy them it's funny, EA is the typical villain with their business practices and ruining of developers (rip maxis, bullfrog, and so on...), and valve are supposed to be the good guys.  the company that is the backbone of pc gaming/sales via steam.

I just can't make sense of this.  this is absolute PR suicide on their part.  SURELY they knew this backlash was coming.  is this really worth killing your image?  and why the fuck should *mods* cost money?  this is one of the greatest appeals of PC gaming: modding.  and valve is willing to throw it away by monetizing it.  why?  isn't DLC already greedy enough?  now we have to charge money for modding the games we buy?

what's next...money for updated nvidia drivers?  maybe money to use a DS4 gamepad instead of mouse/keyboard?  or perhaps a fee to change your graphic settings?  and then they have the nerve to take 75% of the cost of these mods, which should be free in the first place.

it's bullshit. I like your slippery slope.

But seriously, the fact that they didn't seem to take this into account, even something so easily anticipated, tells me they've lost touch with their initial identity. I can deal with the hat selling or cs:go knife selling, that's entirely optional and doesnt affect me one bit.  but monetizing mods?  that's over the line.  mods are one of the biggest benefits over consoles, when it comes to multiplat games or games in general.  why take that away by adding a paywall?  this also puts a big wall between the modding community: now people will feel pressured to sell their content, while others will want to maintain their integrity so to speak, and keep it free with optional donations (as it should be, imo). It's funny that Valve is the villain in this instance rather than the mod maker charging money for a shitty mod. Might seem cheap to just quote, but this dude raises some valid points that i'd like spread:
&gt;&gt;Just my opinion, people are in an uproar because they feel entitled to stuff and are cheap. 

&gt;While, I believe you raise valid points I believe the above is a bit of a strawman.  There are many reasons why people are upset with this change.

&gt;1. It is changing a system that has been working fine.  Modders aren't an oppressed class working without benefit.  Modders choose to work on mods for many reasons: fun, practice, boredom, the joy of creating something.   And gamers appreciate their contributions.  While, some gamers may feel entitled most understand that if a modder is unable to continue the mod may be abandoned.  Donations may or may not help but they are an option.  This system has for years made PC gaming what it is.  Modding in my opinion is the primary benefit of PC gaming over console.  Changing a functional system is dangerous and could have unintended consequences.

&gt;2. Now that people are paying for mods they will feel entitled for these mods to continue working.  If a free mod breaks and isn't supported that is fine because there is no obligation for it to continue working.  If someone pays though they will expect the mod to be updated and continue working as the base game is updated.  Furthermore, abandoned but popular mods are often revived by other people; if these mods are paid then the original creator may not want people to profit off of updated versions of their mod.

&gt;3. Related to the above paid mods may reduce cooperative modding.  Many mods will borrow elements from other mods; usually with permission.  Having paid mods will complicate things.  Someone who makes a paid mod will be unlikely to share his/her work with others.  What if someone freely share's his/her mod and someone incorporates it into a paid mod?  Does the first mod's owner deserve compensation, does the second modder deserve the full revenue.  This makes modding more politically complicated and may reduce cooperation.

&gt;4. This may reduce mods based off of copyrighted works.  There is a very good chance that any paid mod based off of a copyrighted work will be shutdown.  Modders could still release free mods of this nature but it complicates the issue.  Many mods based on copyrighted materials borrow (usually with permission) from other mods to add improvements.  If these other mods are paid then the original creators likely won't let them use it.  Additional many modders may now ignore copyrighted mods in order to make mods that they may profit on.

&gt;5.  Steam/the developer are taking an unfairly large portion of the profit.  Steam and the Developers are offering nothing new to the situation.  Steam is already hosting the mods and the developer already made the game.  They now wish to take 75% of all profit from the mod.  If the market gets flooded by low-quality paid mods, the modders will likely make very little and the quality of the game will not be increased.  However, Steam and the Developers will make money off of no work on there part.  

/u/Martel732

Edit: uuh this is just the comment [link] (https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/33nxep/slug/cqmw1qq), y'know if you vote on this comment please vote on this dude's too.

 I don't mind you quoting me if you think I made valid points.  I just hope that all sides of the issue are addressed and that Valve listens to the community's opinion. You know,  you made a great comment with valid points, people should not abuse it and pay you for citation,  all the hard work must be paid!!  This also creates a great and positive culture of *giving* and not really asking for anything in return. Not everything needs to have the '*startup mentality*'. Let's not forget that the 25% the modders earn, for their time and energy, is paid in currencY.  Itd be like working at Wal-Mart and getting paid Wal-Mart Buckz that could only be used at Wal-Mart. Mmm, if we didn't already have app stores with tons of crap floating to the top, we wouldn't know what to expect from an unmoderated marketplace. 

We do, so we expect valve to know, so we know their implementation could've been better simply by not implementing it at all.  